Canada

dt batus of tLje

£'tnatt

THE HONOURABLE JOSEPH EDOUARD CAUCHON
SPEAKER

FIRST SESSION - FIRST PARLIAMENT

31 VICTORIA

1867-1868
Parliament was opened on November 6. 1867 and was prorogued on May 22. 1868

1?OGER DUHfAMEL, F.B.S.C.
QUZNS PDINTEH AND CONTROLLERq 0p STATXTOeEnY
OTTAWA,

1968

Cat. No. Yl-011

FOREWORD
Students of Canadian history will welcome the publication of this volume of Parliamentary Debates for the years 1867 and 1868. This is the first volume in a
series, undertaken as a Centennial project under the auspices of the Library of
Parliament covering the years 1867 to 1874.
During these formative years of Confederation the Parliamentary Debates were
not officially reported, and the absence from the public record of the major speeches
and debates in Parliament during that important period has been a conspicuous and
frustrating gap in the historical source material on the early years of Confederation.
We are indeed fortunate to have, as director of this complex project, the distinguished historian, Professor P. B. Waite of Dalhousie University. Professor Waite
has brought to it a capacity for painstaking research and a dedication that has
brought this first volume to completion well before the anniversary date of our nationhood. Without the active support and collaboration of the Parliamentary Librarian,
Mr. Erik J. Spicer, and his associates, this project would not have been possible,
and we are very much in their debt.
The Honourable SYDNEY J. SMrH
Speaker of the Senate
The Honourable LUCIEN LAMOUREUX, Q.c., M.P.
Speaker of the House of Commons
Joint Chairmen
Joint Committee on the Library
of Parliament
Ottawa, Canada, April 1967

111
99267-1

PREFACE
Though Professor Norman Ward is both the most recent and the most effective
person to urge the compilation and publishing of a Hansard for 1867-1874, and
I am happy to publicly acknowledge Parliament's indebtedness to him, I should
also like to pay tribute to two of my predecessors who originally made the suggestion.
In their report to Parliament for 1886, the Joint Librarians, Mr. A. D. Decelles, General
Librarian, and Mr. Martin J. Griffin, Parliamentary Librarian, urged the provision
of "a good general Index to the reports of Parliamentary Proceedings in both
Houses..." and "In order that such a work may be complete the Librarians venture to
suggest the reprinting of the debates from 1867 to 1875, at which date the present
series of Hansard Debates begin. The debates from 1867 to 1871 are contained in
scrapbooks seldom available for the use of Members generally. The debates for 187071-72 are now out of print and not obtainable. There are no reports for 1873-74. If
these debates were reprinted and revised under the charge of an impartial and capable
man a very valuable work would be done in preserving a continuous record of the
political history of the Dominion."
I believe that we were fortunate in engaging the services of "an impartial and
capable man", and that the work he is producing will be "very valuable... in preserving a continuous record of the political history of the Dominion." We are all happy to
have Professor Peter B. Waite of Dalhousie University, Halifax, in charge of this
project. In this regard, I should like to thank Dr. W. Kaye Lamb, National Librarian
and Dominion Archivist, Professor D. G. Creighton of the University of Toronto, and
Mr. W. I. Smith, Assistant Dominion archivist, for their willingness to discuss this
appointment and other matters at the beginning. It seemed to me that Professor
Waite's interest in the period, his facility in both French and English, and his
knowledge of available newspapers and their proprietors, as evidenced by his book
The Life and Times of Confederation (University of Toronto Press), made him a
logical choice as editor of these debates.
The interest of The Joint Chairmen of the Joint Committee on the Library of
Parliament has also been helpful, particularly as the work proceeded, as also has
the increasing interest of the Committee members.
Professor Waite pays deserved tribute to the work done by the Associate Librarian, Mr. Guy Sylvestre, and the Assistant Librarian, Miss A. Pamela Hardisty on the
project. Other members of the staff of the Library of Parliament also contributed in
various ways to the compilation of these debates. And finally, I should like to thank
the Queen's Printer, himself, Mr. Roger Duhamel, and the other normally unsung
heroes of the production side who are ultimately responsible for the appearance
of this project.
For myself it has been an honour to be associated with such a worthwhile and
enduring monument to former politicians whose parliamentary efforts will now, I
hope, reach a larger public, and, in so doing, increase Canadian knowledge of, and
respect for, both the House of Commons and the Senate of Canada.
ERIK J. SPICER
Parliamentary Librarian,
Library of Parliament,
Ottawa, Canada,

April 1967.

INTRODUCTION
The publication of the debates of Parliament, 1867-1868, is a Centennial project of the Parliament of Canada, organized through the Library of Parliament. This
undertaking is both useful and fascinating. The inadequacy of the "Scrapbook Debates" has long been felt, and particularly so for the lengthy and vital first session of
Parliament that opened in Ottawa on Wednesday, November 6, 1867. The first
speeches of the new Members of Parliament of the new Canada reflect their growing and broadening sense of common commitment to a common cause, and the impact
of events, such as the assassination of D'Arcy McGee on April 7, 1868, give these
debates much of the immediacy of the time.
The official debates of the Parliament of the Dominion of Canada were first
published only in 1875. Between 1867 and 1874 they exist only in newspapers, or in
a semi-official form such as the "Cotton" debates of 1870-2. In the British North
American colonies before Confederation, publishing debates was not established
practice. Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island had published debates, and once in
a while so had New Brunswick, but the old Province of Canada had not, nor had
Newfoundland. The one notable exception to the Province of Canada's lack of official
debates was the official reporting of the debate on Confederation in 1865. (Not, by
the way, the whole session of 1865.) It is fair to say that the 1032 pages of that Confederation debate of 1865 went a long way to persuade parliamentarians of the
Province of Canada then, and afterward, that official publishing of debates brought
out the worst habits of the genus: the long speeches for the delectation of constituents,
the readings for the record, the interminable reworking of speeches that were not
otherwise fit to appear in cold print. In short, Parliament boggled at the sheer volume
of talk to be printed for what was then thought to be the doubtful edification of
posterity.
As a result, after 1865 no further official debates were published by the Province of Canada, or by the Dominion of Canada, for another decade. Every year a few
earnest souls, of whom Alexander Mackenzie was one, would propose that Parliament consider the question of official reporting of debates, and these efforts usually
met with the same reaction. That in 1867-8 is quite characteristic. Mackenzie submitted on December 4, 1867, an interim report from the Joint Printing Committee on
the possible organization and costs of an official report of debates. It was not to be
a verbatim report; it was to be compressed roughly to the reports current in the
Toronto Globe, i.e., about one-third of the length of the original speech.
In March, 1868, the Joint Committee on Printing recommended, in its Fourth
Report, that both Houses favorably consider the official reporting of debates. The
House of Commons opposed the project, by a vote of 94-48, on March 27, 1868. The
Senate, on the same day, seems to have been rather less cavalier, as it might have
been expected to be, but, equally, the Senate was disposed to be cautious. Senator
McCully liked the idea but was uncomfortable about the expense. It is fair to say
that Senator Hazen's view tended to prevail: that there was no good reason for
reporting debates officially, since "a very good report of the speeches of members was
now given in the newspapers."

The truth was the reading public already had easy access to a form of parliamentary debates, and did not really feel an official version was needed, and this feeling
was clearly shared by a substantial number of Senators and MP's. Nearly every newspaper supplied some account of the debates in the Commons, but the Senate got
increasingly short shrift from the press, and had to subsidize the Ottawa Times in
order to get any effective account of its debates. This edition of the Debates of
the Senate is taken wholly from reports in the Ottawa Times, sometimes called
the "Scrapbook Debates," from having been pasted up by an enterprising librarian
in the Library of Parliament. The Globe's reports were almost invariably shorter than
those in the Times, and most other newspapers were usually much worse. The
Ottawa Times seems to have had an arrangement with the Senate through John
Bourinot, son of Senator Bourinot, who joined the Parliamentary staff in 1868, and
had been a reporter with the Nova Scotian Assembly before Confederation.
The session of 1867-1868 was the longest session of the Parliament of Canada
until the session of 1903. The session was in two parts from November 5th to
December 21st, and from March 15th, 1868, until May 22nd. It dealt with a vast
range of business, but its great fascination lies in its being the first common meeting ground for Nova Scotians, New Brunswickers, and Canadians from the old
Province of Canada, now at grips with the problems of a new political dimension.
Making these debates available in official form was first proposed by Professor
Norman Ward late in 1961, in a letter to the then Speaker of the Commons, Hon.
Roland Michener. It was subsequently taken up by the Parliamentary Librarian,
Mr. Erik Spicer, as a project of Parliament for Canada's Centennial. Professor Ward
had never expected to be able to organize the work, and I was approached in 1962
and the project was presented to Parliament and approved in May, 1963.
Here I must make kind acknowledgement for assistance in every respect to
the Parliamentary Librarian, Mr. Erik Spicer, and to his staff, especially to the
Associate Librarian, M. Guy Sylvestre and to the Assistant Librarian, Miss Pamela
Hardisty; in Halifax to Mr. J. J. Tepas who laboured long and conscientiously on
galley proof, and who helped me with page proof.
The imperfections in this version are numerous and frequently obvious; the
reports are often uneven; they are certainly incomplete; there are places where one
even has to strain sometimes for the sense: but they are the only version we have, or
can have. Indeed 'they prove that official reporting had advantages, after all, whatever
the Canadian Parliament may have thought of the idea before Alexander Mackenzie
finally brought it in, in 1875. But, still more, the newspaper version of the Senate,
1867-1868, knots and all, has the strong grain of the best of Parliament in it; and with
this cheerful reflection, Parliament redresses the decision of a hundred years ago, and
presents its debates of 1867-8.
P. B. WAITE,

Dalhousie University,
Halifax, N.S.
April, 1967.

THE MINISTRY
FIRsT PARLIAMENT

FIRsT SESSIoN-Nov. 6, 1867 To MAY 22, 1868

Minister of Justice and
Attorney General ........

Hon. Sir John Alexander Macdonald

July 1, 1867

Minister of Militia and
Defence ................

Hon. Sir George Etienne Cartier

July 1, 1867

Minister of Custons .......

Hon. Samuel Leonard Tilley

July 1, 1867

Minister of Finance ........

Hon. Alexander Tilloch Galt
Hon. John Rose

July 1, 1867Nov. 7, 1867
Nov. 18, 1867

Minister of Public Works ...

Hon. William McDougall

July 1, 1867

Minister of Inland Revenue.

Hon. William Pearce Howland

July 1, 1867

Secretary of State for the
Provinces ...............

Hon. Adams George Archibald

July 1, 1867

President of the Privy
Council .................

Hon. Adam Johnston Fergusson Blair

July 1, 1867

Minister of Marine and
Fisheries ...............

Hon. Peter Mitchell

July 1, 1867

Postmaster General........

Hon. Alexander Campbell

July 1, 1867

Minister of Agriculture .....

Hon. Jean Charles Chapais

July 1, 1867

Secretary of State of Canada

Hon. Hector Louis Langevin

July 1, 1867

Receiver General ..........

Hon. Edward Kenny

July 1, 1867

Superintendent General of
Indian Affairs ...........

Hon. Hector Louis Langevin

July 1, 1867

99267-2

SENATORS OF CANADA
ALPHABETICAL LIST
FIRST PARLIAMENT
FIRST SESSION-Nov. 6, 1867 To MAY 22, 1868
Aikins, Hon. James Cox ......................

Allan, Hon. George William ................
Anderson, Hon. John Hawkins ..............
Archibald, Hon. Thomas D.. .................
Armand, Hon. Joseph F. ......................
Benson, Hon. James Rea ......................
Bill, Hon. Caleb R ............................
Blair, Hon. Adam Johnston Fergusson .........
(Passed away March 1868)
Replaced by: Hon. James Rea Benson
Blake, Hon. Oliver ...........................
Bossé, Hon. Joseph Noel ......................
(Resigned seat January 1868)
Replaced by: Hon. Jean Charles Chapais
Botsford, Hon. Amos Edwin ...................
Bourinot, Hon. John ..........................
Bureau, Hon. Jacques Olivier .................
Burnham, Hon. Asa Allworth ................
Campbell, Hon. Alexander ...................
Cauchon, Hon. Joseph Edouard-Speaker ......
Chaffers, Hon. William Henry ...............
Chapais, Hon. Jean Charles ...................
Christie, Hon. David ..........................
Cormier, Hon. Charles ........................
Crawford, Hon. George .......................
Dever, Hon. James ...........................
Dickey, Hon. Robert B. ......................
Dickson, Hon. Walter Hamilton ..............
Duchesnay, Hon. Antoine Juchereau ...........
Duchesnay, Hon. Elzear H. J. ................
Dumouchel, Hon. Leandre ....................
Ferguson, Hon. John ........................
Ferrier, Hon. James ..........................
Flint, Hon. Billa .............................
Foster, Hon. Asa Belknap ....................
Glasier, Hon. John ...........................
Quévremont, Hon. Jean Baptiste ..............
Hamilton, Hon. John .........................
Hamilton, Hon. John ........................

99267-2j

Ontario
Ontario
Nova Scotia
Nova Scotia
Quebec
Ontario
Nova Scotia
Ontario
Ontario
Quebec
New Brunswick
Nova Scotia

Quebec
Ontario
Ontario
Quebec
Quebec
Quebec
Ontario
Quebec
Ontario
New Brunswick
Nova Scotia

Ontario
Quebec
Quebec
Quebec
New Brunswick

Quebec
Ontario
Quebec
New Brunswick

Quebec
Quebec
Ontario

Hazen, Hon. Robert Leonard .................
Holmes, Hon. John ..........................
Kenny, Hon. Edward ........................
Lacoste, Hon. Louis .........................
Leonard, Hon. Elijah ........................
Leslie, Hon. James ...........................
Letellier de St. Just, Hon. Luc ...............
Locke, Hon. John ...........................
McClelan, Hon. Abner Reid ..................
MeCrea, Hon. Walter .........................
McCully, Hon. Jonathan .....................
McDonald, Hon. Donald .....................
MeMaster, Hon. William ....................
Macpherson, Hon. David Lewis ...............
Malhiot, Hon. Charles .......................
Matheson, Hon. Roderick .....................
Miller, Hon. W illiam .........................
M ills, Hon. Samuel ...........................
Mitchell, Hon. Peter .........................
Odell, Hon. William Hunter .................
Olivier, Hon. Louis A. ........................
Price, Hon. David Edward ....................
Reesor, Hon. David .........................
Renaud, Hon. Louis ........................
Ritchie, Hon. John W. ........................
Robertson, Hon. John .......................
Ross, Hon. John ...........................
Ryan, Hon. Thomas ..........................
Sanborn, Hon. John Sewall .................
Seymour, Hon. Benjamin .....................
Shaw, Hon. James ...........................
Simpson, Hon. John ........................
Skead, Hon. James ...........................
Steeves, Hon. William Henry ................
Tessier, Hon. Ulric Joseph ...................
W ark, Hon. David ............................
Wier, Hon. Benjamin .....................
(Passed away April 1868)
Wilmot, Hon. Robert Duncan .................
Wilson, Hon. Charles ........................

New Brunswick
Nova Scotia
Nova Scotia
Quebec
Ontario
Quebec
Quebec
Nova Scotia
New Brunswick
Ontario
Nova Scotia
Ontario
Ontario
Ontario
Quebec
Ontario
Nova Scotia
Ontario
New Brunswick
New Brunswick
Quebec
Quebec
Ontario
Quebec
Nova Scotia
New Brunswick
Ontario
Quebec
Quebec
Ontario
Ontario
Ontario
Ontario
New Brunswick
Quebec
New Brunswick
Nova Scotia
New Brunswick
Quebec

SENATORS OF CANADA
BY PROVINCES
FIRST PARLIAMENT
FIRST SESSION-Nov. 6, 1867 TO MAY 22, 1868
ONTARIO
Aikins, Hon. James Cox
Allan, Hon. George William
Benson, Hon. James Rea
Blair, Hon. Adam Johnston Fergusson
(Passed away March 1868)
Replaced by: Hon. James Rea Benson
Blake, Hon. Oliver
Burnham, Hon. Asa Allworth
Campbell, Hon. Alexander
Christie, Hon. David
Crawford, Hon. George
Dickson, Hon. Walter Hamilton
Flint, Hon. Billa
Hamilton, Hon. John

Leonard, Hon. Elijah
McCrea, Hon. Walter
McDonald, Hon. Donald
McMaster, Hon. William
Macpherson, Hon. David Lewis
Matheson, Hon. Roderick
Mills, Hon. Samuel
Reesor, Hon. David
Ross, Hon. John
Seymour, Hon. Benjamin
Shaw, Hon. James
Simpson, Hon. John
Skead, Hon. James
QUEBEC

Armand, Hon. Joseph F.
Bossé, Hon. Joseph Noel
(Resigned seat January 1868)
Replaced by: Hon. Jean Charles Chapais
Bureau, Hon. Jacques Olivier
Cauchon, Hon. Joseph Edouard-Speaker
Chaffers, Hon. William Henry
Chapais, Hon. Jean Charles
Cormier, Hon. Charles
Duchesnay, Hon. Antoine Juchereau
Duchesnay, Hon. Elzear H. J.
Dumouchel, Hon. Leandre
Ferrier, Hon. James
Foster, Hon. Asa Belknap

Guévremont, Hon. Jean Baptiste
Hamilton, Hon. John
Lacoste, Hon. Louis
Leslie, Hon. James
Letellier de St. Just, Hon. Lue
Malhiot, Hon. Charles
Olivier, Hon. Louis A.
Price, Hon. David Edward
Renaud, Hon. Louis
Ryan, Hon. Thomas
Sanborn, Hon. John Sewall
Tessier, Hon. Ulric Joseph
Wilson, Hon. Charles

NOVA SCOTIA
Anderson, Hon. John Hawkins
Archibald, Hon. Thomas D.
Bill, Hon. Caleb R.
Bourinot, Hon. John
Dickey, Hon. Robert B.
Holmes, Hon. John
Kenny, Hon. Edward

Locke, Hon. John
McCully, Hon. Jonathan
Miller, Hon. William
Ritchie, Hon. John W.
Wier, Hon. Benjamin
(Passed away April 1868>

NEW BRUNSWICK
Botsford, Hon. Amos Edwin
Dever, Hon. James
Ferguson, Hon. John
Glasier, Hon. John
Hazen, Hon. Robert Leonard
McClelan, Hon. Abner Reid

Mitchell, Hon. Peter
Odell, Hon. William Hunter
Robertson, Hon. John
Steeves, Hon. William Henry
Wark, Hon. David
Wilmot, Hon. Robert Duncan

DEBATES OF
SENATE OF CANADA
1867-1868

CANADA

Mebates of tbe ùenate
Wednesday. November 6. 1867

The Honourable the Speaker commanded
the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod to proceed to the House of Commons and acquaint
OPENING OF FIRST SESSION
that House "It is His Excellency's pleasure
FIRST PARLIAMENT
they attend him immediately in this House."
The Members present having taken and Who being come,
subscribed the Oath, and made and signed the
The Honourable the Speaker said:
Declaration of Qualification required by Law,
before John Fennings Taylor, Esquire, the Honourable Gentlemen of the Senate,
Elder, one of the Commissioners appointed for
that purpose, took their seats.
Gentlemen of the House of Commons.
The Members of the Senate were then inHis Excellency the Governor General does
formed that a Commission under the Great
Seal had been issued, appointing the Honour- not see fit to declare the causes of his sumable Joseph Edouard Cauchon, to be the moning the present Parliament of Canada
until the Speaker of the House of Commons
Speaker of the Senate.
shall have been chosen according to Law; but
A Commission under the Great Seal, ap- to-morrow, at the hour of three o'clock in the
pointing Rene Kimber, Esquire, to be Gen- afternoon, His Excellency will declare the
tleman Usher of the Black Rod, was then causes of his calling this Parliament.
reported by the Honourable the Speaker.
His Excellency the Governor General was
His Excellency the Right Honourable
Charles Stanley, Viscount Monck, Baron pleased to retire, and the House of Commons
Monck, of Ballytrammon, in the County of withdrew.
Wexford, in the Peerage of Ireland, and Baron
Then, on motion of the Honourable Mr.
Monck, of Ballytrammon, in the County of Hamilton (Kingston), seconded by the HonWexford, in the Peerage of the United King- ourable Mr. Campbell.
dom of Great Britain and Ireland, Governor
The House adjourned until to-morrow, at
General of Canada, etc., etc., etc., being seated
half-past two o'clock in the afternoon.
in the Chair on the Throne,

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Thursday, November 7, 1867
His Excellency the Right Honourable Charles
Stanley, Viscount Monck, Baron Monck of
Ballytrammon, in the County of Wexford, in
the Peerage of Ireland, and Baron Monck of
Ballytrammon, in the County of Wexford, in
the Peerage of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Ireland, Governor General of
Canada, etc., etc., etc., being seated in the
Chair on the Throne,
The Honourable the Speaker commanded the
Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod to proceed
to the House of Commons and acquaint that
House "It is His Excellency's pleasure they
attend him immediately in this House."
Who being come,
The Honourable James Cockburn said:
MAY IT PLEASE YOUR EXCELLENCY,
The House of Commons have elected me as
their Speaker, though I am but little able to
fulfill the important duties thus assigned to
me.
If, in the performance of those duties, I
should at any time fall into error, I pray that
the fault may be imputed to me, and not to
the Commons, whose servant I am, and who
through me, the better to enable them to
discharge their duty to their Queen and
Country, humbly claim all their undoubted
rights and privileges, especially, that they
may have freedom of speech in their debates,
access to Your Excellency's person at all seasonable times, and that their proceedings may
receive from Your Excellency the most favourable interpretation.
The Honourable the Speaker of this House
then said:Mr. Speaker,
I am commanded by His Excellency the
Governor General ta declare ta you that he
freely confides in the duty and attachment of
the House of Commons to Her Majesty's
Person and Government, and not doubting
that their proceedings will be conducted with
wisdom, temper, and prudence, he grants, and
upon all occasions will recognize and allow,
their constitutional privileges.
I am commanded also to assure you, that
the Commons shall have ready access to His
Excellency upon all seasonable occasions, and
that their proceedings as well as your words
and actions, will constantly receive from him
the most favourable construction.

November 7, 1867

His Excellency the Governor General was
then pleased to open the Session by a gracious
speech to both Houses:
Honourable Gentlemen of the Senate,
Gentlemen of the House of Commons:
In addressing for the first time the Parliamentary Representatives of the Dominion of
Canada, I desire to give expression to my own
deep feeling of gratification that it has been
my high privilege to occupy an official position which has made it my duty to assist at
every step taken in the creation of this Great
Confederation.
I congratulate you on the Legislative sanction which has been given by the Imperial
Parliament to the Act of Union, under the
provisions of which we are now assembled,
and which has laid the foundation of a new
Nationality that I trust and believe will, ere
long, extend its bounds from the Atlantic to
the Pacifie Ocean.
In the discussions which preceded the introduction of this measure in the Imperial Parliament, between the Members of Her
Majesty's Government on the one side, and
the Delegates who represented the Provinces
now united on the other,-it was apparent to
all those who took part in those conferences,
that, while Her Majesty's Ministers considered
and pressed the principle of Union as a subject of great Imperial interest, they allowed
the Provincial Representatives every freedom
in arranging the mode in which that principle
should be applied.
In a similar spirit of respect for your privileges, as a free and self-governing people, the
Act of Union, as adopted by the Imperial
Parliament, imposes the duty and confers
upon you the right of reducing to practice the
system of Government, which it has called
into existence, of consolidating its institutions,
harmonizing its administrative details, and of
making such legislative provisions as will secure to a constitution, in some respects novel,
a full, fair, and unprejudiced trial.
With the design of effecting these objects,
measures will be laid before you for the
amendment and assimilation of the laws now
existing in the several Provinces relating to
Currency, Customs, Excise, and Revenue
generally,-for the adoption of a uniform
Postal System,-for the proper management
and maintenance of the Public Works and
Properties of the Dominion,-for the adoption
of a well considered scheme of Militia Organization and Defence, for the proper administration of Indian affairs,-for the intro-

November 7, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

duction of uniform Laws respecting Patents of
Invention and Discovery,-the naturalization
of Aliens,-and the assimilations of the
Criminal Law, and the Laws relating to
Bankruptcy and Insolvency.
A measure will also be submitted to you, for
the performance of the duty imposed upon
Canada, under the terms of the Union Act, of
immediately constructing the Intercolonial
Railway.
This great work will add a practical and
physical connection to the legislative bond
which now unites the Provinces comprising
the Dominion, and the liberality with which
the guarantee for the cost of its construction
was given by the Imperial Parliament is a
new proof of the hearty interest felt by the
British people in your prosperity.
Your consideration will also be invited to
the important subject of Western Territorial
extension, and your attention will be called
to the best means for the protection and
development of our Fisheries and Marine
interests.
You will aiso be asked to consider measures
defining the privileges of Parliament and for
the establishment of uniform laws relating to
elections, and the trial of controverted
elections.
Gentlemen of the House of Commons,The circumstances under which the Act
of Union came into operation, rendered it
impossible to obtain the assent of the Legislature to the expenditure necessary for carrying on the ordinary business of the Government.
The expenditure since the first of July has
therefore been incurred on the responsibility
of Ministers of the Crown.
The details of that expenditure will be laid
before you, and submitted for your sanction.
I have directed that the estimates for the
current and succeeding Financial Year shall
be laid before you. You will find that they
have been framed with all the attention to
economy which is compatible with the
maintenance of efficiency in the different
branches of the public service.
Honourable Gentlemen and Gentlemen,The general organization and efficiency of
the Volunteers and Militia have been great-

ly improved within the last year, and the
whole Volunteer Force of Ontario and Quebec is already, by the liberality of the
Imperial Government, armed with the
breech-loading Rifle.
I am happy to be able to congratulate you
on the abundant harvest with which it has
pleased Providence to bless you, and on the
general prosperity of the Dominion.
Your new nationality enters on its course
backed by the moral support-the material
aid-and the most ardent good wishes of the
Mother Country. Within your own borders
peace, security and prosperity prevail, and I
fervently pray that your aspirations may be
directed to such high and patriotic objects,
and that you may be endowed with such a
spirit of moderation and wisdom as will cause
you to render the great work of Union which
has been achieved, a blessing to yourselves
and your posterity, and a fresh starting point
in the moral, political and material advancement of the people of Canada.
After His Excellency had repeated the
speech in French the Commons retired.
After the retirement of the Commons upon
the conclusion of the reading of the Speech
from the Throne, the usual motion pro forma
having been read,
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved that all the
members present be a committee to decide
upon matters of privilege, etc. In doing so he
alluded to the peculiarity of the Senate's position, in being a completely new body, but had
no doubt that the rules which governed the
late Legislative Council of Canada would be
most applicable to them. For the present it
was advisable that the previous rules, governing the Legislative Council, which were very
complete, should ad interim govern them. The
business of the Senate, in one sense, would be
considerably lighter than that which had devolved on the Legislative Council of Canada,
as there would necessarily be a great diminution of private legislation. He also moved,
seconded by Mr. Blair, that a special Committee, to prepare rules of order and debate,
be appointed, consisting of Messrs. Blair,
Tessier, McCully, Botsford, Sanborn, and the
mover, which was carried by acclamation, and
the House adjourned until three o'clock p.m.
on Monday next.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Monday, November 11, 1867
The Speaker took the Chair at 3 o'clock.
After routine,
The order of the day for the consideration
of His Excellency's Speech having been called
Hon. Mr. Allan rose to move the answer to
the Speech, and said: In rising to address you
to-day, I cannot altogether claim your indulgence upon the same grounds upon which an
appeal is not unfrequently made to the consideration of the House on similar occasions,
that of youth and inexperience, having already
as it were served my parliamentary apprenticeship, though but a short one, in one former
Legislative Council-but I am nevertheless
but too conscious of my shortcomings and
deficiencies as a speaker, not to feel how
much I need your kind consideration upon the
present occasion. Indeed, I might, perhaps,
have done wisely had I at once declined in
favour of other and abler members of this
House, the task of moving the address in
answer to the speech from the Throne, but I
will frankly confess that I could not resist the
opportunity thus offered to me of identifying
myself with the first step in the parliamentary
proceedings of the new era, which is now, I
trust, opening so auspiciously upon our common country. Trusting, then honourable gentlemen to your indulgence, I shall proceed to
make a few brief remarks on the different
points alluded to in the address. I am sure,
honourable gentlemen, that we all heartily
participate in the deep feelings of gratification
expressed by His Excellency the GovernorGeneral in the consummation of the great
work of Confederation, first commenced, carried on step by step, and now so happily
completed under His Excellency's able and
popular administration, and we rejoice that
His Excellency has had the gratification of
presiding over the first opening of the Parliament of the New Dominion. In stating further that we thankfully receive His Excellency's congratulations on the legislative sanction which has been given by the Imperial
Parliament to the Act of Union, we feel that it
is not boastful spirit that we are invited to
join in the aspiration that under this Act of
Union we may be laying the foundation of a
new nationality, which shall extend its bounds
from the Atlantic to the Pacific Oceans. I
repeat, honourable gentlemen, that it is no
idle spirit of boasting that we give expression

November 11, 1867

to such utterances within this Senate Chamber. Folly and worse than folly would it be to
affect for one moment to ignore the tremendous power of the great Republic which lies
along our borders, but we should be unworthy of the great races from which we are
sprung and of the mighty empire to which we
belong, if we allowed the craven fear to
intrude, that loyally fulfilling our obligations
as friends and neighbours, we had aught to
dread which should lead us to forego for one
moment our determination to preserve our
own distinct national independence! I am
persuaded that the spirit which actuates the
great body of the people of these Confederate
Provinces is one of quiet, manly determination that we will, God helping us, preserve
British America for British Americans, and I
believe that one great step towards accomplishing this, which should be the great object
of every true patriot, is to endeavour to draw
together by the closest bonds into one great
Confederation, all who on this continent from
the Atlantic to the Pacific now aknowledge
the sway of the same sovereign. In carrying
out this great work of Confederation, honourable gentlemen, we have the satisfaction of
hearing that we have both the moral and
material support of the great Empire to
which we belong. In the paragraph of His
Excellency's speech to which the next resolution refers, His Excellency states that Her
Majesty's Ministers considered the principle of
Union as one of great and Imperial interests-not as has been hastily and ungenerously asserted by some few disappointed politidans in order that the mother country might
then rid herself of all further responsibilities,
and shift the whole burden of the defence of
the Confederation upon the people of these
Provinces, but because Her Majesty's Government were persuaded that in such a
Union lay the elements of that strength, which
if properly exerted would enable us to bear
our fair share in the defence of our own soil,
backed as we should be, if occasion unhappily
required it, by the whole strength of the
Empire. That we shall thus be supported we
have had the fullest and most explicit assurances given to us on the part of Her Majesty's
Government, and no better pledge could have
been given for the fulfilment of these assurances than the promptitude with which the
very flower of the British army has been from
time to time despatched to this country, when
the peace and safety of these colonies were
likely to be endangered by foreign foes. All
that is required of us honourable gentlemen is
to be true to ourselves, cheerful to do our

November II, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

part, and we need never fear that England
will withdraw ber protecting aegis from the
new nationality until it has become firm and
powerful enough to maintain its own foothold
upon this continent. But honourable gentlemen, to attain that Union among ourselves,
which is really strength, it is of the first importance that the utmost freedom should be
accorded to all who are seeking to be confederated together, to discuss and arrange the
mode in which the principle should be applied, and therefore, it is that we are invited
to express our satisfaction at the assurance
given by His Excellency that in the discussion
which preceeded the introduction of this
measure in the Imperial Parliament between
Her Majesty's Government and the Provincial
delegates, that the fullest freedom was allowed in arranging and settling all the details
of this important measure. In the same spirit
of respect for our privileges are we called
upon now to accept the duties which are
imposed upon us by the system of Government called into existence by the Act of
Union, and I may be permitted on behalf of
other honourable gentlemen from the Maritime Provinces, who like myself, are more at
home here to express the feelings of unmixed
and hearty gratification with which we hail
the presence, and anticipate the valuable
cooperation of those honourable gentlemen
from the Maritime Provinces, whom we have
the honour of having for our colleagues in this
Senate. To us then, honourable gentlemen, in
common with the other branch of the Legislature, will be committed the important task
of considering measures for the amendment
and assimilation of the laws now existing in
the several Provinces relating to currency,
customs, excise, and revenue generally, for
the adoption of a uniform postal system, and
many other important measures which will
require our most earnest and careful attention. Many of these subjects would have required legislation, even had Confederation not
taken place, but under the new order of things
the revision and assimilation of the criminal
law, and the law relating to bankruptcy and
insolvency, has become absolutely necessary.
Another, and perhaps one of the most important subjects alluded to in His Excellency's
speech is the Intercolonial railway. Without
an Intercolonial railway the Union would be
not half complete. With it we shall be brought
into such close and intimate connection with
each other as to become practically, as well as
theoretically, one people. Already a great and
important trade has sprung up between us of

the inland Provinces and our friends on the
sea board, but necessarily confined to the
season of navigation. With the Intercolonial
railway once established, commercial intercourse, instead of being limited to a few short
months in summer will be continued throughout the year, contributing to the growth and
prosperity of the whole Dominion, and uniting
us socially and commercially as one people.
Among the subjects of congratulation referred
to by His Excellency, none will be felt to be
more truly so to every inhabitant of the
Dominion than the fact of the great improvement which has taken place within the last
year in the general organization and efficiency
of the volunteers and militia. When the Provincial Parliament last met in this place, our
volunteers had just been called out to repel
the invasion of our soil by bands of miscreants who threatened the peace and safety
of the Province at the same time both in its
eastern and western sections. The manner in
which the force turned out, and the spirit then
displayed within Upper and Lower Canada
was most gratifying to every Canadian, and
plainly showed the misguided wretches who
had dared to invade our soil, as well as those
who supported and abetted them, that anything like permanent success in their mad
undertaking was utterly hopeless. Since these
events occurred, the efficiency of our volunteer force has been greatly increased. The
short experience of actual service in the field
was of immense benefit to them, and it is not
saying too much to assert that Canada possesses now, so far as it goes, a volunteer force
which for intelligence and discipline, any
country might be proud of. Added to this, and
as we are reminded by His Excellency, thanks
to the Commons of the Mother country, we
have now the gratification of knowing that
our volunteers have that, without which,
bravery and intelligence would avail but little
in modern warfare-a thorough and efficient
weapon-the whole volunteer force of Ontario
and Quebec being now armed by the Imperial
Government with a breech loading rifle. But
whilst we congratulate ourselves on the present state of the volunteer force, there is no
doubt that the circumstances under which we
are now placed call for the adoption, as stated
in His Excellency's speech, of a more general
scheme of militia organization and defence.
Well considered, I trust it will be, for I know
of no subject of more vital importance which
can engage the attention of Parliament, or
which will require more careful and earnest
thought. That the defences of the country
cannot be placed upon a satisfactory footing

SENATE DEBATES
without some sacrifices upon the part of the
people of the Dominion is beyond all doubt,
but I have much misunderstood the feelings
and spirit of my countrymen if they are not
found ready to submit to any reasonable sacrifice to preserve their independence and nationality. But I trust that it will be the especial care of the Government in bringing up
their scheme for the further organization of
the militia that no unnecessary burdens are
laid upon the people-that every regard is
paid to economy consistent with expediency;
and that the volunteer spirit, instead of an
enforced service, should be relied upon as
much as possible. In conclusion, honourable
gentlemen, I am sure that I shall have your
hearty concurrence in the hopes and anticipations expressed by His Excellency in reference to the future of the new Dominion. It has
pleased Providence to bless us with an abundant harvest. Our farmers are obtaining high
and remunerative prices for the produce of
their farms. Notwithstanding the late unfortunate failure of one of our banking institutions,
trade is prosperous throughout the Province
generally. We have no heavy imports, or burdensome taxes to pay. Peace, quietness, and
security reign within our borders, and we
have a future before us of which any people
might be proud. But it rests with ourselves,
honourable gentlemen, to make or mar that
future. Let a spirit of sectionalism prevail, let
party strife grow rampant, and all our brilliant anticipations may end in disappointment.
But if we strive to conduct our aff airs in a
spirit of moderation and mutual forbearance,
if following the spirit of those words with
which each day we prepare for our deliberations, "we lay aside all private interests, prejudices and partial affections," then we may
safely hope that in His Excellency's words, we
shall render the great work of Union which
has been achieved, a blessing to ourselves and
our posterity, and a fresh starting point in the
moral, political, and material advancement of
the people of Canada.
Hon. Mr. McCully, rising to second the
answer, alluded to the negotiations which had
preceded Confederation, and spoke of the resources of the Provinces now that they are
united. It was for the Senate to arrange
details, and they had both the power and the
spirit to make the Union al that could be
desired. The elements of a great nation the
Dominion fully possessed, and nothing but
unity among the different parts of it, a kindliness of feeling between the Confederated
States, was wanted to fully develop them. An
assimilation of the laws was very essential

November 11, 1867

and would, he trusted, be wel considered by
the House. He hoped that the taxes would be
as light as possible, the more especially as in
the Maritime Provinces, the people had been
accustomed to a low tariff; and an uneasy
feeling existed, which only the adoption of a
low tariff would effectually remove. In the
Act of Union, Canada proper had evinced the
utmost liberality, as not now demanding such
large sacrifices from the Maritime Provinces,
in regard to the construction of the Intercolonial Railway as it had previously done,
and he had no doubt, but that the utmost
economy would be practiced in the prosecution of the work. Not desirous of great military display, nor of large expenditure for
military purposes, it was nevertheless desirable to place the militia and volunteers on the
most efficient footing consistent with a due
regard to the wishes of the people of the
Maritime Provinces, who were very sensitive
in reference to what they considered as the
great burden of a contemplated novel military
organization. He trusted that those eligible for
militia duty would not be called out for a
longer time than was absolutely necessary to
make them efficient in drill; and he wound up
by speaking hopefully of the future of the
Dominion.
Hon. Mr. McDonald then rose and said: We
may not be able to realize precisely the feelings of those who have been directly concerned in the organization of a new nation,
but at least we may appreciate the peculiar
importance of the circumstances in which for
the first time we meet as Senators of the New
Dominion. Happily ours is not the task of
revolution, or even of reconstruction. No act
of secession has deprived us of the strong
support and wise counsel of the parent state,
nor has any form of internal conflict created
sectional difficulties which only long years
could overcome. We are simply exemplifying
the law of growth in its application to provincial communities. We are emerging from the
feeble condition of isolated Colonies into the
vastly more satisfactory condition of a confederated portion of the British Empire. Now,
as never before, we may plume ourselves
upon the distinctive appellation of British
Americans-the heirs of half a continent, with
a destiny which only want of nerve or want of
judgment on our part can render otherwise
than great. Upon the people of the Dominion
alone depends its future, and upon us as
members of its Legislature devolves the duty
of doing what can be done to give effect to the
popular will in the promotion of what I may

November 11, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

pardonably term our national advancement.
For though we sustain no direct representative relation to defined constituencies, I cannot divest myself of the conviction that, as
part of the machinery of the Government, this
Chamber is bound to consult the aggregate of
the people's will not slavishly, indeed, in the
sense of delegates accountable to particular
districts, but as distinguished from the idea
which in other days attached to a crown
nominated body. We are placed in a position
which relieves us from the temptation to
surrender our own judgment to the demands
of momentary prejudice or passion, but which
in my opinion in no degree entitles us to be
indifferent to the sober, well-matured requirements of the people. On any other hypothesis
I should consider our standing and duties
anomalous in these days of representative
rule. Thus viewed, however, it seems to me
that our functions may be exercised most
usefully-not as registrars of executive opinion on one hand, nor servile echoes of fleeting
popular feeling on the other, but as the balance-wheel of this Government, guiding always, obstructing never, and in all things
manifesting a superiority to the promptings of
an angry partisanship. Unless I am mistaken,
there will be ample opportunities for the
cultivation of the varied qualities which are
essential to statesmanship. The system of
Government under which we now assemble is
in many respects experimental. In the nature
of things it is impossible that all obstacles can
have been anticipated or that provision can
have been made for all emergencies. Under
the most favourable circumstances hindrances
may be expected to develop themselves in the
working of the complicated machinery of the
Federal Government. But we cannot hope
always to enjoy favourable circumstances or
to avoid the collisions which are inseparable
from the adjustement of imperfectly defined
authority. The relations of the central to the
local governments, though arranged in outline
by the terms of the Imperial Act, necessarily
remain to be perfected by the light of actual
experience. I see no insuperable obstacle that
is likely to arise, nor any question which can
properly embarras the practical working of
the scheme. But I foresee many occasions for
temperate and prudent counsel on both sides
-many occurences which can be satisfactorily
disposed of only by forbearance and moderation on the part of both. Of these we shal be
better able to speak by and by. Meanwhile I
advert to this aspect of the general question
for the purpose of indicating the necessity for
more discrimination and care than they may

be inclined to cultivate, who, in their zeal for
the glory of the Dominion, ignore the rights or
disregard the pretensions of the Provinces of
which it is composed. We must not forget that
centralization has dangers not less formidable
than those which grow out of an extreme
application of the States rights-or, in our
case, the Provincial rights, doctrine. For the
present, however, our thoughts are to be occupied with subjects over which the legislature of the Dominion will exercise direct
authority, and to the more important of which
reference has been made in His Excellency's
speech. Some of these are in the main strictly
administrative, as for instance everything
relating to the organization of departments
and the management by the Dominion of
enterprises and interests which have been
heretofore under local control. Of the subjects
which involve principles and policy, perhaps,
the equalization of the tariff is that which
most concerns the harmony and welfare of the
Provinces. We have but to glance across a
neighbouring line to discover the perils and
difficulties incident to crude systems of
finance, or to systems framed with a view to
special interests rather than the general benefit. Our duty is to avoid the blunders which
our neighbours have committed, and as far as
possible to adopt the liberal fiscal policy
which has conferred such solid advantages on
Great Britain. We cannot be blind to the
considerations which suggest the desirability
of equalizing downward, not upward, and
moreover of accompanying equalization with
revision in the direction of reduction. Of
course the requirements of the Exchequer
must not be neglected, but experience elsewhere has proved the feasibility of combining
productiveness with measures of taxation
lightly affecting the trade and industry of a
country. On no single circumstance is our
growth in population and wealth more dependent than on the adoption of just and
comparatively light taxation; and to attain
this, we must discard the notion of protecting
small and special interests, and keep in sight
the wants of the people at large. In no other
way shall we be able to meet the expectations
of the Provinces whose tariffs have been
lower than that of Canada, or to attract the
immigrants to whom we must look for much
needed help. Partly to promote the same end,
it is expedient to proceed with the work of
colonizing and organizing the north-west
territory, that we may be enabled to offer to
the struggling populations of the old world a
region as fertile, as easily tilled, as desirable
in all respects for purposes of settlement as

SENATE DEBATES
the choicest sections of Wisconsin or Minnesota. Steps have afready been taken to
facilitate access to this distant territory, but
measures are necessary to organize government there and to unite its fortunes with ours.
I am persuaded that no time should be lost
in the prosecution of this policy, the consummation of which is almost essential to the
integrity of the Dominion. The future we claim
for it is predicated upon its extension from
ocean to ocean. The Atlantic and Pacific must
be the boundaries of our Confederation, or the
hopes we have cherished will be to a great
extent destroyed. The loss of a single link
will destroy the nation. The failure to keep
the Red River District to ourselves-the failure to prevent its absorption into the United
States by colonization with Minnesota-would
inevitably damage the Dominion beyond redemption, and hence the extreme importance
of hastening the solution of the northwest
problem. The Intercolonial Railway project
calls for no such speed. As an element in the
Confederation, and a feature in the arrangement entered into with the Imperial authorities, we cannot divest ourselves of the
responsibility incident to its construction. But
though the terms of the Imperial guarantee
are liberal, I am sure that the work will task
our financial ability to the utmost, and therefore I favour great deliberation on the part of
this Government at every stage. Commercially
considered it is in no manner essential. Its
necessity always must be as a means of
strengthening the defensive power of the
Dominion in the event of war. There is no
reason, then for precipitancy. We can afford to
proceed deliberately in the business. Nay, it is
incumbent on us to advance with extreme
caution, to examine carefully the advantages
and disadvantages of the different routes, to
scrutinize the claims of competing interests
and localities, and to insist that the basis of
the enterprise shall combine economy with
efficiency. Do as we may, I fear the cost will
exceed the guarantee; and sure I am that
delay and caution are needed to prevent limprovident expenditure. As to the military aspects of the work, I frankly confess that in
providing for the peace and prosperity of the
Dominion, I am inclined to place less dependence on armies and fortifications, and even on
the Intercolonial Railway, than on the adoption of a wise domestië policy, and the cultivation of friendly relations with our neighbours. It is meet that we make some provision
for the maintenance of order, as against
Fenian marauders or irregular incursions of

November 11, 1867

any kind; but I shall require more cogent
reasons than have yet been advanced before
deciding that the young Dominion can advantageously aspire to the forms and outlays of a
military power. We must have peace or all our
statesmanship will come to naught; and I
believe that we shall have peace if we pursue
an enlightened and friendly policy, and address ourselves exclusively to our own business. Instead of expending millions on fortifications, I would complete our canal system
and otherwise promote the material development of all the Provinces. I will not, however,
enlarge upon this subject now, or further
trespass upon your attention. I have attempted less to discuss questions minutely than to
indicate the spirit in which, as a member of
your honourable body, I enter upon my duties
in this new stage of our country's history. And
I indulge the hope that by combining the
independence of character which is essential
to legislative usefulness with the moderation
which befits a Senate, we shall contribute
our full share to the harmonious working and
the ultimate success of the Dominion.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just, begged to
inquire from the Government the reasons for
the resignation of Hon. Mr. Galt.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said he had expected
the inquiry to have been made before. There
had been two resignations, that of Hon. Mr.
Archibald, of Nova Scotia who could not find
a seat, and that of Hon. Mr. Galt, who had
given full explanation of the cause of said
retirement in the other House. There had been
nothing in the case of the resignation of the
Minister of Finance in connection with the
policy of the Government to occasion his
resignation. He was in agreement with his
colleagues as well in respect of their past as of
their future policy, and only the exigencies of
his own private affairs had induced him to
withdraw. He felt he could not give to his own
private business the attention which it urgently demanded, and at the same time bestow
upon the important duties of his public office
all the care they required. He would have
avoided this step if he could, and though not
in the Ministry, would continue to give them
the benefit of his assistance.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just said he had
been opposed to the scheme of Confederation,
and had done what he could to prevent its
adoption, but as it has become a fait accompli
he considered it his duty to accept it and give
such aid as might be in his power to enable It
to work well. (Hear, hear.)

-November 11, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Sanborn said, that he was disposed to keep his feelings in abeyance until
the results showed whether the congratulations of His Excellency were based on correct
data. le (Mr. Sanborn) was one of the members of the late Legislative Council, who had
opposed Confederation, not that he objected
so much to the scheme itself as to the means
employed for carrying the measure, but he
fully concurred with other honourable members, that since the measure had passed and
become the Constitution, it was the duty of
every honest citizen to uphold it and
to place no obstacle in its way. It would then
be no fault of his if it did not work well. We
were told by His Excellency that we had
entered upon a new nationality, but we rather
disliked the expression, and could not well see
how we were a nation, since we lacked several most important national attributes. As to
the defences, he agreed with some of the
speakers, that we required a certain degree of
organization wherewith to sustain our position, even as a quasi nation, but at the same
time he feared we might be in danger of going
too far. Yet he much desired that the Militia
should be organized and made available, since
in case of need it would be upon its substantial yeomanry, the country would have to depend, their all being at stake. There was an-

other subject to which allusion was made; he
referred to the assimilation of the Bankrupt
laws of the several Provinces. In the Province
of Quebec, that law he believed had had its
day and serious evils were now growing out of
it. These laws needed not only assimilation,
but in his opinion warranted the inquiry as to
whether they needed to be continued at all.
Some honourable members were very enthusiastic as to the resources of the Dominion,
but he could not be blind to the fact that it
had drawbacks as well. It had a drawback
geographically in its shape and another of
climate; still it was a fine country and with
industry and good morals, could be made to
yield happiness and plenty of inhabitants. He
was pleased in the main with His Excellency's
speech, and certainly admitted we had cause
to congratulate ourselves on the peace and
prosperity which prevailed. le joined in the
hope that we would go forward, not downward, that we woud gain strength not
weakness, and that all factiousness and undue
party spirit would be laid down. (Hear, hear)
The 1st paragraph was then put and passed,
when on motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell, the
resolutions as a whole were adopted. An address based thereon was passed and ordered
to be presented to His Excellency by the
members of the House who were members of
the Government.

10

SENATE
THE SENATE
Tuesday. November 12, 1867
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock.

After routine,
Hon. Mr. Lelellier de St. Just enquired
from the Government whether any arrangements were likely to be made this Session, for
reporting the proceedings and debates of the
House.

D

EBATES

November 12. 1867

between Hon. Messrs. Mitchell and Hazen, the
two gentlemen disagreeing in toto as to the
propriety of employing reporters. Mr. Mitchell
affirming its necessity and importance, Mr.
Hazen denying both.
Hon. Mr. Wilmoi proposed the appointment
of a Committee to consider the whole subject,
which was agreed to.

Hon. Mr. McClelan gave notice of inquiring
on Thursday next, as follows: "Is the report
correct that two gentlemen appointed to this
Chamber from New Brunswick have declined
Hon. Mr. Campbell said in substance that it acceptance of their seats, and if so, have
was a matter for the House itself to deal with. those vacancies been filled, and by whom?
A general conversation ensued on the subHon. Mr. Wilmot gave notice that on
ject when it became apparent that the sense
of the House was favourable to the idea. The Thursday he would move that a Committee be
practice in New Brunswick was referred to by appointed to inquire at what cost the debates
several speakers, and in the course of the of this Honourable House can be reported and
discussion some sharp sparring took place printed.

Novemrber 13, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Wednesday, November 13, 1867
The Speaker took the Chair at 3 o'clock.

CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
Messrs. Seymour, Macpherson, Dickson,
Tessier, Armand, Hamilton
(Inkerman),
McCully, Dickey, McClelan, Mitchell and
Christie.

After the usual routine business the
STANDING ORDERS AND PRIVATE BILLS
Hon. Mr. Campbell (Posimaster General)
Messrs. Blair, Allan, McCrea, E. Duchesnay,
introduced a Bill for "An Act for the Regu- Sanborn, Ferrier, Olivier, McCully,
Ritchie,
lation of the Postal Service," which was read Botsford and Robertson.
a first time.
A CORRECTION
BANKING, COMMERCE AND RAILWAYS
Hon. Mr. Steeves thought it but right to
notice that in the newspaper report of yesterday's proceedings his name had been given
instead of that of another honourable member
and hoped the reporters would endeavour to
avoid such mistakes in future.
(The error consisted in coupling Hon. Mr.
Steeves' name with Hon. Mr. Mitchell's in the
very brief report of a rather unpleasant discussion between the latter honourable member and Hon. Mr. Hazen. The reporter not
being as yet conversant with the names of the
Senators from Nova Scotia and New Brunswick had inquired from one of the employees
of the House, and was misled-unintentionally no doubt. It was quite proper for Hon.
Mr. Steeves to vindicate hinself, and we are
glad to be able to correct our inadvertent
error.)
STANDING COMMITTEES

Messrs. Hamilton (Kingston), Simpson,
McDonald, Wilson, Ryan, Foster, Wier, Kenny,
Wilmot and Walsh.
Before taking the vote on the motion for
these Committees, Hon. Mr. Skead took exception to the non-representation of the
Ottawa District on the list, and firmly expressed his opinion that its immense lumbering
business entitled it to some representation. He
did not ask to be put upon the Committee, but
suggested that the name of the Hon. Mr.
Hamilton, of Inkerman, should be added
thereto.

Hon. Mr. Campbell said that as the Forests
had been transferred to the Local Governments, it had not been thought particularly
necessary that the Ottawa region should be
specially represented, but at the same time
was perfectly willing to add the honourable
member's own name (Mr. Skead's) which was
On motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell, seconded done.
by Hon. Mr. Blair, the following Committees
were appointed.
The House then adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES
THE SENATE
Thursday, November 14, 1867
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock.
After the presentation of petitions, and
other routine,

November 14, 1867

preferred leaving the matters in the hands of
the Committee on Contingent Accounts, and
by consent of the House the motion was
amended so as to refer it to that Committee.
It was then put and carried.
MAILS TO THE LOWER PROVINCES

Hon. Mr. Steeves gave notice that he would
inquire to-morrow of the Postmaster-General,
whether daily mails were made up in this city
Hon. Mr. McClelan inquired of the Gov- for Nova Scotia and New Brunswick; if not
ernment if the report that two gentlemen how many mails were made up for those
appointed to this Chamber from New Bruns- places each week, and by what route or routes
wick had declined acceptance of their seats they were sent.
was correct, and if so, had those vacancies
ADDRESS
been filled, and by whom?
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved for an Address to
Hon. Mr. Campbell answered that there
were two vacancies for New Brunswick in the His Excellency praying him to communicate
to this House, any royal instructions received
House, and they were about to be filled up.
by him respecting the passage of Bills by
Parliament.
REPORTING THE DEBATES
The honourable gentleman stated, it was
A general conversational discussion again desirable to have these instructions, together
took place on the motion of Hon. Mr. Wilmot with the Union Act, printed with the new
for a Committee to enquire at what cost the edition of the Rules and Orders of the
debates of the House could be reported and House.-Carried.
printed. Some honourable members favored
The House then adjourned.
the appointment of such a Committee; others
INQUIRY

November 15, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Friday, November 15, 1867
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock.
Sundry petitions were presented, among
others one from Arthur Harvey, author of a
statistical work on British Columbia, which,
on motion of Honourable Mr. Ryan, was referred to the Library Committee.
CALL OF THE HOUSE

Hon. Mr. Christie said that the measures the
honourable member named, with one or two
exceptions, must of necessity originate with
the other House, as they would affect the
finances of the country, and as a general thing
should be in charge of the head of the Department to which the particular interest they
related to appertain. The House met day by
day but to adjourn as it were. The delays
caused by the debates on the Address in the
Commons necessarily left this House without
work, and it would always be so since that
branch of Parliament invariably expended
several days in this way-a fact for which this
House was in no wise responsible. Then after
the Address was passed the earliest bills introduced would at least take a week before
they could get to their final stage and find
their way to this House. If he saw there was
any prospect of business, he would be the last
man to propose a prolonged adjournment.

Pursuant to the orders of the day the Clerk
proceeded to make a call of the House, when
the following members answered to their
names:
The Honourable Joseph Cauchon, Speaker;
the Honourables, Messrs. Aikens, Allan, Anderson, Armand, Blair, Blake, Bosse, Botsford, Bourinot, Campbell, Christie, Crawford,
Hon. Mr. Macpherson maintained that while
Dickey, Dickson, Duchesnay (A. J.), Du- any member who had private business could
Guévremont, at any time absent himself, it was an altoFlint,
mouchel,
Ferguson,
Hamilton (Kingston), Holmes, Kenny, Lacoste, gether different thing to close the House itself
Leonard, Leslie, Letellier de St. Just, Mac- and could not but think such a course would
pherson, McCrea, McDonald, Ryan, Sanborn, injuriously affect its position and influence.
Seymour, Skead, and Wilson.
Hon. Mr. Dickey said he fully sympathized
with the objection urged against the proposed
ADJOURNMENT
adjournment. This House was as it were on its
Hon. Mr. Christie, previous to the putting of trial, and should not even seem to ignore what
the motion for the adjournment of the House, the country expected from it. Business might
suggested that as there was little at present come, and it should be prepared to do it. The
to engage its attention, the adjournment Address had now passed the other Branch, and
should continue until Thursday next, the 21st no doubt several measures would immediately
be submitted. It was not desirable to give
instant.
parties sufficiently disposed to find fault with
Hon. Mr. Macpherson said the House ought the opportunity of doing so with a semblance
to be careful not to create the impression that of propriety. The conduct of the House was in
its presence was not required, or that business the hands of the Government, and it was for
was not ready to be proceeded with. He had them to say whether the proposed adjournon former occasions suggested that more of ment should take place.
the Government Bills might very properly be
Hon. Mr. Campbell said it was for the
introduced into this branch of the Legislature,
and in referring to His Excellency's speech, at House to decide the question. It was the place
the opening of Parliament, he found there of the members of the Government to be here
were several which could originate here as to attend to the business, but they could not
well as in the other House. These Bills, always occupy the time. This lack of occupawhether introduced here or not, must be car- tion at the commencement of the sessions had
ried through by the members of the Gov- been always experienced in the Legislative
ernment in it, and he thought it would greatly Councils, and in all the Provinces alike. With
reference to the measures foreshadowed in
facilitate and expedite business, if the practice the Speech, and to which an honourable memobtained of bringing in more of such Bills in ber had referred, with two exceptions they
the Senate. We ought not to be content to be a were of a character requiring their introducmere Court of Revision, and should ain at tion in the Commons. And even where a Bil
giving it a firm place in the confidence of the did not necessarily involve this, it was always
country. In his opinion we ought to remain at much more proper and convenient that it
should be presented by the Minister to whose
our post.

SENATE DEBATES
particular Department it related, as he had to
give explanations and to receive suggestions,
which could not be given or received by any
one so well as by himself. The honourable
member then named the measures adverted to
in His Excellency's Speech, and argued that
with the exception of the Postal Regulation
Bill already introduced by himself, one on the
Fisheries which his honourable colleague (Mr,
Mitchell) intended to submit, and possibly
one other, it would be either necessary or
highly expedient that they should originate in
the other Branch.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just-The Militia
Bill was introduced into this House.
Hon. Mr. Campbell-Yes, just precisely for
the reason he had alleged, that the Minister of
Militia was then a member of it. There was
some force in the argument that the adjournment proposed would show the House had
nothing to do, and it would perhaps be as well
to avoid making that impression, but their
meeting day by day without doing anything
would very likely have the same effect.
Hon. Mr. Ryan said there was some work to
go on with, and quite enough to occupy the
House meanwhile. There was one important
measure, the Postal Regulation Bill, which he
presumed the Postmaster-General was ready
to proceed with. Then there was the subject of
reporting the debates, which if not immediately attended to and the House adjourned
would be found unsettled when it met again.
There was a Committee on banking, commerce and railways, which was not fully
organized; a Committee on the rules and
orders of the House, and in fact there was
something to be done to prepare the machinery for doing the work which would afterwards come before them. As the Government
did not seem to wish it, he thought it would
not only be impolitic to adjourn but a dereliction of duty.
Hon. Mr. Tessier said the adjournment
would be a bad precedent, and if the reasons
adduced prevailed they could be repeated
with similar results at the commencement of
every Session. The Senate desired to take a
position which would command the respect of
the country, but he thought this was not the
way to do it. Then there were a number of
members from a long distance who would be
kept all their time entirely without occupation. Bills would immediately be introduced in
the other House and distributed in this, and
the members would have the opportunity of
examining them and forming their own opin-

November 15, 1867

ions of their merits. But this House had at
least one important measure before it, and he
could see no reason why it should not be
discussed next week. There were now four
Ministers in the House, and if they each
brought one measure at an early date the
House would soon have work enough to do.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell, (Minister of Fisheries,)
wished to say that although he intended to
bring in a Bill to establish as far as possible a
uniform system of dealing with the fisheries
in the several parts of the Dominion he could
not engage to do so during this short part of
the Session, and he believed that when he had
stated his reasons for this delay the House
would entirely concur in their reasonableness.
The jurisdiction of his Department extended
over thousands of miles of sea coast in three
Provinces, and for other thousands of miles in
the interior, and as he had had but a few
weeks after the elections to prepare himself
for his onerous duties, it was hardly to be
expected, he should be prepared to bring in so
early a well considered measure of the kind
proposed. lis subordinates were busily employed in collecting the information necessary
to enable him to deal with the subject, but
there was a great deal to be done before safe
conclusions were arrived at. Then there was
the Marine Branch of his duties which involved the need of much attention and
thought before the great interests it had to
deal with could be thoroughly understood, and
if possible harmonized in the Provinces of
Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and Quebec.
Different laws respecting lights had obtained
in these several countries. In Canada, they
were free, whereas in the other Provinces, the
cost of their maintenance was chargeable upon
the mercantile interests specially affected.
The question to be considered was whether
the old Canada system should be adopted
for the Dominion, or that of one of the
Maritime Provinces. Then also there was the
subject of Marine Hospitals and other such
places of refuge for sailors, which in the
different places he had named were managed
differently, and regulated by different laws.
He was now in communication with the
Collectors of Customs and Boards of Trade for
the purpose of obtaining information, and was
daily receiving replies to the many questions
he had proposed, from which he hoped to
derive much assistance in framing the measure contemplated. His honourable colleague
(Mr. Campbell) had stated reasons why
Bills should be introduced in the Chamber, to
which the Minister belonged whose Department had to deal with the matters legislated

November 155 1867

SENATE I EBATES

upon, and from what he himself had just now
stated, he thought the House would see the
great inconvenience of having the measure
submitted by others than themselves. As to
the adjournment he could not see its propriety. The honourable Minister urged
several reasons against it and sat down.

15

Hon. Mr. Mitchell said he proposed bringing
it in at the commencement of the second part
of the session, which would probably be late
in February or at the commencement of
March.
Hon. Mr. Wark said honourable members
should keep at their post until the answers to
the Address were passed and presented. Communications with His Excellency were not
supposed to be open, but now as this had been
done the House might at any moment receive
important messages which would require
attention.

Hon. Mr. Allan was sure from what he
knew of the great ingenuity of the Postmaster-General that he would manage to leave
the matter in the hands of the House. (Hear,
hear.) For his part he thought it would be a
wrong step. The Militia Bill before referred
to, and subsequently a Fishery Bill, were
brought into the Legislative Council, and left
over until the ensuing session, to give the
Hon. Mr. Christie withdrew his amendment,
members and the country ample time to con- or rather stated he had only made a suggessider them. He hoped the Honourable Minister tion.
of Fisheries would not bring his proposed
The House then adjourned (as usual) to
measure late, but that there would be every
opportunity of dealing with it carefully.
meet again on Monday at three o'clock.

SENATE DEBATES

November

18,

1867

Canada, or only to the Executive Council,
subject in either case to the approval of Her
Majesty's principal Secretary of State. The
same honourable member also gave notice
Monday, November 18, 1867
that he would at the same time move for
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock. copies of all reports, papers and correspondence, respecting the Intercolonial Railway
After routine,
since last Session.
INQUIRY
Hon. Mr. McCulIy gave notice that he
Hon. Mr. McClelan inquired whether any
would inquire
action had been taken by the Privy Council
1st-Whether the Cunard Steamer Service in
towards the reconstruction of the Lighthouse
connection with Halifax, N.S., was to terni!on the Beacon Bar, in the harbor of St. John.
nate with the current year, if not, what arHon. Mr. Mitchell replied that the plans rangements existed for its continuance, and
sent on not having been satisfactory, Mr. up to what period.
Page, Chief Engineer of the Board of Works,
2nd-Whether, and what measures are to be
would be sent down to examine the place and
proposed to be taken by the Government to
report.
open up a line of Steam Navigation between
NOTICES
this Dominion and the British West India
Hon. Mr. Tessier gave notice that on possessions.
Wednesday next he would enquire of the
3rd-Whether the Executive Government of
Government,
Canada have committed to them the power to
lst.-If a Bill respecting the construction of initiate negotiations or ta entertain negotiathe Intercolonial Railway would be intro- tions submitted for the renewal of the Reduced during this first part of the Session.
ciprocity Treaty with the United States.
2nd.-If the selection of the route would be
The House then adjourned.
left to the decision of the Parliament of

THESENATE

November 19, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Locke-That he will ask the
Government whether or not it is their intention to extend the system of bounties to the
Tuesday, Nov. 19, 1887
fishermen throughout the Dominion, and if so
at what time such system is to come into
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock.
operation; and further, in what manner such
After routine,
bounty (if granted), is to be apportioned,
Hon. Mr. Steeves inquired whether a mail whether in the tonnage engaged in the fisherfor Nova Scotia and New Brunswick was ies, or on the quantities of fish caught.
made up each day? If not how many mails for
Hon. Mr. Anderson-Will enquire
those places were made up each week, and by
lst. Under what terms are the notes of the
what route or routes they were sent?
Dominion issued by the Bank of Montreal?
Hon. Mr. Campbell replied that mails for
2nd. Is a commission allowed the bank? If
those places were made up every day, and
forwarded by way of Portland; and also that so, at what rate per annum?
another daily mail was sent by way of
3rd. Will the Government be willing to
Madawaska.
allow the banks of the Maritime Provinces to
NOTICES
issue Dominion notes on the same terms as
Hon. Mr. Dickey gave notice that he would those extended to the Bank of Montreal?
inquire on Thursday next whether the
4th. Does the Bank of Montreal, respond the
Executive Government intended to propose a Dominion notes in specie at the various branmeasure for opening water communication ches throughout the Dominion, as well as at
between the Gulf of St. Lawrence and the Bay the parent institution, or must the notes be
of Fundy?
presented for payment at the place of issue?
Hon. Mr. Aikins, on the same day, if under
5th. Is interest allowed by the Bank of
the provisions of Cap. 52, clause 427, sec. 3 of Montreal on balances at the credit of the
29 and 30 Victoria, Statutes of Canada, any Dominion; if so, at what rate per annum?
extra number of copies of the Municipal and
6th. What rate of interest is charged by the
Assessment Acts have been printed and distributed, as therein provided, and if not why Bank for advances made on account of the
Dominion?
not?

THE SENATE

99267-3

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Wednesday. November 20, 1867
The House opened at three o'clock.
An informal debate opening up in reference
to the occupation by strangers of the gallery
set apart in the House of Commons for the
members of the Senate, it appeared in the
course of the conversation, which lasted some
time, and which became somewhat spicy, that
the place in question had been at times filled
by persons admitted by members of the Senate themselves, to the inconvenience of other
members. After a good many suggestions it
was resolved, on motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell, that hereafter room be kept in the said
gallery for members of the Senate and that
the Speaker of the House of Commons be
requested to issue tickets representing the
additional seats; said tickets to be placed
within the hands of the Speaker of this 'House,
and by him distributed to the members on
application.
Sundry petitions were presented, among
them one by Hon. Mr. Flint, froi certain inhabitants of Belleville, praying for the establishment of a Local Bank.
Hon. Mr. Campbell submitted the return to
an address praying for a copy of the Royal
instructions sent to His Excellency respecting
the passage of Bills by Parliament.
A message was reported from the House of
Commons, brought by Messrs. Mackenzie and
Young, naming the Printing Committee of that
House, and requesting that the Printing
Committee of this Senate should co-operate
with their Committee during the Session-as
a Joint Committee.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell, the
Printing Committee of the Senate was directed to do so.
Hon. Mr. Wark gave notice that on Friday
next he will move that an humble address be
presented to His Excellency the GovernorGeneral, respectfully requesting that His
Excellency will cause to be laid before this
House, copies of the correspondence which
has taken place between Her Majesty's Imperial Government, the Government of the
late Province of Canada, the Government of
this Dominion, and the Hudson's Bay Company, relative to the claims of that Company
to the North-West Territory, and the transfer
of such claims. Also copies of reports of

November 20, 1867

explanations made under instruction from either of the aforesaid Governments, with the
view of opening up communication with the
said territory, and more especially with that
part of it known as the Red River Settlement,
and any estimates which have been prepared
of the cost of opening such communication.
INTERCOLONIAL RAILWAY
In reply to the Hon. Mr. Tessier's inquiries,
Hon. Mr. Campbell said it was the intention
of the Government to introduce a Bill respecting the Intercolonial Railway during the first
part of this session. That the route must first
be approved of by the Imperial Government
before the money necessary for its construction can be obtained. After survey the Government of the Dominion would submit their
recommendations to the Imperial Government.
Hon. Mr. Tessier then said with regard to
the motion praying for reports, papers, and
correspondence relating to the Intercolonial
Railway since last session, that as a similar
one had been made in the other branch, to
avoid the double expense, he would withdraw
his own. As a Bill was to be introduced he
hoped, however, that all the papers necessary
to an intelligent apprehension of the merits
would be supplied. He would not now occupy
the time of the House in speaking about the
route the road should take, but would say that
it was a vitally important point. If a mistake
were made in this matter, it could not afterwards be remedied, and it was not perhaps
too much to add that upon the wisdom of the
choice of route might very largely depend the
prosperity of the Union.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said the papers would
be supplied at an early day.
Hon. Mr. Ryan gave notice that on Monday,
25th instant, he will move to inquire whether
it is the intention of Government to include in
the estimates to be laid before Parliament this
session amounts equal to one half of the usual
grants to charitable and literary institutions,
so as to prevent them from suffering loss in
consequence of the recent change in our form
of Government; these institutions having
hitherto received grants for the year terminating December 31st, and the Local Governments only having come into existence on the
lst of July last.
CUNARD STEAMERS
Hon. Mr. McCully rose to propose the inquiries of which he had given notice. lst,

November 20, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

whether the Cunard steamboat service in connection with Halifax, Nova Scotia, is to
terminate this year, and if not, what arrangements exist for its continuance, and up to
what period.
And in rising to make these inquiries, he
would take occasion to say that it was now
nearly 30 years since the service in question
had commenced, and it was not therefore
surprising that the people of the Maritime
Provinces should feel a deep interest in knowing whether it was to continue. They were
largely interested in shipping, and their sails
might be said to whiten every sea. The service
of these steamers had been so punctually
performed, that the arrivals of the vessels
might almost be calculated to the hour, and by
these means, and the improved land communications, the owners could receive intelligence of the whereabouts of the ships and
what they were doing. But a report had got
abroad, he did not know how, that the contract had expired, and the service was soon to
cease. Such an impression had certainly got
abroad, and he hoped that Ministers would be
able to answer, and set the fears at rest.

profitable business would be done. He would
be gratified to hear that it was the intention of
the Government to take the matter in hand
and to prosecute it with vigor. The honourable
member then asked, whether any and what
measures are proposed to be taken on the part
of the Government to open a line of steam
navigation between this Dominion and the
British West India possessions?

Hon. Mr. Campbell replied that the service
in question was not under the control of the
Government of the Dominion, but they had
been informed by the Imperial Post Office
that so far as Liverpool and New York were
concerned, it would cease at the end of this
year. It would, however be continued with
Halifax until the 30th June next, by which
time the Government of the Dominion hoped
and intended to have arrangements perfected
for its perpetuation (hear, hear).

RECIPROCITY

Hon. Mr. Campbell said that no measures
had yet been taken to establish such a line of
steam communication, and for the reason that
the Government could not do so without any
appropriation of money by Parliament, which
could not be made until this session. It was
now proposed to ask Parliament for an appropriation for carrying the mails to those Islands, and the Government would then have
power by way of subsidy to encourage the
establishment of the line. After the return of
the Commissioners two weekly mails had
been established, and they were still subsisting. With the new powers which the Postal
Bill would confer, he hoped a better communication with the British West Indies
would be arranged and maintained.

Hon. Mr. McCully then inquired whether
the Executive Government of Canada have
committed to them the power to initiate
negotiations or to entertain negotiations submitted for the renewal of a Reciprocity Treaty
with the United States of America? In proposing this question the honourable member said,
he had understood that some time before the
termination of the Reciprocity Treaty power
had been conferred upon the Government of
Canada to treat with the American GovernTRADE WITH THE BRITISH WEST INDIES
ment, either directly or through the AmbasHon. Mr. McCully, with reference to his sador at Washington, for its renewal. That
next enquiry, said that not long ago a delega- Treaty while in existence had been mutually
tion had been sent to the British and other beneficial to the several countries interested,
West Indies, to inquire into the feasibility of and its renewal was generally desired. If the
expanding the trade of the now United Government had not the power in question it
Provinces with those Islands, and the Com- seemed desirable that they should take measmissioners had made an elaborate report, but ures to acquire it. He did not know but that
he had not heard that any action had been he was treading upon forbidden ground, for
taken upon it. He hoped, however, that a line he was aware that the treaty making power
of steamers with those islands would be estab- was a prerogative of the Crown, yet he hoped
lished at an early day. He knew that since it was not impossible for the Crown to confer
then the Government had many important upon the Government of the Dominion the
subjects to occupy their attention. This sub- facilities necessary to obtain a renewal of the
ject excited a deep interest in the Maritime Treaty. The Lower Provinces had carried on a
Provinces, and if steamers were put upon the large and always increasing business with the
route he had no doubt a very large and United States, under it exporting thither coal
99267-3

20

EBATES
SENATE: D

November 20, 1867

and fish, which found a ready market. Since bags with mails for St. John and Halifax were
then the coal trade, especially, had been now made up.
greatly contracted.
POSTAL REGULATION BILL
Hon. Mr. Campbell said the honourable
member had to a certain extent answered his
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved that the order
own question. The Government of Canada had
for the second reading of this Bill be disnot the power to treat directly with the
United States for the renewal of the Recip- charged. Some delay in translating and printrocity Treaty, but they had the power through ing had occurred, which had prevented his
the British Minister at Washington to ap- laying it upon the table before. He hoped to
proach the subject, and thus to initiate do so to-morrow or next day so that it might
negotiations. This power had been given to
be in the hands of honourable members a few
Canada by certain despatches from the Colonial Minister, which he now held in his hand, days before it was brought up; the second
reading might be fixed for an early day next
and it still continued valid.
week.
In answer to a question not on the paper,
the Hon. Mr. Campbell also said that separate
The House then adjourned.

November 21, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

A Constitutional debate followed in which
the past practice of the Legislative Councils of
the several Provinces, as also of the Imperial
Parliament was referred to. Several authoriThursday, November 21, 1867
ties were quoted, and the result of the discusThe Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock. sion seemed to be a general conviction that it
would be inconvenient to allow of prefaces to
After routine,
questions or reasons, and opinions after staCANAL BETWEEN THE GULF AND
ting them, as these would inevitably lead to
BAY OF FUNDY
the statement of counter opinions by other
Hon. Mr. Dickey inquired whether the members, and to long debates. The Chair
Executive Governient intended to propose a being mentioned the Speaker gave his opinion
measure for opening water communication by on the subject in the sense above stated.
Canal between the Gulf of St. Lawrence and
Hon. Mr. Mitchell then replied to the questhe Bay of Fundy?
tions to the effect that the statements he had
The honourable member would take occa- made on a previous occasion, supplied, as he
sion to say that this project was of the greatest conceived, a full answer to the inquiries of the
possible importance to the trade of the coun- honourable member. He had then stated that
try, and if accomplished would save not less as soon as possible after the recess he would
than one dollar per ton on the freight of coal bring up a measure to regulate the fisheries of
to Boston, besides resulting in great general the whole Dominion, in which the subject of
benefit to other interests.
bounties, and several other important interests, would be dealt with. He thought that on
Hon. Mr. Campbell said the Government that occasion the House had been satisfied
were fully aware of the importance of the with his explanations, and with the impossisubject, but were not in possession at present bility there was of his having the varied
of sufficient information to warrant their un- information necessary to enable him to deal
dertaking such a work. The honourable mem- with the matter sooner. He could only reiterber might be sure, however, that it would ate his assurance of introducing the measure
receive the consideration of the Government.
in the first days of the second part of the
Session.
FISHERY BOUNTIES
GOVERNMENT ARRANGEMENT WITH
Hon. Mr. Locke inquired whether it was the
THE BANK OF MONTREAL
intention of the Government to extend the
system of bounties to fishermen throughout
Hon. Mr. Anderson inquiredthe Dominion, and if so, at what time such
1st.-Under what terms are the notes of the
system was to come into operation, and fur- Dominion issued by the Bank of Montreal?
ther in what manner such bounty (if granted) is to be apportioned, whether on the tonHon. Mr. Kenny replied that according to
nage engaged in the Fisheries, or on the the provisions of the Act for the issue of
quantities of fish caught?
Provincial notes the Bank of Montreal was
In putting the inquiry the honourable mem- entitled to receive 5 per cent on the actual
ber stated that the fishermen commenced in amount of its circulation withdrawn, as comMarch to make preparations for their season's pensation for surrendering its power to issue
business, and it was therefore important, they notes, the circulation being established by
should be informed as early as possible of the Returns dated 30th April, 1866.
intention of the Government in these respects,
2nd. Question-Is a Commission allowed to
so as to enable them to shape their course the Bank, if so at what rate per annum?
prudently. The honourable member was proAnswer-The Bank receives a Commission
ceeding, when
of j per cent every three months upon the
Hon. Mr. Sanborn rose to a question of average amount of notes in circulation, as
order, and said that according to the rules of compensation for the issue and redemption
the House, which had been accepted upon the thereof.
opening of Parliament, honourable members
3rd. Question-Will the Government be
putting questions to the Government were willing to allow the Banks of the Maritime
expected to confine themselves strictly to the Provinces to issue Dominion notes on the
letter of such questions, unless an explanation same terms as those extended to the Bank of
were found to be needed.
Montreal?
THE SENATE

SENATE DEBATES
Answer-The Act to provide for the issue of
Provincial notes does not extend to the
Maritime Provinces.
4th. Question-Does the Bank of Montreal respond the Dominion notes in specie at
the various Branches throughout the Dominion, as well as at the parent institution, or
must the notes be presented for payment at
the place of issue?
Answer-The Provincial notes are redeemable in specie at Montreal and Toronto only.
5th. Question-Is interest allowed by the
Bank of Montreal in balances at the credit of
the Dominion; if so at what rate per annum?
Answer-The balances at the credit of the
Government at the Bank of Montreal do not
bear interest, as they are daily subject to the
cheque of the Receiver General.
6th. Question-What rate of interest is
charged by the Bank for advances made on
account of the Dominion?
Answer-The rate of interest on loans to
the Government is the subject of arrangement
from time to time between the Government
and the Bank.
MUNICIPAL AND ASSESSMENT ACTS
Hon. Mr. Aikins inquired if any extra
copies of these Acts had been printed and dis-

November 21, 1867

tributed, as therein provided, and if not why
not?
Hon. Mr. Campbell replied that they had.
Three copies had been sent to each municipality, and one to each Member of Parliament,
besides which two hundred copies had been
printed and distributed through the Attorney-General's office.
Hon. Mr. Aikins said that he and another
member present had not received their copies.
Hon. Mr. Bureau moved that when the
House adjourns it stands adjourned until
Monday next. This would afford members
from the Lower Provinces the opportunity of
travelling round a little, and acquainting
themselves with the country.
Hon. Mr. Tessier said that if the members
adverted to desired such an adjournment he
would gladly vote for it, but as no one had
expressed such a wish, it was, he thought, the
duty of the House to continue its sitting.
Other members expressed the same opinions, and the Hon. Mr. Bureau withdrew his
motion.
The House then adjourned.

November 22, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Friday, November 22, 1867
THE PARLIAMENTARY PRACTICE
IN REGARD TO MAKING
INOUIRIES FROM
THE GOVERNMENT
Hon. Mr. McCully rose to move an adjournment. (This motion was made for the purpose
of bringing up the question as to the practice
to be observed in making inquiries from the
Oovernment.) The honourable member stated
that it would be advantageous to the House
generally to know whether in proposing questions to the Government, the party submitting
them was at liberty to preface such enquiries
with explanations and reasons, or to follow
them with such remarks as he might deem
necessary to put the Government and the
House in possession of the true merits. He
brought this subject up in consequence of the
question of order which was raised, and he
had no doubt honourable members generally
would be glad to have a clear and definite
understanding of what was the correct practice. For this purpose he thought that, as this
House professed to be to a great extent guided
by the customs and usages of the Imperial
Parliament, the best way would be to refer to
the course usually pursued in both the Lords
and Commons. He would, however, take the
liberty to say that in a matter of this kind, it
was expedient to look rather to the practice
obtaining than to the letter of the Rules. Now
he found in the London TIMES for the year
1857-he had not been careful to select any
particular year-that instead of the cast-iron
system which some honourable members of
this Senate seemed desirous of following, the
exact reverse was the case in the House of
Lords, and that not only in asking questions,
but in presenting petitions, the members referred to the merits of the subjects, stated the
contents and gave collateral reasons. Nor was
this liberty confined to matters which touched
the personal interest of the speakers, but to
things of general public importance, things
affecting the welfare of the realm. There he
also found that in replying to such inquiries
the Ministers did not confine themselves to
brief forms, but went largely into particulars,
and in fact answered in the most liberal
mianner, always excepting of course, when to
do so would in their opinion be prejudicial to
the interests of the State. Nor did the questions and replies end there, for other members
regarded themselves as at perfect liberty to

state their opinions, and it not unfrequently
happened that the debates were continued
until the subjects were fully exhausted.
Turning over the volume of the TIMES which
was before him, the honourable member said,
there was a debate upon the conduct of the
Earl of Cardigan during the Crimean war
which lasted for some time. On the 11th May,
the Earl of Albermarle presents a petition and
accompanies it by half a column of explanations. On the 18th of the same month, the
subject of St. James' Park was brought up on
a simple question of the Earl of Malmsbury,
and two or three other noble Lords expressed
their views. But he (Mr. McCully) had a case
yet much more in point. On the 28th of May
Lord Dungannon called the attention of the
Bishop of London to the practice of preaching
in Exeter Hall, which had been recently introduced, and asked that prelate whether it was
intended to continue these services. His
Lordship replied that although the inquiry
was not in order, he would very readily
answer it, and then proceeded to speak a
quarter of a column, Lord Kennan and the
Archbishop of Canterbury then spoke, but
some exception being taken to the regularity
of the proceeding, Lord Campbell moved that
the Archbishop be allowed to speak, and then
the matter more fully discussed. Now, he (Mr.
Campbell) thought it was unnecessary for him
to produce any more instances, but the reports
in the TIMES were full of them, and he
could multiply them ad infinitum. Now, he
would be sorry that this House should adopt a
more stringent rule in respect to their proceedings, than was followed in the Chamber
to which this House was generally supposed ta
look as a model for its own guidance. If the
liberty or license allowed in that place were
not regarded as objectionable, he hardly
thought it should be considered objectionable
here. He would now move that this House do
now adjourn.
Hon. Mr. Bureau, in French, said that in
point of fact the practice of the House of
Lords as indicated by the remarks of the
honourable member who had just sat down,
was very much that which has obtained in the
Legislative Council of Canada in past times. If
the Government were disposed to answer the
questions of which notice had been given they
took counsel together, and came prepared to
do so. If a discussion was desired, it was for
the House to say whether or not it should be
allowed, and if then it proceeded too far any
honourable member was quite at liberty to ask
an application of the rule. He had, however, at

SENATE DEBATES
times, regretted the rigor of the rule, for
surely the House had a right to ask any
questions it chose, and to expect all the information the Ministers might feel at liberty to
communicate. The Senate constituted the
large inquest of the country, and as such
should be considered at liberty to inquire into
all matters of public interest. In his opinion it
was better to follow the usage prevailing in
the Lords of which the House had now had
good samples in the instances produced by the
honourable member (Mr. McCully).
Hon. Mr. Blair said he desired to draw the
attention of the House to one simple consideration, which would, he thought, show the
inconvenience of the practice recommended
by the honourable member (Mr. McCully). If
in putting a question, the honourable member
doing so should be at liberty to go fully into
the subject, he would probably state views
and opinions to which other honourable members would take exception, and they of courie
would expect to be allowed to reply. Thus
long discussions would be introduced, and the
House would never get at the standing orders.
The case of the Earl of Cardigan was an
exceptional one. His personal honour and
courage had been called in question, and it
was right he should have the opportunity of
vindicating himself. But it would hardly be
expected that the conduct of affairs should be
left in the hands of honourable members.
Hon. Mr. Hazen thought that the decision
arrived at yesterday was the correct one and
should be respected. The cases produced by
the honourable member were altogether exceptional and if it were necessary he (Mr.
Hazen) would undertake to prove that in
nine out of ten cases when questions were
proposed to the Government in the Imperial Parliament no discussion whatever
took place. From what he had himself
witnessed there he could assert that the
practice was question and answer, and
nothing beyond that. If questions of all
sorts could be brought up and speeches of two
or three hours allowed, it would not be possible to proceed with the real business. Then, if
only the member who propounded the inquiry
and were at liberty to speak, other members
would consider themselves unfairly treated,
and with reason. All things considered he held
it was better to abide by the rules.
Hon. Mr. Bo±sford said he had had no
opportunity yesterday of presenting a few
remarks, as he had intended to do, upon this
subject, in consequence of the Chair having

November 22, 1667

been appealed to for a decision. There appeared, however, to be no express rule bearing upon the case, and the Senate was therefore left to govern itself by the practice of the
Imperial Parliament. When the point of order
was raised his honourable friend (Mr. Locke)
was, as he (Mr. Botsford) believed, perfectly
in order, for he was simply giving a reason for
asking the question whether the Government
intended to extend the system of bounties to
the fishermen of the Maritime Provinces. If
he had gone into an elaborate argument as to
the propriety of extending such bounties it
might have been held that he was encroaching, but he was merely stating that as arrangements for the next season's fishing were
always made early in March, it was important
they should know whether or not it was
probable the system of bounties would be
extended to them. To satisfy his own mind as
to the practice of the House of Lords he (Mr.
Botsford) had turned to Hansard and found
half a dozen cases which would prove that it
was not in questions of personal honor as in
that of the Earl of Cardigan that explanations
were permitted, and he would now adduce
them. The first was on June 6th of this year,
when Sir Andrew Agnew rose to ask the
Secretary of War whether by the warrant of
July 1, 1848, as well as by the Horse Guards
Circulars of April 15, 1862, the troops engaged
in repelling the Fenian raid in Canada,
June 1866, were not fairly entitled to receive
three month's extraordinary field allowance,
instead of one months' allowance which had
been issued, and the speaker went on to give
his views to the extent of a column without
being called to order. On June 7th Sir John
Gray rose to call attention to the distress,
which, according to communications which
had reached him, now prevailed in the Western portions of Mayo and Galway, and made
a speech of a column and a half. Lord Naas
replied at considerable length, the report of his
speech occupying four columns, after which
Mr. Brady spoke some time. The honourable
member produced five or six other cases, all
equally pertinent to the question, and said
that they were all on matters of public importance, and if proper he could go on multiplying them, but he presumed those presented
would be sufficient. They al went to show
that great liberties were allowed in the Imperial Parliament in matters of this kind, and
he was sure the rigid rule advocated by some
honourable members would be attended with
very great inconvenience. And he would asic
what interest the public could be expected to
take in the proceedings of the Senate, if the

Novemnber 22. 1867

SENATE DEBATES

members were bound down to simple questions and answers--such answers for instance
as the Hon. Receiver General had given to the
honourable member for Halifax (Mr. Anderson). Such a course he was persuaded
would greatly lessen the influence of the
House, and he hoped it would not be insisted
upon. As had been seen in both the Lords and
Commons, the members were allowed ample
liberty, and he trusted the Senate of Canada
would folow their example.
Hon. Mr. Blair said that after all it would
make very little difference even if the Bill
was adopted and rigidly applied, for honourable members by putting their questions in the
form of resolutions, could always have them
debated.
Hon. Mr. Hazen again spoke, and reiterated
his opinion of the necessity for the rule. It
was more wearisome to listen to long speeches
than to have nothing to do. Let the rule be
preserved, and then if any necessity arose for
explanations in proposing inquiries, the member who did so could ask the indulgence of the
House, which would, no doubt, be extended to
hïm.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said that the rule in the
Imperial Parliament was just as absolute as
that which had existed in this branch of the
Legislature in Canada. But it was equally
evident that when explanations were needed
to make the inquiry understood, they were
always permitted. The honourable members
who had taken such pains to get up instances,
had only looked at the side which favored
their opinion, and had altogether overlooked the decisions of the actual point of
over when it had been brought up. Now he
would venture to say those honourable members could not find a single instance in which,
when the point of order had been raised, it
was not decided that such explanations, reasons and arguments, before or after proposing
questions, were out of order. It was easy
enough to find exceptions, but all they could
prove was that the rule was occasionafly
transgressed without the point of order being
raised. It was thus that irregularities were
multiplied and gained force. Now he (Mr.
Campbell) had looked up a few cases in
respect of which the rule had been invoked,
and in every single instance, both in the Lords
and Commons, the decision had been against
the parties attempting to speak at such times.
The Hon. Postmaster-General then cited five
or six such cases, in which the appeal to the
rule had been folowed, as stated, by a prompt
99267--4

decision, that the remarks were out of order.
Mr. Campbell, however, said he had no doubt
that if an honourable member deemed it essential to give reasons for any inquiry he had to
make, the House would always be willing to
hear him-unless indeed, this happened too
often. He (Mr. Campbell) then referred to the
allusion of an honourable member (Mr. Botsford), to the questions proposed by another
honourable member, (Mr. Anderson), on
Friday last, and to the nature of the replies,
which he seemed to have regarded as unsatisfactory. But he (Mr. Campbeil) could not see
that the said questions admitted of fuler or
clearer answers. Categorical questions of this
sort could only be answered in the same way,
and he considered that on the occasion referred to, the queries of the honourable member (Mr. Anderson), had been fully and
fairly met. (Mr. Campbell here went over each
of the questions and answers, and insisted
that it would have been impossible to give
other replies. They were direct and logical,
and no fault could properly be found with
them.)
There were then some allusions on the part
of two or three members, to the question
relating to the rate of interest paid to the
Montreal Bank on advances to the Government, which it was contended was not sufficient.
Hon. Mr. Anderson said he desired to know
what the average rate per annum of such
interest was, and contended it could easily
have been stated.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot stated a case in the House
of Commons, which had occurred on an evening when he had gone there expecting to hear
an important debate on currency and banking; but a Mr. Pym had questions to ask
relating to the conveyance of the mails, and
although he was entreated by several members to give way, he would not, but spoke for
an hour or more, and was not called to order.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn wished Lt to be distinctly
understood that when he thad raised the point
of order, he had no personal objection to the
remarks the honourable member who was
then on his feet was making at the time; in
fact that honourable member had departed
less from the rule than the gentleman who had
preceded him. But as he had observed that it
was becoming the practice to speak on such
occasions he had thought it only right to have
the point decided. It was no doubt true that
much irregularity was permitted, but to make

SENATE DEBATES
the exception the rule, and the rule the exception, as some honourable members seemed to
desire, could hardly be allowed. While a liberal indulgence might sometimes be granted he
conceived that the rule was none the less
necessary. The honourable member went on
at a considerable length, contending that for
its own protection the House should have the
privilege of appealing to the Chair if it conceived that undue license was taken.
Hon. Mr. Locke said he was glad the honourable member (Mr. Sanborn) had raised the
question, as he had come from a Parliament
where the rules were not so rigid, and it was
therefore proper that the members from the
Maritime Provinces should understand what
was the practice. He conceived, however, that
it would not be sound policy to demand a very
strict adherence to these rules, as there would
arise cases when it would be very desirable
that both the House and the Government
should have fuller explanations than could be
embodied in a mere question.
Hon. Mr. Steeves said in his opinion the
honourable member opposite (Mr. Locke),
who had inquired from the Minister of
Fisheries whether the system of fishery
bounties would be extended to the Lower
Provinces had in no wise transgressed the
rules when, while explaining his reasons, he
had been interrupted by the honourable member from Sherbrooke. The rule which applied
to the matter was in the following words: "In
putting any such question no argument or
opinion is to be offered, nor any facts stated,
except so far as may be necessary to explain
such questions." Now the only remarks of the
honourable member were in explanation of
the very question he was putting to the
Government, and were quite in accordance
with Parliamentary practice as laid down in
the authorities. No doubt it would be extremely inconvenient to permit of speeches and
arguments involving answers from members
holding different opinions, but to make simple

November 22, 1867

explanations was not only admissable, but
was often necessary in order to elicit satisfactory replies, and moreover it was justified by
immemorial usage.
Hon. Mr. Tessier (ex-Speaker L.C.) said that
the Rule followed in the Canadian Legislative
Council was similar to that of the Imperial
Parliament, and no debates were allowed
upon questions proposed to the Government.
It was, no doubt, true that in certain cases
explanations at some length were permitted,
but it was only by the indulgence of the
House. In referring to precedents it was found
that when a member was called to order upon
this point, the Speakers of both Houses of the
Imperial Parliament maintained the rule, and
the case cited from the London TIMES by an
honourable member were altogether exceptional. Mr. May in his Parliamentary practice
put it very forcibly that "questions should be
put in a manner which does not involve
opinion, argument or reference." This rule
had been strictly followed during the four
years he (Mr. Tessier) had the honor
of occupying the Chair of the Legislative Council of Canada, and he hoped it would
be maintained in the Senate, otherwise debates of a desultory character would be
pretty sure to take place on the questions
which honourable members might have to
propose to the Government.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell again repeated the information he had already given in regard of the
time necessary for the preparation of a satisfactory Bill on the Fisheries, and hoped it
would be placed in the hands of members in
sufficient time to serve the purposes of the
Fishermen of the Lower Provinces. The honourable member then proceeded to remark
upon the allusion of an honourable member
(Mr. Botsford) to the replies given to Honourable Mr. Anderson's questions, characterizing such allusion as unkind and uncalled for.
The House then adjourned.

November 25, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Monday, November 25, 1867
The Speaker took the Chair at three
o'clock.
After routine,
The Hon. Mr. Ryan-inquired
Whether it is the intention of Government
to include in the estimates to be laid before
Parliament this session amounts equal to onehalf the usual grants to Charitable and Literary Institutions, so as to prevent them from
suffering loss in consequence of the recent
change in our form of Government, those
institutions having hitherto received such
grants for the years terminating December
31st, and the Local Governments only having
corne into existence on the lst of July last.
The honourable gentleman, in making this
inquiry, stated that he knew not exactly how,
but in some way or other the grants to these
institutions did not extend beyond the 31st
December, 1866, and unless provisions were
made in the estimates of the Dominion Government for their relief, he believed that an
actual loss, upon the customary annual aid
would be suffered, which he felt sure was not
even contemplated by the Government of the
late Province of Canada. He had been told
that these institutions had actually made their
arrangements upon the supposition of having
a certain sum to command-a certain sum
upon which they honestly depended, and
which if they did not get would, in a pecuniary point of view, cause them more than
ordinary inconvenience. It was indisputable
that a loss, however arising, had been sustained, which, whether rightly or wrongly
conjectured, seemed to have grown out of the
disruption of the late Government of Canada
into the Local Governments of Ontario and
Quebec, and he thought that some provision
in the estimates of the Government of the
Dominion might be made to cover it.

bodies were designed to cover everything to
lst July, 1867, and not merely a provision
made to 31st December, 1866, as had been
seemingly inferred. It was possible that a loss
had been sustained but if it were so, it could
only have occurred from the change made in
the fiscal year, from lst January to lst July,
which took place not very long before the
inauguration of the Union, up to which tirne it
assuredly had been the intention of the
Government of the late Province of Canada to
make full provision in grants by Parliament
as aids to literary and charitable institutions,
as in other matters. However, should it be
fully ascertained that a loss had actually been
sustained the Government of the Dominion
would make representations to the Local
Governments with the view, if possible, of
supplying the deficiency.
As the motion for adjournment was about
to be put, Honourable Mr. Botsford inquired
of the Honourable Postmaster-General whether he had not promised to bring up the Postal
Regulation Bill for a second reading to-day.
Hon. Mr. Campbell-No. The honourable
gentleman will see that it is not on the paper.
The second reading had been fixed for tomorrow, not to-day.
Hon. Mr. Steeves-Yes; but if he remembered rightly, the Honourable PostmasterGeneral had promised to have the Bill ready
for the use of members some days before it
should come up for a second reading, with the
view of affording honourable members the
fullest opportunity of examining it, and making themselves acquainted with its provisions
and details before they should come up for
discussion in the House.

Hon. Mr. Campbell had hoped to have been
able to have done so, and with that view
every exertion had been made. The translation into French had occupied more time than
had been supposed, although it was now twothirds through, and such progress had been
made as would, he hoped, enable him to lay it
before the House in both languages to-morHon. Mr. Campbell considered it possible row. He believed the English copies would be
that there had been some mistake with regard circulated among members in the morning,
to the six months' loss, and which the charita- and the French copies in the afternoon.
ble and literary institutions supposed they had
The House then adjourned.
sustained. The last vote of grants to these

99267--4à

SENATE DEBATES
THE SENATE
Tuesday, November 26, 1867
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock.
After routine.
REPORT OF PRINTING COMMITTEE
Hon. Mr. Simpson brought up the second
Report of the Joint Committee on Printing,
and after explaining that the printing for both
flouses of the late Legislature of the United
Provinces of Canada had been taken under
contract by Messrs. Hunter, Rose & Co. at a
very moderate price, and for a period expiring
on lst January, 1870; that the work had been
satisfactorily performed, and also that the
prices for paper furnished and the binding
done had been equally satisfactory. As these
contracts only expire on 1st January, 1870,
although the Parliament of the Dominion
might not consider itself legally bound to
recognize them, yet as the services were rendered at prices which in the opinion of
competent judges were extremely moderate,
the Committee recommended that the House
should charge itself with the obligation of
continuing said contracts until their expiry.
He would now move that the report be adopted.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell asked that before putting
the question the report should be read.
The Speaker here read the report.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell begged to know the
amount of expenditure which these contracts
would involve, for from what he knew of
printer's bills he would prefer being informed
before committing himself to the acceptance
of the recommendation, the amount in dollars,
which the report meant.
Hon. Mr. Simpson could not tell with any
precision the amount involved. The printing,
as he had stated, was done by private contracts, not by the Queen's Printers. This contract was taken two years ago and was to last
until 1870. The prices paid them were admitted by gentlemen from both Nova Scotia and
New Brunswick, acquainted with such work,
to be e*tremely low, and in fact so low that it
was impossible to get it done for less. The
work had been donc most efficiently, and an
immense saving had been effected since this
contract was entered into. When he (Mr.
Simpson) had been placed at the head of the
Printing Committee of this House some five or
six years ago, he had found that the cost for

November 26,.1867

printing previously had been some $180,000 a
year, but the Committee had brought it down
to $30,000, but he believed it was impossible
to effect any saving upon the prices now paid,
and hence it was that he had recommended
the adoption of the report.
Hon. Mr. Steeves also explained that the
contract was for five years and was to end in
1870. The Committee had not regarded the
contract as legally or strictly binding upon the
House, yet as the prices for which the work
was executed were very reasonable, the work
itself well done, and it might reasonably be
supposed that the contractors had invested a
considerable sum in preparing for the discharge of the duty they had undertaken, it
was but equitable that they should be permitted to finish their contract.
Hon. Mr. Dickey said the House was indebted to the Hon. Minister of Fisheries and
Marine for having called attention to the
expense, and procured the explanations which
had been given. If there had been really a
saving, by employing the present contractors,
of 500 per cent, it was to be hoped the same
happy results would be attained in future.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said he was rather taken
by surprise at the summary mode about to be
pursued with respect to a report of Committee, which had only been in the Speaker's
hands a few moments, and of which he (Mr.
Mitchell) had never heard before. He had
heard the names of Hunter & Rose, Desbarats,
and some one else, and remembering from
what he had seen in the Blue Book of Canada
in former times, the enormous sums paid for
printing, he was not prepared to adopt the
report without some explanation. He would
now ask whether the report had respect to
any other printing than Hunter & Rose's.
Hon. Mr. Simpson-It had not.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell-Well, one of the honourable members who had given explanations
had said the Committee did not consider the
House strictly bound to recognize the contract
with Messrs. Hunter & Rose, but he (Mr.
Mitchell) held that the House though possibly
bound morally, was not bound legally, to
continue the contract. If any party was bound
it was the old Province of Canada, not the
Dominion. He held this House should commence right, and if an admission was made of
being bound to carry on old contracts, such
admission would act very detrimentally. He
did not oppose the adoption of the report, for
he had full confidence in the Committee, but

November 26, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

he could not assent to the principle implied in that all contracts under the old regime were
the explanations, that we might not be bound nullified by the change in the Constitution,
to recognize such grants. If the contractors and had no binding effect upon Canada?
had rights they should look for satisfaction to
Hon. Mr. Mitchell had never said so.
the old Province of Canada.
Hon. Mr. Tessier-Was the House to underHon. Mr. Letellier-There is no such provstand that the contracts with the Grand
ince.
Trunk and the former Government were inHon. Mr. Mitchell-He wished to have the validated, and with those of the Ocean Mail
point well understood, because if it were Steamers, had no binding force on the Doadmitted that one set of contractors had rights minion. Were these too ail set aside, and were
of this kind, the principle would extend to these parties to look to Ontario and Quebec
other parties similarly situated, and he was for the satisfaction of their claims? As he read
sure that such a decision would be objected it the Union Act embodies no such principle.
to in other parts of the Dominion. He regard- If such claims were not recognized by the
ed it as the duty of the House to off er all Federal Government he contended the parties
such contracts to public competition, and if would have good grounds for damages.
the work to be performed could be done for Governments were bound by the same obligaless than formerly, such offers should be tions as private individuals, and he was satisfied no doctrine savouring so much of
accepted. (Hear, hear.)
repudiation would ever be received in a
Hon. Mr. Locke said that there was no such British Colony. If no provision was found in
principle as the recognition of old contractor's the Union Act for dealing with such obligarights involved in the decision the Committee tions, it was a great oversight. But he found
had come to, as embodied in the Report before that Clause No. 111 rendered the Dominion of
the House. The decision was arrived at on the Canada responsible for all debts and liabilities
simple understanding that it would secure of the several Provinces to be confederated.
economy, for it was believed that if new Nor could it escape such responsibilities. If
contracts for printing were made, the prices the contract of Messrs. Hunter and Rose were
would be larger than those now paid. The set aside, there was nothing to prevent their
matter was in a nutshell. The Committee had bringing a suit for the recovery of damages.
recommended the assumption of the obliga- He distinctly affirmed that the Dominion was,
tion under the old contracts for the sole as the Act expressed it, responsible not only
purpose of saving money.
for actual debts, but for any liabilities arising
under contracts made with the old united
Hon. Mr. Steeves had not said anything Province of Canada. If such contracts were not
implying that the House was under any obli- binding, how would it be with
all
gations of a legal or binding nature under the ments for the Postal Service? But the engageit could not
former contracts, but that the matter had be safely questioned that they were binding.
been referred to persons who were fully conversant with the value of the work to be done,
Hon. Mr. Campbell-Yes, on both sides.
and who after examining the prices paid, had
Hon. Mr. Tessier would be sorry it should
given it as their opinion that they were so low
as to make it proper that the contracts should go out of the House, that it was not disposed
be continued. He (Mr. Steeves) had simply to recognize the liabilities contracted under
taken the ground that it would be advanta- the former state of things. In this instance, as
geous to the House to do so, yet he must add the Committee reported, the contract was at
that as the young men (Messrs. Hunter and such moderate prices that it would be wise to
Rose) had undoubtedly expended a considera- extend or assume its obligations, but the prinble sum in providing an establishment, and ciple remained intact that the Dominion was
making arrangements for the execution of the bound by it.
printing until 1870, all other things being
Hon. Mr. Richie: The reason assigned by
equal, it was right to give them the residue of
the Committee for assuming the contract with
the work, and he believed that the honourable
Hunter and Rose was so good, that he was
member himself (Mr. Mitchell) would say that
perfectly willing to concur in their decision,
under the circumstances they were entitled to
but he took exception to the doctrine laid
it.
down by the honourable member, who had
Hon. Mr. Tessier asked whether the honour- just spoken. When the adoption of the report
able Minister of Fisheries intended to affirm was proposed, he was surprised to hear that

SENATE DEBATES
the contract was considered either legally or
morally binding. He would certainly be the
last man to advise repudiation of any honest
debt, but he did not think that we were in any
danger of ever approaching such a principle.
But surely if the views of this honourable
friend were sound it would follow that Nova
Scotia and New Brunswick, instead of being
united with Canada in Confederation, has been
annexed to it. As he understood matters the
four united Provinces were commencing de
novo, and they had to arrange by what rules
they were to be guided, what servants they
were to employ, and what contracts they were
to make for supplies, or services of any kind.
And why so? Because the new Dominion was
alike independent of the Canadas, Nova Scotia
and New Brunswick. When the contracts were
services common to these Provinces like postal contracts the matter was different, but
contracts with Legislative Councils and Assemblies, which has ceased to exist, were altogether different. To be sure this body sat in
the place in which the Legislative Council of
old Canada had held its Sessions, and honourable members were surrounded with the former appliances and appendages, but they had
come here to organize and establish means for
future proceedings. It might be granted that
all arrangements which were found in every
way suitable to the new state of things could
properly be adopted, and continued, but simply because they recommended themselves by
their usefulness and ready adaptation to the
necessities of the Senate. Supposing that instead of meeting in Ottawa Parliament had
met in Fredericton or Halifax, would the
honourable members who took the view he
was objecting to, have recognized the propriety of being bound to old contracts? He
thought not.

November 26, 1867

not. Canada was liable for the debts of all the
Confederated Provinces, but then it would
have recourse upon them and would have to
bring such obligations in account against
them. The Dominion stood intact in the position of an endorser upon such obligations.
Would the honourable member undertake to
say that if the service now performed by
Messrs. Hunter and Rose for $30,000 could be
undertaken by some other party for $20,000,
that the House was bound to continue the
contract? And if not, then those gentlemen
could claim damages, but they would be
against the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec,
and the Dominion would have a right to
charge them. Clause 111 did not say the
Dominion should charge itself with such contracts, it was to pay the debts and assume the
liabilities, but then if there was an excess
over the amounts the Provinces had a right to
receive such excess would be charged to
them. If suits were brought for damages the
old Provinces would have to pay them. The
explanations of the Printing Committee were
quite satisfactory, but they did not report that
they had recognized the contracts as binding
upon the House. Indeed, the Committee had
evidently doubted such liability.
Hon. Mr. McCully said he had not intended
to speak, but he could not endorse by silence
the views the Hon. Minister of Fisheries in his
early observations had advanced. As a lawyer
he must say he considered Canada to be
bound by the contracts made under the old
order of things. It was a different matter,
however, where contracts had been made by
separate Provinces. He did not wish it to go
abroad that the Dominion held the doctrines
propounded.

Hon. Mr. Mitchell-Would the honourable
member say that, if an improvident contract
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said he felt it due to his
position to vindicate himself from the implied had yet ten years to run the Dominion would
charge of having given utterance to any ex- be bound to assume it?
pression calculated to convey the idea that he
Hon. Mr. McCully-In such a case, the
favored any such thing as repudiation, and he Dominion would have to recharge what might
could not help saying that the honourable be considered in excess of the proper amount
member who had mentioned that word, has to the Province concerned.
gone very much out of his way in even
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said he fully concurred in
supposing such a thing. He had not objected
to the report, because he had the greatest the report, and endorsed all that the Chairconfidence in the judgment of the Committee, man had said as to the contract. It had been a
but the honourable member (Mr. Tessier) had matter of surprise to him that such an enorpresented opinions respecting the liabilities of mous reduction could have been made in the
the Dominion in which he did not concur. The printing expenses of the Parliament, and that
honourable member had asked whether the the public could have been so victimized as it
House was disposed to repudiate the liabilities had been before. But when he was fully
arising from the old contracts, and he (Mr. satisfied that it was as represented, he felt
VIitchelD would at once answer that he did there was much credit due to Hunter & Rose,

November 26, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

for having done their work so well at such an
immense reduction upon the prices paid to
previous contractors. As to the other points,
he thought that the honourable member who
objected to the liabilities of the Dominion
for old contracts with a zeal and warmth
which he (Mr. Sanborn) thought were quite
unnecessary. He conceived it but right to consider that the contracts in question had been
entered into at a time when Confederation
was not so much as contemplated, and it was
but right that the Committee should take this
into account. It was a maxim of Constitutional
law that the agents bringing about a change
which injudiciously affected any interest, was
bound to provide a remedy. Those who
brought about Confederation ought to feel responsible for the results it entailed. It had
shocked him to hear the opinions of the Hon.
Minister of Fisheries, for they amounted to
nothing else than a repudiation of the obligations which had arisen under the contracts
spoken of, and as the contractors were in nowise responsible for the changes of the Constitution, they certainly had a right te look for
a fulfilment of the terms on the other side. But
the honourable member had modified his
views in his later remarks, and now admitted
that the Federal Government was bound to see
that the contractors did not suffer. They were
he said, in the position of endorsers, who when
the promissor made default, were bound to
see the obligations honored; but there was no
analogy at all between the cases. The party
which whom the contracts were made was
done away, and had in fact vanished, so that
there was no other quarter to look for damages, if any arose, than the Federal Government. There the matter ended. The honourable member concluded by saying it should not
go forth ta the world that even were they only
moral obligations, the Dominion was disposed
ta repudiate them. The Committee had put the
matter in very mild terms, and he had no
doubt the report would be adopted.

thinking it the best arrangement possible, and
we therefore conceived it to be quite unnecessary to enter into the question of the liability
of Canada to carry out a contract.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell thought he had sufficiently explained himself. He neither denied his
first nor subsequent explanations. What he
said was that by the adoption of this report,
the old Province of Canada would be relieved
of al liability. An honourable friend had reminded him of the moral obligation which
rested upon us in this matter of a contract. He
should like to know if any moral obligation
existed which would make it necessary for the
Dominion to carry out to completion the contracts of Nova Scotia or New Brunswick. He
certainly did not want Hunter, Rose & Co., or
any special party, ta come to them with
special claims. He then apologized for having
perhaps in the strict letter of the law been
somewhat out of order, alleging that if the
discussion had taken a wider range than was
intended he was not responsible for it.
The report was adopted.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell moved that the Bill for
the organization of the Department of Marine
and Fisheries be read a second time on
Thursday next.
Hon. Mr. Campbell stated that the Postal
Regulation Bill had not yet been printed, and
moved that the order for the second reading
be discharged, and that it be read on Friday
next.

Hon. Mr. Steeves-The Senate had been
nearly a month in session, and there had been
nothing before the House from the Government. He certainly expected that when the
Governor-General called Parliament together
the political machinery of the Government
would be in working order. It might not be
the fault of the Government that such was not
the case, but, assuredly, as Parliament would
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just was about ta in a few days more be adjourned until lst
allude to the liabilities of Nova Scotia and March next, this delay was matter for regret.
New Brunswick, in connection with the inHon. Mr. Campbell said the Bill was quite
auguration of the New Dominion, whenready, but he could do nothing in the way of
Hon. Mr. Allan rose to order. The Com- expediting the translators, who had not yet
mittee in their report had placed no such issue completed their labors. He had already exbefore the House; but on the contrary based plained the reasons why business could not be
their recommendation on the ground that it so early begun in this as in the other House,
was one of the most economical that could be and expressed the hope that he would be able
made. The gentlemen from the Maritime ta lay the English copy of the Bill before
provinces were strongly of this opinion, members to-morrow.

SENATE DEBATES

November 26,1867

Hon. Mr. Tessier thought it would be better
to move the adoption by paragraphs, for differing as he did on some points with the
Hon. Mr. Seymour brought up the First majority of the Committee, he wished to have
Report of the Select Committee, charged with the opportunity of offering a few remarks.
the duty of examining the contingent accounts
of the Senate for this session, as follows:
An Hon. Member-You were the only dis1. That with the exception of the appoint- sentient, I believe.
ment of Clerk of the Senate, Usher of the
Hon. Mr. Tessier-No, the Hon. Mr. Allan
Black Rod and Sergeant-at-Arms, which are agreed with me. He objected particularly to
considered to be Crown officers, all other the third paragraph, and his objection, as he
officers of the Senate, as well as all salaries of conceived, was on a matter involving a princiofficers, are and ought to be in the appoint- ple. The Officers of the House, whatever might
ment of the Senate, and under the control of be their positions, were entitled to its protecthe Senate.
tion. Now, with respect to the Gentleman
2. That no officer of the Senate shall be Usher of the Black Rod, the proposition that
liable to be displaced, except by order of the he should also discharge the duties of SerSenate.
geant-at-Arns was, as he (Mr. Tessier) con3. That the duties of Sergeant-at-Arms to ceived, an invasion of that officer's rights. The
the Senate, as well as those of Usher of the implied understanding with him was that he
Black Rod, may, and should be discharged by should do certain things and those only, and
the same individual.
although the duties appertaining to this officer
4. Your Committee do not recognize the might perhaps not be regarded as very onerexistence of any officer or servant of the ous they were of a peculiar nature and light,
Senate at the opening of the session, with the as they were even, some of the honourable
exception of Crown appointments above re- members might not be able to discharge them
ferred to, and they propose at an early day to so gracefully. (Hear, hear, and laughter.)
report, for the consideration of the Senate, There was a high dignity and importance
such a staff of officials, with such salaries as attached to the office in England, and the
they may think necessary for the efficiency of incumbent was regarded as a person of eminent rank. He also objected to the fourth
this branch of the Legislature.
The honourable member proceeded to de- paragraph as neither moral nor equitable.
scribe at some length the practice of the Some of the officers whom it would affect had
House of Lords in the appointment of its held places in the Legislatures of Canada for
officers. Prayers were said in that House, but upwards of thirty years, and at this time of
they had no Chaplain, the Lords, spiritual, the day to ignore their existence and claims,
discharging that duty. The honourable mem- as the report proposed to do, was not as he
ber then alluded to the way in which in the conceived just. The honourable member then
past in Canada, the patronage of the Legis- quoted the following passage from "Todd's
Parliamentary Government in England,"
lative Council had been delegated to the which he thought worthy of the serious conSpeaker, who had made new appointments sideration of the House:
and increased salaries as he deemed advisable.
"Whenever it is deemed advisable, in
Exception had been taken in the House to the
furtherance of proposed reforms or reexercise of such power, and a long and sometrenchments in the public service, to diswhat acrimonious debate with closed doors
pense with the services of any particular
had followed. Complaints were made by the
class of public employees, it has always
been customary to respect the claims of
officers of that Chamber that they were not
existing incumbents, by allotting to them
placed on an equality with those of the Legsuitable pensions or retiring allowances.
islative Assembly, and the result was a conIt was well said by Edmund Burke,
siderable addition to the emoluments of those
whose patient labors in the cause of nagentlemen. By adopting the report and vesting
tional retrenchment were so eminently
the appointments directly in the House itself,
successful, that it was neither wise, exthey would be strictly conforming to the pracpedient, or just, to interfere retrospectivetice of the House of Lords, and of the Legisly with places or pensions; that reform
lative Council of the Maritime Provinces. He
ought to be prospective; that the duration
would now move the adoption of the report.
of the life of a nation was not to be
compared with the short duration of the
Hon. Mr. McCully seconded the motion.
REPORT OF CONTINGENT ACCOUNT
COMMITTEE

November 26. 1867

SENATE DEBATES

life of an individual; that an individual
hardship, and especially an injustice,
ought not to be committed for the sake of
arriving a few years sooner at the object
Parliament had in view, namely,
economical reform. It is to the credit of
the Imperial Government that they have
invariably acted upon this magnanimous
principle. Authority has been given to the
Treasury, by a General Act of Parliament, to make suitable compensations to
all persons whose offices may be abolished; and in cases which do not come
within the purview of this Act, special
provision is made by Parliament for the
purpose. When the new Divorce and
Probate Court was established in 1857,
provision was made to compensate the
proctors who ha'd practised in the old
Court, which was then abolished. This
compensation amounted to the enormous
sum of 116,000 pounds per annum."
Hon. Mr. Campbell recommended the
amendment of the first paragraph of the Report by adding the word "Chaplain." As to the
proposition that the duties of Gentleman
Usher of the Black Rod and Sergeant-at-Arms
should be discharged by the same person, it
might, perhaps, be expedient to have it so, he
did not say it would be, nor yet the contrary.
If the House adopted the recommendation it
could not of itself abolish the office, but it
could proceed by address praying that no such
appointment should be made, and it would be
for the Crown to say whether or not it should
be dispensed with. With regard to the 4th
paragraph an honourable member who had
objected to it went rather too far, as he (Mr.
Campbeil) thought, for it did not set aside any
rights the employees of the House might have,
or might suppose they had. He was glad to
find the Report so worded as not to prejudice
any claims of this kind. He would much
rather have preferred, however, that the matter had not been touched upon at all, but as it
had been, and formed part of the report, it
was as well to have it understood that it did
not deny the validity of the claims the officers
and servants might have on the Dominion or
the Local Governments. The Report simply
assumed that these parties were not the officers or servant of the Senate, nor in point of
actual fact were they, any more than the
officers and servants of the Legislatures of
Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. This was a
truism in which he was obliged to concur, yet
it would perhaps have been better not to have
thus set aside the expectations of these employees. He hoped and trusted, however, that

when the time for finally disposing of this
matter had arrived every proper consideration
would be given to the positions of the officers
and servants, many of whom had been for
long years in the positions they now filled,
and that at the same time equal regard would
be had to the claims of persons from the
Provinces of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick
who might desire to enter the service. No
doubt the Committee would be disposed to do
what was fair with all the parties in question.
But if in carrying out the principle admitted
as correct, (and recognizing that, with the exception of the three offices named in the
Report, the House was in effect at present
without a staff,) it was found impossible to
re-appoint all the old officers and servants he
trusted some arrangement would be devised
by which they would escape being thrown
upon the world without provision or pension.
Such provision or pension, however, ought not
properly to come from the Treasury of the
Dominion, as the matter was one with which
neither Nova Scotia nor New Brunswick had
any concern. If the Local Governments had
taken all the staff of this House and left it
free, it would have been no more than their
duty. Yet he sincerely trusted that whether
from Ontario and Quebec or from the Dominion, means would be found to provide for
these old servants. He would now move that
the word "Chaplain" be added after that of
the three Crown officers named in the paragraph of the Report.
Hon. Mr. McCully said he was sorry that
the paragraph referred to by the honourable
member should be held to bear the construction put upon it, and also that the Chaplain
should not have been enumerated in the report among the Crown Officers. But he might
be allowed to state that reverting to 1841, it
would be found that the Legislative Council
then had no Chaplain, and therefore the
Contingent Account Committee were strictly
in order in not naming him. Some honourable
members also, it appeared to him, misapprehended the meaning of the 130th clause of
the Union Act, which had respect to the
continuance of the Civil Servants in office.
The officers referred to there were those of
the Customs, the Post Office Department, the
Penitentiaries and the Lighthouses, whom the
exigencies of the Public Service required
should be kept in their places between the lst
July, when the Act came in force, and the
meeting of Parliament. The next clause applied to the Officials of the Lower Provinces
who were to stand in the same relation to
their own Governments after as before

SENATE DEBATES

November 26,.1867

Evidently the Committee were bent upon
economy, and he hoped retrenchment would
not be confined to the Senate, but would be
carried out in the other branch of Parliament
and in the Departments. But reverting to his
Hon. Mr. Seymour said he had no objection. motion, he would propose an adjournment of
It was in the power of the Crown to make the the debate, (cries of "no, no,") or if not he
appointment.
would move that the report be sent back to
It being six o'clock the Speaker left the the Committee, with instructions to amend and
Chair.
complete it by supplying lists of the officers
and servants to be retained, and of those
AFTER RECESS
which were to be dispensed with. ("No, no, go
(Debate on Report of Contingent Account on.")
cCommittee resumed.)
Hon. Mr. Mitchell after recapitulating the
Hon. Mr. Price said he had proposed putting remarks of Honourable Mr. Bureau, said that
a question to the Honourable Postmaster- an adjournment of the debate or the recomGeneral, but as he was not in his place, he mittal of the report, would defeat the object
would merely say he desired to know why the intended, which was the economization of
Government had not divided the officers of funds of the country. The reason why the list
the two Houses of the Parliament of United of officers to be retained, and of those not to
Canada between the Legislatures of Ontario be retained, was not appended to the report
.and Quebec. Perhaps the Honourable Re- was the propriety of having the principle it
embodied sanctioned first by the House. It
,ceiver-General could answer the enquiry.
would have been premature to say who were
Hon. Mr. Kenny said he could not speak for to be retained and who dispensed with until it
,the Postmaster-General.
was known whether the principle laid down
was adopted. The House had now been three
Hon. Mr. Price had observed a disposition weeks sitting, but with the exception of the
to push this report through with something of three or four officers named in the report, it
'haste. Now, as it was an important matter, had in effect no staff, and it was not to be
and there was not much else pressing for supposed that it could charge itself with the
attention just at present, he thought the retention of all those who had belonged to the
House could very well afford to come to its Legislative Council under a former state of
consideration with deliberation and quietness, things. The Dominion had to commence with a
and he hoped they would do so.
clean sheet, and wherever reductions could be
Hon. Mr. Bureau, in French, said the report effected, with due regard to the necessities of
appeared to him so important that he felt it the public service, they would have to be
his duty to propose the adjournment of its made. Let the report be adopted, and where
further consideration to some other day. This the old officers could be retained consistently
was the first report of the Committee on with proper economy, it would no doubt be
Contingent Accounts, and it recommended done. It would be for the Committee to decide
that the whole patronage of the House should what staff should be required. No unnecessary
be left in its own hands, saving the three or undue rigour of economy would be atCrown officers named, the other offices to tempted, but all proper consideration would
become vacant. He did not object to this, but be given to the old officers and servants. He
at the same time, thought the report should hoped the honorable member would withdraw
have gone further, and stated which of the his motion, and the House might rely upon the
officers and servants would be kept, with the Committee for discharging their duty fairly
-salaries they were to receive, and which were and faithfully.
to be dispensed with. If this information had
Hon. Mr. Seymour said the Committee were
been supplied, then the parties thrown out of now engaged in making enquiries preparatory
employment, could have sought for it in the to presenting a second report, in which the
Legislatures of Toronto and Quebec. The only information desired by the honourable member
office alluded to as useless was that of Ser- (Honourable Mr. Bureau), would be supplied.
geant-at-Arms, but it occurred to him that The three first clauses had been adopted at an
there were others quite as useless. At present early day. The staff considered necessary to
the pay of the staff amounted to $40,000 per carry on the business of the House efficiently
annum, which probably admitted of reduction. would be recommended, but before that could
Confederation. He hoped that a measure
'would be introduced, giving to the Senate the
same rights and privileges as were enjoyed by
the Imperial Parliament.

WNovember 26, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

be done it was indispensable that the principle ing its officers, he had been struck with the
of the report should be confirmed by the extremely correct manner in which it had
House.
followed the practice of the House of Lords.
When dispensing with servants whom they
Hon. Mr. Price said that as the Honourable did not require, the Lords has provided them
Postmaster-General was now in his place he a reasonable compensation for the loss of their
would ask him the question he had already offices. Now, if the Provinces of Ontario and
proposed to the Receiver-General in his ab- Quebec did not take the course which he
sence. The honourable member here repeated conceived they were bound to do in this
the inquiry, and proceeded to say that the matter, he was sure this House would exhibit
Local Government of Quebec had appointed a the same spirit of justice the House of Lords
number of young men of no experience, and had manifested, and moreover that it would
he had no doubt that if the General Gov- not unnecessarily dispense with any of the
ernment had sent a few of the old officers useful officers. (Hear, hear.) Let the principle,
from Ottawa they would have been accepted. however, be established that the House had
It would be very hard to turn old servants the right to make all the needed appointinto the street, and he would be glad to know ments, and if it could not get quite so
why some had not been sent down who had economical a staff immediately as was desiraacquired experience in the old Parliament ble, it will be able as vacancies occur to
offices.
introduce greater economy. He had been surHon. Mr. Campbell replied that he could not prised to hear from the Honourable Postsay how it was that the Local Governments master-General that the office of Chaplain
had not appointed some of the old officers. It was not a Crown appointment, but he was
was not the business of the General Gov- sure the House would only do itself credit by
ernment to make or prevent such appoint- re-appointing the venerable gentleman who at
ments, and he lamented with the honourable present so ably discharged the duty. The
member that the Governments of Ontario and honourable member here read from a printed
Quebec had not provided for more of these paper, with the view of showing how well the
old servants. He believed that the Govern- practice of the Legislative Council of Canada
ment of Quebec had appointed six or seven, had accorded with that of the House of Lords
and that of Ontario one or two. The General in the matter of its officers and servants, and
Government had done all they could in urging concluded by saying that he had never been in
upon the Local Governments the claims of any Legislature where the officers and servthese parties, but they had not power to go ants were more attentive or careful in the
discharge of their duties. The honourable
further than this.
member referred to a report of the Committee
Hon. Mr. Price-As the General Govern- of the House of Lords in Vol. 56, pages 322
ment had the nomination of the Local Gov- and 367 of the Proceedings of that House, in
ernments, he rather thought they might have which it is stated that Clerks of Parlianent
stipulated for the proper placements of these are to be appointed by the Crown and are
old servants.
removeable by address of the Lords. That the
Clerk Assistant should be appointed by the
Hon. Mr. Campbell-No, no; the General Lord Chancellor or Speaker of the House, and
Government did not appoint the Local Gov- be removed only by a vote of the House, who
ernments.
fix the salary; that the Reading Clerk and
Hon. Mr. Price-Well, it was generally sup- Clerk of Out of Door Committees should be
posed they had, and at any rate a miss had appointed and are removeable in like manner,
been made which was very much to be regret- and salary similarly fixed; and that other
clerks and servants are appointed and
ted.
removed by the Clerk of Parliaments; and he
Hon. Mr. Bosford said that if the Gov- added, a Bill was presented by the Earl of
ernments of Quebec and Ontario had provided Shaftsbury, the Chairman of the Committee,
employment for these persons, the difficulty to carry out the recommendation contained in
would have been comfortably got over and the report. Mr. Botsford added that it was the
the Parliament of the Dominion would have duty of Black Rod to recommend the appointbeen relieved of a most disagreeable and ments of door-keepers and messengers; and he
painful duty. Upon looking carefully over the also read a report of the Commons recomproceedings of the old Legislative Council of mending the reduction of the number of doorCanada, with respect to the mode of appoint- keepers and the rate of salaries and emolu-

SENATE DEBATES
ments, and recommending the abolition of
other offices in which report it was also urged
that vacancies should not be fIlled up without
the previous sanction of the House, and that
no addition should be made to the salaries of
officers or attendants, except as a temporary
substitution in case of illness, and no addition
whatever to be made to salaries without the
previous sanction by resolution or order of the
House.

November 26, 1867

much gratified that the debate elicited by the
presentation of this preliminary report, clearly indicated the feeling of the Senate and the
policy of the Government on several important points: that the system of granting pensions should be restricted to Ontario and
Quebec, and that subordinate officers of the
former Legislature of Canada who had
become inefficient, shall not have any clairn
whatever on this United Parliament. The
Government were no doubt compelled to provide, and maintain, a temporary staff of
officials to meet the exigencies of the period
since the date of the last Union, but in doing
this, they had acted on their own responsibility, and such arrangements could only last
until the meeting of Parliament. He hoped the
honourable member who spoke so well in both
languages in support of the action of the
Committee would consent to the withdrawal
of the motion to postpone, and by sustaining
the whole report, empower the Committee to
proceed with their further recommendations
as to defining duties and apportioning salaries,
etc.

Mr. McClelan said that as one member of
the Committee who had assisted in preparing
this report, he felt that the leading object to be
obtained was the enunciation of correct principles in arranging a new programme, and the
assertion of all the rights properly appertaining to this branch of this, the first Parliament
of the Dominion; and having now defined its
power and privileges, it would not be desirable to employ an entirely new staff of officials.
Those already found performing the duties
efficiently might with propriety be retained, so
far as they might be found to be needed, and
with such remuneration as was commensurate
with their respective labours, having due regard to that principle of economy so generally
The Report was then adopted and the
recognized by honourable members. He felt House adjourned.

November 27, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Wednesday, 27th Nov., 1867.
The Speaker took the Chair at 3 o'clock.
The House then sat with closed doors for an
hour and a half discussing a privilege.
When the House re-opened
Hon. Mr. McDonald moved that the 53rd
Rule be suspended, so far as it regarded the
petition for the establishment of the Dominion
Life Assurance Company.-Carried.
The Hon. Member then introduced a
Bill relating to said Company, which was read
a first time, and ordered for a second reading
on Friday next.
Hon. Mr. Flint moved the suspension of the
saine Rule regarding the petition for the establishnient of a Local Bank in the County of
Hastings.
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved that the time for
the reception of petitions relating to Private
Bills be extended for a fortnight.
The Hon. Menber moved that the
name of the Honourable D. MacPherson be
added to the Standing Committee on Commerce, Banking and Railways.-Carried.

Hon. Mr. Wilmot moved for the Address
relating to the terms upon which the Montreal
Bank transacted the business of the Government. (The notice has already appeared in
our columns.)
Hon. Mr. Kenny said that a motion very
identical to that now made by the honourable
member had been made elsewhere (in the
Commons), and that the papers would be laid
upon the table to-morrow, so under the circumstances he thought the honourable member would be willing to withdraw his motion.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot said he would postpone it.
Hon. Mr. Aikins begged to inquire of the
Government whether the Geological Survey
heretofore carried on by the Province of
Canada would be continued by the Federal
Government.
Hon. Mr. Campbell replied that these surveys had been carried on by periods of five
years, and provided by vote. The last five
years had not expired, when the Union was
proclaimed. The Government could not now
say positively whether the survey would be
resumed, for until an appropriation was made
for that purpose, the matter would remain to
some extent in suspense, but his own personal
opinion was that it was very probable the
necessary amount would be granted.
The Senate then adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES
THE SENATE
Thursday, Nov. 28, 1867.
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock.
After routine
HARBOUR CHARGES
Hon. Mr. McCully moved that an address be
presented to His Excellency, praying that he
would lay before the House a comparative
statement of the harbour charges of all kinds
authorized by law upon shipping at the ports
of Montreal, Quebec, Gaspe, Dalhousie,
Newcastle and Chatham, Richebucto, Pugwash, Pictou, Halifax, Liverpool, Shelburne,
Yarmouth, St. John, N.B., St. Stephens, St.
Andrews, Hillsborough and Cumberland; giving pariculars and shewing how such statements are made, specifying also the principle
upon which lighthouse dues are collected in
each of the Provinces of the Dominion, and
the amount collected for the year ending 30th
June, 1867; also specifying the amount of
tonnage entered and cleared at each of the
above ports for the same period, showing
what portion is Colonial, what British, and
what Foreign.
Hon. Mr. Bourinot said that with the permission of the mover he would desire to add
the ports of Sidney, Arichat, North Sydney,
Port Wood, Glace Bay, Cow Bay and Lingan,
in the Island of Cape Breton and Bathurst
and Caraquet.
Hon. Mr. Ferguson asked to further add
Buctouche and Shediac, in New Brunswick.
Hon. Mr. McCully was quite willing. He
then went on to remark upon the different
systems which prevailed of collecting the
charges and dues, and the necessity of the
information for the purpose of establishing a
uniform system.
[Remarks were made by one or two members, but the displacement of -the -Reporters'
desks precluded their taking notes.]

November 28, 1867

Hon. Mr. Mitchell said, in substance, that he
would be happy at the earliest day to supply
the information prayed for. A good deal,
however, of what the honourable member
asked had already been published, and he
might refer him to the documents prepared by
Mr. Wood of Nova Scotia, (which the honourable member, Honourable Mr. Mitchell said,
he had no doubt already seen) also to other
documents relating to the ports of New
Brunswick, prepared by Mr. Wm. Smith, now
of his (Mr. Mitchell's) Departinent. He could
not say if all the information relating to
Canada was accessible, but he imagined it
would be found among the trade and navigation returns published annually. He did not
say this as indicating an unwillingness to
supply the precise return prayed for, and in
the form prayed for, but as it would take a
good deal of time to get at all the facts the
honourable member desired to have, he would
perhaps be willing meanwhile to avail himsel
of the sources of information he (Mr. Mitchell)
had now mentioned. Might he now ask the
honourable member if he expected the return
to the address to be furnished during this part
of the Session.
Hon. Mr. McCully said, he did not.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said, if the honourable
member would have the kindness to call at his
office he would there find a great deal which
might serve his purpose, and he (Mr. Mitchell)
would see to have ready by the second part of
the Session such as might not now be to hand.
The honourable member had asked a good
deal which the Government from its own
sources could not supply, as he (Mr. Mitchell)
would have to write to private parties in
order to procure the desired statements. He
entirely approved of the motion, and would
give the honourable member all the assistance
in his power. He had already stated to the
House that early after the next meeting he
would be prepared with a Bill dealing with
the varied interests over which he presided,
and even if the honourable member had not
made his motion he (Mr. Mitchell) would have

November 28, 1867

SENATE )EBATES

39

supplied the information desired before the
Hon. Mr. Christie introduced a Bill to incorBill itself was submitted.
porate the Colonial Fire Insurance Company.
Read and ordered for a second reading toHon. Mr. McCully said he was quite aware
morrow.
of the existence of the printed papers to
The order of the day for the second reading
which the Honourable Minister of Fisheries
of the Marine and Fisheries Department Bill
and Marine had referred, but what was
desired was a comparative statement of the being called,
facts.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said it was not yet transThe motion as enlarged was then put and lated, and moved that the order be disadopted.
charged, and the second reading fixed for
Hon. Mr. Allan brought in a Report from Monday.
the Standing Committee on Private Bills.

The Senate then adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Friday, Nov. 29, 1867.
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock.
After routine,
ORDERS OF THE DAY

November 29, 1867

On the Speaker resuming the Chair, he
informed the House that he had received a
message from the House of Commons with
two Bills, to which the concurrence of the
Senate was desired.
The first was a Bill relating to the indemnity of members of both Houses, and the salaries of the Speakers, which was read a first
time.

The order for the second reading of the Bill
Hon. Mr. Blair moved that the said Bill be
to incorporate the Dominion Life Insurance
read a second time on Tuesday next.-CarCompany having been called,
ried.
Hon. Mr. McDonald moved that the order
The other was a Bill respecting the office of
be discharged.-Carried.
The next item was the second reading of Speaker of the House of Commons, which was
the Intercolonial Insurance Company Incor- also read a first time.
poration Bill.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Blair, the second
reading of this Bill was also fixed for TuesHon. Mr. Skead moved that the same be
day.
postponed until Monday-Carried.
The Senate then adjourned during pleasure.
The Senate then adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES

December 2, 1867

THE SENATE
Monday, Dec. 2, 1867.
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock.
After routine

existence in the several Colonies. Then before
these subjects were handed over to the Department of Marine and Fisheries this House
should know what the regulations were to be.
Then there should be an opportunity of appeal
from the decision of the Department.

Hon. Mr. Locke thought that the Bill would
throw too much work upon one Department,
Hon. Mr. Macpherson gave notice that on
Wednesday next he will move that a select and he thought it was quite possible for the
committee be appointed to inquire into, and Government to interfere too much with prireport upon, the causes of the recent financial vate interests. Then the sea coast and inland
crisis in the Province of Ontario, with power fisheries were of themselves very large and
important interests, and it was quite possible
to send for persons and papers.
that an Act for the one class would conflict
with the prosperity of the other class.
MARINE AND FISHERIES DEPARTMENT
Hon. Mr. Allan thought that if the Minister
Hon. Mr. Mitchell moved that the Bill to of Fisheries would give explanations of the
organize a Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, the objections named might be found not
be now read a second time.
to exist.
Hon. Mr. Dickey said he begged to call the
Hon. Mr. Locke thought it was quite proper
attention of the Hon. Minister of the Marine in any honourable member to question the
and Fisheries Department, and of the House, propriety of any clause in the measure which
to certain characteristics of the measure now might seem to him to be going too far. He
summitted. He did not rise for the purpose of feared, indeed, that under the Bill there
opposing the second reading of the Bill, but to would be too much opportunity for setting up
draw attention to what he conceived to be a huge political machinery. If the Governsome extraordinary features therein. It was ment, for instance, obtained the power to
both short and sweet, concise and comprehen- classify ships, and to appoint inspectors and
sive, but at the same time he felt as if it went deputies for that purpose, it could be seen
very far indeed. The last clause gave powers how easy it would be to make political use of
to the Minister of Marine with regard to all the measure. Perhaps when the explanations
matters therein mentioned, and he alone of the hon. minister were given the objections
would have authority to regulate and super- which appeared to exist would be removed.
vise these very important interests. Now in
Honourable Mr. Mitchell said he would be
Nova Scotia these interests were matters of
separate legislation, but by the Bill they were most happy not only to give any explanations
handed to the Minister-harbours, ports, the honourable members desired, but moreover be
appointment of harbour-masters, and all quite ready to consider any suggestions which
things appertaining to this class of subjects, honourable members might have to offer for
were given over to this Minister. In Nova the improvement of the measure. He was,
Scotia the appointments of Harbour Masters indeed, glad to find that the House was so
were in the hands of the Commissioners of disposed to inquire into the hearings of the
Pilots, as were the charge of wharves, buoys, Bill, as it was a guarantee to the country that
beacons, etc. Then in the same Province there it would jealously guard its legislation. An
was an appeal from the Commissioners to honourable member (Mr. Dickey) had exSuperior Courts when parties felt themselves pressed a fear that the Bill was too
aggrieved, but by this Bill the whole control comprehensive and conferred too great powers
and final decision upon the 'questions which upon the Minister of Marine. Well, in hismight arise were left to the Minister. Then as (Mr. Mitchell's) opinion it would be of
to Shipping Officers and Shipping Masters he little use to have a Department of
(Mr. Dickey) feared the bill would be found to Marine and Fisheries unless the subjects the
Bill embraced were brought under the superconflict with the Imperial Shipping Act of vision of such a department. It was also
1854. He would not go on remarking upon the feared that the action which might be taken
other classes of subjects to which the Bill under it in respect to one part of the fisheries
applied, but would say he thought that any would conflict with the fisheries in another
legislation which might be deemed necessary, part of the Dominion. Now he conceived that
should be in strict analogy to the laws now in it was quite possible to deal with the inland

SENATE DEBATES
fisheries without doing damage to those of the
coasts, and vice versa, and as to a division of
the duties, he thought that altogether impracticable. He remembered that a leading paper
in Ontario, not devoted to the Government,
said that with regard to the Inland Fisheries
there would be little or nothing to do, and
urged that as a reason against the organization of a Department of Marine and Fisheries.
He, however, agreed with the honourable
member (Mr. Dickey) that the fisheries
did need the active and careful supervision of a Minister, though he did not
agree with him in supposing that the duties
that Minister would have to do, would be
altogether beyond the capacity of one man.
The Honourable Minister then read, section by
section, and having reached the 5th said this
was the one to which special objection was
made. The clause was to the following effect.
The duties, powers and functions of the said
Department shall extend and apply to the
subjects and Boards and other public bodies,
officers and other persons, services and properties of the Crown, enumerated in the
Schedule to this Act, of which the said Department shall have the control, regulation,
management and supervision; and the said
department shall have, exercise and discharge, such other duties, powers and functions as may from time to time be assigned to
or vested in or conferred upon it by order of
the Governor in Council.
The Schedule to which it referred read
thus:
1. Sea, Coast and Inland Fisheries and the
management, regulation and protection thereof, and anything relating thereto.
2. Trinity Houses and Trinity Boards, pilots
*and pilotage, and decayed pilots' funds.
3. Beacons, buoys, lights and lighthouses,
and their construction and maintenance.
4. Harbours, ports, piers and wharves,
steamers and vessels belonging to the Government of Canada.
5. Harbour Comnissioners and Harbour
Masters.
6. Classification of vessels, and examination
and granting of certificates of masters and
mates, and others in the merchant service.
7. Shipping masters and shipping offices.
8. Inspection of steamboats and boards of
steamboat inspection.
9. Enquiries into causes of shipwrecks.
10. EstabIishment, regulation and maintenance of Marine and Seamen's Hospitals and
care of distressed seamen, and generally such

December 2, 1867

matters as refer to the Marine and Navigation
of Canada.
Now reverting to the argument that these
duties were too extensive for one Department,
he (Mr. Mitchell) said they would have to be
attended to, and he would ask upon what
other Department they could, with any propriety, be affiliated. Could any of them be
properly devolved upon the Department of
the Board of Works, the Excise, or the Post
Office? He rather thought they would not be
congruous with the functions of any of those
Departments. The Department of Marine and
Fisheries had been called into existence for
the express purpose of managing and supervising the interests named in the Bill, and was,
as he thought, the only one which could
properly be charged with them. When the
Government had determined upon forming
this Department, and placing it under his
charge, he had found that it was in many
respects different from those already in existence. There was not, as in the other Departments, any basis upon which to erect the
superstructure, but that he would have to give
it shape and form. He felt, indeed, when
looking at all the duties which devolved upon
such a Department, that it would be a very
important one, particularly in its relations
with the Lower Provinces, whose interests
have in great part connected with fisheries
and navigation. Besides the fisheries, there
were the lighthouses, the harbours, the classification of ships, the manner of conducting
shipping offices, and shipping seamen, the
proper management of sailor's hospitals, the
care of shipwrecked seamen, and other kindred subjects, but still they were all matters
which properly came under the charge of such
a Department, and it would have been very
difficult, if not quite impossible, to separate
them and assign portions to the charge of
other parties. Now he thought their considerations would dispose of the objection to the
extent and diversity of the interests placed
under his charge. Then the honourable member (Mr. Dickey) had stated that the management of the harbours and wharves in Nova
Scotia were committed by law to local
Commissioners, but the Bill did not propose to
interfere with these arrangements. They
would continue as they were now, in so far at
least, as the Bill before the House was concerned. The Government did not propose by
this measure to assume the control of these
interests. It simply proposed that the ports
and properties of various kinds belonging to
the State should be brought under the care of

December 2, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

his Department, but it was in no wise their
intention to interfere with the properties
owned by municipalities or individuals. All
that was transferred by the Bill to his charge
was the property of Canada, of the Government of Canada. In a word it vested in the
Department of Marine and Fisheries the public property enumerated and none other.
Hon. Mr. Steeves begged to ask if, for
instance, the harbour of Saint John, N.B.,
would come under the control of that Depart-ment?

Hon. Mr. McCully called attention to the
129 clause of the Union Act, which provided
that these matters should continue as they
were at the time of Union until legislated
upon by the Parliament of the Dominion.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell, the Bill gave the Government no new power, but left it to execute
the existing laws. The duties and charges in
respect of several of the subjects named, were
as he had said different in the several Provinces, and before an Act to assimulate the
practice could be prepared with any hope of
establishing a uniform system much thought
and labor would be necessary. There were
three different modes of conducting shipping
offices and of shipping seamen, and he did not
know which of the three he would select. The
Quebec system made the officers responsible to
the Government instead of to Local Boards,
but be dichaot know yet which would be
adopted, and so of the pilots. At present in
Canada they were under the supervision he
believed of the Secretary of State, but by this
Bill they would come under that of the Department of Marine. It was said the Bill was
very short, but that it gave the Minister very
large powers. Well, it was short and comprehensive, and it had to define the powers it
entrusted to the Head of the Department, or
if not to confide to him general powers. He
had, however, thought it more fair to specify
or enumerate the powers to be exercised so
that if any were deemed inconsistent they
might be pointed out and considered.

Hon. Mr. Mitchell said that no harbour
would come under its control, but such as was
legislated upon by both Houses of Parliament,
and the Department would only possess the
power which might in that way be conferred
upon it. The honourable member had evidently misapprehended the object and purport of
the Bill. He would, as he had already several
times stated, bring in a measure in the next
part of the session, making regulations for the
management of the fisheries and other of the
subjects which come under the provision of
his Department, and then it would be quite
proper to discuss the merits of such proposed
legislation. For instance, at present, the expense for lighthouses was defrayed in different portions of the Dominion in different
ways. In New Brunswick by a tax on the
tonnage, while in Canada there was no such
charge. The Bill he would bring in would give
the opportunity of deciding whether it was
better to adopt the New Brunswick mode, or
that which obtained in Canada. But the Bill
Hon. Mr. Boisford-But besides the powers
before the House did not give him power to enumerated the Bill conferred other powers
deal with these subjects, nor did it abrogate not named.
any power now possessed by local authorities
Hon. Mr. Mitchell-He was glad the hon.
anywhere.
member had referred to that point. The DeHon. Mr. Allan said if he understood the partment, as he had already stated, was an
matter right, the Bill would vest in the De- entirely new one. It had never existed as a
partment of Marine and Fisheries all the separate Department, but it was intrusted
powers heretofore possessed and exercised by with the supervision and administration of
the Local Governments in respect of these vast and important interests, and moreover it
was in the very nature of things that it should
particular interests.
continue to expand, yet as it was quite new it
Hon. Mr. Mitchell-Yes, that was precisely had been thought desirable in case subjects not
contemplated should supervene, and require
the object of the measure.
to be dealt with some measure of discretion
Hon. Mr. Allan-Nor did the Government should be given to the Minister in charge.
intend to make any changes without previous Now there was a question with respect to
legislation?
seamen's hospitals. In Quebec the Marine
Hon. Mr. Mitchell-They did not. Things Hospital was also an hospital for immigrants,
remained as they were. In New Brunswick the and it had not been brought under the operamaintenance of the lighthouses, for instance, tion of the Bill, though if it were deemed
remained as formerly, and in Ontario and desirable by the House, it might be so placed.
Certain questions had been submitted to the
Quebec, in the Trinity Houses.

SENATE DEBATES
Boards of Trade at Quebec and Montreal, as
to whether it was desirable to have seamen
and immigrant hospitals in common, or if it
would be better to keep them separate. The
discretionary power given by the Bill to the
Minister of Marine would enable him to do in
relation to this question what might after due
consideration and advice be thought for the
best.
Hon. Mr. Tessier said that in regard to the
classification of vessels, he was not aware that
there was any law to prevent it, but would not
the Bill give power under Orders in Council to
do this? If it did not, where was the necessity
of introducing the subject in this measure, or
until legislation had taken place? He (Mr.
Tessier) was satisfied in relation to the other
subjects named, for there were laws relating
to them, and ail the bill did was to take them
from under the control of the Board of Works,
or some other Department to place them under that of the Department of Fisheries. But
when there was no law regulating a matter,
such as the classfication of vessels, would not
the 5th clause give the Department that power? And would not an order in Council in that
case be equivalent to a law? It would be
useful to classify our ships, but he doubted
whether it would be right to make it compulsory. If instead of Orders in Council it was
said "according to the laws in force, or hereafter to be enacted," he thought it would be
better.
Hon. Mr. Christie said he thought the Bill
was liable to two objections. From the 2nd
clause it imposed, or tended to impose,
rharges upon the people, for it established an
office which would involve an expenditure of
money, and he inclined to the opinion that for
this reason such a Bill could not properly
originate in this Chamber. Then secondly, if it
could properly originate here, it should have
been introduced by resolutions in Committee
of the whole House, for although it did not
expressly refer to trade, yet it did so incidentally. The rule in this point, as laid down in
"May," was as follows: "That no Bill relating
to religion, or trade, or the alteration of the
laws concerning religion or trade, be brought
into this House, until the proposition shall
have first been considered in a Committee of
the whole House, and agreed unto by the
House." In Hansard, at page 724, it is reported
as follows: "Mr. Spooner moved for leave to
bring in a bill to regulate the business of
marine store dealers, when Mr. Speaker said,
that as it was a bill relating to trade it must
be moved for in a Committee of the whole

December 2, 1867

House." Now he (Mr. Christie) held that as the
Bill before the House imposed changes on the
people, it should have originated in the House
of Commons, and if it might properly originate in this House, it should, as relating to
trade, and possibly involving new legislation,
have first been submitted in the form of
resolutions to a Committee of the whole.
Hon. Mr. Blair said he did not agree with
the hon. member, as it simply gave power to
take an office already existing.
Hon. Mr. McCully said he thought the
measure might very properly originate in the
Senate. It was a bill merely to organize, and
there was nothing in it giving powers which
were not already in existence somewhere in
one or other of the Provinces. It simply
gathered together a number of particulars, not
of an incongruous nature, and placed there
under the charge of one special officer, accountable to the Legislature. These subjects
must fall under some supervision, and the
question to be deternined, as he understood it
was, have they been properly collected together, or has there been some incongruity in
the arrangement, something which does not
properly fall within the scope of the duties of
the Minister of Marine. If there was anything
which did not legitimately come under the
purview of that officer, then it might be elininated, but after ail there were details which
would be better considered in Committee of
the whole. It the Committee should feel disposed to limit the fifth clause, well, but at
present the House was only properly concerned with the principle of the measure.
He could iwell understand why the Government should assign duties of the nature proposed, to the Department in question, for
a limited time, and he might suggest an
amendment, limiting these powers until the
end of the next part of the session. It
was necessary to have a bill to organize the
Department, and if hon. members would turn
to the Act of Union they would find it dissipated the fears of the honourable member for
Cumberland. So far as the Bill was concerned
there was no interference whatever with the
laws of the several Provinces. Clause 129 of
the Union Act declared that all the laws and
all the courts of justice in existence at the
time of its enactment, would remain in al the
Provinces the same as if the Union had not
taken place. The bill in effect only created a
head of a Department, and this was, he
thought, the simple question to be considered,
was it necessary to do this. The 29th sub-section of the 91st clause, gave the necessary

December 2, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

powers. In his opinion the Parliament had al would be very little left which this House
the requisite power to do what it was could do, and such a course would deprive the
proposed to do but to discuss the details, was Senate of the importance it ought to possess.
like leaping before you came to the stile.
Hon. Mr. McCully-Why the very Union
Hon. Mr. Blair was satisfied that the objec- Bill, under which this Parliament existed, was
tions of an hon. member (Mr. Christie) were introduced into the House of Lords.
not valid, but if they were, they should have
Hon. Mr. Macpherson really hoped that his
been adduced before the first reading.
hon. friend would not press his point of order.
Hon. Mr. Christie said it was only when the Whether the hon. gentleman was right or
Bill came up that members could state such wrong in the stand he had taken was to him a
objections. The bill created an office, inciden- matter of much less consequence, than the
tally creating charges upon the people, and attitude of the House with regard to matters
when this was the case the measure should of legislation. To him it certainly appeared far
,come first from the Commons, then secondly, from prudent to take any step, which in the
it proposed to deal with trade, and for that slightest degree tended to circumscribe the
teason should have come through a Com- powers of the Senate as a legislative body.
Setting that, however, aside, if he understood
mittee of the Whole.
the Bill, its object was to organize a departHon. Mr. Steeves said that already two or ment, and not by any means to regulate a
three speeches had been made since the point trade, and this he had learned, if he underof order was raised. He had proposed saying a stood him rightly, from the Hon. Minister of
lew words, but when the question of order Marine himself. This being the case the powwas stated, he had refrained.
ers of the Senate could neither be doubted nor
Hon. Mr. McCully had not understood that disputed. He thought nevertheless that the
the hon. member (Mr. Christie) had formally power sought for might have been put in a
more distinct form than as it was now set
raised the point.
forth in the Bill.
Hon. Mr. Christie said he had quoted
The Speaker-That is not a question of orMay, and given a precedent from Hansard, in
der. The objection taken is that the Bill prosupport of his objections.
vides for a charge upon the people, and that it
Hon. Mr. Botsford said that if the points affected a branch of trade and industry. As
raised were correct, and applied to the bill, regards the question of trade originating in a
they would necessarily be fatal, but he did not department, and a Bill being întroduced in
attach much weight to them. The bill did not this House to enable a department to deal
impose any distinct change on the people. It with matters of industry-if it were a matter
did not impose restrictions on trade, and it of trade with any foreign government, or even
created no salary, and he therefore thought any special legislation with regard to any particular trade, the objections made by the hon.
that the course followed was correct.
member (Mr. Christie) might hold good. This
Hon. Mr. Tessier admitted that if the Bill Bill, however, neither relates to money matwas for the regulation of trade it could not ters (which must originate in the Commons)
originate here.
nor to the operations of trade, general or
Hon. Mr. Christie-Why the hon. member particular, and therefore the question of order
himself had said that the classification of ves- does not here actually arise.
sels was something in the nature of regulating
Hon. Mr. Steeves-It did not appear to him
trade.
that there was any objection made to the
Hon. Mr. Tessier-The bill only provided principle of the Bill, but merely to its details,
-or the organization of a Department distinct and it therefore occurred to him that any
from all others, and if it went further than discussion on the clauses of the Bill should be
this, it could not be amended. Then, as there deferred until the Bill itself had been brought
were no salaries attached to the offices, it up in Committee of the Whole. On the second
could not be said to impose charges. Bills had reading al discussion should have been
often been brought into the Legislative confined to general principles-to a desire to
Council affecting trade, and even specifying ascertain whether the country either needed
.salaries, but the salaries were left in blank, to or wanted such a Bill at all. The power sought
be filled in by the other branch of the Leg- for was such as no government of any couniislature. If all such Bills were excluded there try in the world had ever had given to it. The

SENATE DEBATES
power which the bill proposed to give to the
Governiment as shown by the schedule of classifying ships, was one of a most extraordinary
nature, and deserving particular attention and
the most serious consideration. He hoped that
before any such power should be conferred
the expediency as well as the necessity of
doing so would be well weighed.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Jusi-If on the
second reading of a Bill explanations may not
be given, it was somewhat odd that the Hon.
Minister of Marine had been called on for
explanations now. He believed, however, that
the second reading of a bill presented the
most opportune time for discussing not only
the general principles of a bill, but some of its
most striking details. A willingness to suffer a
Bill to go into Committee of the Whole was
yielding or conceding the principle of it, and,
indeed, admitting the necessity for it so far as
its general features are concerned. That principle in legislation he could not admit.
Looking at this bill particularly, he considered it only as an Administration measure,
setting forth that the Government may have
certain powers and no more. It does not set
forth how ships shal be classified, pilots regulated, or fees collected. It confers simply administrative power, assigning duties to a particular Minister, that Minister being bound to
govern himself by existing laws, which cannot
be interfered with without special legislation.
Nevertheless the bill may go a little too far in
conferring, as some allege it does, legislative
powers upon the Governor in Council. The
House must not incautiously, too readily as it
were, yield up their own power in favor of
Ministers. It might be well to be a little lenient in this matter, but he admired the prudence of an hon. member (Mr. McCully) in
recommending that the exercise of the power
proposed to be given to His Excellency in
Council should be limited to the end of next
Session.
Hon. Mr. Wark-The bill has simply a twofold character, that of erecting a Department
and that of defining the duties and powers of
the officer at the head of it. Could it bear the
construction alleged with regard to it of classifying ships, it would at least be necessary to
examine very closely its details. One part of
the 5th clause appeared to him as being possible of bearing a construction which possibly
was not designed, that which stated that the
Department shall have, exercise, and discharge such other duties as may from time to
time be assigned to, or vested, in or conferred
upon it by order of the Governor in Council,
as the question might arise whether a Min-

December 2, 1867

ister by a mere Order in Council might not be
required, not only to have, but to exercise
certain duties, the exercise of which by him
were not contemplated when the bill became
law.
Hon. Mr. Ryan saw more than one new
feature in the Bill. It was a new one, that of
transferring to a Minister duties which hitherto had been discharged by public bodies. He
may have interpreted the bill incorrectly, but
he thought that the wording of the bill in this
particular should be most distinct, and leave
room for neither cavil nor doubt. A transfer
of certain powers hitherto belonging to incorporated bodies was by this bill virtually made
to the Governiment. The right of classifying
ships, a function which does not belong to any
Government in the world, claimed in the Bill
for the Minister of Marine, seemed to him
extraordinary. So far, the classifying of ships
has rested with a Board of Merchants. It is
well known that in London an institution has
grown up called Lloyds, which gives character
to ships, and which has its agents at every
seaport of any note al the world over, and
there is a French Lloyds and an American
Lloyds, and the Government apparently design to interfere with this old and long recognized institution, and become classifiers themselves. He looked upon it as very unsafe to
put such a power into the hands of the
Governiment, as it was decidely a bad principle to take out of the hands of the people the
powers which they had exercised almost from
time immemorial. At every port, he would
repeat, Lloyds' agents were to be found superintending the building of and classifying
ships, and he would respectfully ask whether
it really came within the functions of a
Minister of Marine to act as Lloyds' agent,
classifying vessels in Saint John, N.B., Quebec,
Halifax or Montreal; and if it were, would the
certificates of the agents of the Hon. Minister
of Marine stand so high in the commercial
world as those of Lloyds' agents? He might
further remark that certain Acts had been
passed regulating Harbour Trusts, and he
desired to know whether these Trusts are still
to be administered under such Acts or ignored
by the passing of this bill. It certainly did
appear to him that if the Government had the
control, regulation and management of harbours, and Harbour Trusts, the Harbour Commissioners could not do a single act without at
least consulting the Government. Would it be
prudent, he would ask, so to take away the
powers of these Commissioners, as this Bill, if
it becomes law, assuredly will do? The lan-

December 2, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

guage of the Bill involves a principle amounting to this, whether the people shall be permitted to manage their own commercial
affairs, or the despotic principle of a Government managing such matters for them, be
admitted.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn thought the second reading assuredly the proper time for discussing,
not the principles only, but the details of a
Bill. If in this case they had confined themselves to a discussion of the abstract principle
of the biH, they would simply have affirmed
that they approved of the creation of a Minister of Marine. He conceived that if the
object of the bill was merely to aggregate the
powers heretofore exercised by the several
previously existing Governments, the duties
being only thrown together and made to devolve upon one Minister, there could be no
objection whatever to the present Bill. He
looked upon it, however, as a vague statement
of powers intended to be given to a particular
Department. There was an indistinctness
about details, and indeed nothing sufficiently
clear. If reference were made to Public Works
Act, all power was there most specifically set
forth-the power and manner of exercise are
clearly laid down, while here by this Act we
are merely, it is alleged, required to declare
the duties of a Minister of Marine, duties
which had previously been exercised by other officers of the Government.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said the discussion had
elicited some valuable opinions, and he was
much obliged to hon. members for the attention they had given ta the subject. It was only
by sifting such questions that anything approaching to perfection was reached. As for
classification of vessels, he thought the policy
advocated by some hon. members was wrong,
but the hon. member for Saint John would
have done better to have waited before he assumed that he (Mr. Mitchell) was going to
undertake that business. All the bill intended
was to obtain power to organize the mode of
classification. He was procuring information
on the subject, and he did not say whether or
not it would be dealt with by the Government.
The Government had not as yet determined
the point, but if it did, the House would have
full opportunity to discuss the subject. Now,
notwithstanding the opinion of the hon. member for Montreal (Mr. Ryan) he (Mr. Mitchell)
thought that this was a very proper
subject for Parliament to deal with. The
honourable member had said that neither
England, France or the United States had dealt

with it, but even so it did not follow that the
Government of the Dominion should not do
so.
Hon. Mr. Ryan-If it were not the intention
of the Government to deal with it now, why
take the power in this bill?
Hon. Mr. Mitchell repeated that the bill did
not give the Government, or his Department,
power to classify vessels, but that the officers
whose duty it was to do so, would come under
the supervision of the Government.
Hon. Mr. Allan-Suppose the bill passes,
will not the Department of Marine have the
power to classify vessels?
Hon. Mr. Mitchell again begged distinctly to
assert that the bill gave him no such power.
The honourable member here read again the
5th Section, and claimed that its wording
could not be so construed; all that it gave the
Marine Department was supervision. It prescribed the particular class of duties to be
performed, or which came properly under the
prevision of the Minister. If when it came into
committee honourable members desired to
submit any proposition to make the matter
better understood he would be happy to receive it, and give it his best attention. The
honourable member (Mr. Ryan) had said, that
the Bill proposed to take matters out of the
hands of the local Trusts, by which they had
hitherto been administered, but this was an
error; and in point of fact the very Trusts in
question were now subject to the Government, and the sole object now was to bring
them under a particular Department. Again
referring to the classification of vessels, he
said, that a country such as Canada now was,
the 3rd or 4th Maritime power in the world,
and with a large population, employed as it
was to a large extent in ship building, it was
too much to say that such a subject should not
be regulated by its Parliament, and that because early in the history of England a cooperation had been formed for the classification of vessels, which had worked well, it
followed that we, the germ of a future great
nation, should not deal with the same subject,
but must for all time to. come defer to a body
of men in London. The honourable member
(Mr. Ryan,) had expressed a doubt whether
we could mature a measure which would give
character to our vessels. Did not the honourable member know that the French Lloyds, or
"Bureau Veritas," as it was called was quite a
modern concern, and that the rules of Lloyds
(English) were considered by many persons
versed in thé subject as not quite what the

SENATE DEBATES

December 2, 1867

age demanded, and that in point of fact their Brunswick, were superior to those built on the
defects had called the Veritas and other simi- South or American side, yet they were classed
lar institutions into existence? Surely the with a difference of two or three years' inferihonourable member (Hon. Mr. Ryan) will ority. He trusted that proper attention would
hardly assert that the fourth Maritime power be given to this important subject, and that
in the world should leave one of its greatest something effectual would be done. The Saint
interests to be controlled by Boards in New John built vessels had proved themselves in
York, Paris, or London. So important did the every respect of the highest character upon
'Germans think it to be to protect their own the longest voyages, and had made some of
shipping, that within a twelvemonth they had the finest passages from the East Indies. As to
established an institution not of the exact the fisheries he thought there could be no
character of Lloyds, but one which they doubt that they should be placed under the
control of the Central Government. Indeed
deemed would answer the people.
there was a most urgent necessity that someHon. Mr. Ryan-Was the German institu- thing should be done, for they had almost
tion constituted under a Government De- been destroyed for want of supervision, but as
partment, or was it not as Lloyds, a private to the harbours he feared it would be a dangerenterprise?
ous experiment to take them out of the hands
Hon. Mr. Mitchell could not exactly say. He of the local authorities. The control of the
rather thought that it was a private enter- Harbour of Saint John, New Brunswick, was
prise, but under Government supervision, in the hands of the Mayor and corporation,
though of this he could not positively speak. and local dues were imposed to make the
Now, with regard to the bill now before this necessary improvements. It would be unforHouse, he thought it would be quite time to tunate that any change should be made there,
discuss the details when it came before the but then the Hon. Minister of Marine said it
Committee. The real question was, however, was not intended, which was so far satisfacwhether or not it were desirable for the Do- tory.
minion to protect its large floating property.
Hon. Mr. Locke desired particularly to
ie assumed that no one would take the know if, as asserted no power was given to
ground that it should not, or that we should the Minister of Marine and Fisheries by the
not attempt to give our vessels a classification Bill, what the intention of Ministers was in
and character. The hon. member for Sher- introducing such a bill. It was surely imporbrooke had taken exception to the fifth clause, tant that they should know what power in
but he (Mr. Mitchell) thought that hon. mem- relation to the exercise, management and conbers had failed to apprehend the object and trol of marine affairs, Government really
purport of the whole bill. It was only descrip- wanted. Assuredly if a Canadian Lloyds were
tive of the class of duties which would come established to be exclusively under the control
under the Department, and gave to it no pow- of the Government, the effect would be most
er of legislation or control outside of the laws mischievous rather than in any degree benefialready in existence.
cial. He admitted the desirability and useHon. Mr. Miller begged to ask the hon. fulness of a Canadian Lloyds under proper
Minister of Marine whether he would be will- management and control. It would be indispuing to amend the fifth section, by adding the tably a most useful association, but it would
words "under the existing laws of New be pernicious in the extreme, he would repeat,
if Government had any control whatever over
Brunswick, Ontario, and Quebec."
such an association. There would be a forced
Hon. Mr. Mitchefl had not the slightest ob- classification here in all probability and necesjection.
sary classification in England as well. Merchants and shipbuilders would have to resort
Hon. Mr. Wilmot thought there would be no to two classifications to seil their vessels, the
doubt that as the bill now stood the Gov- one arbitrary, the other on absolute
necessity,
ernment would have power to legislate by if they would sell at all. The question of
Orders in Council. It was he thought quite whether it is the intention by this bill to
desirable to establish some mode of classifica- create a Canadian Lloyds for the purposes of
tion among ourselves for Canadian vessels, rating and classifying ships, or not should,
and not to leave the matter to Lloyd's in however, at once be settled, and he trusted it
London, or anywhere else. The marine inter- would be so.
ests of the Dominion were very large, and it
Hon. Mr. McCully-The honourable gentlewas well known that the vessels built on the
north bank of the St. Croix River in New man surely does not suppose that anything

December 2, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

that may be done by Government will altogether supercede, interfere with, or prevent
classification at Lloyds. If the Government of
this country could be insane enough to enact
that every vessel built in or belonging to the
Dominion should be classed in their Lloyds,
the object, said to be desired, would assuredly
be altogether lost. A Canadian Lloyds-an association of men well acquainted with the
qualities of Canadian woods and ship-building, and practically conversant with shipbuilding by means of their own agents and
supervisors-could give a character to a vessel
which would be respected in England, in
France, and in the United States. The character given to be respected would depend much
upon the character of the association which
gave it-a character which no Government
could arbitrarily impose. One great difficulty
with which Canadian ship-builders had to
contend was the difficulty of making people
fully understand the qualities of wood. It was
difficult for instance to persuade people
in England that for the ship-building purposes, the wear and tear incident to oceanic
navigation, hacmatac was nearly equal to the
far-famed British oak. Yet there cannot be a
doubt that we are as good judges in this as in
any other country of shipping material. As the
question was apparently to be discussed on
the second reading he might as well mention
with regard to Lloyd's agencies or superintendencies of shipbuilding in this country that
that Association employed travelling agents to
visit shipyards, and who actually classified
vessels on the stocks as it were a secret. A
merchant might be led to believe when his
ship was completed that she was A 1 in point
of excellence of material and workmanship,
but find on going to London that his ship had
not been classed at Lloyds, as he had had good
reason to exnect, and thus loss, for which he
was quite unprepared, be suffered. A Canadian Lloyds will certainly do much to correct
this rather serious drawback on ship-building, if it would do nothing else.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell-Before anything is done
of such a nature, he might be permitted to
assure the House that every detail would be
submitted to Parliament; but it was not, in his
opinion, the thing for a free people to submit
to be at the mercy of any mere association of
private individuals in remote countries.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson-If the Hon. Minister
of Marine and Fisheries does not seek, or
rather intend using, the power which the bill
gives him, why is any such power mentioned
in the bill?
99267--5

Hon. Mr. Mitchell-It will enable me to
take all the steps preliminary to the formation
of such an association, and to the framing of
measures having a tendency to advance and
protect our maritime and commercial interests.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson did not certainly perceive that it was necessary to give the Minister of Marine and Fisheries any such power
as he claimed the right to possess. In time, no
doubt, a Canadian Lloyds would spring up,
but he did not believe that at any time under
the close and immediate, he might say direct,
supervision of the Canadian Government,
such an institution would prosper. One thing
certainly occurred to him, and that was that
the bill should be freed from all ambiguities.
Already there was an Act which had been
introduced by the Hon. Postmaster-General,
then Commissioner of Crown Lands, regulating the fisheries, and this bill, it appeared to
him, attempted to do precisely the same thing,
and in fact would override the Act now in
existence.
Hon. Mr. McCully-Not at all. The Union
Act keeps all those things intact.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell had no objection whatever to the fullest possible discussion of every
detail, as well as of the general principle of
the bill, which as a matter of course, would be
afforded when the bill came into Committee
of the Whole, and he should indeed be most
happy to receive any suggestion from hon.
members, and would gladly weigh any recommendations which should then be made for its
amendment and improvement.
Hon. Mr. Odell thanked the honourable
mover of the bill for the explanations which
he had offered, though he regretted that his
duty required him to set aside from his mind
those explanations altogether, and merely
look to the wording of the bill itself. The
explanations, no doubt, might be considered
by many as very satisfactory, but whether
they were or were not so, they did not alter
the wording of the Act, nor give to that
wording any different sense or interpretation
than the words employed must necessarily
convey. It is with the bill which the House
has to do, and in that bill the Minister of
Marine is to have powers which must inevitably clash with those of the Local Legislatures
under the Act of Union, and he was not
disposed to consent that any powers such as
those sought for by the bill should be given to
any Government, and he hoped that the ability to confer such duties as were specified in

50

SENATE I)EBATES

December 2, 1867

the bill, upon one of their own officers, would and what then does the bill mean by requirnever be conferred upon the Government by ing that the whole control, management, and
the Senate-would never, indeed, be enter- supervision of these matters, the classification
tained. Extraordinary powers have frequently of vessels, and direction of trade, should be in
been given to Governments to meet extraordi- the hands of the Minister of Marine. He cernary emergencies, to meet some particular tainly objected to the conferring of a power
case that might arise, but he could not consent which the Minister of Marine himself states he
to confer, any such extraordinary powers is not prepared to exercise.
upon a Government, when the existing laws
After some further discussion as to the
are sufficient to meet the alleged object sought
to be attained. He contended that Harbour propriety of delay, in view of an outside
Commissionerships and Harbour Masters was expression of opinion, the bill was read a
a power vested by the Act of Union in the second time and ordered for consideration in
Local Legislatures, and which the Hon. Min- Committee of the whole on Wednesday next,
ister of Marine admits to be strictly correct, and the House adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES

December 3, 1867

THE SENATE
Tuesday, Dec. 3, 1867
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock.
After routine
Hon. Mr. Skead moved that Rule 62 be
suspended in so far as it relates to the Bill to
incorporate
the Intercolonial
Insurance
Company.-Carried.
POSTAL SERVICE REGULATION BILL
Hon. Mr. Campbell in rising to move the
second reading of this bill, said that he
proposed to ask the House to consider several
clauses in the measure concerning which they
could come to no absolute decision, as they
only came properly in the first instance under
the control of the other branch of Parliament,
but, should the bill pass that House, then these
clauses would become parts of it, and would
be submitted again to the Senate. Notwithstanding this slight embarrassment, he had
deemed it best in the interests of the public
service, to submit the measure as it was, and
to afford the House an opportunity of going
into the whole subject. He proposed to make a
somewhat full statement in reference to the
various matters treated of, including the
clauses to which he had referred, and which
hon. members would find enclosed in brackets. In bringing up this bill, he need hardly
say that he had, and could have, no other
object in view than the public convenience
and benefit, by rendering the Postal Service,
if possible, more perfect and useful. If, in the
course of the examination to which the bill
would be submitted by the House, any defects
were discovered, he begged to say he would
most readily consider any suggestions hon.
members might feel at liberty to offer. Before,
however, proceeding to the contents of the
bill, he would take the opportunity of reviewing the present position of the Postal Service,
not in Canada only, but also in the Provinces
of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. As
Parliament was about to legislate on this
subject for all the Provinces in the Confederation, it was reasonable that the members
should be put, as nearly as possible, in possession of all the facts connected with the working
of the system throughout the Dominion. Up
to the year 1851 the Post Office services of the
several colonies in question had been under
the control of the Imperial Post Office, but
during that year, in consequence of negotiations with the parent State, this important
99267-51

business was transferred to the care of the
several Provinces; under certain conditions,
however, as to the rates to be charged, which
were to be the same in them all, and, also, as
to the Imperial Packet Service. The Postal
Service then formed the subject of legislation
in the several Provinces, and in some particulars there had been a divergence between
them in the legislation enacted. In certain
respects he thought the results would
prove that the system pursued by Canada,
would commend itself as the most satisfactory. In all the colonies the Postmasters were Crown appointments. In Canada
and New Brunswick the Postmasters-General
had always been political officers, but it had
not been so in Nova Scotia. In the cities of
Canada, such as Quebec, Montreal, Ottawa,
Kingston, Toronto, Hamilton, and London, the
Postmasters were paid by salaries, but in all
other places by commissions on the amount of
their transactions. In the Lower Provinces the
offices were divided into Post Offices and
Way Offices, the Post Offices being paid by
salaries, the others by commissions. This sufficiently described the system, so far as it
related to the appointment and remuneration
of the Postmasters. As to the rate of postage,
it was fixed in 1857 at 5 cents for prepayment,
and 7 cents when not prepaid. In Canada
there was besides a system of drop letters,
that is of letters posted in a locality to be
delivered in the same, and for this service 2
cents per letter was charged, and be understood that in New Brunswick the same system
had been extended to frontier towns, so that a
letter dropped in a frontier town in that
Province was delivered in an adjoining frontier town in Maine for 2 cents. In Nova Scotia
it was carried still further, as a letter would
be delivered in any part of the country in
which it was mailed for the same sum. The 5
cent and the 7 cent rates were general
throughout the British Provinces. Thus, for 5
cents prepaid a letter could be sent from any
part of Ontario to any part of Nova Scotia.
With reference to the postage of Great Britain, it was 12j cents by the Allan line of
steamers, which sailed from Montreal and
Quebec in summer and from Portland in
winter. In two of the Provinces which chiefly
used the Cunard line the same rate was paid
on mails by Halifax, but in Canada, if the
correspondents availed themselves of the
Cunard line, the rate was 17 cents or 12j
cents, and 2d sterling for United States transit
rate, fixed by an agreement between the
United States and Great Britain. In Nova
Scotia correspondents using the Allan line

SENATE DEBATES

December 3, 1867

paid 5 cents extra to cover the postage to
Hon. Mr. McCully-Yes, a parcel post had
Portland. In Canada books and samples were lately been established in Nova Scotia.
brought by the ocean steamers for 3d sterling
Hon. Mr. Campbell-In Canada patterns
per 4 ounces.
and samples were also carried by mail, but he
Hon. Mr. Odell said that the system of drop was not aware that any arrangement of this
letters in New Brunswick did not extend to kind existed in the Lower Provinces. In
American frontier towns: this was a misap- Canada the correspondence of all the Public
prehension.
Departments was free; in New Brunswick
only Post Office Department letters were free.
Hon. Mr. Campbell must have been misinHon. Mr. McCully-In the Lower Provinces
formed, but he thought he had learned it from
official reports. In Nova Scotia letters from all the official correspondence was charged,
Halifax were sent by the Cunard steamers to and the Post Office Department credited with
Boston for 10 cents, and from the interior for the amount.
131 cents. In all the colonies the postage on
Hon. Mr. Campbell-Then the registration
books and printed matter was paid to the
the United States, and the United system differed in the several Provinces. In
frontiers of
States paid their own to the British frontiers Canada the registration fee was 2 cents, alin the same way. He now came to the impor- ways prepaid; in New Brunswick 5 cents,
tant part of the measure, and one concerning when prepaid, and 10 cents when not; in Nova
which probably some difference of opinion Scotia it was 10 cents, and must be always
would be found to exist in the minds of hon. prepaid. With respect to dead letters, the
members from the Lower Provinces-he al- systems were very much the same. They were
luded to the postage on newspapers. In the kept three months, and, if not applied for,
Lower Provinces this service was free. In New were opened to find the owners. Then the
Brunswick, whether the papers were sent modes of entering into mail contracts were
from the office of publication or were mailed different. In Canada the Post Office Departby individuals, there was no charge for post- ment was obliged to accept the lowest tenders,
age. In Nova Scotia British and Colonial pa- unless there were strong reasons for refusing,
pers, as well as religious periodicals, were but those reasons had to be reported to Parcarried without charge, the others paid one liament. In the Lower Provinces there were no
cent. In Canada papers sent from the publish- statutory provisions on that subject, and the
ing office were charged one half cent, and the arrangements were left to the decision of the
amount was collected from the subscribers Postmaster-GeneraL. These divergencies had
quarterly in advance, but, if the postage was all supervened since the transfer of the postal
only paid at the time the papers were deliv- service to the several Provinces by the Imered, the charge was one cent per paper. In all perial Government in 1851. The results would
the Provinces exchanges were carried free of best be understood probably by exhibiting the
charge. The rate in Canada on periodicals was receipts and expenditure of the Postal Deone cent per 4 ounces, in New Brunswick 2. In partments in these Provinces for 5 or 6 years.
Nova Scotia, when sent from the office of He had not deemed it necessary to go so far
publication, they were free, when sent other- back as 1851, as that would have entailed an
wlse, 2 cents. In Canada books were carried at unnecessary labour upon the officers, but he
1 cent per ounce; in New Brunswick there had commenced the ,comparison with the year
was no mail book system, and, as far as he 1860, and taken the revenues and expenses in
the several Provinces. The results would
had ascertained, none in Nova Scotia.
probably appear somewhat favourable to
Hon. Mr. McCully-Yes, we have that privi- Canada, and he thought the principal reason
lege.
would be found in the collection of newspaper
Hon. Mr. Campbell-Notwithstanding the postage. The postal revenue in Canada in 1861
general principle in Canada, there were ex- was $683,034 and the expenditure $719,056,
ceptions, as papers and small periodicals showing a deficit of $36,023 or 5j percent on
relatng to education, temperance and science revenue. In New Brunswick for the same year
were free, but in New Brunswick all were the revenue was $46,658 and the expenditure
free. In Nova Scotia one cent an ounce was $71,187, showing a deficit of $24,529 or 52j per
charged on each periodical. In Canada there cent. In Nova Scotia for the same year the
was a parcel post which carried packages up revenue was $40,052 and the expenditure
to 3 lbs. for 25 cents; in the Lower Provinces $69,444, showing a deficit of $29,392 or 73 per
cent. In 1862 in Canada, the revenue was
there was not any.

December 3. 1867

SENATE DEBATES

$723,052 and the expenditure $750,514, showing a deficit of $27,462 or 4 per cent. In New
Brunswick the revenue for the same year was
$46,489 and the expenditure $69,625, showing
a deficit of $23,156 or 50 per cent. In Nova
Scotia for the same year the revenue was
$45,100 and the expenditure $68,305, showing
a deficit of $23,205 or 52 per cent. In Canada
in 1863 the revenue was $759,475 and the
expenditure $753,057, showing a surplus of
$6,318 or nearly one per cent. In New Brunswick for the same year the revenue was
$46,146 and the expenditure $67,384, showing
a deficit of $21,241 or 46 per cent. In Nova
Scotia for the same year the revenue was
$48,174 and the expenditure $70,389, showing
a deficit of $22,215 or 46 per cent. In Canada
for the year 1864, the revenue was $829,805
and the expenditure $803,962 showing a surplus of $25,843 or 3 per cent. In New Brunswick for the same year the revenue was
$51,184 and the expenditure $71,974, showing
a deficit of $20,790 or 30 per cent. In Nova
Scotia for the same year the revenue was
$56,207 and the expenditure $73,163, showing
a deficit of $16,956 or 30 per cent. In Canada
for the year 1865 the revenue was $834,096
and the expenditure $851,870, showing a deficit of $17,773 or about 2k per cent. In New
Brunswick for the same year the revenue was
$51,278 and the expenditure $71,906, showing
a deficit of $20,627 or 40 per cent. In Nova
Scotia for the same year the revenue was
$62,371 and the expenditure $80,947, showing
a deficit of $16,576, or 30 per cent. In Canada
for the year 1866 the revenue was $878,413
and the expenditure $894,561, showing a deficit of $16,147 or nearly 2 per cent. In New
Brunswick the revenue for the same year was
$56,509 and the expenditure $72,546, showing
a deficit of $16,036 or 30 per cent. In Nova
Scotia for the same year the revenue was
$69,010 and the expenditure $86,127, showing
a deficit of $17,116 or 25 per cent. In Canada
for the year 1867 the revenue was $914,783
and the expenditure $924,319, showing a deficit of $9,536, or 1 per cent. The results for the
Lower Provinces for last year could not be
stated, as no returns had yet reached the
Department. It was also proper to state that
the expenditure of Canada embraced a sum of
$60,000 charged to the Department as part
contribution to the subsidy paid by the
Government for the ocean mail steamers.

the firm of McLarty and Co., of Liverpool,
which broke down within less than a year.
The next was with the Messrs. Allan of
Montreal, who were paid £24,000 per annum
for a fortnightly service. The next was with
the same firm for a weekly service, and they
received $220,000. The next was entered into
in April 1860, again with the same house, and
the Government agreed to pay them $416,000
per annum. That year the line suffered several
grave mishaps, and it fell somewhat into
disrepute, the result was that the contract was
abrogated. The fifth contract was made in
1864 for a weekly service, and at the rate of
$218,000 per annum. Of this sum, as he had
stated, the Post Office Department was
charged with $60,000 as their share of the
services rendered by the line to the country,
the balance being regarded as payment for the
general advantages the country received from
the enterprise. This payment of $60,000 by the
Post Office Department should be borne in
mind in estimating the relative results of postal operations in the Provinces, for as he understood the other Provinces were subject to
no charge of this kind.
Hon. Mr. McCully-No; but the Imperial
G:overnment receives the whole of the Ocean
Mail Postage, to and from those Provinces,
whereas Canada receives the postage on the
mail matter carried by its steamers.
Hon. Mr. Campbell-Then there were other
large differences against Canada. For instance
it paid large sums for Railway Service, but it
did not appear from any reports he had ever
seen that the Post Office Departments in the
Lower Provinces were charged anything for
this service, although they had considerable
lines of railway.
Hon. Mr. McCully could speak for Nova
Scotia, and happened to know that in that
Province the railways were paid at a certain
rate per mile for carrying the mails. The
Railway Commissioners debited the post office
and the Government recredited the Department.

Hon. Mr. Campbell-Well, there was no
trace of such arrangement that he had seen in
the Public Accounts of that Province. The
payments in Canada by the Post Office Department to the railways were very large, and
Hon. Mr. Ferrier-This was not the whole had been causes of serious disputes, which,
however, had been finally satisfactorily setsubsidy.
tled.
Hon. Mr. Campbell-No, only part of it.
Anterior to 1861 several contracts were made
Hon. Mr. Boisford-Were these claims over
for the ocean mail service. The first was with and above the sums stated for the service?

SENATE DEBATES
Hon. Mr. Campbell-No; but they had
formed large accumulations over what the
Government had deemed themselves bound to
pay. The difficulties were arranged by an arbitration composed of Mr. Chancellor Blake,
Hon. Judge Day and Mr. Wicksteed. The
claims were adjusted and the awards paid,
and, on the recommendations of the arbitrators, certain rates of remuneration for the
future were adopted. The Grand Trunk was
paid $150 per mile, per annum, which last
year amounted to $150,275; the Great Western
$124 per mile, per annum, being less of an
artery than the Grand Trunk, and the gross
sum paid the company last year was $44,237.
Other and smaller railways serving as collateral Unes were paid 8 cents per train, per
mile on passenger trains, on mixed trains with
a post office car 6 cents and on ordinary trains
2 cents. Now he was under the impression
that there were no equivalent payments for
Postal Service in the Lower Provinces, but, as
the honourable member (Mr. McCully)
had stated there were in Nova Scotia, at least
it must, of course, be so. The Honourable
Minister of Marine had just informed him
that there were no railway mail charges made
in New Brunswick. Now, taking these facts
into consideration, he thought he was entitled
to say that, after the statements he had produced the results of the postal system in
Canada were very strongly marked in its favour.
Hon. Mr. McCully repeated that the
Government in Nova Scotia paid the railways
for the Postal Service, for he himself had
been in charge of the railways, and knew
that some difficulty had arisen as to the
amount which should be allowed them therefor.

December 3, 1867

1,725,000. lie nad seen no official record of
the number of newspapers carried in either
of the Lower Provinces, but from a newspaper article copied into the Ottawa TIMES
he learned that in New Brunswick in 1865,
they amounted to 3,729,000, exclusive of those
brought by the Ocean Steamships which
might make 50,000 more. As to postage stamps
sold in Canada in 1866, they amounted to
$480,000, in New Brunswick to $38,000, and in
Nova Scotia in 1865 to $54,000. The next item
was the money order business. In Canada in
1866, the issues were $1,720,000; in New
Brunswick $280,000, and in Nova Scotia in
1865, $378,000. The charges upon the money
orders were the same in all the Provinces. For
sterling orders drawn on Great Britain, the
commissions were for £2 and under, 25 cents;
for £5 and under, 50 cents; for £7 and under,
75 cents; and for £10 and under, $1. The Local
Orders were issued at 1 per cent on the
amount. In Canada they were graduated by
steps of $20 and in the Lower Provinces by
$10, the Departments having the benefit of the
fractional differences of commission between
the smaller and larger sums. Here the hon.
Postmaster-General repeated his conviction
that the results were in favor of the Canadian
system, and that on the whole it might be
considered as highly satisfactory.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot said he did not see in the
Canada Postal Accounts the charge of $60,000
for Ocean Mail Service.

Hon. Mr. Campbell-It was charged with
other sums under the head of payment for
Steamboat Service. There were several other
items coming under the same head; for instance, $1,000 per trip was paid to a line
which went to the Lower Ports, $1,000 for
Steamboat Service on the Ottawa, and anothHon. Mr. Mitchell said he held in his hand er sum to the steamers between Quebec and
the accounts, and no such charge appeared in Montreal, and others besides.
them.
Hon. Mr. Anderson-Perhaps the postage
Hon. Mr. Campbell-Well, the results were collected by Canada on the letters carried by
doubtless strongly shown by the larger reve- its Ocean Mail Line might more than defray
nues in Canada. As to the extent of the ser- this sum of $60,000, whereas, the Imperial
vices rendered by the postal system of Governrnent had the benefit of all the Ocean
Canada, he begged to state a few figures. The postage to and from the Lower Provinces.
number of post offices in Canada in 1866 were
Hon. Mr. Campbell-Was all the sea post2,333, the number of miles of mail travel 6,- age on such letters in the Lower Provinces
500,000; the number of letters 14,000,000 and paid to the Imperial Government?
newspapers 14,200,000. In New Brunswick
the same year, there were 46 post offices and
Hon. Mr. Anderson-It was all paid into the
392 way offices, the number of miles of mail Commissariat for the Imperial Post Office.
travel 779,000, and letters carried 1,738,000. In
Hon. Mr. McCully-The arrangement, he
Nova Scotia in 1865 there were 81 post offices
and 513 way offices; the number of miles of thought, operated against the Lower Provmail travel 1,005,000, and of letters carried inces, for, while Canada might collect more

December 3, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

than the $60,000, it paid for the service, the should be performed as low as possible, and if
Imperial Government received all that was it paid its way, that was all that should be
collected in those Provinces for the same kind desired. But, judging by the experience of the
of service, except a very small fraction.
past and the prospect of increased correspondence, he did not think it would be more than
Hon. Mr. Campbell-Well, the facts men- two years before the income and expenses
tioned by the hon. member, subject to correc- were equalized. The calculations he had made
tion, no doubt modified in some degree the would probably enable the House to see
conclusions he had drawn as to the compara- whether his expectations were well founded.
tive results of the Postal systems in the seve- The revenue for the whole Dominion in 1867
ral Provinces. Now it was with reference to was estimated at $1,050,000. From this gross
the Postal service and Postage charges in sum there were to be deducted certain items
these Provinces, in the stage which he had which would not be influenced by the change
described, that the present bill was prepared proposed. The ocean postage, the parcel postand submitted. The main changes proposed to age, the newspaper postage, and the Unitbe made by the measure, related to charge on ed States postage fell within its category, and,
local letters, to newspaper postage, to the time deducting these, the sum of $600,000 derived
for payment of the latter, and to the establish- from the 5 cent rate only would be affected
ment of Savings Banks. He was somewhat by the reduction. On this sum a reduction of
embarrassed as to which subject he should two-fifths, or $240,000, would take place. But,
treat of first. He did not suppose, however, assuming that, in consequence of the change,
that any objection would be made to the rethere should be an increase of 25 per cent in
duction on the rate of letter postage. Every- the correspondence (as was the case in the
body seemed disposed to pronounce this at United States when in 1851 they reduced the
least a good measure, though some newspapers rates 22 per cent, and increased the correhad said the bill did not go far enough, and spondence by 30), a considerable part of the
that the rate should have been reduced to two deficit would already be made up. Then, supcents. They saw some charm in the figure 2 posing the newspaper postage was agreed
which they did not see in the figure 3, but he to-a proposition which he knew did not meet
himself could not discover it. In Great Brit- with favour on the part of the Lower Province
ain, to be sure, the rate was 2 cents, but it was members-and applied to the whole Dominonly after a long time that it had succeeded. ion, and, moreover, that the exemptions in
When the rate was reduced to that charge the favour of religious, educational and temperPostal revenue showed a surplus of a million ance publications were abolished, there would
and a half of pounds sterling, but it was only be other considerable offsets to the deficiency.
within two or three years that the Depart- These items, he thought, would yield an inment had reached the position as to surplus
$10,000
the dead
of $40,000,
revenue it had twenty years ago. Then Eng- crease Altogether, and increase, letters
more.
the
the newspaper
land was a very different country from Can- postage, the withdrawal of exemptions, and
ada. Here we had long distances to carry
the mails, and through a sparse population, the dead letters, were expected to give $140,000, which, put
estimated
whereas there the reverse was the case. The $240,000 would against the $100,000 todeficit of
leave only
be proanalogy was greater in respect to the United
vided for at the end of the first year. Now, if
States, and yet even there the advantages his expectations were realized, he hoped
that
were greater than in this country, and there
the rate was 3 cents. Yet after much careful in two years the Department would again be
consideration and counsel with the Deputy self-sustaining. He was persuaded that the
Postmaster-General, who, he had no hesita- more hon. members reflected upon the subject
tion to say, was one of the most valuable the more they would be satisfied that it would
officers this or any other country ever had, he be injudicious to reduce the letter rate below
had resolved to recommend a prepaid letter three cents. Then, as to the charge on newsparate of 3 cents in future, and this he thought pers, he must take it for granted that, whatevwas as low as it was possible to go. In doing er course was pursued, all parts of the Doso the country would have to meet a consid- minion in this respect must be placed upon
erable deficiency, but it was done under cir- terms of equality. It could not be supposed
cumstances which made him sanguine that in that any difference should be made in favour
a short time it would be overcome, and a of any one or two Provinces. If all parts of the
surplus be again attained. In his opinion it Dominion were to be placed upon ternis of
was desirable that the Postal service should equality in all respects, and the Lower Provbe expected to yield a revenue. The service inces must be exempted from the payment of

SENATE DEBATES
newspaper postage, then both Ontario and
Quebec must be so too, and this would involve
the surrender of at least $90,000 yearly, of
which $40,000 would be from papers published and despatched from the publishing
offices, in the Provinces, and the rest from
foreign papers and papers mailed by private
parties. Now, in his opinion the large postal
deficiencies in the Lower Provinces had arisen
from the relinquishment of the newspaper
charge. He had now before him the report of
Mr. Odell, P. M. G. for New Brunswick, and
he stated the newspapers carried in that
Province as 3,629,000, exclusive of those
which were brought by the ocean steamers,
his whole estimate being about 4,000,000. He
had no official statement for Nova Scotia, but
it was said they would reach there about
5,000,000, upon all of which 9,000,000 there
was no postage. Now the question for the
House to consider was whether these nine
millions, with the fourteen million two hundred thousand carried in Canada, would
henceforth be free of charge?
Hon. Mr. Wilmo - Supposing a newspaper
from Canada had a stamp, could it not be
carried through New Brunswick free?
Hon. Mr. Campbell-It was not of much use
arguing that question. One argument against
the newspaper postage was that it was a tax
upon knowledge, since it was said to hinder
its dissemination by means of such newspapers. This argument had, no doubt, a specious
sound. It was one of the principal ones contained in a series of resolutions of the press of
New Brunswick, which he would now read:
lst. That the press being a prominent means
of enlightening and educating the people, it is
unwise to circumscribe the sphere of its influence by the imposition of a tax, which must in
most cases have this effect, and which, being
novel in the Maritime Provinces, would be the
more severely felt, and especially in the rural
districts, and would be appealed to as an evidence of the injurious effects of Confederation.
2nd. That the principle of exempting the
press from postage, on the ground of its being
a means of promoting education, and diffusing
scientific and general knowledge, is now recognized in the Consolidated States of Canada.
3rd. That the imposition of newspaper postage would involve additional labor, risk and
expense on the part of publishers, to an extent
at least equal to the amount of revenue
derived from this source, and would therefore
place additional burden on a class of persons

December 3, 1867

who pay their fair share o! taxation otherwise.
4th. That the collection of newspaper postage, if made effective, and accompanied by
proper checks and rigid surveillance over
publishers' issue lists, must involve so much
additional expenditure on the part of the post
office as would tend materially to decrease the
revenue derived from this source.
5th. That the carrying of newspaper imposed very little expense on the Post Office
Department in addition to what is incurred by
the carrying of letters; all other legitimate
means of raising a revenue should for this and
other reasons already stated be exhausted
before this mode of doing so should be adopted.
6th. That the representatives of New
Brunswick in Parliament, who concur in the
sentiment expressed in these resolutions, be
respectfully requested to use their influence to
prevent the imposition of newspaper postage.
The other journals published in our Province
have been communicated with by telegraph,
and their concurrence in the above resolutions
bas been received.
Well, as to the tax on knowledge, he must
confess he did not see much force in the
argument. A tax was an impost levied for the
benefit of the State.
Hon. Mr. McCully here referred to some of
the statements of the Postmaster-General with
reference to the mail matter in Nova Scotia,
and read from the Journals of the Parliament
of that Province some items which seemed to
conflict with them.
Hon. Mr. Wier-These statements only refer
to the City of Halifax.
Hon. Mr. Campbell. resuming, said the argument of a tax on knowledge could not be
sustained. It was not a tax, but a charge for a
service rendered. Surely it could not be said
with truth that the agent who carried an article at the very lowest possible cost imposed a
tax upon it. The reverse was rather the case,
and, instead of the Post Office hindering the
circulation of papers, it facilitated it in an
extraordinary degree. All that was asked in
return was the bare cost of the service. And
what after all was the meaning of the objection?. Why that the wares of certain persons
should be exempted from the cost of carriage
while everybody else paid. They did not ask
to be put upon an equal footing with their
neighbours, but upon a better one. If the Post
Office must carry newspapers free, why might

December 3, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

not other merchandize be carried on the same
terms, and moreover delivered at the expense
of the Department? If newspapers must be
carried free, why should not the types and
forms, and implements of the printers be carried free too? If the argument was good in
respect of the newspapers, it was, he maintained, equally good in regard of all the printers belongings. This he conceived would be a
most exceptional kind of legislation-class
legislation in fact. It was neither more nor
less than saying that this order of men were
not willing to pay for an important service
rendered them. In the Lower Provinces they
had apparently succeeded, and so they had in
the United States, where the press had an
undue influence, but he could not help thinking that too much deference had been paid to
their demands, and that the exemption was
unfair to a large part of the community. Why
should the man who does not read and does
not want a newspaper be required to pay for
the man who does, and why should newspaper
publishers, above all the classes engaged in
business, claim such a privilege? The other
arguments of the New Brunswick press were
less open to reprobation, yet he would ask
whether these newspapers-the educational
and scientific-were established from motives
of patriotism or philanthropy? Were they not,
on the contrary mere business enterprises,
with the view to gain like all other industrial
concerns? It was his desire to abolish the exemptions, and he believed that many, if not
all, of the ordinary newspapers, were found to
inculcate as effectually lessons of morality and
virtue as those which claimed to pass free on
educational, religious, or temperance grounds.
If a man invested $10,000 in an agricultural or
temperance publication, he did it because he
hoped it would pay, and he could not understand why he should be entitled to greater
consideration or indulgence than other publishers. The resolutions also assumed that it
cost the Post Office nothing to carry newspapers, but the argument would do quite as well
in respect of letters. The newspaper man says,
"You have to send the mail with letters
whether or no, and you may as well take my
paper along," but the man wishing to have letters carried could turn round and allege that,
as the Post Office had to send papers along, it
might just as well take his letters for nothing.
The argument was of equal force in bath
cases. Large sums were paid for the transport,
for servants and appliances, and the whole
receipts were expended in the service. What
more can be asked? The next resolution did
not contain the vestige of an argument. The
99267-6

difficulties alluded to had been overcome in
Canada, and could no doubt be elsewhere.
Now, as to the prepayment of the charge, he
admitted that here there might be some room
for difference of opinion. If prepayment is
exacted, it will have a tendency to make the
newspaper business more compact, and the
to
be more
careful
publishers
will
send them only to persons who they will
have good reason to believe will pay. The
allegation that prepayment would absorb too
much capital, and that it would enhance the
losses already too frequent, seemed to be particularly relied upon, and there were other
reasons urged besides. Well, he had been informed that publishers often sent papers
when they had no expectation of payment, in
fact distributed a great many gratis, but that
they did this with the view of increasing their
advertising patronage, and that they found
their account in it. If this was true, might he
not ask which should pay the postage, the
party who indirectly got back his money by
means of advertisements, or the public who
received no advantage whatever from the
transactions? Now, in favour of prepayment,
he would say that, for the purpose of collecting
the $40,000 which accrued to the Department
from the newspapers sent from the publishing
offices for regular subscribers, the Department
had to open accounts at every Post Office in
the country. Some of the large papers went to
over one thousand offices, and accounts had to
be kept for the ten, twenty, thirty, or forty
subscribers at each place, and the Postmasters were thus forced to act as agents for the
printers. He had now an ordinary quarterly
account before him, taken up casually, just
because it happened to be on his table. He
might have got others that would have served
his purpose much better. It was that of the
Postmaster of St. Hyacinthe, a town east of
Montreal, containing a few thousand inhabitants, and he found that the office had to
collect the postage upon forty different newspapers, and three hundred and forty-two
persons, while the whole sum received
amounted to $11.17, and this was a sample of the labour entailed upon over two thousand postmasters, by the present system, all of
which would be avoided by prepayment. Why
should the Postmasters have this trouble? But
it was said that the postage being in broken
sums, it would be exceedingly difficult to remit them. Well, he thought that, instead of the
seventeen cents, which would be the postage
for a year on a weekly paper, the publishers
could easily substitute 25 cents and add that
to the subscription price; and so on for other

SENATE DEBATES
classes of papers. The system of prepayment
would induce the adoption of the cash system
more extensively, which he was persuaded
would be an advantage to all parties. It might
possibly diminish the subscription lists a little,
but this would be counterbalanced by great
advantages. He had however, already admitted that this particular point left room for
argument, and he would therefore leave it for
the present. He had now touched upon all the
postal changes proposed, and came to the essentially new feature of the bill-the creation
of Post Office Savings Banks. These institutions had now been established in Great
Britain for some years, and had been attended
with the most satisfactory results. It had been
thought of late years in Canada that it was
proper to invest the savings of the working
classes with greater security than they actually possessed. He rather thought that, on the
whole, the Savings Banks of the Lower
Provinces had been better in this respect than
those of Canada. It was true that there had
been but few disasters in connection with
these institutions even in this country, yet
many hon. members would recall some painful instances of this kind, and, if the system
could be successfully grafted in Canada, it
would be a great boon to the people. The
provisions embodied in the bill were taken
verbatim from those of the Imperial Act. The
Hon. Postmaster-General then quoted the
clauses, and said it was proposed to open such
offices in sixty or seventy of the principal
cities and towns, and, as the system became
established, the number could be increased:
Any one depositing would receive a passbook, in which the sum lodged would be entered by the Postmaster, to which be would
sign his name and affix the stamp of the office.
He would then advise the receipt of the
amount to the Department by means of a
printed letter for the purpose, and, on receipt
of it, the Postmaster-General would write
back acknowledging the receipt of the money.
The entry in the book would be good for ten
days, and, if within that period the receipt
had not reached the depositor, an application
for it would give further validity to the transaction for ten days more. The account would
not be kept at the Post Office receiving the
money, but, at the Head Office in this city.
Then, if the depositor wanted to draw out his
money, or any part of it, by the production of
his pass-book, and the acknowledgment of the
Postmaster-General in his hands, he could do
so at any Post Office empowered to do this
kind of business. He would apply to the
Postmaster, and his application would be im-

December

3,

1867

mediately sent to the Postmaster-General,
who by the next mail would transmit the
necessary authority to pay. This was the
English system, and as it would be seen, it
afforded perfect checks and entire safety. It
was proposed to limit the minimum deposits
to one dollar, upon which, when three dollars
had been lodged, interest at the rate of four
per cent would be allowed. This would be
equal to one cent a month, and the matter
would be so simple that the depositor, however uneducated, could keep the account himself. The figure 3 and its multiple was adopted
because of the convenience it afforded in the
calculation of interest. The management of
the business would cost between one and two
per cent. so that the money would cost the
Government about six, which was as much as
they should pay. The money order office required about the same amount of labor to
carry it on, and the charges come to about the
same thing. The matter had been carefully
calculated in England, and similar results arrived at, viz.: between one and two for management. Where sums of more than $100 were
deposited by the same person, power was taken by the bill to give a receipt bearing five
per cent, subject, however, as in the case of
interest deposits in banks, to a certain notice
before withdrawal. When cash deposits
reached $500,000 the Minister of Finance
would be authorized to invest such excess in
Provincial debentures. The object of this was
two-fold. As interest would have to be paid,
the money should be so employed as to earn
it, but the investments should be of a character which, in case of sudden calls, could be
realized. The Minister of Finance would, of
course, buy the debentures at the market value, and, if at a discount, it would be so much
profit. He (Mr. Campbell) had, however,
thought, after the bill was printed, that authority might be given to the Minister of Finance to substitute new debentures in the
event of his requiring to realize, instead of
selling any he might have in his hands, with
only short times to run, as the latter would
not be so likely to command good prices as
those of longer periods. This amendment
could be made in Committee of the Whole.
There were the provisions for the establishment of the Savings Banks. The bill contained
other clauses, but they had respect to matters
of detail, which could be gone into in Committee. He would just say in conclusion, that
the bill, instead of conferring upon the
Governor in Council, as in the old Act, conferred them directly upon the PostmasterGeneral. This had been done, not to give a

December 3, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

greater influence to that Minister, but for the ally than would the imposition of a newspasake of convenience. The hon. member then per postage, which certainly would be regardmoved, seconded by Hon. Mr. Blair, that ed in the light of a tax; but in Nova Scotia
particularly the imposition of such a duty
the bill be now read a second time.
upon newspapers, for it could be regarded in
Hon. Mr. Bourinot would not hesitate to say no other light, would make Confederation
that he approved of the general principles of most unpopular. It will raise a feeling which
the bill now before the House. There was only it will be difficult to allay; and assuredly he
one feature in it to which he had an insupera- hoped and believed that every gentleman in
ble objection, the purpose of placing a tax on that House from the Lower Provinces would
newspapers, and he hoped sincerely that when oppose the impost. The Hon. Postmasterthe bill was in Committee of the Whole, it General also proposed a tax up on periodicals,
should be so amended as completely to such as the London Quarterly, the Edinburgh,
remove so objectionable a feature. Notwith- Blackwood, and such serials as Temple Bar,
standing the ingenious reasoning of the Hon. London Society, etc., which, in his opinion,
Postmaster-General with the purpose of was much too heavy. He hoped that when the
showing that the newspaper business was car- bill was brought up in committee, these matried on much in the same way, and with ters would be attended to, and he would only
precisely the same view, as persons usually further remark that in the coming changes
carry on business of whatever nature, and which the new order of things must bring
that the newspaper proprietor ought not to be about, that the interests and long services of
entitled to greater advantages through the the gentleman at the head of the Postal Sermedium of the mails, than all other persons vices in Nova Scotia, a gentleman greatly eswho used the post in connection with their teemed, and whose services had been most
business had, he could not help expressing his valuable, would not be overlooked. He trusted
belief that the imposition of a postage rate on that in the carrying out of the proposed
the newspapers would be extremely ill re- changes that gentleman would be provided for
ceived in Nova Scotia, where no such rate had if displaced, and he would ask the Postmashitherto existed. When in Halifax, he had ter-General.
frequent opportunities of ascertaining the
Hon. Mr. Campbell hoped that he would not
feeling with regard to this matter. Whenever,
indeed, it had been attempted to place a tax be required to displace any one, but with
upon newspapers, the attempt had invariably regard to the future disposition of officers of
been resisted. A postage rate on newspapers the Department, it would be extremely inconwas looked upon as a tax upon knowledge, venient to give an answer now, and he trusted
and in his judgment not incorrectly so. The the hon. member would not insist upon one.
newspaper was a great and sometimes an only
Hon. Mr. Bourinot having drawn attention
means of disseminating information. Many to the special requirements of Cape Breton,
who never read books read the newspaper. Its expressed himself as being sorry for having
cheapness, its popularity, the diversity of the
matters upon which it treats, and especially detained the House so long, the more especialthe news which it necessarily contains, mak- ly as opportunity for further discussion would
ing it a welcome messenger to the backwoods- be afforded him, and sat down.
man. Often where no book is seen, a newspaThe bill was then read a second time, and
per is to be found. To the poorer classes referred to a Committee of the Whole on
especially as means of information the news- Thursday next.
paper is invaluable. He knew of nothing
which could create more dissatisfaction generThe Senate then adjourned.

99267-62

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Wednesday, Dec. 4, 1867
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock.
After routine
FINANCIAL CRISIS
Hon. Mr. Macpherson, pursuant to notice,
moved that a Select Committee be appointed
to inquire and report upon the causes of the
recent financial crisis in the Province of Ontario, with power to send for persons and
papers.
The hon. member said that if the recent
financial crisis in the province of Ontario had
been like others which had happened in this
and other countries, he would not have
deemed it necessary to propose such an inquiry. In 1846, there was a severe crisis caused
by the repeal of the corn laws, and the consequent depreciation of our wheat and other
agricultural products, and ten years later
another had occurred caused by over speculation and aggravated by bad harvests which
had followed, but the panic of six weeks ago
could be traced to no such circumstances. The
country had reaped a bountiful harvest, and
the cereal products and other products of the
farm, together with all other articles of native
growth, commanded large prices and could
secure ready markets. Indeed, the country
might be said to be at the time in a condition
of great prosperity, and yet in the midst of all
this, all of a sudden, the Province of Ontario
became involved in a severe monetary crisis.
The first cause of alarm arose from the suspension of the Commercial Bank; this disaster
was not, however, sufficient of itself to account for the great commercial derangements
which subsequently followed. This crisis arrested the sale of our staples, and depressed
their value, wheat for instance declined 15 or
20 cents per bushel in a week, and became
almost unsaleable. Other articles of trade
were similarly affected. As he had already
said, there was no apparent reason for this
very serious condition of things. There had
been no spirit of reckless speculation at work,
nothing in fact, of which he was aware, which
could account for the trouble, and it was because of the absence of such reasons that he
had deemed it proper to suggest the appointment of a committee to inquire into the matter. This Hon. House, (from the calmness and
absence of ardent party spirit in its members)
was, as he thought, peculiarly adapted to institute such an investigation, and the large busi-

December 4, 1867

ness experience of many of the gentlemen
who composed it, would enable them to render such inquiry in the highest degree useful.
It was well known that at the period to which
he referred the banking accommodation
necessary to enable commercial men to transact their affairs satisfactorily, had been suddenly and greatly contracted, and that in fact,
this was still the case to a large extent. Now,
he feared the country had not yet realized all
the disastrous effects of this pecuniary stringency. In Ontario there was a long winter to
be faced, and he apprehended that it would be
attended by great distress to many persons,
who but for this crisis would not have been
exposed thereto. He did not anticipate any
opposition to the motion, for the duties which
would devolve upon the committee were of a
nature harmonizing with the character of the
House, and he thought that even the Government should be glad to have reliable information upon so important a subject. He begged
to disclaim being actuated by any desire to
make a covert attack upon any banking institution, but as he conceived, there were
radical defects in the prevailing system of
banking, the committee would as he hoped be
able to point them out. If the real causes of
the evil to which he had adverted could be
discovered, then a suitable remedy might be
devised.
Hon. Mr. Wilmoi said that as the speech of
His Excellency at the opening of Parliament
foreshadowed the introduction of a measure
on banking, it might be questioned whether
such an inquiry as the hon. member proposed
would be expedient. But if it were expedient,
there was already in existence a Standing
Committee on Commerce, Banking, and Railways, to whom the subject might very properly be referred. He had his own opinion on
matters of this kind, and fully agreed that the
circumstances to which the hon. member had
called attention, needed investigation. One of
the consequences which people in the Lower
Provinces expected to flow from the Union
was, the transfer thither of Canadian capital,
but he very much feared, from the present
aspect of things, that such expectations would
not be realized. He did not object to the motion before the House, on the contrary he
regarded the inquiry as of urgent necessity,
but rather thought it should be entrusted to
the Standing Committee.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson said that his first intention had been to propose to confine this
Committee altogether to members from Ontario, as being most interested, but as other

December 4, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

Provinces might be concerned, he had decided
upon naming gentlemen from them all, and if
the motion were adopted he would do so. With
regard to the suggestion of the hon. member
(Mr. Wilmot), he thought that the Standing
Committee on Commerce and Banking was already sufficiently occupied, and he would
therefore adhere to his purpose of referring
the investigation to a Select Committee.
Hon. Mr. Wier did not rise to oppose the
motion, but he had failed to see what purpose
such an investigation would serve. He presumed the hon. member referred especially to
the failure of the Commercial Bank, but supposing the Committee did ascertain the precise cause of that disaster, and who was to
blame, what remedy could they bring to it?
Already a committee had been appointed in
the other branch, with an analogous object in
view. It was no doubt a great misfortune that
the Commercial Bank had failed, but such
misfortunes would happen to banks, as they
did to private business concerns, and he
doubted whether any means could be taken to
prevent their recurrence.
Hon. Mr. McCully doubted the power of the
House to compel the attendance of persons or
the production of papers before one of its
committees, in fact the House had no such
power at present. He mentioned the fact at
this early stage of the session, so that a proper
remedy might be applied as soon as possible,
and the sooner the better. As to the object the
hon. mover had in view, it was no doubt a
good one, and if the inquiry proposed resulted
in procuring information which would serve
as a basis for legislation, with the view of
preventing the recurrence of such commercial
derangements and disasters, the committee
would have served a most useful purpose.
Hon. Mr. Allan called attention to the lst
resolution relating to the Committee on Standing Orders and Private Bills, by which power
was given to that committee to send for
persons, etc.
Hon. Mr. Botsford said the House should
have the power to compel attendance, but at
present all the committee could do would be
to request the witnesses to attend. Until a law
was passed defining the rights and powers of
the House, that course would have to be pursued. The measure referred to as foreshadowed in the Speech from the Throne would
not be interfered with by the proposed committee, and, indeed, he thought the evidence it
would elicit could not but be very advantageous to the Government. If, therefore, the hon.
mover and other hon. members, were disposed

to take the trouble to institute such an investigation, he thought they should be encouraged rather than dissuaded.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said the observations of
the hon. member (Mr. McCully) were correct, but he presumed it was not the intention of the proposed committee to try and
compel the attendance of the persons they
might desire to see. There would, however, be
no difficulty in procuring such attendance.
With respect to the Act conferring the necessary power upon the House, it had not yet
been presented, but in the course of the session these necessary powers would be created.
Now with regard to the motion before the
House, he (Mr. CampbelD must say he concurred to some extent with the hon. member
(Mr. Wier), who had expressed doubts as
to the practical utility of the proposed investigation. The committee might perhaps be able
to elucidate the causes of the temporary stringency in the money market, and their report might be of some use, but he did not
believe it would be attended with any very
great advantages. He would, however, be glad
to see the report when it was ready. He did
not, however, agree with his hon. friend (Mr.
Macpherson) that there had been any considerable financial crisis. A great financial crisis
implied the tumbling and crashing of numerous commercial houses, a general loss of confidence, and in fact a condition of things which
affected to whole community, such a condition
of things as had been experienced in 1847 and
1857 in Great Britain, the United States, and
to some extent in Canada. But to call the
temporary derangement of monetary affairs
which had recently taken place in Ontario, a
crisis, was to use by far too serious and comprehensive a term; more serious than the facts
warranted. The hon. member would not contend that before the failure of the Commercial
Bank there had been any crisis. It was true
that immediately following that event there
had been a contraction of discounts, and that
it had become difficult to move our agricultural produce, but there had as certainly been
no general calamity. The results had been
exactly such as might be looked for after a
considerable bank failure, and a good deal of
anx'ety had been experienced, but he repeated his opinion that there had been no general
financial crisis. Having guarded the matter in
this way, he had no objection to the passage
of the motion, and he hoped the labours of the
committee would be attended with greater
and better results than he had ventured to
anticipate.
The motion was then put and carried.

SENATE DEBATES

December 4, 1867

Hon. Mr. Macpherson then moved that the
following members do compose the said committee, viz: Hon. Messrs. Allan, Anderson,
Christie, Hamilton (of Inkerman), Robertson,
Seymour, Simpson, Tessier, and the mover.
The Speaker announced a Message from the
House of Commons with a
Bill to authorize the apprehension and detention of persons suspected of acts of hostility, or of conspiring against Her Majesty's person and Government.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell, seconded
by Hon. Mr. Blair, the said Bill, after having
been read a first time, was ordered for a
second reading to-morrow. Also
Bill respecting the Statutes of Canada
which was likewise read and ordered for a
second reading to-morrow.

subjects and boards, and other public bodies,
officers and other persons, services, and properties of the Crown, enumerated in the
schedule to the Act, of which the Department
shall have the control, regulation, management, and supervision, so far as the same may
be, or might be, or have been had or exercised
by any Public Department under and in accordance with the provisions of Acts of the
Parliament of the United Kingdom, or of any
Provincial Parliament or Legislature now in
force in Canada, in relation to such subjects,
boards, and other public bodies, officers, and
other persons, services and properties of the
Crown, or any of them, or without violating
the provisions of any such Act or Acts, save
and except such as may vest any such control,
regulation, management, or supervision in any
other Public Department."

PRINTING.

Hon. Mr. Dickey said he confessed to a
difficulty of catching the exact purport of the
amendment, but as he (Mr. Dickey) was the
member who initiated the discussion, he
desired to say a few words. He had been
prevented from doing this when the bill was
up for a second reading, from a wish not
to break the rule which precluded members
from speaking more than once on the same
question, though he observed the practice of
doing so was growing common. He admitted
that the Minister of Marine had received his
suggestion most courteously, but nevertheless
had thought his objections of no particular
force, yet he (the Minister) had discovered
that some such provision as that now
proposed would have to be made before the
bill could pass. He had been told that the bill
conferred no legislative, but merely an administrative, power, which he (Mr. Dickey) admitted, but then the bill itself legislated upon
important subjects. He had been told that the
bill was only to organize, but having referred
to the 129th clause of the Union Act, where it
was declared that all the laws in existence
would continue in force, he found that the
same clause gave power to amend and repeal,
and the bill gave the same powers. Take the
5th section and connect with it any of the
matters mentioned in the schedule and it
would read-"Said Department shall have the
control, regulation, management and supervision of Harbours, Ports, Piers, and Wharves
&c." In his remarks upon the former occasion
he had referred to Nova Scotia, and said that
the Courts of Sessions had the care of Harbours and the appointment of Harbour Masters, not the Commissioners of Pilots, as stated
in the report of the debate. Now there was
cogency in the argument of the hon. member

Hon. Mr. Simpson brought up the 4th report
of the Joint Committee on Printing, and expressed the hope that it would receive the best
attention of hon. members. Consideration ordered for Monday next.
MARINE AND FISHERY DEPARTMENT.
Pursuant to order the House resolved itself
into Committee of the Whole on the Bill to
organize the Department of Marine and
Fisheries, Hon. Mr. Hamilton (of Kingston) in
the Chair.
First clause read and carried.
Second clause rea'd.
Hon. Mr. Robertson begged to inquire of the
hon. Minister of Marine and Fisheries, whether he intended to appoint one Secretary
(Deputy) or one in each of the Provinces.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell replied that if the hon.
member turned to the 4th Clause he would see
that one Deputy only was intended.
The Second, Third, and Fourth Clauses
were then read and carried without debate.
Fifth Clause.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said that he had adopted
the suggestion of the hon. member for Montreal (Mr. Ryan), and in order to avoid
misapprehension he would now move that the
following words be added after the word
"Supervision" in the 5th Clause, and the
words after "Supervision" expunged. The
Clause would then read thus:
"The duties, powers, and functions of the
said Department shall extend and apply to the

December 4, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

from Montreal (Mr. Ryan) that the Bill gave
power to the Department to interfere with
Boards which had the supervision in Canada
and in Nova Scotia with the Sessions. Surely
these were good reasons why the attention of
the Minister of Marine should be called to the
subject. He had no doubt that the intention of
the Minister of Marine was not to assume
such powers, but only to organize and to vest
in the Department such authority as belonged
of right to the Government, or which hereafter might be assigned to it. An hon. member
(Mr. Miller) had suggested that words to the
effect "that only such powers as were
possessed by the Government under existing
law" should be added by way of amendment
to the 5th clause. He (Mr. Dickey) had stated
two objections, first, that the bill took away
existing rights from various bodies by whatever names known, and secondly, conferred
upon the Department of Marine powers,
usually set forth in a special bill, and gave the
Minister the management and control of them.
He must now express a doubt whether the
amendment proposed by the Hon. Minister
would meet the requirement, and he would be
glad to hear him explain it. The Hon. Minister
knew that he (Mr. Dickey) would be the last
man to object to the present Minister being
entrusted with them, for as respected his ability and his good intentions, he had his fullest
confidence, and no doubt that hon. gentleman
would make such amendments to the measure
as will best convey to his Department the
powers at present exercised by the Executive,
or which might hereafter be confided to them.
Hon. Mr. McCully certainly thought the
amendment might be put more concisely.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said he must admit he
had failed to see the force of the objections
raised to the bill, but as several bon. members
had thought they discovered some, he had
deemed it more judicious to give way. He had
then gone to the bon. member opposite (Mr.
Miller), and had taken the words of the amendment he had proposed, afterward adding a
few of his own. But when he had shown the
alterations to the hon. member from Montreal
(Mr. Ryan), he was not quite satisfied,
and another amendment had been prepared,
which, however, he must say he did not think
more explicit, still in order to make the matter satisfactory, he had consented to accept
that, and let it enter in and form part of the
bill. No doubt the objections of the hon. member (Mr. McCully), would be got satisfactorily over. The object he had in view was

simply to make the Department effective, and
not to obtain powers which properly ought not
to belong to it.
Hon. Mr. Cauchon-The chief dissatisfaction
was, he conceived, with the wording of the
bil rather than in any principle involved. Al
appointments were made through the Governor in Council, and Boards of every kind,
other than simple Boards of Trade, really affecting commercial or maritime affairs, were
not now exempt from such influence and control. The only difference in the way of supervision proposed, was that such control should
come through another channel-the Marine and
Fisheries Department. Certain work must be
done by the Government, and must be executed by somebody, and in this case he supposed
by the Minister of Marine. There was no
question of law involved, and he would
merely suggest that such control over certain
public institutions and bodies as had previously been exercised by any other Department of
the Government, or by any other authority
emanating from Govermuent, should now be
vested in the Minister of Marine. He thought
such an amendment would obviate all difflculty.
Hon. Mr. Miller had stated on the second
reading of the bill that he differed from some
hon. members of the House, as to the interpretation which one of the clauses of the bill was
susceptible of, and had offered an amendment,
looking on the bill only as a means of organizing a Department, and not as giving any
legislative powers whatever to the Minister of
Marine. Another hon. gentleman had substituted other words which he thought were
still more comprehensive than those which he
himself had proposed to insert, and, as he
understood the alterations were made with
the concurrence of the Hon. Minister of Marine, and would better answer the purpose
than the alteration he had proposed, with the
permission of the Senate he would withdraw
his amendment.
Hon. Mr. Ryan-This amendment covers all
the objections which have been made with
regard to Harbour Masters, Commissions,
Trusts, and Boards, and is most comprehensive. It had been proposed and written in
language which, except in a legal point of
view, might seem rather intricate, and it
would be, perhaps, difficult for members by
the mere hearing of it read, to comprehend it,
and that the meaning of it might be fully
understood, he would suggest, and, perhaps,
the Hon. Minister of Marine would consent to

SENATE DEBATES
have it printed before the third reading of the
bill came up, and it might be so adapted as to
apply and extend to the officers enumerated in
the schedule to this Act of which the Minister
of Marine shall have control, management,
and supervision. He might mention that the
Minister of Marine had consented to leave out
the words, "and the said Department shall
have exercise, and discharge such other duties,
powers, and functions as may from time to
time be assigned to, or vested in, or conferred
upon it by order of the Governor in Council."
The supervision was to be the same as is
exercised by any head of any public Department, and so preserving the laws which
circumscribe the powers of al public Departments soever. All that was necessary to be
had by the Act was a transfer of the power of
supervision over existing bodies or institutions, and with that view the Minister of
Marine had now confined himself in the
schedule of Acts made or to be hereafter made
for the extension of his authority as the head
of a Department; and as the sense of the
country with regard to the classification of
ships by a Canadian Board of Control could
now easily be had, the Minister of Marine not
intending to do anything in that matter this
session, he should accept the Bill as amended.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell consented to the printing
of the 5th clause, embracing Mr. Ryan's
amendment, previous to the third reading of
the bill.
Hon. Mr. Robertson thought that if several
words in the amendment were thrown out, the
same effect as was intended would be provided.
Hon. Mr. Dickey consented to the amendment, but thought something more simple
might have been written to express the same
idea.
Hon. Mr. McCully said that a more limited phraseology might be desirable, such as the
supervision of the duties, powers, and functions of so and so shall extend and apply to

the bodies, boards, and other public offices
mentioned in this Act. He did not intend even
to take credit for this suggestion, inasmuch as
it belonged to his hon. friend the Speaker.
Hon. Mr. Boisford thought the Department
of Marine & Fisheries ought to have the
supervision of all Harbour Trusts, of which
there were many of a peculiar kind in the
Lower Provinces, and see that the officers
perform their duties. It was hardly to be expected that the Minister of Marine, however

December 4, 1867

able he might be as an administrative officer,
could personally direct and govern all the
Trusts, Boards, and public bodies now existing, nor would it be well to put it in his power
to do so. He thought the suggestion of Ris
Honour the Speaker met the whole case, which
was virtually that the Minister of Marine, as
the chief of a particular Department, should
see that persons, who had certain trusts
reposed in them and duties to perform, did
their duty faithfuily and well, and if it should
afterwards be found that notwithstanding this
kind of supervision, the local or resident authorities did not properly discharge their duties the matter might be easily remedied by
an Act of the Dominion Parliament, formed
with a view to make them do so. Then would
be the time to give the Minister of Marine
power to take the direct management of these
public bodies out of incompetent hands.
(Here Mr. Speaker assumed the Chair and
the Mace was laid upon the table, a message
being announced from the House of Commons; and the Hon. Sir John A. Macdonald,
accompanied by the Hon. Mr. Langevin and
Mr. Morris, stood at the Bar, when Mr.
Speaker went to receive them. Sir John delivered his message, and having returned to the
Chair and the messengers having withdrawn,
Mr. Speaker announced the receipt of a
message from the House of Commons, stating
that a Select Committee to assist Mr. Speaker,
so far as the interests of the House of Commons were concerned; to consist of Messrs.
Cartier, J. S. Macdonald, McDougall, Dorion,
Fisher, Smith, Tupper, Morrs, Blanchet,
Chamberlin, Mills, and the mover, had been
appointed to assist Mr. Speaker in the direction of the Library of Parliament, and again
left the chair.)
Hon. Mr. Mitchell thought the proposed
amendment to which he had assented might
be cleared of much ambiguity which might be
avoided, he believed, by not repeating twice
words to the same effect, but nevertheless he
considered it clear enough, and perhaps it
would be better that it should remain just as
it was written. An hon. friend seemed to be
desirous of taking from Government the
preparation of this bill; but he thought it
better, on the whole, to adopt the suggested
amendment of his hon. friend from Montreal,
and retain the bill otherwise, as it was.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn would move an amendment to the amendment.

December 4, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Steeves-When people do not
themselves understand the meaning of what
they write, and when hon. members do not
understand the true meaning of their own
motions, it seemed unfair to ask mere plain,
common sense, legally unskilled members of
the House to find out the true meaning and
purport of such amendments, and ask simpleminded members of the House like himself to
agree to amendments, the meaning of which
hon, gentlemen learned in the laws were divided in opinion about.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn-It had been suggested
that the object of the amendment should be
stated in general terms, and he was not adverse to the suggestion. Al that he designed
to say now was, that in his opinion the word
"administration" might be substituted for
"supervision," as being more explicit and
comprehensive in its import.
Hon. Mr. Speaker said, that in Quebec the
administration of the laws rested with the
judges, and if they exercised administrative
power the Government could not also do so.

Hon. Mr. Sanborn meant Departmental, not
judicial, administration, and thought the objection to the word supervision held good.
Hon. Mr. Bossé feared that incorporated pilots might be injured if the Minister of Marine had the power of supervising them.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn withdrew his amendment; and Hon. Mr. McCully having stated
that the time had not been ill-spent in discussing so important a measure; and Hon. Mr.
Cauchon having stated that the Quebec Pilots
Incorporation Act, which only concerned pilots
themselves, personally and pecuniarily, would
not be at all affected by the bill; and Hon. Mr.
Mitchell having stated that there would be no
clashing between his Department and the
Department of Public Works, the committee
rose and reported, and the Speaker taking the
chair,
The third reading of the bill was fixed for
to-morrow.
The last annual Report of the Commissioner
of Crown Lands of the late Province of
Canada was laid on the table.
The Senate then adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Thursday, Dec. 5, 1867.
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock.
After routine
THE JUDICIARY.
Hon. Mr. McCully mnoved that an humble
address be presented to His Excellency the
Governor-General, praying that His Excellency will be pleased to cause to be laid before
this House a statement showing the total expenses of the Judiciary of the Dominion of
Canada, so far as the same are chargeable on
the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the quarter next commencing on the lst July, 1867.
What proportion chargeable to Ontario,
Quebec, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick respectively.
To whom paid, when, in what capacity, for
what services, and in what courts respectively, distinguishing salaries from travelling or
other charges.
What amount for pensions, date of commencement of the same, names of recipients,
where resident, and for what services?
What amount for criminal prosecution in
each of the Provinces, names of recipients as
prosecuting officers, nature of the offences
prosecuted, distinguishing those for which
convictions were obtained with the punishments awarded.-Carried.
MARINE AND FISHERIES DEPARTMENT.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell moved that the Bill relating to the organization of the Marine and
Fisheries Department, be now read a third
time.-Carried, passed, and ordered to be sent
to the House of Commons.
POSTAL BILL (IN COMMITTEE).
Pursuant to order the House resolved itself
into a Committee of the Whole to consider the
Bill for the regulation of the postal service.
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the first clause.
Hon. Mr. Odell said that before proceeding
further he desired to make a few observations
in reply to some of the statements the Hon.
Postmaster-General had made in the course of
his speech on the occasion of the second reading of the bill, with reference to the postal
service in the Province of New Brunswick.
His first remarks would relate to payment to

December 5, 1867

the railways. The honorable gentleman had
stated that there was no payment made in
New Brunswick for service of this kind, and
the Hon. Minister of Marine had corroborated
the statement saying at the same time that he
held the accounts in his hands, and that no
charge of this kind appeared in them. At so
great a distance from the place. it was difficult
to get all the data that were required, but
he (Mr. Odell) had found the Journals of
New Brunswick in the Library, and he could
now say with certainty that in this respect at
least the hon. gentlemen were both mistaken.
In his own (Mr. Odell's) report for the year
1865, when he had the honor to be Postmaster-General in New Brunswick, and at page
29, he found this item, "paid to European and
N. A. Railway for mail service between St.
John and Shediac, $3,240 for six trips per
week during the year, the distance being 108
miles and the miles travelled 67,392. Besides
this, there was $500 paid to D. W. Turner, for
conveying and taking charge of the mails between St. John and Shediac Post Offices per E.
and N. A. Railway" for the saine year.
Further there was paid to Expresses from
"the Bend" to St. John, per E. and N. A.
Railway, $480; total paid for railway service
in New Brunswick in 1865, $4,220. These
items would be found at pages 29 and 30 of
the Postmaster-General's Report for that year.
He hoped these data would be considered
sufficient and tend to rectify the error into
which the Hon. Postmaster-General had, no
doubt unintentionally, fallen. The next point
to which he desired to refer was the "drop
letters". The Hon. Postmaster-General had
stated that in Canada, the charge upon such
letters was 2 cents and the same in New
Brunswick, but that in New Brunswick the
system extended to the American frontier
towns, that is to say that a letter dropped into
the post office of a frontier town in New
Brunswick was delivered in an adjoining
frontier town in the United States for two
cents. This was also a misapprehension. The
"drop letter" system in New Brunswick was
precisely the same as in Canada, and confined
as in Canada to posting and delivery at the
same post office. It was true that an informal
and unauthorized practice had sprung up at
Woodstock in New Brunswick, of receiving
letters for two cents and delivering them in
the adjoining American town of Holton, and
that it had lasted for a short time, but in all
other parts of New Brunswick the "drop letter" system had always been confined to the
office at which the letters were posted. It
happened that a former Postmaster-General

December 5, 1887

SENATE DEBATES

in New Brunswick resided in a certain town,
and that some of his friends, constituents,
having business relations with an adjoining
American frontier town it had been found
convenient to allow of the delivery of "drop
letters" in the latter for two cents. (Hear,
hear.) But the practice did not exist anywhere
else, and in his opinion was not in accordance
with the regulations. He would take occasion
here to say that the remarks he had made and
any others he might feel it his duty to offer,
were presented in the best spirit, and with no
desire to censure the Postmaster-General for
any statements he had made, assured as he
was that that hon, gentleman had spoken only
what he deemed to be correct. But he (Mr.
Odell) owed it to the position he had occupied
in New Brunswick to correct the unintentional errors into which he had fallen. That
Hon. Minister had also said that in New
Brunswick there was no book post system,
and so far as he had been able to ascertain
none in Nova Scotia. This was also a misapprehension, for they had had a book post for
many years in that Province, the terms being
under two ounces free, over two ounces one
cent per ounce. By reference to the Revised
Statutes of New Brunswick, consolidated
in 1854, it would be found that the book post
system was then in existence, and that since
that period other regulations had been made
on the subjects. The hon. member here read
the enactment. He would now come to the
parcel post, which the Hon. PostmasterGeneral had said did not exist in New
Brunswick, but this also was erroneous, for
such a post had been in operation for a long
period, and in 1865 its operations had been
extended to both Nova Scotia and Canada.
Indeed this arrangement was effected by himself in 1865, after correspondence with the
Departments of both those Provinces, and the
rate charged was 25 cents per lb., limited to
3 lbs.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said he had stated a
sample and pattern post.
Hon. Mr. Odell-In the report of the
Postmaster-General'sspeech, it was stated no
parcel post existed. He did not say there was a
separate arrangement in New Brunswick for
sample post, but at any rate there was a
parcel post. He had deemed it proper to make
these corrections, not wishing it to go abroad
without contradiction, that New Brunswick
was so far behind the age. Then as to the
comparative statement of revenue and expenditure, showing so large a difference in favor
of Canada as compared with New Brunswick,

he had also a few words to say. It was true
that in the light presented by the Hon. Postmaster-General, the comparison seemed to be
largely in favour of Canada, but the matter
was susceptible of being exhibited in different
aspects, and with the help of a friend who had
assisted him in making the calcuIation, he was
now prepared to say that the mail travel in
New Brunswick was nearly one half mile
more per head of the population than in
Canada, while at the same time Canada paid
nearly 20 percent more for conveyance. Then
again the larger revenue in Canada arose, as
was admitted by the Postmaster-General, in
great part from the collection of a tax which
was not imposed in either New Brunswick or
Nova Scotia, that is on newspapers, which in
New Brunswick passed free whether they
came from any of the British possessions, the
United States, or any other place. Now it
could not be doubted that the conveyance of
newspapers added largely to the expense of
the post office, for newspapers were both
bulky and weighty, and when contracts were
regulated in a great degree by the weight of
mail matter to be carried, as in New Brunswick, the cost was considerably increased.
Again, Canada had much greater railway
facilities for mail transmission than New
Brunswick, and that was an additional item in
favour for its postal revenue. Another
cause why the revenue of New Brunswick
compared unfavorably was its geographical
position. Since 1857 when arrangements had
been made between the three Provinces for an
exchange of letters, New Brunswick had occupied an exceptional and unfavourable position. A letter might be mailed at the extreme
west of Canada, say at Sarnia, for the extreme
point in Nova Scotia, Cape Sable or Cape
Breton, and it passed all the way for 5 cents,
prepayment being optional; if not prepaid the
rate was 7 cents, but people had in consequence of the fine got into the habit of
prepaying, each Province receiving the
prepayment and pocketing it. Thus a letter
from Canada to Nova Scotia and vice versa
yielded no revenue to New Brunswick, being
carried by its conveyances through the whole
length of its extent free, New Brunswick being
a sort of pack-horse for the two other Provinces. (Hear, hear.) He would now offer a few
remarks upon the changes and new arrangements proposed by the bill, first, as to the
reduction on the letter postage, this he highly
approved of, though he feared it was too great
-a reduction to 2 cents within a Province
might first be tried; at the same time he did

SENATE DEBATES
not object to it, and if the Hon. PostmasterGeneral felt himself justified in undertaking it
lie hoped it would prove successful. The next
point regarded the tax on newspapers. This he
was also in favour of. He himself when in office
had been in favour of imposing a tax of this
kind, as would be seen by referring to his
Report which he had already quoted from.
(The hon. member here read three paragraphs
from that Report, the first remarked upon the
improper distinction made by the law in favor
of requiring papers from the United Kingdom
to be stamped, in other words paid, while all
other newspapers passed free. The second referred to the large number of newspapers,
amounting in the gross to 4,000,000, which
were carried free in New Brunswick, but
which added greatly to the expenditure of the
Department. The third suggested the propriety of imposing a small tax which would at the
lowest computation realize $10,000, without
being at all felt by the public. That paragraph
concluded by remarking upon the injustice of
making the parties who did not take the newspapers pay for those who did.) Some of his
predecessors had entertained the same views,
but none of them had ventured to bring them
before Parliament in the shape of a recommendation, for with the press the measure
was of course an unpopular one, and being all
members of the popular branch of the Leg.slature, they had probably dreaded the
influence of that powerful agent. (Hear, hear.)
The case was dlfferent with him, lie was in
the Legislative Council, like his hon. friend
the Postmaster-General, and hence the recommendation he had offered. But the loss to the
revenue from the absence of a direct tax on
newspapers was not the only loss in connection with that service. The number of papers
issued by the publishers did not afford the
means of making a fair estimate of the number carried, for they were afterwards mailed
and remailed, and went from friend to friend
constantly. This was not by any means even
the worst feature of the system, for newspapers were constantly and extensively used as
the vehicles of taxable matter. Hon. gentlemen would easily understand that with the
large mass of newspapers which passed
through the post offices, it was utterly impossible to subject each one, or any considerable
part, to such an examination as would detect
taxable contents. It was when any newspaper exhibited a peculiar appearance,
suggestive of possible fraud, that it was closely examined, and the consequence was that
specimens of ladies needle work, circulars,

December 5, 1867

catalogues, and private information, were constantly passing under these convenient covers.
Why, at the very time the Hon. PostmasterGeneral was making his excellent speech, lie
(Mr. Odell) had received a Canadian agricultural paper, which by the regulations was
entitled to pass free, but he found cleverly
fitted in the inside another paper, which by
the rules was subject to postage.
Hon. Mr. Lefellier, and you received it free
(laughter).
Hon. Mr. Odell-He now came to the
proposed transfer of power from the Governor-General to the Postmaster-General. He
would here take occasion to say that if the
present esteemed incumbent could remain
permanently in office, he (Mr. Odell) would be
glad to extend such powers to him, but
Governments were liable to change, and besides life was uncertain, and the office might
come into the hands of parties whom it wouId
be dangerous to clothe with such extensive
authority. Instances were not wanting in New
Brunswick, where the checks provided by the
law had been found necessary, and it was
possible that other circumstances of an analogous nature and requiring control, had arisen
in other Provinces. Another point was allowing public carriers to transport letters. He
questioned the propriety of this.
Hon. Mr. Campbell-The Postal Bill did not
permit this.
Hon. Mr. Odell-Yes, if the letters accompanied merchandize. The hon. member had
read an extract from his report for 1865, while
Postmaster-General, in which the practice in
question was represented as affording opportunities for extensive frauds on the revenue,
and suggesting an amendment of the law for
the purpose of checking them. The last point
to which he would advert was the projected
Savings Banks. He would not offer any positive opinions on the subject, but would be
glad to hear further explanations from the
hon. Postmaster-General, showing what were
the advantages lie expected to derive from the
institution. He could not very well see how
the people could be expected to deposit their
savings in a Bank which only paid 4 per cent.
interest, while in New Brunswick they could
lodge them at 5 per cent. in another, under
Government supervision, and which offered
equal safety. He did not know if there was
any intention of superseding the other Bank,
and would simply propose the question.

December 5, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. McCrea-It will be better to do so
when we get to that section.
Hon. Mr. Odell again repeated that his only
object in speaking was to make explanations
which had appeared to him necessary, and for
the purpose of correcting some misapprehensions under which the Hon. PostmasterGeneral was labouring, and would defer his
remarks upon the sections until they came
under consideration.
Hon. Mr. Dickey said he desired to draw the
attention of the Hon. Postmaster-General to
the 2nd clause. lis hon. friend (Mr. Odell) had
remarked upon the frauds perpetrated by
public carriers, and he (Mr. Dickey) would
just observe that these were but further reasons in support of the proposed reduction of
the letter rate, as it would certainly tend to
lessen the inducements for such illegal proceedings. The same hon. member had also
referred to the frauds upon the postal revenue by means of newspapers, but would they
be obviated by the imposition of a tax? The
2nd clause repealed all the existing postal
laws, and brought up an important question.
He had listened the other day to the extremely lucid speech of the Hon. PostmasterGeneral, in the course of which he had made
certain statements of the bases of the measure
proposed. He had then contrasted the results
of the postal system of Canada with those of
Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, and expatiated at considerable length upon these results as evincing superiority in the Canadian
system. The hon. gentleman had said the
number of letters mailed in Canada in 1865
was 12,000,000, and had assumed 14,000,000
for the present year. Well, in Nova Scotia the
number of letters which had passed through
the post office in the year 1860 was 1,426,878,
while in 1866 they amounted to 4,863,845,
showing an increase of over 300 per cent in
six years. The number passing through the
Halifax post office alone in that year was
3,816,511, and those passing through the country offices 1,047,334, together as already stated
4,863,845.
Hon. Mr. Campbell-Was it not possible
that many of them may have been counted
twice, first in the country offices, and then
when received at the Halifax office?
Hon. Mr. Dickey-Well, even supposing that
to be the case the number would still be twice
as large as that stated by the hon. gentleman.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell-Supposing that 1000 letters were posted at Amherst, where the hon.

member lived, and that 500 of them went to
Halifax, would the 1000 be counted in Amherst and the 500 in Halifax.
Hon. Mr. Dickey-Only a small proportion
of the country letters came to Halifax.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell-And if this mode of
computation applied to all the towns, would
not most of the letters be counted twice?
Hon. Mr. Dickey-Well, he would give the
hon. members a large margin, and yet in
Halifax alone there would be twice as many
as the Hon. Postmaster had stated for the
whole Province. Then as respected the post
offices the Hon. Postmaster had given them as
81, and the way offices as 513, whereas they
were 84 and 555, in all 639.
Hon. Mr. Campbell-That was in 1866, but
he (Mr. Campbell) had named 1865, which
showed as increase of 3 post offices and 42
way offices for the year.
Hon. Mr. Dickey-There was an increase
too of 50 per cent in 6 years, because in 1860
the Province had only 416 offices. In Canada
in 1855 there were 2,197 post offices, and Nova
Scotia, with one-eighth of the population of
Canada, showed one-fourth as many. Now as
to the newspapers carried in 1860, the number
was 2,080,520; while in 1866 they amounted to
5,390,155, showing an increase of 3,309,635 in 6
years. Regarding the income of the Nova
Scotia Postal Department it had been stated
that it received no benefit from the postage on
letters to the United Kingdom, but this was
too unconditional an assertion. It reserved
a small, but only a small part, about là d.
sterling of the 6d. charged, for which small
portion the letters were conveyed at the expense of the Department to and from their
destination in any part of the Province. It was
also correct as an hon. member had stated
that the railways in that Province were paid
for the mail services they rendered. He would
only remark at present upon another feature
of the Hon. Postmaster-General's speech, and
he would have been glad if the hon. gentleman had been more explicit concerning it. He
had laid considerable stress upon the payment
to the ocean mail steamers of $60,000 as part
of the subsidy by the Post Office, but he had
not told the House that the Department
derived a revenue of $73,000 from the ocean
postage by the Canadian steamers.
Hon. Mr. Campbell-The exact amount was
not ascertained, but it was estimated by the
Deputy Postmaster-General at $60,000.

SENATE DEBATES

December 5, 1867

Hon. Mr. Dickey-If the Hon. Minister ferriage without charge shall continue in force
would refer to the sessional papers of 1866, he until the expiration of said contracts." At the
would find the anount as just stated by him- expiration of these contracts this privilege, it
self, then there was another sum of $74,479 is true, would cease, but if the contract were a
received from the United States for the same good one for the Department, the Postmasservice in steamers sailing from their ports.
ter-General has power to continue it for four
years from time to time, and it would bear
Hon. Mr. Aikins-The hon. member should hard upon New Brunswick ferrymen if they
bear in mind that Canada paid a subsidy of should be compelled to continue ferrying
$218,000 annually to those steamers.
mails free, while this service was paid for in
Hon. Mr. Dickey-That was another ques- other parts of the Dominion.
tion altogether. The $60,000 was regarded as
Hon. Mr. Campbell-The clause in question
the postal part of the subsidy, and so stated confers a power on the Postmaster-General of
by the Postmaster-General. [Some further the Dominion with regard to contracts, to
conversational discussion of this kind folwhich he perceived the late Postmasterlowed, the hon. member (Mr. Dickey) closing General for New Brunswick was likely to
his remarks by saying that his only object take exception. Before offering an explanation
had been to set Nova Scotia right in regard of on this matter, he might again remark that all
some of the statements of the Hon. Postmas- the powers asked for the Postmaster-General
ter-General, in his speech on the 2nd reading in this bill had ever been practically exerof the bill, which he (Mr. Dickey) thought cised by the Postmaster-General, and in omitneeded correction.] Because the minister had
words Governor-General in Council,
founded his entire argument for the changes ting theno idea of increasing the power of the
in his bill upon the contrast drawn behind the he had
Postmaster-General. The power of establishresults of the Post Office system in Canada ing and closing
post offices, and post routes,
proper and the Maritime Provinces, and as
has always practically rested with the Postour interests were now all bound up together, master-General, and establishment or removal
he thought it might be interesting to show the of an office is usually done on the recommenimmense progress made under the compara- dation of a member of
Parliament
gives
tively economical administration of affairs in his reasons, when the Inspector of who Divithe
Nova Scotia, without resorting to the objec- sion in whch the office is situated is directed
tionable tax on newspapers.
to inquire and report, and on his report the
Hon. Mr. Odell-The Postmaster-General Postmaster-General acts. To occupy the time
by the 3rd sub clause of the 9th clause under of the Governor in Council with such matters
the head "Organization and General Provi- would be extremely inconvenient, and pracsions" may enter into and enforce all contracts tically, from usage and habit, the establishrelating to the conveyance of the mails, and in ment or closing of a post office rests entirely
connection with this power to be given to the with the Postmaster-General. In the matter of
Postmaster-General, he (Mr. Odell) would appointments, when the Postmaster-General
draw the attention of the Senate to the 2nd has one to make, he sends the appointment to
clause of the 43rd section, in which it is stated the Governor in Council, who sends it back to
that "every ferryman shall upon request and him with his initials upon it, and under our
without delay, convey over his ferry any system of responsible Government all goes on
courier or other persons travelling with the harmoniously and must do so. If he differed in
mail, and the carriage and horse, or horses opinion with his colleagues even in the matter
employed in carrying the same, and the sum of an appointment, he must either change his
be paid for such service, shall be fixed by course or resign. The Government were recontract, or if any ferryman demands more sponsible for whatever he did in his official
than the Post Office authorities or the contrac- capacity, and practically, the power of aptor for carrying the mail are willing to pay, pointing to office has been always exercised
the amount to be paid shall be fixed by arbi- by the Postmaster-General.
trators, each party naming an arbitrator, and
Hon. Mr. Le±ellier de S±. Jus±-In the matthe two arbitrators naming a third, the deci- ter of a large railway contract
for instance,
sion of any two arbitrators to be binding; but would it be proper for the Postmaster-General
as respects payment, this does not apply to to arrange it without reference to the Govercases in the Province of New Brunswick, nor-General in Council?
where mails are carried under existing contracts over ferries without charge. As under
Hon. Mr. Campbell-Of course the Postthe bill in all such cases the right to such master-General would exercise his discretion

December 5, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

as to bringing the subject before the Governor-General in Council if the contract were a
large one.

Hon. Mr. Campbell attached no importance
to the matter whether appointments were to
rest with Governor-General in Council or not.

Hon. Mr. Leellier de St. Just was afraid
of giving too much power to a single individual, who might run the country into
debt, or allow contractors to impose upon the
country. He did not suppose for a moment
that the present Postmaster-General would
abuse any power given to him, but a successor
might.

Hon. Mr. Wark thought it was safer to have
the power of appointment and removal in the
hands of the Governor-General in Council.
The very best officer, being uncontrolled,
might do a thing hastily which he would afterwards repent of.
Hon. Mr. Dickey did not think it advisable
that the Postmaster-General should divest
himself of responsibility by sharing it with his
colleagues.

Hon. Mr. Campbell-The hon. member
speaks as if the Government would not be
responsible for the acts of the PostmasterHon. Mr. Campbell did not think the matter
General. However, he cared very little about
worth discussing.
the matter. If desired as a safeguard, it might
be stated in the Act that contracts above a
Hon. Mr. Tessier was clearly of opinion that
certain sum, $2,000, $5,000, or $10,000, would practically it was of very little consequence
require to receive the sanction of the Gover- whether the Postmaster-General had directly
nor-General in Council, although, practically, or indirectly certain powers. So long as he had
no greater security would be given to the the confidence of his colleagues, his recompublic than at present, but if the House mendations would be acted on.
desired it he had no objection.
The clauses having reference to "OrganizaHon. Mr. Cauchon thought that most of tion and General Provisions" were then
those things specified in the Bill ought to be adopted, the Hon. Mr. Bossé, however, objectin the hands of the Postmaster-General. Were ing to sub-clause No. 16, imposing a penalty of
it otherwise, as in the case of small contracts, £200 against offenders, "whether they be or
there would be no end to the references to the be not officers of the Post Office."
Governor in Council. But he was nevertheless
afraid to place too much power in one perRATES OF POSTAGE.
son's hands. It was all very well to say the
Hon. Mr. Dickey-All must unhesitatingly
Postmaster-General would be responsible for
his acts to his colleagues and his country, but consent to the principle implied in the reduethere is such a thing as divided authority. The tion of letter postage, but the grace of the
Postmaster-General would not abuse his pow- boon is much diminished by the intention exer, but it must nevertheless be admitted that pressed elsewhere of an additional charge of 2
the tendency of humanity is towards despot- cents per letter, when letters are delivered by
ism, and if an abuse were committed the ready carriers. In prepayment there was a simplicity
answer would always be, it is the law. If and obvious economy which strongly recoma Postmaster-General should perpetrate some mended it in favour theoretically, but in pracglaring act of injustice, of course he would be tice it might be purchased at too great exdismissed, but how many injustices would be pense, if made compulsory. Indeed, in every
done before reparation was made. The down- country where the experiment of compulsory
fall of such a Minister would be the downfall prepayment had been tried, it had signally
of the Ministry of which he was a member, failed. It had failed in England, and in France,
and the very knowledge of that fact would and had been, he believed, abandoned in the
long keep him in a position which he might United States, although the mode of prepayhave abused. And the plea for all this power ment might be said to be very generally pracbeing vested in one man is the fear that the tised in these countries. Prepayment should be
Governor-General might have too much trou- optional, especially in a country so sparsely
ble in signing his name. On the whole the bill populated as this is. In England where there
was an exceedingly good one, but this is a were facilities for the sale and purchase of
new idea and a new principle which he did postage stamps that existed in no other country, good roads, rapid communication froin
not like to see introduced.
place to place, dense population and stamps
Hon. Mr. Wilmo± had objected to the same sold everywhere, compulsory payment had to
principle in the power given to the Minister of be abandoned. In this country with a scatMarine.
tered population, it might in many situations

SENATE DEBATES
be extremely difficult to get stamps or send
money, and if not pre-paid, a letter instead of
being sent to its destination would go to the
dead-letter offce, and much loss, annoyance,
and even suffering, might result.
Hon. Mr. Campbell-An individual unable
to get a stamp, may pay the money.
Hon. Mr. Wier-With the exception of the
clause now under consideration, the bill met
his entire approbation. The compulsory system had been in operation in the United
States, but had been found to work so badly,
that it had been abandoned. There are many
situations in which it would be difficult to
obtain stamps. A traveller away from home
on Sunday; farmers well enough off, but who
might not have cents enough at home to despatch with a letter, and the inconvenience to
arise from letters inadvertently dropped into
a letter box without payment. He was decidedly of opinion that every letter posted should
be sent to its destination whether paid or not.
He would ask what would be the saving in
clerks' salaries by the proposed method of
charging postage?

December 5, 1867

writing, or expecting a letter, would cheerfully pay the penalties imposed, and thus secure
his letter, which might be one of the greatest
importance. Whereas under the proposed arrangement it would be sent to the Dead Letter
Offce, and after long delay returned to the
writer, thus putting the public, for whose accommodation the Post Offce Department is
created, to serious loss and inconvenience, and
imposing upon the Department much additional trouble, without any way of better
securing the prepayment.

Hon. Mr. Dickey-The inconveniences of
compulsory prepayment are great. Letters
with bills in them ought to be sent back.
Unstamped letters coming from all quarters of
the world, instead of finding their way to the
persons addressed, would be stopped at the
frontier, as was the case in Nova Scotia,
where he was assured by a member of its
Government the practice had to be abandoned
after a short trial. Besides the duties of the
Dead Letter Offce would be materially increased, and he would like to ask why? As a
mere matter of common sense a letter ought
to go to the party to whom it is addressed, and
Hon. Mr. Campbell-There will be a saving the five cents collected from him instead of
of $10,000, but no estimate has been made as returning it to the writer, and collecting the
five cents from him. The adhesive properties
to saving in clerk's salaries.
of stamps are sometimes sorely tried, and the
Hon. Mr. Odell was in favour of prepayment consequences may be inferred if one is rubbed
as a principle, but looked upon it that letters off during transmission. Then if the money or
were received by the Post Offce Department stamp be lost on the way to the offce, a mail
under contract, and that the Department were might be lost and irreparable injury ensue.
bound to carry them. to the address, whether
Hon. Mr. Tessier stated that the system of
prepaid or not. He objected particularly to the
manner in which a letter is to be dealt with in prepayment was universally practiced in
the event of its not being prepaid. By the France, but was not compulsory. Out of 259,second subsection letters are to be sent to the 000,000 letters posted in 1859, 90 percent had
Dead Letter Offce, if not prepaid, and there been prepaid, and then if letters were not
opened and returned to the writer. The argu- prepaid they were charged a double postage.
ment in favour of compulsory prepayment, was
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said that not one in a
that time and trouble in keeping accounts and hundred of persons to whom returned letters
arranging balances would be avoided by the were sent would pay the postage, and as the
principle of prepayment, and to a great extent law forced them to pay, the attention of the
it would, but nevertheless in his opinion a Postmaster-General would be greatly diverted
letter once posted should go to the party to from what he believed to be his proper duties,
whom it was addressed. If he refused to take by his necessarily constant appearance in
it subject to the penalties imposed, it might courts of justice for the recovery of letter
then very properly be sent to the dead letter postage. He advocated optional prepayment in
office but not otherwise. A letter might be preference to the compulsory payment of
posted unpaid by some oversight, the impossi- postage in all cases.
bility of obtaining a stamp at the time, or the
accidental removal of the stamp. The person
At six o'clock the House adjourned until
to whom it was addressed, knowing the hand to-morrow afternoon at three o'clock.

SENATE DEBATES

December 6, 1867

THE SENATE
Friday, Dec. 6, 1867.
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock.
After routine,

HABEAS CORPUS SUSPENSION ACT.
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the second reading of the Bill to continue until 1st Dec., 1868
the act now in force to authorize the arrest
and detention of persons suspected of acts of
hostility, or of conspiring against the person
or the Government of Her Majesty the Queen.
The hon. member said this was only an
extension of the Bill suspending the Habeas
Corpus Act, passed in June 1866, during the
Fenian troubles, and which had already been
renewed.
The bill was then read a second time, and
ordered to be brought up in Committee of
the Whole on Monday next.

Hon. Mr. Ryan moved that an humble address be presented to His Excellency the
Governor-General, praying that the correspondence of the Hon. Minister of Marine and
Fisheries since 1st July last, with the Boards
of Trade, the Trinity Houses and the Harbour
Commissioners of Quebec and Montreal, be
laid before the House.
As a reason for making this motion the hon.
STATUTES OF CANADA.
member said, he expected this correspondence
would afford valuable information in relation
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the second readto an important subject, which had recently ing of the Bill concerning the Statutes of
occupied the attention of the House.-Carried. Canada.
Read and ordered for a second reading on
MEMBER'S INDEMNITY BILL.
Monday.
PRINTING.
Pursuant to order, the House resolved itself
into Committee of the Whole on the Bill to
Hon. Mr. Simpson moved the consideration
provide an Indemnity to the members of both of the third Report of the Joint Committee on
Houses.
Printing.
The hon. member said the report was long,
Hon. Mr. Wark in the Chair.
and when first brought up he had expressed
Hon. Mr. Wilmot gave it as his opinion that the hope that hon. members would give it
the travelling allowances provided by the bill their best attention. Some of the Lower memwere hardly sufficient, giving his own experi- bers on the committee had questioned the
ence of such expense. However, he hoped that propriety of bringing the accounts referred to
the economy which it was proposed to apply for audit before a committee of this Parliato this service would be impartially carried ment, on the ground that they referred to
transactions under the old order of things, but
out in all other Departments of the public the majority had decided otherwise. The hon.
service.
member went into the details as specified in
Hon. Mr. Blair said it was useless to discuss the report, and concluded by expressing the
the subject, as the House had no power to entire approbation of the committee with the
manner in which the contractors had peramend the measure, but must take it as it was formed the service. The work had been done
or reject it altogether.
to the satisfaction of the committee, and they
Hon. Mr. Robertson intimated some doubt had never found occasion to deduct one shilling from their charges.
of the correctness of this doctrine.
Hon. Mr. Steeves explained the reasons why
The bill was then reported, read a third
time, passed and ordered to be sent to the he had doubted the propriety of having the
accounts audited by the committee. He
House of Commons.
thought they had no authority to go into such
investigations, or to confirm the accounts, and
SPEAKER OF THE COMMONS.
he wished it to be distinctly understood that it
The House again in committee of the whole, was done, not as a mattor of right, but as a
Hon. Mr. Steeves in the chair.
matter of favour. With that understanding he
The committee rose and reported the bill would not object to the adoption of the report.
without amendment, after which it was read a
A conversational discussion then ensued in
Srd time, and like the previous one, passed regard to the distribution of the documents,
and ordered to be sent to the Commons.
and Hon. Mr. Simpson said the committee

SENATE DEBATES
would be happy to add to the list any colleges,
public bodies or official personages in any of
the Provinces or foreign countries, to whom
they might deem it useful to send them.
Several members then indicated institutions
and high officials, to whom they thought it
expedient to send the documents.
The report was then adopted.
POSTAL BILL.
Pursuant to order the House went again
into Committee of the Whole on the Bill for
the regulation of the Postal Service.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said he was glad to have
the opportunity of acknowledging some unintentional errors into which he had fallen, in
the course of the remarks he had made when
the bill was before the House for a second
reading. He had said then that there were no
payments for railway mail service in the
Lower Provinces, but he had since found that
he was wrong, for in one of them the charge
was the small payment of $20 per mile, and in
the other, he believed about $24. The reason
of his misapprehension was probably that the
payments in question were not charged very
distinctly, but with other items, to sundry
parties. But it had been alleged that the Department was in the receipt of a large sum
from the ocean mail postage, which exceeded
what he had stated, viz.: $60,000, and the
public accounts had been referred to in proof.
Now, the statement he had made was substantially correct, and the sum named in the public accounts was only an estimate, for the
receipts from that source had never been kept
separate, and it was therefore impossible to
say with exact precision what it was, but as
nearly as could be ascertained, it was the sum
he had named. Then it had further been alleged that the Department received a large
sum, something like $70,000 or $80,000 from
the American Government for the letters carried by the Canadian ocean mail steamers.
Well, this was not correct; the Department did
not receive that money, whatever it might be,
but it was paid over to the general revenue of
the Province. An hon. member had also taken
exception to the number of letters he (Mr.
Campbell) had said passed through the Nova
Scotia mails, 1,725,000 he believed, and had
placed the amount at 4½ millions, or something like that. It had struck him while that
hon. member was speaking that there must be
some great mistake somewhere in that calculation, for if the 4* millions of letters paid 5
cents apiece, which was about the average

December 6, 1867

rate, the amount of postage collected would
hence have been from that source alone
$225,000, whereas it was only about $50,000.
But allowing the average rate to be as low as
3 cents it would have yielded $135,000, and at
1 cent $15,000. No letter he believed passed
for less than 2 cents, which was equal upon
41 millions to $20,000, or nearly twice the
revenue collected, so there must have been of
necessity some error in the hon. member's
calculations. Now as to the principle of compulsory prepayment, proposed by the bill, it
would, no doubt, have its inconveniences, but
the same objection could be raised against any
scheme which might be projected. The relative advantages should be considered. Now,
this system would be marked by simplicity,
certainty of payment, facility and quick despatch. Even where it is not legally enforced, as
in France, it was almost complete, for 90 per
cent. of the letters were prepaid, and in England the proportion was yet larger. In England it had become as it were a matter of
honor to prepay, and it came to be regarded
as shabby to cause the recipient, by neglecting
it, to pay double the rate, but in this country
that feeling had not yet been developed. It
might perhaps be created in course of time. In
the correspondence with cities as between
Quebec and Montreal the unpaid letters were
only from 8 to 10 per cent, but on other lines,
say some 30 miles inland, they increased to 32
or 34 per cent. Now, if the number of unpaid
letters was large, the consequent expense was
likewise largely increased, and the results
were almost as bad as if there were no
prepayment at all. In England the fine which
doubled the rate had evidently operated to
cause almost universal prepayment, but it
not yet had that effect in this country, and
hence there was increased labor and delay.
The fact was that the system of fines from
non-prepayment seemed in itself unjust, for
the penalty fell upon the party who was not to
blame, instead of upon the negligent writers.
The experience of Canada was largely in favor of prepayment, for immense numbers of
unpaid letters were poured into the Dead
Letter Office, the postage upon which was an
absolute loss. After being opened there, if
found to contain any value, they were sent
back to the writers, but of course the number
of such letters was small. If all the dead
letters were sent back, no doubt most of them
would be refused. The estimate of a gentleman in the Department, conversant with the
question, was that compulsory prepayment
would be attended with a saving of between
$10,000 and $15,000. In the United States the

December 6, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

system suggested by some hon. members of 3
cents prepaid and 5 cents unpaid had been
tried from 1851 to 1854, and was found unsatisfactory. It was then changed to the present prevailing practice, that was to a three
cent compulsory rate, and was found to work
well. Now, the condition of society in that
country, and the character of its business,
were more analogous to our own than England's and in this respect afforded us some
guidance. Some hon. member, however, had
expressed doubts as to the state of the law in
this respect in the United States, but he believed there was no room for such doubts. He
held in his hand a semi-official organ of the
Post Office Department of that country, the
United States Mail, in which the law requiring prepayment by stamps or stamped envelopes was recapitulated. (Here the hon.
Postmaster General read the clauses relating
to the matter.) This he hoped would remove
all doubts. He believed that if introduced into
Canada after a little while the system would
work well. At first there might be inconveniences, but inconveniences would attend almost
any change of practice, however beneficial.
With respect to its operation in the United
States he thought he had a right to assume
that it met general approval. If it did not he
would soon hear of it, but hon. members with
himself were in the constant habit of reading
American newspapers where, if the system
were unpopular, it would be sure to find expression, (for in that country popular discontent was not long in coming to the surface,)
and they knew that there were no complaints
about it. The results would soon be the same
here if it were adopted.

Hon. Mr. Campbell could hardly tell how
that would work, but it was only a gradation
of the principle. All this, however, could be
done under this Act by regulations.
Hon. Mr. Locke-How about letters that
came by ships not prepaid, would they be
sent to the Dead Letter Office?
Hon. Mr. Campbell-The Act gives the
Postmaster-General powers in respect of foreign letters, so he could make arrangements to
meet such cases.
Hon. Mr. Price-What provision was there
for poor settlers in the back settlements who
have neither money nor stamps, and live
thirty miles away from a Post Office?
Hon. Mr. Campbell-Why, the letters could
not go by the mails until first brought to a
Post Office, and there they could get stamps.
Hon. Mr.
money?

Price-But

if

they have

no

Hon. Mr. Campbell said he could not meet
the case of the man who had not three cents
to pay for the carriage of his letter.

Hon. Mr. Flint-If the Crown Land Department did not prepay its letters, how
would people get acknowledgments of the
sums they had sent there? Yet it was now the
case that that Department refused to pay the
postage on its receipts, and people had to send
their money to agents in Toronto, and pay for
the simple service, in order to get receipts
back. When the Hon. Postmaster-General was
Commissioner of Crown Lands, he always
sent their receipts forward, but since the
Department had been turned over to the Local
Hon. Mr. Odell: How was prepayment en- Governments, this piece of economy had been
introduced, and it caused great inconvenience.
forced?
Hon. Mr. Campbell-The Department would
Hon. Mr. Campbell supposed, the letters
find it could not carry on its business without
were not sent forward.
prepaying its letters. In the United States it
Hon. Mr. Macpherson said he was in the was always done.
United States some time ago, and had occasion
Hon. Mr. Skead craved the indulgence of
to write some letters, which he mailed inad- the House for a short time to say that the
vertently without prepayment, and shortly prepayment being insisted upon would cerafterwards they were returned to him through tainly cause inconvenience to 12,000 or 15,000
the Dead Letter Office.
persons annually employed in the backwoods
Hon. Mr. Campbell-Dead Letter Offices lumbering. It would be a great grievance to
240
might be established in the cities and large the friends of these people to send letters
miles into the backwoods, and have them retowns in Canada.
turned with a fine upon them. There was
Hon. Mr. Robertson-Would it not be desir- generally plenty of money among the shanable that the Post Offices at which the letters tymen, but a great difficulty of getting change,
were posted unpaid should have power to and sometimes when a messenger was deopen them, and return them to the writers?
spatched with letters he got drunk upon the

SENATE DEBATES
money, and if letters could not go to their
destination without prepayment, under such
circumstances, the shantymen would be considerable sufferers. He looked upon the bill as
a good one, if the objectionable feature of
compulsory prepayment were removed.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn did not think the House
ought to pass the mere skeleton of a bill. The
19th clause contained the whole gist and principle of the matter, and he thought if adopted
it would be exceedingly inconvenient. Why
should not a local postmaster at once state to a
party sending a letter that it must be prepaid,
and if not prepaid hand it back to him instead
of suffering it quietly to be forwarded and
returned with costs through the medium of
the Dead Letter Office? Of course letters
dropped into the box would be an exception-the postmaster would then have no
means of informing the sender of a letter of
the inconveniences to result from not prepaying it. There were hundreds of people who
would not know anything about the change in
the law, and who would be yet subjected to a
the inconveniences of such change. Under
present arrangements there were only 161,000
unpaid letters received in the Dead Letter
Offices, out of an annual average of 14,000,000
letters mailed. In his mind it was exceedingly
questionable whether the P.O.D. should be
self-sustaining. The Post Office was less a
means of revenue than of public convenience;
and it was a question, moreover, whether the
postage on letters ought to be reduced at all or
not. He would rather see newspapers sent free
of nostagre through the mails and the nosta

rate on letters remain as it is. The revenue
from newspapers, under any circumstances,
would be comparatively small, and the
proposed postal rate on them, would without
any doubt throw an obstacle in the way of
disseminating knowledge. It was true that the
city papers exercised a great weight in
influencing public opinion; but there were
opinions which country papers influenced, and
the right of continuing the exercise of such
opinions should not be hastily trampled upon.
There was something invidious, too, in selecting certain newspapers for exceptional treatment in the way of postage. He was decidedly
favourable to prepayment on both letters and
newspapers being made optional.
Hon. Mr. Dickey stated he was obliged to
the Postmaster-General for challenging the
correctness of his (Mr. Dickey's) figures, as it
gave him the opportunity of showing he was
correct. He had refered him to the authorities

Decemnber 8, 1867

for his statement when he made it, and regretted he (the Postmaster-General) had not
taken the trouble to examine them. In the
Sessional papers of 1866, No. 3, (PostmasterGeneral Howland's Report) he (Mr. Dickey)
read as follows: "The amount of postage
due to Canada for the sea conveyance
of mails between the United States and Europe was for the year to 30th June, 1865,
$74,479.31. The gross amount of sea postage
derived from the Canadian Steam Packets
was, it is estimated, $73,000; the total gros
postage earnings of the Canadian Mail
Pachets were, therefore, $147,479.31". With
reference to te letters passing through te
Post Offce in Nova Scotia, he read in the
Journals of te Assembly of that Province as
follows: "Number of letters taken at the
Halifax Post Office of ail kinds for the year
ending SOth of September, 1866: te Halifax
delivery was 848,484. Posted at Halifax, and
there received from oter places, and sent
fl
The average number of letters which passed
through te country Post Offices during the
same period was 1,047,334, giving a grand
total of 4,863,845. 0f these a large proportion
were dehivered in the country at 2 cents, and
a stihi larger number were free, from the
Public Departments, Members of te Legisîatue
lected in Nova Scotia was $77,673, instead of
$50,000, as given by the Hon. PostmasterGeneral.

Hon. Mr. Campbell said, that the Government had through him presented to the
House a scheme of postal service, which had
seemed to them most advantageous to the
country, and he doubted much whether it
would be possible for the Department to
reduce the postage on letters as contemplated
without exacting prepayment, but as the
House was evidently opposed to that part of
the scheme he was bound to yield to their
opinion for the present, and he would therefore prepare a clause which would give expression to their views. In that form the bill
would pass through the Senate, but whilst
deferring to the opinion of hon. members who
would only consent to a fine for nonprepayment, he was unable to say how far the projected reduction of the letter rate could be
carried out in the absence of the collateral
advantages connecting themselves with the
measure as originally prepared.

December 6, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Wark expressed his dissatisfaction public were not prepared to receive it, and
with the abandonment of the principle of sufficient notice had not been given. The recompulsory prepayment, and after a few duction of three cents the people would of
words from Hon. Mr. Wilmot,
course accept as a boon, provided the state of
the finances, not yet shown, justified it, and no
Hon. Mr. Bureau objected to the discussion new imposts were levied to make up for the
of the bill, clause by clause, Mr. Campbell deficiency of revenue, for in this sparsely sethaving stated that it might be better to dis- tled country, where the income and expendicuss the merits of a certain measure when in ture of the poorer classes were not calculated
due course it turned up, and insisted upon his with the same precision as in some older
right to speak on the general principles of the countries, there would undoubtedly be much
bill.
revenue lost on account of this reduction. He
Hon. Mr. Campbell admitted the right, but (Mr. McC.) was quite willing to assume that
the Government felt warranted in thus reducsuggested the expediency of another course.
ing the postal revenue, on account of the exHon. Mr. Bureau submitted, and sat down.
cellent financial position not yet explained. He
hoped this clause would be retained, and with
Hon. Mr. Mitchell-It is so rarely that my the additional restrictions, as to the power of
hon. friend speaks that I think he ought to be the Head of the Department, as proposed. The
permitted to go on.
bill would so far as proceeded with meet his
Hon. Mr. Bureau declined saying anything approval. The other subsequent claims he
would consider as they would be presented.
further.
The 19th clause was then passed over, and
Hon. Mr. McClelan said, he could not agree Hon. Mr. Reesor objecting on same grounds to
with the assumption of some hon. members, 20th clause, and Hon. Mr. Bureau to 22nd
that, because, those few who had spoken so clause, these clauses were also allowed to
frequently on this question opposed the stand over.
prepayment system, it was the general wish of
The subsequent clauses passed, nemine conthe Committee to amend this clause. Several
hon. members, who had not yet claimed the tradicente, when
attention of the committee were favourable to
Hon. Mr. Dickey took exception to 35th
the adoption of the compulsory prepayment, clause having reference to letter carriers, and
and he regretted that the Postmaster-General contended that letters throughout the cities of
had so hastily yielded on this point. He con- the Dominion, ought to be carried free, as
sidered it one of the best features of the bill, they were in Halifax, Nova Scotia and in
and with the present vast extension of postal England.
facilities throughout the country, and with
Hon. Mr. Miller could not help stating that
general notice given of its intended operation,
the practical difficulties in the way of its whatever the measure now before the House
successful enforcement were not to be com- might be considered in Canada proper, it
pared with those attendant on the present would be looked upon as anything but a boon
optional system of payment. The explanations to Nova Scotia. The people there had been led
of the Hon. Postmaster-General had satisfied to believe that Confederation would increase
him on this point, and in his judgment the their taxes, and this first legislation of the
people of New Brunswick would be generally Dominion Parliament would have the effect of
satisfied to accept this provision, particularly realizing their worst fears on that score. He
if the rate be reduced to three cents. The repeated that the reduction from five to three
Postmaster-General of New Brunswick, in his cents was no boon to Nova Scotia, and could
report of 1866, strongly urged both the reduc- not be where a postal rate of only 2 cents
tion and the prepayment, and showed that between county and county already existed,
under the present system 80 per cent. of all the five cent rate applying only generally. The
letters were prepaid in that year, thereby in- boon consisted in a general tax of 3 cents,
dicating pretty conclusively that such a with a tax of 2 cents for delivery, instead of
change could then be effected without difficul- the legislatures by means of salaried, letter
ty or dissatisfaction. In fact, he believed, such carriers, providing for free delivery. But the
would have been adopted there if the co-oper- worst feature of all was the tax on newspaation of Nova Scotia could have been secured, pers. To have that tax reimposed after years
but an experiment of the kind there, seemed of struggling to have it removed, would in
to work badly, because at that time the Nova Scotia be considered a great grievance

SENATE DEBATES
and would have the effect of throwing the
whole press of that country against the Government.
It being now 6 o'clock, the Senate adjourned till 8.

December 6, 1867

or to persons appointed by him, to open letters
supposed to contain dutiable goods, &c. Now
this was a very proper authority to give the
Department, but it should be guarded, for in
times of party excitement or for other reasons
a Postmaster might pretend to have suspicions
and proceed to the opening of letters. He
thought that in cases of this kind the letters
EVENING SITTING
should be opened before a Justice of the
Hon. Mr. Campbell proposed to substitute Peace, or that the Postmaster should be rethe following for clause 19:
quired at least to make an affidavit, setting
On all letters transmitted by post for any forth his reasons for such a course.
distance within the Dominion of Canada, exHon. Mr. Campbell said the power would be
cept in cases herein otherwise specially provided for, there shall be charged and paid one exercised with the greatest care and under the
uniform rate of three cents per half ounce in regulations of the Department.
weight, any fraction of a half ounce being
On the 43rd clause relating to Ferrieschargeable as a half ounce, provided that such
Hon. Mr. Cauchon said that it might
three cent postage rate be prepaid by postage as it did at Quebec, that in obeying thehappen
injucstamp, or in current coin, at the time of post- tions
the mail
ing such letters, and when such letters are would of the department prosecution carrier
expose himself to
under
posted without prepayment being made there- some municipal regulation. One such carrier
on, then and in such case it shall be lawful to had been sued before the Recorder for passing
charge upon letters so posted unpaid, a rate of in a canoe and breaking the newly formed ice
five cents per half ounce.-Carried.
on the river. The Recorder had dismissed the
Objections were made by Hon. Mr. And- action, holding the man bound to obey the
erson and Hon. Mr. Steeves to the carriers' commands of the Postmaster-General, but
charge of two cents, and the former member that decision might have been questioned.
thought it inconsistent that when a letter was
Hon. Mr. Campbell said a regulation might
carried one thousand miles for three cents,
two cents should be charged for carrying it be made to meet that particular ferry.
half a mile, more or less, in a city or town.
On the 46th clause precluding Postmasters
Hon. Mr. Macpherson begged to remind hon. in chies from voting for members of Parliamembers that the measure had a financial ment.
side, as well as one of public convenience. The
Hon. Mr. Christie-Why city Postmasters
Department was not expected to yield a reve- more than other postmasters? Why not extend
nue, nor was it desi.rable, but it should, if the prohibition to all?
possible, be self sustaining. The Hon. PostHon. Mr. Campbell-The city Postmasters
master-General had already made great
concessions, and he should not be asked to were paid by salaries.
forego everything, and he did not understand
Hon. Mr. Bourinot-In Nova Scotia ail
him to intend forcing the reception of letters
Postmasters were salaried men.
everywhere from the hands of carriers. The
reduction of the letter rate to three cents
Hon Mr. Christie-The point was not so
would entail a large loss, and in the present much that they were salaried, as that they
state of the finances of the country, hon. mem- were officers of the Government.
bers should beware of throwing too heavy
Hon. Mr. Campbell-To be strictly consistburdens upon the general revenue.
ent they might all be classed together, but in a
Hon. Mr. Campbell proposed to add a sub- great many places in the country the office of
section to clause 38, which would appear as Postmaster yielded hardly any emolument,
No. 7, in the following words:
and if this rule were followed the most eligiPetitions and addresses might be sent to ble men as Postmaster would be lost to the
each of the Legislatures of Ontario, Quebec, service.
New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia, during each
Hon. Mr. Aikins said he was satisfied
session free of postage, under such regulations
as the Postmaster-General might prescribe.
that in his part of the country, if such a
On the 42nd clause-Hon. Mr. Tessier said disqualification existed, they would be left
that it gave power to the Postmaster-General, without Postmasters.

December 6. 1867

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Jus±-Was it not be regarded by the people there as almost
the case that the sureties of Postmasters were unbearable. He thought newspapers should be
disqualified from becoming candidates for carried free in every country.
Parliament, as being under bonds or obligaHon. Mr. Ferrier objected to calling the
tions to the State? And how were they to be
postage a tax, it was payment, and small paytreated?
ment, for an important service. The fact was
Hon. Mr. Campbell-They could withdraw the mails were carried at a less price over the
their suretyship in such a case.
railways than merchandize, and when the
The House then proceeded to the considera- present contracts had expired he doubted
whether they would be renewed except at a
tion of the Savings Bank clauses.
large advance. (Hear, hear.)
Hon. Mr. Dickey considered the scheme as
Hon. Mr. Wark said that on the subject of
only a new way of borrowing money, and
asked if it were intended that the Post Office newspaper postage, he sympathized fully with
the remarks of the hon. member from Nova
Department should be always in debt.
Scotia (Mr. Miller), and believed it was at the
Hon. Mr. Campbell ran over the chief fea- present time most impolitic to impose such a
tures of the Bill as it related to the Savings tax. In New Brunswick, printing presses and
printing material, were admitted free of duty,
Bank, in explanation, after which
and for a long period, no postage had been
Hon. Mr. Tessier expressed his belief that demanded on newspapers. It had been the
the Post Office Savings Bank would have the policy to encourage in every possible way the
effect of swallowing up all the other savings dissemination of newspaper literature, and in
banks in the Dominion.
no way could the Government more cheaply
Hon. Mr. Ferrier thought it the best feature or advantageously promote the educational
of the whole bill. It was an institution that advancement of the people. The weekly newswould exist in reference to our property in the paper was a most welcome visitor to many a
people themselves, who would be lenders to poor family, throughout the Dominion, and the
the Government, voluntarily, of such sums as imposing of such a tax, though considered
they had to spare on the best of all possible insignificant by hon. senators, was considerasecurities, the faith of their own Government. ble for such people to pay, and might have the
The interest would be paid to our own people, effect of depriving some of this profitable luxas the money would be lent by our own peo- ury altogether. The fact of the prepayment
ple. On a smaller scale it would resemble the being made optional, did not materially affect
debt of England, which was all owing to the question. The Hon. Postmaster-General
Englishmen, and created no inconvenience, has alluded to the resolutions of editors at St.
but obviated the necessity for loans of foreign John, but he had evidently failed to answer
capital. As regards the $500,000 consols he their arguments very satisfactorily. The
looked upon the laying past of that sum as amount proposed to be raised from this source
absolutely necessary, because if a run were was not very considerable, and he would inmade upon the bank, the bank ought to be in form the Government how an equal amount
a position to pay.
could be saved in a way far more satisfactoriThe Savings Bank clauses were then carried, ly to the people. By referring to the public
as were all the subsequent clauses affecting accounts of 1866, he noticed that when the
post office government, the Hon. Postmaster late Legislative Council of Canada was comGeneral having remarked that the postal law posed of 64 members, whose sessional pay,
had been made to assimilate with the existing besides contingencies, amounted to $38,400,
laws of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, and there were employed 56 subordinate officers
that the punishment for stealing a mailed let- and servants, including 4 pages, 9 females, 4
ter had been ameliorated from a life imprisonment to a penalty of not less than five watchmen, house-keeper and assistant, costing over $42,000, or about $4,000 more than
years' imprisonment for such off ence.
the members' pay at $600 each. For similar
The clauses relating to postage on newspa- services subordinate to the Legislative Aspers, which had been reserved, were then sembly, the sum of $104,397 was paid. The
taken up.
duties of this Parliament were now consideraHon. Mr. Locke said, the newspapers had bly restricted, yet he believed the same sysbeen so long free in the Lower Provinces that tem of unjustifiable extravagance prevailed,
he was sure the re-imposition of a tax would and perhaps to a more aggravated extent.

SENATE DEBATES
Hon. Mr. Allan-I rise to enquire if the
subject of contingencies is now under discussion.

December 6. 1867

only a tenth of the whole assets-in Canada
$90,000-in Nova Scotia and New Brunswick
$40,000-equal to $130,000. He put the question distinctly to the House, if the proposed
Hon. Mr. Wark said that he was endeavor-- postage on newspapers
was desirable? With a
ing to show the Hon. Postmaster-General how peculiarly Post Office view of the matter, the
he could raise the required revenue, or rather Postmaster-General
calls the circulation of
how he could save it, because "A penny saved newspapers free of postage, one
of the evils of
is as good as a penny earned;" and how by disseminating knowledge.
If a revenue was
adopting at the opportune period a system of
the only thing wanted, why not keep the
economy and retrenchment in the expenditure present
rate on letters, no one having asked
of this Parliament, more money will be refor a change. He thought a judicious economy
tained than will accrue by placing postage on
in salaries, and in railway charges, would
newspapers. He (Mr. Wark) was opposed to
obviate all necessity of the proposed tax on
the amendment already made, but he would
newspapers.
support the present one.
Hon. Mr. Anderson did not agree with his
Hon. Mr. Campbell was quite willing that
hon. friend. He thought the reduction of
the present law with regard to postage upon $60,000, which the reduced letter
rate would
newspapers as it existed in Canada, proper,
afford to the people of Nova Scotia, was a
should be applied to the Dominion, the boon, and ought
to compensate for the imprepayment of the rate being left optional.
position of a newspaper postage.
There was a necessity for postage on newspapers, more pressing even than on letters, for a
Hon. Mr. Wier did not agree with the
reduction of the postage on letters would have amendment. The Hon. Postmaster-General
the effect of increasing the number of letters had shown good feeling in the discussion of
written, and so, as it were, reproduce itself; the details of this bill, and had very gracefulany present loss would be compensated for in ly yielded some points which he might not
time, while the bulk of newspapers to be have yielded if he chose. For his part he
carried would yearly become greater, while thought barrels of flour would be more accontributing nothing whatever to the revenue. ceptable in the backwoods than newspapers,
The different Provinces of the Confederation, and the same argument might be applied for
in the matter of newspaper postage, must be the transmission of flour through the mails
placed upon a footing of equality.
free, for newspapers to be so carried. There
was such a thing as newspaper license.
Hon. Mr. Bourinot grieved for the bad effect
The amendment was then put and declared
likely to be produced by the imposition of a
tax on newspapers in Nova ScotialHe did not lost.
look upon the tax so much as a matter of
On the llth subsection to the 9th clause,
dollars, but as interfering with a privilege Hon. Mr. Aikins asked why the maximum
which the people of Nova Scotia had long rate of registration was not stated, and after
had, and valued.
some conversation it was fixed at six cents.
He would move in amendment, that all
With regard to the power proposed to be
newspapers throughout the Dominion of conferred upon the Postmaster-General to
Canada should pass though the mails free of
compel the registration of letters containing
postage.
money or other valuables,
Hon. Mr. Dickey seconded the motion. The
Hon. Mr. Flint asked how a Postmaster
Postmaster-General insisted that the tax upon
could know the contents of said letters, so as
newspapers was absolutely necessary, while
to be justified in registering them, whether
he contended it was very far from being the
the sender desired it or not.
case, unless it was designed to effect an equiHon. Mr. Campbell-The handling of the
librium merely in making the revenue of the
Post Office Department fully meet the expen- letters would in most cases be a sufficient
diture. Yet the whole newspaper postage was guide, but if subsequently proved not to have

December 6, 186'7

SENATE DEBATES

been letters containing valuables, the fee curred in, and it was ordered for a third
would be returned.
reading on Monday.
This did not satisfy the objectors, and the
clause was modified in such a manner as to
COMMERCIAL BANK
withdraw the power.
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the second readHon. Mr. Reesor begged to ask why the
ing of the Bill to amend the Charter of the
certificates of deposits were not transferable?
Commercial Bank of Canada, and stated the
Hon. Mr. Campbell said that the subject had particular objects it contenplated.
been carefully considered by the Financial or
Treasury Board, conposed of Ministers most
The Bill was then read a second time and
experienced in such questions, and they had referred to the Standing Committee on
decided that it would be inexpedient.
Banking, Commerce and Railways.
The Committee then rose and reported the
The House then adjourned, at Il o'clock.
Bill as amended. The amendments were con-

99267-7

SENATE DEBATES

December 9, 1867

maximum sum to be received from any individual should be limited in the Act. He
thought, also, that the exemption of such
deposits from attachment by legal process was
Monday. Dec. 9, 1867.
objectionable. There was no such clause in the
Several petitions were presented in favor ,of Savings Bank Imperial Act, and he did not
Major Robinson's route for the line of the see why it should form part of the bill. He
Intercolonial Railway.
knew such an exemption had been made in
respect of life insurances, but that was a very
different matter. With this exemption parties
COMMERCIAL BANK.
might find the means of lodging money in
Hon. Mr. Hamilton (Kingston) from the different names to accumalate large sums in
Standing Committee on Banking and Com- the proposed Savings Bank, and then defy
merce, reported the Bill to amend the charter their creditors.
of the Commercial Bank, without amendment.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said that as the bill
Report adopted.
would have to come again before the House,
Hon. Mr. Campbell -moved that the Bill be he thought it would be better to send it to the
now read a third time.-Carried.
other Branch as it was, and if it were not
The Bill was then passed and ordered to be there amended in the sense desired, this
sent to the House of Commons.
House could deal with it again.

THE SENATE

POSTAL BILL.
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved that all the words
now found in brackets be expunged.
Hon. Mr. McCully begged to call the attention of the Hon. Postmaster-General to the
fact that there existed some difference in the
several Provinces in the value of the currency, and that in effect 3 cents in Canada was
not the same as 3 cents in Nova Scotia or New
Brunswick, and to ask whether payment
would be taken for postage in the present
currency of the Provinces until a measure to
settle the currency was passed. He begged also
to ask if the postage stamps issued since the
lst of July, quantities of which were, no
doubt, in the hands of the merchants-for
they bought them by $10 or $20 worth at a
time-would be taken. He took the liberty to
make these enquiries because the bill was to
come into operation on lst April next. He
might here say, too, that his remarks would
equally apply to the payment of ad valorem
duties, but of course that was another subject.

Hon. Mr. Allan thought it would be more
inconven"ent then than at the present moment. If the Government would say that they
would make the proposed alteration in the
other House, he would not further object. It
was certainly not desirable to have a Savings
Bank, in which parties could lodge large sums
beyond the reach of seizure.
Hon. Mr. McCully said that the removal of
the exemption would not give creditors in
Nova Scotia any advantage, as they could not
levy upon any funded debt.
Hon. Mr. Campbell-The debtor can now
put his money in h s pocket, and nobody can
touch it.
Hon. Mr. McCully-If the Sheriff could get
at actual bank notes, the property of a debtor,
he could seize them in Nova Scotia, but he
could not seize a note of hand. The creditor
might put the debtor in jail, and keep him
there until he made an assignment and gave
up all his property.

Hon. Mr. McCrea-We had a garnishee law
Hon. Mr. Campbell said that with regard to in Upper Canada, by which money might be
the postage it would be accepted in the cur- stopped in other hands.
rency of the Provinces until a new currency
Hon. Mr. Sanborn-So have we in Lower
was established.
Canada.
Hon. Mr. Allan, referring to clause 65, said,
Hon. Mr. Wilmo said he did not see why
as he understood the policy of the Government in the establishment of the Savings the amount should be limited, while the interBank, they proposed to establish institutions est was not. The House was legislating in this
which would afford to the poor and working matter for the public, not for a bank, and he
people the opportunity of safely investigating entirely differed from hon. members, who
their savings, but not to provide the wealthier wished to limit the deposits, for, if the Govclasses with a new mode of investment. If this ernment could get money by this means, at 4
were the object contemplated he thought the per cent., instead of 7 or 8, they should avail

December 8,1867

SENATE DEBATES

theniselves of it. But then, he thought, they
Hon. Mr. Sanbora said it was objectionable
should have a longer notice than three months that any sum should not be liable to seizure
for the honest debts of the depositor. Failures
for repayment, it should be twelve months.
sometimes happened of a fraudulent characHon Mr. Bureau, (in French), maintained ter, and parties disposed te attempt them
that it would be exceedingly dangerous to could under the Bill lock up their moneys in
allow moneys to be lodged not liable to sel- the Savings Bank and then set their creditors
zure. In Lower Canada the names of depositors at deflance. Nothing would be easier for such
were concealed as much as possible, but still a person than to lodge several sums of $200 in
they were not beyond te reach of the law. In different names, and so place all his means
Nova Scotia they had a more violent remedy beyond the reach of the law. It was true that
than in Canada, since the debtors were put in people might invest money in Life Assurances
prison until they had made a disclosure of which would be exempt from seizure, but the
their effects. He repeated his objection to propriety of this had been questioned, for
render the moneys unattachable, as it would there was no maxim of law clearer than that
open the way to innumerable frauds. He ail a man had was the property of his crediwould, however, be willing to allow the clause tors. It was in this that the main objection lay.
to remain, if the sum was limited to $200.
Hon. Mr. McCully-If a man were to deposThere was, however, a remedy in Lower
Canada when fraud was suspected, for the it the money in his wife's or sons name, what
debtor could be brought up on a writ of capias then?
ad respondendum.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn-It was none the less a
Hon. Mr. Macpherson said that as understood dangerous policy to exempt the deposits from
the spirit of the bill in so far as it referred to seizure.
the Savings Bank proposed to be established,
Hon. Mr. Dickey-It had been assumed
it was to afford to the working people a safe
that the limit of $200 was to prevent large
means of placing their savings, and for this
purpose it provided that sums of $1 would be sums from being lodged, but might it not be
received. That object should be kept in view. the policy of the Government to get as much
He was aware that the Government contem- money as possible by means of the projected
plated the introduction of another measure, institution. He had been happy to hear the
under which the wealthier classes would have new Minister of Finance, who was an ornathe opportunity of investing larger sums, but ment to the Ministry, referring in terms of
as this bill was designed for the labouring commendation to the Savings Banks of Nova
orders he thought that the limit of $200 was Scotia as examples whieh the Dominion might
quite high enough. As to the provision which profitably folllow, but he was sorry that the
exempted the deposits from seizure, he feared Hon. Postmaster-General had not been able to
it was a dangerous one, unless the amount so take any example from the Post Office system
of that Province, by adhering to the rates of
protected were restricted to $100. At any rate postage which prevailed there, viz.: 5 cents
the measure should not be open to the con- and 2 cents in the counties, for letters, leavstruction of leaving room for dishonest prac- ing the newspapers free. Ie was also sorry
tices.
that he (the Postmaster-General) had not conHon. Mr. CampbeII repeated that any sidered the state of public feeling there, and
change desired might be discussed when the he (Mr. Dickey) was persuaded if things had
been left as they were, a larger revenue would
bill came back from the Commons.
have been derived than would be collected
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just thought it
under the present Bil. Referring to the diffMwould be better and more dignified for the culties in connection with the currency,
he
Senate to send the bill as perfect as possible thought
it would be desirable to postpone the
to the Commons, than to re-commence and commencement of operations under the bill'
amend their own work when it came back.
until first of January, 1869. Before its proviHon. Mr. Campbell said that the amount of sions could be known to ail newspaper pubthe single depoeits should be limited by lishers in Nova Scotia, their arrangements for
Orders in Council. Al such things would come next year would have beenmade, and they
under the cognizance af the Treasury Board, woaud be placed under considerablë disadvanand such regulations would be made from tages should the law become operative, as was
tine to time as might appear expedient.
proposed, on lst April next
99267-7à

SENATE DEBATES
Hon. Mr. Robertson said the difference in
the value of the currency in the Provinces
was very small as between Canada and New
Brunswick, but between Canada and Nova
Scotia it was about 2Î or a little more-not
quite 3 per cent., and Nova Scotia would have
no room ta complain, as the difference was in
its favour. As to the limit on the deposits to be
made in the Savings Banks, he thought it
should be left to the Government, and that it
was unnecessary to alter the bill.
Hon. Mr. Wark thought it would be of little
use to fix a limit to the deposits, for means
would be found to lodge large sums if the
depositors desired. Money was often placed
in other names than that of the proprietors,
and he himself had been applied to give a
discharge for sums lodged in his name, of
which he knew nothing. The institution as he
understood was not for the poor only, but for
the purpose of aiding the Government, and if
they could deal with the floating debt of the
Dominion by borrowing at 4 per cent., the
more they got the better. The rate on the
certificates was not binding at 5 per
cent., but might be 4j per cent., if
the Government thought fit. The same might
be said with regard to the notice of withdrawal, it might be longer or shorter, and the
Government might give J per cent., more for
longer terms.
Hon. Mr. Miller said that he had intended to
have made a few additional remarks when the
bill was before the House for the second
reading, but the hour of 6 having arrived, the
speaker left the Chair. He had particular1y
intended to refer to the proposed newspaper
postage at greater length. He had been represented, however, as saying that the proposition was no boon to Nova Scotia, but that was
not precisely what he had said. What he did
say, was, that while on the whole the bill
might be an advantage to Canada, it would
not be so to Nova Scotia. He did not mean to
assert that it would be disadvantageous to
that Province, for it would not be much the
worse off. (The idea in the hon. member's
mind seemed to be that the reduction contemplated by the measure, would, so far as Nova
Scotia was concerned, be neutralized by the
imposition of a postage rate on newspapers.)
The opposition to Confederation in Nova
Scotia rested a good deal upon the anticipated
results. It was confidently predicted that a tax
would be laid upon newspapers, and that
stamp duties would also be imposed. And now
if the newspapers were made liable to post-

Decemiber 9, 1867

age, the parties who had urged these objections would point to their realization in justification of their course.
Hon. Mr. Wier begged also to remark he
had not stated prepayment in the United
States was tried and abandoned. It was in
England.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said he desired to bring
up another feature of the bill, in order to
ascertain the views of the House upon it. He
referred to the exemption from postage of
newpapers and periodicals devoted to Education, Religion, Temperance and Agriculture
when addressed to subscribers from the office
of publication. These papers and periodicals
were now sent free, but under the bill, this
provision was to be changed, and all papers
alike would be subjected to a prepaid rate of
one third of a cent. Now, while there was a
general unanimity in the secular press in favour
of having their papers carried free, they often
indulged in a fling at the exemptions. The
question to be considered was whether this
distinction in favour of the Religious, Educational, Temperance and Agricultural papers,
and periodicals, was a well grounded one. He
thought it was, and that it was susceptible of
proof. It was not correct to say that these
publications were got up for gain, for the
means were more frequently provided by associations of philanthropic men, who had no
other object in view than the dissemination of
useful and improving information. If other
hon. members proposed to let all the newspapers go free, he would support the proposition, but if not, he would maintain that the
former exemptions just referred to, should be
maintained and the circulation of such publications encouraged. If the revenue were
thereby diminished, it would only be an application of it to the encouragement of morality and education. The hon. member here
traced the effects of these newspapers and
periodicals in their influence upon the masses,
and asserted they exerted a powerful effect
in elevating them and educating them to a
proper sense of the duties they owed to themselves and to society. In this way, though
indirectly, the Government derived large advantages, and he conceived the House ought
to get the seal of its approbation upon such
efforts. (Rear, hear.) If the House went with
him, he would move to recommit the bill.
Hon. Mr. McCully said that having been in
the chair of the committee, he had not had
the opportunity of stating his opinions upon
the bill, but he most strongly approved of ail
that had now fallen from the hon. member

December 9, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

(Mr. Sanborn). There was a wide distinction between the secular press and the publications to which that hon. member had referred. The one class were published for
profit, the other from benevolent motives, and
he believed that a proposition to maintain
these exemptions would receive the approbation of a large majority of members. The
measure ought not to pass out of the House
without the expression of its opinion that this
literature should circulate to the remotest
settlements of the country free of postage.
Another argument in favour of abolishing the
newspaper postage altogether was that this
postage was almost exclusively paid by country people. The inhabitants of the cities and
towns got their papers free, but the far away
people who were the least able to pay the tax,
were made to bear it. It might be said that the
service was done for them, and that it must
somehow be paid for. But as the mail service
had to be performed, it would not add materially to its cost to carry the papers free.

that Province, and he would ask whether that
too was to pay postage. He did not know
whether there was a similar perlodical in New
Brunswick, but if there was, he might put the
same question in relation to it. In Upper
Canada a journal had been published by the
Board of Agriculture there, but it had been
found to be unremunerative, and had been
abandoned. The matter had, however, been
taken up by a private concern, which published the Upper Canada Farmer, and it was
aided by the County Agricultural Societies,
which subscribed for large numbers, and circulated them throughout the country. This
was the only agricultural publication he knew
of, got up by private enterprise, and he
thought he had said enough to show that it too
ought to pass free. He hoped his hon. friend
would press the point, and be sustained by the
House.

Hon. Mr. Campbell said he did not wish to
discuss the subject, but would again suggest
whether it would not be better to let it stand
Hon. Mr. Christie, after describing what until the bill came back from the other
constituted a newspaper, and what a peri- Branch. If not amended there the point could
odical, said he hoped the Hon. Postmaster- be brought up in this House and discussed,
General would concede the point respecting and the sense of the House taken upon it.
exemptions. He (Mr. Christie) was absent
Hon. Mr. Christie said he had great objecwhen that feature of the bill came under
consideration, else he would have advocated tions to such a course.
the continuance of such exemptions. As had
Hon. Mr. Botsford said he could not concur
been very truly remarked, these publications in the course suggested by the Hon. Postmaswere chiefly supported by associations, and ter-General, for although the clauses in brackthey accomplished a large amount of good in ets were expunged the other Branch should
various ways. By improving the morals of the know the opinion of the Senate in relation to
people they diminished crime, and in this way them. If the House was disposed to amend the
contributed to lessen the expense of govern- clauses in question there could be no better
ment. But with special regard to the agricul- time to do it than the present, and it was a
tural periodicals, they unquestionably should fallacy to argue for any other course. He (Mr.
pass free. The Lower Canada Agricultural Botsford) felt the full force of the arguments
Journal was published by the Board of in favour of the exemption of Educational,
Agriculture, not for profit surely, but for the Religious, Scientific, and Sunday School pubsole purpose of disseminating valuable infor- lications, and would support the motion. He
mation where it was very much wanted. And had not troubled the House with iany remarks
was such a publication to be taxed? Would it while the bill was under debate, as so many
conduce to the public interest to make that other hon. members appeared anxious to
journal pay postage? The Journal was pub- speak, but he must say he regretted that at
lished at a very reduced rate, and a part of this short part of the Session the Government
the grant allowed to the Board was expended had meddled at all with the question of imupon it, it being allowed to be retained for posing postage on newspapers. So far as he
that special purpose. He contended that this had been able to collect opinions there was no
periodical, sustaining, as it did, one of the desire for a change in the letter postage.
most important interests of the country, had a Everybody was willing enough to pay 5 cents,
good claim to pass free, and the people had a and when the arguments were sifted it would
right to say whether it should or not. Passing be found, that, what with the book and parcel
on to Nova Scotia, he had received from the posts and other items of revenue, the Departhon. member who had just spoken, a valuable ment would have been within a few dollars of
publication of the Board of Agriculture for being self sustaining without the newspaper

SENATE DEBATES
postage. He was sorry the Hon. PostmasterGeneral had moved at all in the matter. He
(Mr. Botsford) felt bound to say on strict
principle that the newspapers should pay
postage, as well as other mail matter, but at
the inauguration of the Dominion there were
prejudices to be conciliated, and, perhaps, a
good deal of ignorance to be put up with.
Under the circumstances he thought it would
have been wise to have some consideration for
the feelings and wishes of those who were
opposed to the new state of things. He was
aware that there was a deep seated feeling in
both Nova Scotia and New Brunswick against
newspaper postage, and if it should be pressed
it would add great weight to the objections
urged against the Union. It had been predicted that one of the first acts of the Government would be to impose this newspaper
taxation, and if imposed the consequences
could not but be injurious. Respecting
Confederation itself, some parties were very
enthusiastic, and it was fondly imagined that
the moment it was accomplished great advantages would result, but if Parliament commenced by imposing new taxes before there
was time to discern the benefits of the Union
the effect must be very prejudicial. As to the
education and other formerly exempted papers he considered the demand for their continued freedom from postage entirely reasonable. There were but few of these publications
in the Dominion, and science had not been
brought to bear upon the labours of the farm
in these countries as in Europe, but it was now
generally admitted that information upon this
particular subject was most urgently needed.
Great advantages had already resulted from
the circulation of the Canada Farmer in New
Brunswick, where it was already pretty extensively known, and he had no hesitation
in saying that in his opinion the exemption in
its favour, as provided in the existing law,
should be maintained and embodied in the
Bill before the House. He confessed he would
prefer to see the bill withdrawn altogether
for the present at least, and left over to be
dealt with at the ensuing part of the Session.
In conclusion the hon. member said that at
first the legislation of the Confederated Parliament should be of such a character as to
interfere as little as possible with the prejudices and prepossessions of the people of the
Lower Provinces.

December 9, 1867

even in journals not professing to be political,
but where perfect freedom in the expression
of opinion was allowed, they counteracted
each other, and were as a bane and antidote.
Of course a religious paper contained something else besides religion, and a temperance
paper something else than essays upon the
good to result to mankind from the drinking
of cold water; but he, nevertheless, was
strongly of opinion that temperance papers
especially should be sent free by post.
Hon. Mr. Dickey heartily agreed with the
hon. gentleman who had last spoken, and
regretted that he (Mr. Bourinot) had not
spoken similarly when the bill was in Committee of the Whole. He looked upon the time
for discussion, however, as now passed, and
was not now before the House at all.
(The Speaker read Hon. Mr. Campbell's
motion, that all the paragraphs within brackets should be struck out.)
Hon. Mr. McCully-With the view of obtaining a recorded expression of the opinions
of the gentlemen from the Maritime Provinces, which could not be obtained when the
House was in Committee, would move in
amendment,
"That the bill be recommitted, that a rate
of 5 cents on letters be substituted for the 3
cents proposed in the bill, and that newspapers pass free."
Hon. Mr. Campbell objected to the amendment at this stage of the proceedings. It would
be time enough when the third reading of the
bill came up. All that was proposed was to
strike out the money clauses between brackets, and which, constitutionally, this House
could not debate.
Hon. Mr. Speaker was seemingly about to
rule the amendment out of order on the plea
that no money rate could be inserted in it,
when
Hon. Mr. Campbell stated that the amendment was not an amendient at all, inasmuch
as it did not refer to the motion before the
House, which was simply to the effect that
certain clauses within brackets should be
struck out preparatory to the bill being read
a third time.

Hon. Mr. Bourinol considered that free
Hon. Mr. Sanborn (apparently in reply to
postage should be extended to all the newspa- Mr. Speaker) the House can initiate anything
per press. It was impossible to altogether which took burdens off the people; if they
prevent the expression of political opinions could not put burthens on the people.

December 9, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. McCully considered that the
proposed amendment would be an intimation
to the other Branch of the Legislature of the
Senate's opinion. The Union Bill went down
from the House of Lords to the Commons,
with the clauses which had been in brackets,
printed in red ink.
Hon. Mr. Campbell-The hon. gentleman is
mistaken. The bill went down to the Commons with such clauses in blank, and the
Commons had them afterwards printed in red
ink for their own information and guidance.
He suggested the propriety of letting the presRnt bill go to the Commons in blank, but was
quite prepared to go into the discussion of the
propriety or impropriety of suff ering Religious, Temperance, and other such papers to
pass free by post, and with that view it
seemed to him the most convenient course
would be for the House to resolve itself into
Committee now, when such matters might
legitimately be discussed.

have been so placed, and moved that they
should be struck out of the Bill, which was
carried; and then moved that the Bill be now
read a third time.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn moved in amendment
that the Bill be not now read a third time, but
that it be recommitted so as to exempt from
postage papers devoted to Agriculture,
Science, Religion, Temperance, Arts, and
Manufactures.

Hon. Mr. Tessier rose to order. It was
important that they should proceed in accordance with the rules of the House and consistently with long established usage. The amendment proposed by the hon. gentleman was an
infringement on the privileges of the Commons; but there was a still stronger objection
to the latter part of the amendment intended
to amend something that was not in the bill at
all, now that the bracket clauses had been
struck out. It was only in Committee that
wrong clauses could be discussed in the SenHon. Mr. Christie looked upon the proposed ate at all, because then no minutes of amendmode of dealing with the Agricultural news- ments are made. The House, however, it was
paper question as "round about." He looked clear, could not receive a motion in amendupon it as a bill originating in the House, and ment to a non-existent clause. (The hon.
he deemed it inconsistent with what was due gentleman read an extract from proceedings
to themselves to send it down to the Com- of Lords to show the practice there with such
mons, reserving their opinions until the Lower bills.) He contended that in the House of
House had sent it back to them again. Why all Lords all such bills went down with blanks
this round about way?
for the money clauses to the Commons, and
Hon. Mr. Wark considered that if the bill were afterwards printed in red ink, merely to
show the opinion of the Upper House, with a
was to be altered now was the proper time.
note that they were to be inserted in ComHon. Mr. Sanborn, seconded by Hon. Mr. mittee.
Letellier de St. Just, moved that the bill be
Hon. Mr. Sanborn was really surprised at
recommitted so as to exempt from postage
the position taken by his honorable friend on
papers devoted to Agriculture, Religion, this
question, and inquired if the highest
Temperance, Arts, and Manufactures.
legislative body in the country should place
Hon. Mr. Campbell-It must be obvious itself in a position by which it would be
that this motion cannot be in order, not being unable to express an opinion; and that too,
germane to the question, and suggested that when the Postmaster-General had admitted
his motion (relative to striking out clauses in that so soon as his (the P. M. G.'s) motion
brackets) should first be carried, when the bill passed, his (Mr. S.'s) motion would be in
order. The motion stated what he had a right
might be recommitted.
to state on every bill brought up for a readHon. Mr. Tessier contended that the motion ing, that this bill be not now read a third
in amendment was altogether out of order, time, and that there should be exemptions on
and stated that he would raise the question, a certain class of newspapers. If the House
when the time arrived for putting it as a had not the right of expressing its views on
motion.
subjects, it ought to be abolished altogether.
All that is asked is that the bill be sent back
Hon. Mr. Campbell's motion was then carinto Comnittee, and that that Committee
ried.
should have power to do a certain thing on a
Hon. Mr. Campbell submitted a list of certain class of newspapers. If they had not
words, ornitted to have been placed in brack- the opportunity of expressing their views,
ets, when the Bill was printed, which ought to they ought to be abolished as a legislative

SENATE DEBATES
body altogether. It only asks that the bill be
sent back into Committee, with power to do a
certain thing.

December 9, 1867

that the opinion of the House, on certain
clauses, to be placed by the Commons in red
ink, might be ascertained. He hoped, however,
that the House would not be prevented by any
Hon. Mr. Dickey could not help admiring mere forms from expressing an opinion, or in
of his friend to the left, whe other words, stultifying itself, as it was
the ingenuity
first objects to the ainendment because it was proposed to do. If his hon. friend (from
not germane to the motion then under consid- Quebec) who had got them into this difficulty,
eration, and next to an amendment being would only fal upon a way to enable them to
made to a clause which had no legal existence. express an opinion, without infringing upon
His hon. friend had voted for the second the rules of the House, he should be very glad.
reading with al the clauses in it, and put
difficulties in the way of doing precisely the
Hon. Mr. Tessier said it was far from his
same thing now.
intention to prevent any expression of opinion in the House, but already their opinion on
Hon. Mr. Blair believed that it had never this very matter, the expediency of suffering
been held in Canada that the Upper Chamber Religious or Temperance papers to go free,
could legislate on such matters. It was med- had gone forth, and these gentlemen might
ding with a subject in which they had no then, if they had chosen, have moved amendpower to meddle. He believed the House ment after amendment; but the present mowould be glad to have the opinion of the tion was especially to take a course which
Spelaker on the matter.
they had no right to take in a matter in
Hon. Mr. Botsford contended that the mo- which the expenditure of money was contion was perfectly in order, and perfectly cerned. It is really decided by this motion, if
constitutional. As soon as they had reported carried, that $4,000 or $5,000 will be taken
their opinion, the clause, as amended by them, from the public chest to carry those religious
could be struck out. Why was it in brackets at papers free through the mail.
all, unless to suffer an expression of opinion to
Hon. Mr. Christie pointed out that the
the motion upon it?
Fisheries Bill created a new office, involving a
Hon. Mr. Mitchell recommended that the money expenditure, but his hon. friend
House should govern themselves by such rules (Mr. Tessier) gave it as his opinion that there
as prevailed in England, and that it might be was then no breach of order whatever in
well to accept the suggestion of his colleague making such a motion, but now he does so.
the Postmaster-General. The motion to go into
Hon. Mr. Campbell thought it would be as
Committee was fatal, inasmuch as it set forth well for the House to dispose of the point of
several specific objects to be discussed. Of order, and he would suggest, if it were out of
course, he was responsible for the bill with order, how it might be made in order.
his colleagues, and if it should go into conmittee was quite prepared to discuss the deHon. Mr. Sanborn conceived that if his
tails of the bill again-if for no other reason motion were out of order, the Government
than to gratify hon. gentlemen, who were not had stultified thenselves in bringing forward
in their places when the bill was in commit- the motion for striking out the clauses within
tee. He did not believe that the country would brackets.
sustain the position which hon. gentlemen had
Hon. Mr. Campbell explained that the bill,
assumed in drawing distinctions between one
now that the clauses in brackets had been
class of newspapers and another.
struck out, could not very easily be amended,
Hon. Mr. McCully read an extract from the and at the same time denied that the House
proceedings of the House of Lords, to show could at any time insert a clause having
when and how a bill may be recommitted, money in it. The bill, however, could be
which was as often as "the House thinks fit." simply sent back to a Committee of the
Hon. Mr. Campbell-That is not the ques- Whole House.
tion here.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn withdrew his motion, and
Hon. Mr. McCully-When his hon. friend adopted the suggestion of the Hon. Postmaster
the Postmaster-General proposed to strike out General, and it was resolved that the bill be
the clauses, then in his opinion, was the recommitted, and the Heuse adjourned until
proper time to move for a recommittal. So to-morrow.

SENATE DEBATES

December 10. 1867

THE SENATE
Tuesday, Dec. 10, 1867
The Speaker took the Chair at 3.00 p.m.
After routine,
POSTAL BILL.
The order for recommitting the bill being
called,
Hon. Mr. Campbell expressed the intention
of moving to discharge the Order, and was
going on to give his reason when
Hon. Mr. Christie said he thought the proceeding unfair, as it was understood last evening that the bill would be returned to the
Committee of the Whole.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said he thought every
hon. member who chose to give his opinions
on the measure had had abundance of time to
do so, and as the proposition was to send the
bill to the Committee to amend a clause
which did not exist, he deemed it altogether
a useless proceeding. He would now move that
the order for going into Committee be discharged, and that the bill be read a third
time.
Hon. Mr. Christie said the House was taken
by surprise, and in effect the Hon. Postmaster-General himself had consented to go into
Committee, and t had been so ordered.
Hon. Mr. McCully said the Hon. Postmaster-General himself had unconsciously misled
the House. His (Mr. McCully's) object was by
means of the forms of the House, to place
upon the journalis the opinion of the Lower
Provinces with respect to the proposed newspaper postage. This could have been done
when the Committee had risen, but the clause
in question having been removed it was impossible to make such a motion. But hon.
members had fully expressed their views
which had become perfectly well known, and
now as he thought any further action would
only embarrass the House.
Hon. Mr. Botsford: It was clear that divisions in Committee were not matters of record
in the journals, though in some of the Colonies the Chairman was instructed to report
them. Now as the hon. member who made the
motion to recommit was not present, he for one
was not prepared to oppose the further
progress of the measure. He was an unsolicited supporter of the Government, and had
99267-8

given his aid in carrying Confederation, and
he proposed to give it a full and fair trial. He
would now ask the Government if it were not
possible to make an arrangement with the
Local Legislatures in regard to their postages?
But perhaps the inquiry ought to be put in the
other House.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just (in French)
said that the Lower Province members had
professed a desire to put on record in the
journals of the House their opinion regarding
the clause in the bill, which imposed a duty
upon newspapers, but that the action of the
Hon. Postnaster General, in changing the
proceedings by moving to discharge the order
for going into Committee, had prevented their
doing so. Now if the course proposed by the
Hon. Postmaster-General were really disagreeable to those hon. members they would
prove their sincerity by not yielding to the
motion to discharge the order, but insisting
that the bill should be recommitted. It was
quite optional with them to prove that they
were not disposed to set aside what they
considered as the interest of their Provinces,
even for the purpose of pleasing the Government. If they gave up their objections for
the mere purpose of supporting the Government he could not see the consistency of their
course. Now in his opinion the Government
should have considered the position of those
Provinces in regard to the particular point in
question. When the order for going into
Committee was called the House had a right
to expect that the Speaker should have vacated the Chair, and placed some hon. member in
that of the Committee, but the Lower Province members, who of all others, should have
insisted upon this, had made no objections. It
appeared as if the Governmnent had forbidden
them to follow their convictions, and they had
given way. Either they had sincere intentions,
or they had not, and if they had, they ought to
have held out for recommitting the bill,
since their alleged object was to propose a
change favourable to the Provinces they represented. Again, if they were sincere, they
should now vote against the motion for the
third reading of the bill. And here he would
urge upon the Hon. Postmaster-General not to
persist in the course he was taking. If the
reduced rate of three cents upon letters was
not enough to provide a revenue for the Post
Office Department, it was quite easy for him
to take four, and if lie did, he could make all
the newspapers of the Dominion free, and
have a surplus besides. If this course had been
followed, it would have soothed the feelings of

SENATE DEBATES
the people in the Lower Provinces, and would
have produced $140,000, whereas the one third
of a cent upon the 14,200,000 could only
produce one-third of that sum. Let the bill be
again placed in Committee, and let the House
hear the arguments of the PostmasterGeneral, and if they were satisfactory, they
would no doubt prevail. Such a course would
serve the members from the Lower Provinces,
and in faet would save their position. By their
course the Government were injuring the
working of Confederation, but let the Postmaster-General yield even to the extent of
going into Committee, and the members from
the Lower Provinces wodld be able to say,
that at least, they had done all they could. He
would not say that the present strange conjuncture had been brought about by mismanagement, but it was certainly by a misconception, and the Government should not take
advantage of it. He hoped his view of the
proper course to be taken would be sustained
by the House.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot said that if the motion to
go into Committee.were for the purpose of
amending the clause respecting postage on
newspapers, he would support it, but if not, he
would oppose it. He had objected to the reduction of the letter postage, and if the matter
were to be reconsidered, he would do so still.
The present discussion had arisen upon a
suggestion of the hon. member from Toronto,
respecting the Savings Banks of which he
approved, believing that the Government
would thereby obtain a large amount of
money at 4 per cent., instead of paying 7 per
cent, or more. As to the imposition of newspaper postage, he was quite sure it would not be
satisfactory to the Lower Provinces, and he
had already fully and emphatically stated his
opinion.
Hon. Mr. Bourinoi-The hon. member for
Grandville (Hon. Mr. Letellier) had said that
if the members from the Lower Provinces
were really desirous of testing the question of
newspaper postage, they should have insisted
upon the Order for going into Committee, but
that the moment the Hon. Postmaster-General
had opposed it they had suibmitted to his
dictation thereby showing they were not sincere. Now, he would remind the hon. member
that he (Mr. Bourinot) had moved an amendment on the occasion of the second reading of
the bill to exempt all newspapers from postage, and what support had he then received
from the hon. member? (Hear, hear.) The hon.
member had then voted against the motion,
and so had other hon. members, who yester-

December 10, 1867

-day wished to make exemptions of Religious,
Educational, Temperance, and Agricultural
periodicals. Surely if these hon. members
wished the newspapers to be free, they should
then have sustained his (Mr. Bourinot's) motion. The reason why the Lower Province
members had not moved to recommit the bill,
was that it was contrary to the rules, and
they had no desire to obstruct the business of
the House, but rather to facilitate it. But he
(Mr. Bourinot) thought the hon. member had
no ground for impugning the sincerity of the
members from the Lower Provinces. (Hear,
hear.)
Hon. Mr. Letellier said he had not intended
to do so. The hon. member had originated a
motion in amendment, to make all newspapers
free, which was lost, and he (Mr. Letellier)
was consequently amazed yesterday when on
another motion to exempt certain classes of
publications, he found the hon. member opposing it. The hon. member would not take
less than a whole loaf, hence his refusal of the
half. But surely the motion of yesterday was
the same in principle as the one he himself
had proposed, and an approach to the end he
professed to desire. The position of the hon.
member was very far from being as good in
this matter as he himself seemed to imagine,
and his remarks were not such as he (Mr.
Letellier) had thought he had reason to expect.
Hon. Mr. Bourinot said that his reason for
objecting to the exemptions was that he did
not wish to favor one class of publications,
merely because they professed certain principles. It was easy to put a Religious or other
such title page to a periodical, and then to fill
the inside with matter of quite a secular
character.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said that the hon. member (Mr. Letellier) was hardly just towards the
Government, for the Bil had been before the
House a week, and he felt sure every hon.
member who chose to speak had had full
opportunity. Besides, his hon. colleague the
Postmaster-General had with the utmost
courtesy offered to consider any suggestion
which might be offered for the purpose of
making the measure as perfect as possible,
and now it was proposed to recommit it, and
possibly to re-open the whole subject, and go
again into long debates. With only a few days
of the session remaining, and several important matters pressing for consideration, this
course he thought was not a reasonable one.
The hon. member went on at some length, and

December 10.

1867

SENATE DEBATES

in concluding remarked in ternis of disapproHon. Mr. Bureau said he ws about to
bation upon what he regarded as an attempt propose an amendinent tht the mount to be
on the part of the hon. member (Mr. Letellier) exempt from seizure should not exceed two
to arouse the feelings of the members fron hundred dollars.
the Lower Provinces and make then feel unThe Speaker said the only amendment that
comfortable. He hardly thought that the hon.
could now be put was that the bill be not now
member who had stoutly opposed Confeder- passed.
ation should assume to direct the course of
hon. members as he had.
Hon. Mr. Bureau took his seat.
The motion that the bill do now pass was
Han. Mr. Christie said, he had thought, and
had said, it was unfair of the Hon. Postmas- put and carried.
ter-Generai to move the discharge of the
order to go into Committee, especially as it
PRINTING.
was at his suggestion it had been made, but
The order of the day for the consideration
perhaps he might have used a milder terni. So
far as he was concerned he had no disposition of the fourth report of the Joint Committee
whatever to embarrass the Government or of the Senate and flouse of Commons, on the
retard the business of the House. Al he printing of the Debates in Parliament, was
wanted was to expunge if possible an obnoxi- tien read.
ous feature of the bill, and otherwise he
Hon. Mr. Simpson stated that as it was
wished to aid the Postmaster-General in mak- desirable that the action of the House of
ing it as perfect as possible. The Senate after Commons, on the report, which would soon be
all had plenty of time, and there existed no taken, should be ascertained, so as to guide
good reason why the subject should not have then in their deliberations, he would move
further consideration if the House thought it that the consideration of the report in the
desirable,
Senate should be postponed till Friday next.
Hon. Mr. McCully thanked the hon. memHon. Mr. McCully scarcely approved of so
ber (Mr. Letellier), for his kindness in wishing long a delay. Already one iémber of the
to guard the members from the Lower Prov- Senate, whose advice in such a matter he
inces fron putting themselves in a false posi- would have highly estimated, had left for
tion, but gave that hon. member to understand home (Mr. Sanborn), and other hon. gentlein very plain, though very pleasant terns, that men, living at a distance, would certainly
they were quite capable of taking care of leave by the end of the week, and an earlier
thenselves. That hon. member would fnd that day for the consideration of the report would,
the Lower Provinces had sent here a set of in his opinion, be judicious.
men who would yield to no influences when
Hon. Mr. Simpson consented to Thursday
principle was at stake. They were prepared
when need be to stand up for right as they next as the day for the consideration of the
understood it, but they did not deem it neces- report, which, after some conversation besary to waste their ammunition upon useless tween both sides of the House, was agreed to.
objects.
Hon. Mr. Allan moved the consideration of
Hon. Mr. Bureau said he had been fourteen the report of the Committee on Private Bills
years in Parliament, and had never known a and Standing Orders relative to the Bill inbill to be in the position of that now before tituled "An Act to incorporate the Interthe House. It was, however, competent for any colonial Insurance Company."
member to propose a rider after the third
Hon. Mr. Blair doubted very much whether
reading, and he had one ready for the puranything but the name of this bill could
pose.
entitle it to be legislated upon by the DoHon. Mr. Leiellier de St. Just begged to minion Parliament, and moved the postponeinquire of the Speaker if a motion to recom- ment of the consideration of the report, as the
mit were in order, in amendment to the action taken by the Senate would afford a
motion for the third reading of a bill.
precedent for future legislation, to Thursday
The Speaker said it was, if the motion did next, which was agreed to.
not interfere with the privileges of the other
The House then went into Committee of the
branch.
Whole on the Bill intituled "An Act to authorThe bill was then read a third time.
ize the apprehension and detention of such
99267-81

SENATE DEBATES

December 10, 1867

persons as shall be suspected of committing the application of holidays and their conseacts of hostility, or conspiring against Her quent legal significance when such future
Majesty's person and Government," which legislation should render it necessary.
was adopted without amendment, reported
The Bill was read a third time and passed
upon, read a third time, and passed, and the without amendment, and the Clerk ordered to
Clerk directed to acquaint the House of inform the House of Commons thereof.
Commons that the Senate had so passed the
The Select Committee's Report on Rules of
Bill.
Order was referred back to the Committee.
The House then went into committee on the
Hon. Mr. Campbell presented to the House
Bill intituled, "Act respecting the Statutes of
a Bill intituled "An Act to prevent the unlawCanada," and the
ful training of persons to the use of arms, and
Hon. Mr. Botsford being called to the chair,
to practice military evolutions or exercises,
and to authorize Justices of the Peace to seize
Hon. Mr. Dickey took exception to the in- and detain arms collected, or kept, for purterpretation of the word "holiday" given in poses dangerous to the public peace," which
the Act. In the Maritime Provinces the exten- was read a first time, and ordered for a second
sion of such holidays might seriously interfere reading on Friday next.
with business in the matter of banking, promA message having been brought from the
issory notes, &c.
House of Commons with a Bill intituled "An
Hon. Mr. Campbell explained that, while in Act to amend the Grand Trunk Arrangements
the Lower Provinces, as in Ontario, the bulk Act of 1862, and for other purposes," to which
of the people were Protestant, in Quebec there concurrence was desired, the bill was read a
was a mixed Protestant and Roman Catholic first time, and ordered to be read a second
population, and the feelings of the latter had time to-morrow.
in the matter of religious facts or feasts (fêtes
Hon. Mr. Campbell submitted a Bill ind'obligation) to be taken into account; and
that such "holidays" need not, and did not tituled "An Act to protect the inhabitants of
now, apply to the whole of the Dominion, but this Dominion from lawless aggressions, from
only to one section of it, and added that as the countries at peace with Her Majesty," which
interpretation given had no reference to any- was read a first time, and ordered for a second
reading to-morrow.
thing presently to be done, but to future
legislation, it would be time enough to discuss
The House then adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES

December 11, 1867

THE SENATE
Wednesday, Dec. 11, 1867.
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock.
After routine,
COMMITTEE ON CONTINGENT
ACCOUNTS.
Hon. Mr. Seymour brought up the Srd report of the Committee on the Contingencies of
the House, and said that the retrenchments
recommended would amount to $13,000.
The report was read by the Clerk.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell begged to enquire what
proportion of officers from the Lower Provinces the arrangements would make room for.
Hon. Mr. Seymour replied there were
blanks left for a clerk at $1,000 and for two
other places. He then moved that the report
be taken under consideration to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de S±. Just said that
according to the report just read, it would
appear that as the country increased in extent
and wealth, the old officials who had served it
well and faithfully for a considerable number
of years were to be turned adrift. He sincerely
regretted the committee should have come to
such a conclusion, and very specially that one
of the principal officers (the next in rank, in
fact, after the Clerk) should have been lowered in respect of salary to the level of a
messenger. If this was to be the kind of
reform he could not help saying that the
House would not be discharging its functions
with becoming dignity. Was it not enough that
the committee should have turned over to
that gentleman the duties of another officethat of Sergeant-at-Arms-without proceeding
to reduce his emoluments? If the recommendations regarding this were adopted the House
would, he felt sure, do itself no honour in the
public mind. If it desired to be respected it
must respect the claims of its employees. Then
he could not but say it was extremely painful
to him to see a number of other old servants,
against whose discharge of duty nothing was,
or could be, alleged, discharged in this surnmary manner, and singularly enough the parties marked for this excision were out of
proportion French Canadians. Concerning one
of them particularly there seemed to be
strange coincidences. He was the grandson of
an Acadian, who had been driven from his
home in the Lower Provinces, departed to the

United States, and who subsequently established himself in Canada; but no sooner had
the representatives of Acadia assembled in
the Confederated Parliament at Ottawa, than
he was chased out of an employment in which
his services had been in the highest degree
useful., Was it not enough that the number of
French Canadian servants in the Senate was
much under the proper proportion, but it
must be further thinned by dismissals? Had
they less right to consideration than persons
of other extraction? One thing was well
known about them, and it was that whether
they were spoken to in French or English,
they fully understood what was said, and
were ready to meet the requirements of hon.
members, but the same could not be said of
the other employees. Under the pretext of
economy, and, no doubt for the purpose of
gaining popularity, the members from the
Lower Provinces had promoted this contemplated retrenchment. But was this the course
upon which those gentlemen ought to rely?
He doubted much whether they should thereby secure the respect of thoughtful and
humane men, and if they desired to build up a
good political reputation, they would have to
adopt other means; for, however much temporary approbation this kind of action might
gain them, they would find it was not of a
very solid or enduring character. If they had
even come to the House and expressed their
repugnance to deal in this way with the old
servants, unless some kind of adequate provision were made for them, there would have
been at least the appearance of kindness in
the proceeding. For his part he did not think a
subordinate charge in the public service a
thing to be coveted, for in that service, there
was no future to attract the regard of any
young man of talent; but it was particularly
distressing to find that men of ability, who by
some means had found their way into it, and
honourably discharged their obligations, were
to be sent away at a moment's warning to
make room for newcomers. He could not but
believe that in this matter the Contingent
Committee had been influenced by considerations for what might be deemed the rights of
the Lower Provinces, but even with all due
deference to those rights (which he was fully
prepared to admit,) he conceived that a very
different conclusion might have been arrived
at. He had been informed that in some of the
Public Departments quite a number of persons from the Lower Provinces had already
been appointed, and that in the Department of
Marine alone some seven or eight, or more,
had obtained employment. In a little while

SENATE DEBATES
room would have been found for the full
number. Those Provinces had a right to place,
and surely the committee might have thought
of this, and not taken the extreme course of
turning in the streets, with no provision for
their afterlife, a number of men of approved
fldelity. Was it ever heard that such a course
was pursued in commercial establishments?
On the contrary the longer a clerk remained
in such a service, approving himself by his
intelligence and zeal to the confidence of his
employers, the better his circumstances
became and the more secure his position. Not
so, however, in the Senate, for length of
service was to be followed by a diminution of
emolument or summary dismissal. The course
pursued in the House of Lords was very
different. When the law respecting divorce
was changed, and that illustrious Chamber
ceased to be the Court where divorce suits
were tried, a considerable number of lawyers,
who had devoted themselves to this speciality
were all at once bereft of their means of
subsistence, and though not officers of the
House, and without claims for indemnity.
Parliament declared they ought not to suffer
because of a change in a practice which they
had reasonably regarded as settled in perpetuity. The argument was held good and
they were provided for. It was almost unnecessary to remind hon. members that after
men had been long accustomed to certain
duties it became exceedingly difficult for them
to turn their attention to other employments.
In both England and France, if ever it became
necessary to part with deserving officials commensurate indemnities or pensions were
awarded them. Now it certainly was not the
fault of the officers or servants of this House
that a great political change had supervened,
but if there was fault, which he did not say, it
was with those who had brought that change
about. But he would venture to assume that
the gentlemen who had been foremost and
most instrumental in accomplishing this constitutional revolution had never for a moment
entertained the intention of destituting any
deserving public servant. And here he would
take occasion to say that in his opinion these
leading men ought to join hands for the
purpose of protecting the officials. Let the
House give itself time to reflect upon the
subject and not proceed hastily to the adoption of the recommendation of the report. No
great damage could by possibility attend such
deliberation. He was free- to admit that the
staff might be somewhat large under the altered circumstances, but time would soon
remedy this. As he had aIready saidseveral

Deicember 11,1887

new Departments were being organized, and
would afford room for persons from the
Lower Provinces, but the Government needed
time to make the necessary arrangements. If
the report were suddenly adopted a number of
fathers with familles dependent upon them
would be deprived of the means of subsistence. Then as to the reductions in the salaries
he observed they feu particularly on the
French Canadian officers. If we had become a
larger nation, let us have the courage to deal
justly with our employees and pay them the
salaries they received before. It was a well
understood maxim that if you wanted good
service you must pay good wages, and that in
the long run this was true economy. He would
indeed be happy to find the members of the
Government using their influence to postpone
the adoption of the report, at least until the
next part of the Session. At present the officers and servants were prey to the greatest
anxieties, but he trusted the action of the
House would relieve them for the present at
least. It was said, and with propriety, that the
Local Governments of Quebec and Ontario
should have provided situations for al the
employees whose services at Ottawa would
have to be dispensed with, and he admitted
most frankly that the Lower Provinces had a
right to a certain proportion of the officers in
the Confederate Parliament and Government.
This he would have been quite willing to
declare by formal Resolution, and would have
been willing that the places to be created
should be given to them, and the vacancies as
they occurred filled up by their nominees. If
this were proposed he was sure no single
French Canadian member would object, for
they felt it was perfectly equitable. The only
difficulty was in making immediate provision
for the whole number of the persons those
Provinces had a right to put in the offices.
Confederation, however, was not for a day, at
least its advocates counted upon a long and
successful future for it, and accepting the fact
he thought some little patience might be exercised. (Hear, hear.)
Hon. Mr. Campbell suggested that as the
report was to be brought regularly under the
consideration of the House tomorrow, by
which time it would appear in the printed
minutes of today, it would be better to postpone the debate until then.
Hon. Mr. Tessier would just say that he had
differed throughout with the majority of the
Contingent Committee in its proposed recommendations, and when- the report came up, he
would be prepared to assign his reasons.

December Il1 186'I

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. McCully said he thought it was
quite unusual to go into a debate on the-mere
presentation of a Report of Committee, and he
was quite willing to adopt the suggestion of
the Hon. Postmaster-General to wait until
tomorrow. Meanwhile he would say, he
thought he would then be able to satisfy the
House, that the recommendations of the committee were proper, and that there was an
anxious desire on the part of its members to
do ful1 justice to the officers and servants.

resolved upon holding two sittings a day. He
hardly thought this course would be necessary
in the Senate, but as according to the 62nd
rule, notices of Bills must be posted in the
lobby twenty-four hours before the bills could
be proceeded with in committee, he would
move that for the rest of the session the said
rule be suspended.-Carrled.

Hon. Mr. Campbell moved that the time for
receiving petitions regarding Private Bills be
extended until Monday next.-Carried.

BANKING COMMITTEE.

GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY.

Hon. Mr. Ferrier noved that the Bill to
Hon. Mr. Letellier had not charged injus- amend the Grand Trunk Railway Company's
tice upon the committee.
Arrangenments Act be now read a second time.
The hon. member explained that the object
Hon. Mr. Wilmo said that before proceeding the members should have a list of the of the bill was to enable the Company to raise
a sum of £500,000 for the purpose of better
employees and their present emoluments.
Several members answered that the list equipping the road, and enabling it more
might be found in the Public Accounts and efficiently to do the business of the country.
As the bill would be sent to the Standing
other places,
Committee on Banking, Conunerce and RailThe Motion was then put and carried.
ways, he did not deen it necessary to go into
further explanations.-Carried.
PRIVATE BILLS.

62ND RULE.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said that with the view
of expediting business, the other Branch had

Hon. Mr. Aikens moved that the name of
the Hon. Mr. McMaster be added to the
Committee on Banking, Commerce and Railways.-Carried.
The Senate then adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES

December 12, 1867

Dominion and the Local Legislatures had coordinate powers, but he thought that bills of
this kind were likely to be treated in that of
the Dominion with more impartiality than in
Thursday, Dec. 12, 187.
the Local Legislatures, for in the latter, local
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock. jealousies might have undue influence. In the
petition the objects of the measure were
Petitions of some of the officers and serv- plainly set forth, and
the House clearly underants of the House whose services were pro- stood what it proposed.
posed to be dispensed with by the Contingent
Committee were presented.
Hon. Mr. Blair said a few words, which
were very imperfectly heard, but was underGRAND TRUNK RAILWAY.
stood to mean that the Parliament of the
Dominion was the proper Legislature to deal
Hon. Mr. Hamilton (Kingston) from the with such subjects.
Committee on Banking, Railways and Commerce, reported the Bill to amend the Grand
Hon. Mr. McCully said that this was a
Trunk Railway Arrangements Act without question of considerable importance and which
amendrnent.
very properly challenged investigation. The
The bill was then read a third time and Hon. President of the Council (Mr. Blair) had
said that the Courts were not to judge of the
passed.
The Speaker announced a Message from the authority of Parliament to pass such measCommons with the Bill to amend and consoli- ures, and that their business was simply to
date the several Acts of the Canadian Inland administer the law. But supposing a Company
Steam Company, and to change its name to should obtain an Act from both the Parliament of the Dominion and a Local Legislathe Canadian Navigation Company.
ture, and these Acts were found afterwards to
Read and ordered for a second reading conflict how was the Court to proceed in such
tomorrow.
a case? Would not the Judge immediately
refer to the Union Act to see which of the
RESOLUTIONS ON THE NORTHWEST
Legislatures in question had right to pass such
COUNTRY.
a law. The hon. member went on at consideraHon. Mr. Blair moved to defer the consider- ble length, and without positively affirming
ation of these resolutions until tomorrow. that the power in question resided in either
They had not yet quite passed the other the Federal Parliament or the Local LegislaBranch and as he wanted them to be exactly tures was disposed to conclude, from considerlike those passed there he thought it better to ing the spirit of the Union Act, that the
intention was to lodge the authority with the
wait.
Local Legislatures.

THE SENATE

INTERCOLONIAL INSURANCE COMPANY.
Hon. Mr. Allan stated that the Conmittee
were not agreed in opinion as to whether the
bill could be entertained by the Parliament of
the Dominion, and it had been decided to
refer the matter to the House itself for decision. He himself was, however, of opinion that
it might properly be legislated upon here. In
the Union Act he found that the regulation of
Banking and Commerce was confided to the
Parliament of the Dominion, and he therefore
thought that unless it could be shown that this
power was restricted, the bill before the
House was a proper subject of legislation. If a
measure was submitted setting forth that the
business which was proposed to be done under it was to be transacted in the several parts
of the Dominion, he could not see under what
pretext this House could reject it. It was true
that in many respects the Parliament of the

Hon. Mr. Tessier was also of opinion that it
was exceedingly important at the very outset
to determine the rights of the Federal and
Local Legislatures. In the United States all
the power not conceded by the constitution to
the Federal Legislature renained with Legislatures of the individual States, but the
exact reverse was the case in Canada. The
Imperial Act had defined the power of our
Local Legislatures, and those not delegated to
them belong to the Confederate Parliament.
Perhaps he would have preferred that it
should have been otherwise, but we were to
be governed not by our wishes, but by the
constitution.
Hon. Mr. Bossé, who was also very imperfectly heard, seemed to take a different view
from the last speaker, and to hold that Local
Legislatures, and they alone, possessed the
requisite authority in matters of this kind.

December 12, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Dickey spoke at considerable
length; and, though like other speakers, not
disposed to dogmatize or make very positive
assertions as to the true merits of the case,
leaned to the opinion that the Confederate
Parliament and not the Local Legislatures had
power to legislate upon such measures.

officers of the House, and the dismissal of
nine of the permanent staff; whereby a saving of $13,000 would be effected. It also
recommended the appointment of Mr. Miller to
one of the vacancies created to be filled up
by a gentleman from the Lower Provinces, at
a salary of $1,000 per annum.

Hon. Mr. Campbell said it was very desirable to have a full expression of opinion on this
subject and, moreover, thought that both
Branches of this Parliament should try to
come to an agreement on the subject. It had
been decided that a commercial company
holding its charter from a Local Legislature
could not exercise its corporate powers
beyond the limits of the Province over which
that Legislature had jurisdiction. For instance,
they could not forfeit the shares of parties
who neglected to pay the calls nor could they
enforce the calls by legal process. An important case of this kind had been tried in Upper
Canada before its union with Lower Canada.
The Montreal Bank had brought an action in
the Upper Canada Courts on a promissory
note, and three of the most eminent jurists
Upper Canada ever had, viz: late Chief Justice Robinson with Judges Macaulay and
Sherwood had tried the action. The lawyers
who conducted the case were Messrs. Draper
and Sullivan, two of the most eminent men at
the Bar. After a very full examination and
discussion by these eminent lawyers before
these eminent judges, the Court decided that
the Bank of Montreal holding only a charter
from the Parliament of Lower Canada had no
right to exercise corporate powers in Upper
Canada. Hon. Mr. Campbell went on discussing the matter at some length, and concluded
by moving that the subject be referred to a
special committee to act in conjunction with
a special committee of the Commons, and the
following members do form said Committee:
Hon. Messrs. Allan, Blair, Bossé, Dickey, Letellier de St. Just, McCrea, Miller, Tessier,
McCully, Odell, and the mover.

Hon. Mr. Boisford said, that Mr. Miller was
a gentleman altogether unknown to him, and
desired to know by whom he had been recommended.

Hon. Mr. Skead begged to assure the House
that the bill had been introduced in good
faith, and that the company intended to effect
insurances ail over the Dominion. The motion
for reference to a committee was then put
and carried.
Hon. Mr. Seymour read the second Report
of the Select Committee appointed to examine
and report upon the contingent accounts for
the present Session.
The Report recommended the reduction of
the salaries of the Clerk of the House, Clerk
Assistant, Law Clerk, Black Rod and other

Hon. Mr. Wilmot did not know by whom, or
in what manner, the patronage, with regard to
gentlemen from New Brunswick, was to be
distributed. He certainly had signed a recommendation of one applicant for office, but was
not aware whether or not that person had
succeeded in his application. What he wanted
particularly to know, however, was whether
the patronage was to be left entirely in the
hands of one person, who should happen to be
a member of the Government, or whether
other representatives of the people of New
Brunswick were in such matters to be consulted. For his part he was not prepared to
acquiesce in any such supposition, as that all
patronage should be in the hands of one or
two men. He had been a long time in public
life and always identified with the Liberal
party; but he had not come to Ottawa to
identify himself with any particular New
Brunswick party, fully believing that now all
party lines were buried; but he did say this
that there should be no appointments whatever without consultation with those who were
on the opposite side in politics.
Hon. Mr. Wier had the other day remembered with reference to the appointment of
officers by the Senate, that it would lead to
unseemly, and even unpleasant, discussions.
One hon. member would allude to the merits
of his friend, another to the virtues, qualifications, and aptness of another friend, when ail
their contending claims would necessarily
come up for discussion in the Chamber, a
position which he looked upon as derogatory
to the dignity of the Senate. And now we had
exactly arrived at that condition of things he
had anticipated, and were about to discuss the
merits of an appointment to a paltry office in
open Senate-a proceeding which reminded
him of the mode of making appointments
peculiar to Municipal Councils. The evils of
such a mode of making appointments must be
very apparent. If appointments were in this
way to be discussed more than half of the

SENATE DEBATES
session would be taken up with such unprofitable and trifiing matters. There should, in
his opinion, be some other mode hit upon,
than mere political bias, to ascertain whether
a person was, or was not, qualified to hold
some office in the gift of the Senate.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell partially agreed with the
previous speaker as to such discussions being
derogatory to the dignity of the House, and
would simply say what was necessary to defend himself. His hon. friend knew well
enough, what was intended.
Hon. Mr. Wier-No, no.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell explained briefiy what
had taken place in the Privy Council with
regard to the distribution of patronage, and
stated that although with only one or two
exceptions, none of the old Canadian officers
really held their former offices, that they had
pertinaceously clung to them, preferring, as it
appeared, the larger offices of the Dominion to
those which might have been open to them in
the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec, of
which old Canada had been composed, and on
which only they had claims. Had he himself
been simularly placed, probably he would
have acted as these officers had done. He
looked upon the removal of officials as a
delicate matter. When he had asked for a
share of the patronage, the Government had
directed the Hon. Mr. Tilley and himself to
bring each two persons to occupy subordinate
positions. Some officials from Nova Scotia had
come and had obtained positions; but he had
failed to obtain a locus standi for New
Brunswickers in this branch of the Legislature. He, however, preferred that the dignity
of the House should be sustained, and, as an
officer of the Government, would waive any
right of patronage properly belonging to him
in favour of the House.
Hon. Mr. Locke rose to.order. There was no
motion before the House.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell was not out of order, and
would thank the hon. member not to interrupt
him. For his part, he went for the House
exercising the power of appointing their own
officials. Although he had caused a number of
gentlemen to come up from New Brunswick,
with the view of receiving appointments, he
had been, so far, unable to get a single position for them. It was a fact that all the
officials of the late Legislative Coundil of
Canada, had lost their positions by the
inauguration of the Union in July last, but
these officials nevertheless remained here. He

December 12,.1867

did not advocate their discharge; that recommendation had not emanated from him, but
he would, nevertheless, not consent to these
officials remaining as officers of the Senate of
the Dominion, if they were not wanted. He
did not advocate the discharge of any of the
officials of the late Legislative Council of
Canada without remuneration. Doubtless, they
had sustained loss, and they ought, in some
manner, to be compensated for it. The only
question with him was where such remuneration should come from-whether from the old
Province of Canada, as now represented by
the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec, or from
the Dominion. They had no claims upon Nova
Scotia or New Brunswick. With regard to the
nomination of Mr. Miller, he was prepared to
take that responsibility. He had named him.
Mr. Miller was a professional man of good
capacity, and of unblemished character, and
the committee having left two vacancies to be
filled up by gentlemen from the Lower
Provinces, he looked upon Mr. Miller as a fit
and proper person to fil one of those vacancies.
Hon. Mr. Steeves was surprised that any
person should have received an office without
the representatives of the Province claiming
such exercise of patronage being consulted.
Hon. Mr. Seymour-Indisputably the duty
of filling up the blanks devolved upon the
Committee, and in fulfilment of that duty they
had filled up one of the blanks with the name
of Mr. Miller, his being the only name submitted to them, but as there seemed to be so
much opposition to it, he might be permitted
to offer the suggestion that the blanks should
be left unfilled, so that the report might
otherwise be adopted.
Hon. Mr. Wier had certainly not been aware
that any blank had been left for a Nova
Scotian. Had he been so aware, he might have
taken advantage of the circumstance. It is
sometimes customary to advertise for applicants to fill public positions, and he thought
the Senate might hereafter adopt so excellent
a practice. Had he known in time, he had
some friends in his eye, whose claims he
might have put forth, as he should like to
have them appointed. He would only ask if it
was fair that the Senate should be thus called
upon to act in the matter of appointments. If
appointments are to be made publicly, and to
be matter of discussion, why not let them;be
thrown open to public competition, and let us
have a fair fight for it? But he looked upon
this discussion as much beneath the dignity of
the House, and derogatory to its character as

December 12, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

a Legis1ative body, to be engaged in the
discussion of the character and acquirements
of persons desirous of being its employees. He
did not put much stress upon the right of
having Lower Province people appointed to
office. To a young man, such an appointment
was not by any means desirable. It rendered
him incapable of rising in the world, shutting
off from him forever the avenues of wealth
and fame. There was scarcely any young man,
however moderate his acquitrements or natural abilities might be, who could not do much
better than fill a Government situation.
Unfitted to anything beyond the ordinary routine duties, which, in time, were performed by
a sort of instinct, the Government official
might become grey in the service, only to be
turned adrift, as a matter of political expediency, which le could neither see nor appreciate. The Government employees reminded
him of old horses that for years had been
employed in turning the wheels of a ferry
boat, and when the old horseboat had given
way to the steamboat, had been sent t o
plough, going round and round in the field
from the mere force of habit alnost in spite of
the frantic exertions of their drivers. He did
not, of course, mean to speak of the officials of
the House as old horses, but merely used the
expression as illustrative of the force of habit.
He thought that the matter of those appointments ought not to have been intruded upon
the House as a subject for discussion. Had his
friend, as a member of the Government only,
made the appointment, he would have had no
objection to it, but appointments made in this
way, afforded a bad precedent.
Hon. Mr. Lelellier de St. Just moved that
the consideration of this report be postponed
till the second part of this Session of Parliament, and that all the officers and servants
employed since the first day of July last be
continued in their respective capacities and
with their former salaries, as well as the new
officers and servants suggested in this report,
with the expectation that such officers and
servants of the late Legislative Council of
Canada whose services may be dispensed with
shall be provided for by the Local Governments of Quebec and Ontario.
(The hon. gentleman repeated in English
what he had stated in French on the previous
discussion of the report.)
Hon. Mr. Seymour complained that the hon.
gentleman had gone into the merits of the
report before it was, properly speaking, under
consideration .He might draw his attention,
however; to the circumstance that he himself

(Mr. Letellier de St. Just) as a member of a
Contingent Committee, had in 1863 pursued a
course precisely similar to that which he saw
fit to condemn now.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just would rather be inconsistent than unjust; perhaps he did
advodate economy in the matter of salaries in
1863, but that was no reason why he should
lend himself to what was not economy, but
injustice, now.
Hon. Mr. Seymour did not wish to interrupt
the hon. gentleman, but would remind him
that in 1854 a Joint Committee on Contingencies stated the salaries.
Hon. Mr. Aikins-A
things existed then.

different state

of

Hon. Mr. Wilmo-From the remarks that
had been made, and which had so long occupied the attention of the House, it was quite
observable that appointments had been made,
and he was surprised, as one of the members
for New Brunswick, that he had not been
consulted. If the House were to take the
matter of appointments into their hands members for the Lower Provinces ought certainly
to be consulted in such appointments, and
whether it were dignified or undignified he
would give expression to his views.
Hon. Mr. McCully rose in explanation. This
question has been agitated and brought up.
(Cries of order.)
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the adjournment
of the House, it being a few minutes to 6
o'clock, until Friday next at 3 o'clock.
Hon. Mr. McCully-The House ought not to
adjourn until both sides are before the country. From the position occupied by the Postmaster-General he ought not to be anxious
that the matter should stand over.
It being now six o'clock Mr. Speaker left
the Chair to resume it again at 8.
AFTER RECESS
Hon. Mr. McCully proposed to give reasons
why the House should adopt the report. So
long ago as the 15th of last month the Postmaster-General had moved for a Select
Committee on the contingencies of the House;
that Committee had met, from day to day, and
had felt an anxious desire to make a report,
which would be equally just to the House and
to its officers, and he was happy to say it had
succeeded with singular unaninity, as there
were only two dissentients. It seemed now,

SENATE DEBATES
however, that the report was to be questioned
and it, therefore, became him as a member of
it to give reasons why it should be adopted.
There was no desire on the part of the Committee to lessen the number of officers or to
reduce the salaries of those who remained, to
such a point as at all to impair the efficiency
of the staff. Nor did the Committee wish to do
anything which could by any possibility
reflect on the dignity of the House. The
Committee had the advantage of having
before them a report presented by the Committee of the legislative Council of Canada in
1864, and the Committee of the Senate had
been guided by the recommendations of this
House. He could not see how the members of
this House who had sanctioned by their votes
the principles of the aforesaid report could
now refuse to adopt the present one, If they
did so in his opinion they would be stultifying
themselves. Moreover, if said report was rejected, the action would be tantamount to a
vote of want of confidence in a Committee
upon which there were two members of the
Government, and which had come to an all
but unanimous conclusion upon the matter
submitted to them. He hoped the House would
pause before accepting the amendment
proposed. He would just say that he did not
misunderstand the amendment, for it was
neither more nor less than a square issue
between those who supported it and the committee. The real question was whether the
people of the Dominion would have to submit
to the extravagance and waste which had
distinguished the Legislature of Canada, or
whether they should take the matter in their
own hands, and introduce such retrenchments
as had become clearly necessary. It was well
known that the Government intended to impose new taxes, and he had no doubt the
people would be willing to bear them if applied to necessary and indispensable objects,
but on the other hand he was quite sure the
people would not consent to extra charges for
the purpose of paying extravagant salaries, or
for keeping in office a number of officials
whose services are really not wanted. It was
very well to talk of humanity and philanthropy and other such virtues, but there was also
such a thing as duty, and men ought not to be
governed so much by what they would like to
do as by what they ought to do. The report of
the Committee of the Legislative Council in
1864 already alluded to, had prepared a scale
of salaries and of the number of officers
required, and that report had been adopted
among other members by the hon. member for

December 12, 1867

Grandville (Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just)
who had now strangely enough moved the
amendment to defer action.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Jus±-The report
of 1864 to which the hon. member referred did
not apply to the then incumbents, but to their
successors.
Hon. Mr. McCully-Well, he would ask if no
new appointments had been made since, and
he thought it would be found that there had
been several. It would be right enough to
plead the long services of these officers, and to
appeal to the sympathies of hon. members on
their behalf, if these officers had actually
served the Dominion. Then the hon. member's
case would be perfect, and he (Mr. McCully)
would be ashamed to attempt to reduce their
emoluments, or to thin their numbers. No
doubt these gentlemen and servants were deserving of all the sympathies of the hon.
member, but to whom should he properly
make these appeals? Why to be sure they
should be addressed to the Legislatures of
Ontario and Quebec, whom they had served,
and not to that of the Dominion whom they
had not served. The Legislative Council of
Nova Scotia had old officers too, but they did
not seem to excite the sympathies of the hon.
member; he concentrated them all upon the
staff of this House.
Hon. Mr. Le±ellier de St. Just-Have those
officers been sent adrift?
Hon. Mr. McCully-Yes, in one Branch
there was not one left; in fact, it was not the
practice to keep them.
Hon. Mr. Tessier-Oh! they had the American system it appears down there.
Hon. Mr. McCully-Yes, that was the system there.
Hon. Mr. Wier thought the hon. member
was mistaken, certainly he knew of two or
three officers being kept on.
Hon. Mr. McCully-I speak by the book.
Hon. Mr. Wier-I know the Sergeant-atArms is retained, and that others of the old
officers are going in next Session.
Hon. Mr. McCully-The rule was to put
them out.
Hon. Mr. Wier-Well, I don't approve of it
for one.
Hon. Mr. McCully-Neither would he, and
he would be the last man to ask the labour of

December 12, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

the officials without proper payment, or to
reduce their number below what an efficient
performance of the public service required,
and he would here take occasion to say that
since he had taken his seat in this House he
had experienced nothing but the most entire
courtesy on the part of all the employees,
whom he had found ever ready to do his
bidding. In that respect he had nothing to
complain of. But let hon. members look for a
moment at the staff of the late Legislative
Council; by a list he held in his hand he found
it to be fifty-two officers and servants, and by
another fifty-six. The Assembly of Canada it
appears employed between 150 and 160. Now
he came from a country where the annual
income generally met the expenditure, and
where the expenditure was made to correspond with the income. It would astonish the
people of Nova Scotia not a little to find that
the Legislative Council of Canada employed
50 officers, and it would astonish the people of
Canada to find with how few the business was
carried on in Nova Scotia. In 1864, the number of pages of the Journals of the Legislative
Council of Nova Scotia. prepared altogether
by the Clerk himself, amounted to 169 folio,
and in 1865, to 108 folio, in the Legisiative
Council of Canada, in 1864, the journals
amounted to 380 pages quarto, and in 1865, to
247 quarto. Now if you double the Nova Scotia
pages to bring them to quarto, the difference
in favour of Canada will be very small. Now
as to expenditure in Canada, it was $42,000
in Nova Scotia it was $1,560. In Nova Scotia,
the service was performed by four men, in
Canada by fifty, including clerks and doorkeepers. One clerk did the duty at the table,
prepared the journals, and read them in his
own handwriting the next day, sent them to
the press, corrected the proofs, and saw the
whole business done. His salary was $800. The
Sergeant-at-Arms received $300, the Chaplain $100, the Assistant Clerk, $160. This was
the whole staff.
Hon. Mr. Cainpbell-How much did they
allow the members?
Hon. Mr. McCully-$4 a day.

they had made a great step in advance. Nor
did he expect that any one would have found
room for charging the Committee with
cheeseparing and small economies. In giving
a staff of 34 to take care of 72 members-it
was nearly half of one to each-he thought
the committee had done very well indeed.
The hon. member had charged the Lower
Province members with the intention of
working up a little personal popularity for
themselves at the expense of the dignity of
the House; a charge he conceived to be very
unjust. He came from a Province where the
Speaker of the House received no salary, and
where the officers were paid, but not extravagantly. He was, however, quite willing that
the Speaker of the Senate should be paid,
and no member of the Comnittee had more
heartily voted for it. He had been sorry to
hear an hon. member attack the salary of the
Governor-General.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just-Well, for
his part he thought that if the establishment
of the new Dominion had made it proper to
increase the Governor-General's salary, it was
a very good reason at least why the salaries of
the officials should not be diminished.
Hon. Mr. McCully-The Governor-General
was in quite a different position, being now
the ruler of 4,000,000.
Hon. Mr. Wier-So are we; the Senate now
legSlates for 4,000,000.
Hon. Mr. McCully-There was misapprehension here, for by the creation of Local
Legislatures a great part of the work was
withdrawn. The work in fact would hardly
amount to two-thirds of what it was before,
and when this was taken into account, it
would appear that the Committee had only
sought to establish a proper relation between
the labor to be performed and the salaries to
be paid.
Hon. Mr. Ferrier-Well, upon the same
principle, the members' pay should be reduced in proportion.

Hon. Mr. McCully was quite willing; let the
hon. member but put it to the House in proper
form, and he would find that not many Lower
Province members would object to the reducHon. Mr. McCully-When these relative ex- tion. However, that question was not before
penses were compared, it would not be the House, but in fact had already been disthought very surprising that the Nova Scotia posed of, the Government having taken the
members hesitated a little to sanction the responsibility.
Canada outlays. Their ideas had not yet had
Hon. Mr. Ferrier simply meant to say that
time to expand so much as that, and when as a matter of principle, since the work to be
they consented to pay $26,000, they thought done had been reduced, and the payments to
Hon. Mr. Wier-And one shilling per mile
travelling expenses.

SEATE DEBATES

December 12, 1867

'the officers were proposed to be reduced, it probably defeat altogether the recommendawas but just that the indemnity of members tions of the committee. The 'hon. member for
Grandville had instanced a case of peculiar
should be reduced also.
hardship, as he thought, but Nova Scotia had
Hon. Mr. McCully-Well, in sober earnest, also men who deserved well of their country
could anybody believe that there was work whom Canada would hardly think it proper to
during the recess for fifty-six persons. Pay the be called upon to provide for. Indeed Ontario
officers well while they are at work, and let and Quebec were not willing to recognize the
them occupy the intervals for their own profit, claims of their own old servants, and if they
as they choose.
were not, how could the Lower Provinces be
Hon. Mr. Tessier-Did the hon. member expected to do so. The Senate had respected
include the eleven charwomen among the these claims, though really not bound to do so,
and had attached salaries which would place
officers?
the officers they retain in positions of coifort
Hon. Mr. McCully had taken some pains to and competence. With respect to those whose
ascertain how, and when the officers and services were to be dispensed with, the Hon.
servants of the House had been appointed. le Postmaster General himself had inserted a
found the Earl of Elgin had appointed one, clause in the report granting them certain
that four were Crown appointments, two by gratuities equal in some cases to one year, and
Mr. Caron, five by the Postmaster-General, in others to six months' salary. He (Mr. Mcand nineteen over whom the hon. member Cully) did not complain of this, but certainwho had just spoken, had thrown the charita- ly the Dominion was not under any logical
ble mantle of his sympathies.
obligation to do it. Indeed, these officials had
Hon. Mr. Lefellier de St. Jus±-Had that already received six months' salary from the
Dominion, which the Dominion was not bound
hon. member appointed all the charwomen?
to pay, and he supposed the amount would
Hon. Mr. McCully-He expected so, and it have to be surcharged to the Provinces of
was at least remarkable that in two years he Ontario and Quebec. (The hon. member then
should have found it necessary to add nine- went on to remark upon the extremely disateen persons to the already overgrown staff. It greeable, and in fact painful, position in
had been stated that the Committee had made which the members from the Lower Provinces
sad havoc among the salaries. If they did they have been placed by the neglect of the two
had had the assistance of the very gentleman Canadian Provinces to provide for their old
who now complains so loudly, for in the servants.) If it is desired to give the former
schedule of 1864 it was put on record that the officers of Canada salaries for life, let it be put
Clerk's salary should be $2,400, and that no in the report, and the members from the
other salary should exceed $2,000. But an hon. Lower Provinces would sustain it; but it is not
member said, "Look at what had been done to so stated in the report, and are we to be told
the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod, who because these officers had been appointed by
in England was regarded as an officer of the Canada proper as officers of a Legislature
highest rank, and who presided over the which no longer exists, that the Dominion
subordinates." Well, in this also they had Parliament is to provide them with salaries
followed the recommendations of the Com- for life? It has been said that a disposition to
mittee of 1864. It was true that these recom- yield to the Government has been manifested
mendations were only to apply to the suces- by the gentlemen from the Lower Provinces;
sors of the officers then employed, but the but the member for Grandville, who had
present officers were in fact the successors of made that assertion, would find that the men
the previous ones, they were all new appoint- on the Select Committee of Contingencies
ments,. and the recommendations of the were not likely to be moved from their posiComnittee of 1864 therefore applied to them tion either by the honourable the Postmasterwith absolute propriety. He would now tell General, or any other member of the Governthe House that the vote which was about to be ment. The Government want them perhaps to
taken, would serve as an index to the action feel the difficulties of their position as memof the Senate in respect of expenditure and bers of the Maritime Provinces, and in some
disbursements, and it would be so understood respects, have done so in the matter of the
throughout the length and breadth of the Postal Service Regulation Bill, but the Postal
Dominion. The members favouring extrava- question has been nothing to this. By that bill
gance would of course vote for the amend- the whole of the Provinces are put on a footment, and if in a majority would put off, and ing of equality; but the moment you under-

Decemnber 12, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

take to place these officers, whose renoval is
the subject of complaint by the hon. member
for Grandville, you virtually undertake to pay
them with our money. If then, the Government have any desire to help us to tide over
our difficulties do not let them place us in this
false position; don't let them ask us to make
up the difference between a fair and honorable return for certain services. We have
enough to contend with, and they ought to
come up and assist us, and, in a short time, we
shall be prepared to meet all the difficulties
with which we are at present beset. Think
you, hon, gentlemen, that the reports of your
extravagance have not gone down to our
Provinces; that our people have not heard of
the scandal with regard to the stationery,
printing, and a host of other things, scattered
everywhere on the wings of the press. We
want to dissipate all this. If such things have
been, we are determined that it shal not be s
now. He seemed to speak warmly, and perhaps, did so speak, and he did so because he
felt warmly. If the report be a fallacy; if there
have been no extravagances in old Canada; if
the officers of this House have not been overpaid, put your hands on the report and crush
it. But it is no fallacy. The Minister of Marine
and Fisheries and the Postmaster-General
both subscribe ta the report, and are both
bound to vote for it, and the House in ail
fairness should support their Committee, who
have made ample provision for the service of
the Senate the more especially as the report is
one which will comimend itself to the public.
Tell me not that the salary of the respected
Clerk of this House, for instance, is a paltry
pittance. It much exceeds that of a Judge of
our Supreme Court, and no one will pretend
ta say that the duties of his office are more
arduous or his position one of greater dignity.
A Judge of the Supreme Court, who sits in
banco, rides out on circuit, necessarily
possessed of large attainments, and who labours incessantly, only gets $2,800, and, however much his feelings may be hurt by the
announcement, it did not seem to him a
hardship that the Clerk of this House should
not enjoy a larger yearly income than such a
Judge. The Postmaster-General in Committee
had exhausted all his eloquence to get a
compromise in the Committee and the Committee came to a compromise, and with the
exception of nine, retained the services of the
officers of the former Legislative Council of
Canada, at, it is true, reduced, but not inadequate salaries. And wouldthe House now tear
their report to pièces. He was sorry that some

honourable members of French origin should
be opposed to him now. He had felt that the
Lower Province gentlemen might depend on
them for support, if. ever trouble came, and
was sorry to see them gathering together now
to oppose them. They had thenselves .gentlemen of French extraction-the Comeaus,
Robichauds, etc., whom he had never looked
upon as amongst the number of his best
friends, and is it to be said that we have not
cared for gentlemen of French origin because
in the report we have left two little blanks in
it for New Brunswick-for a clerkship and a
messenger, not even putting Nova Scotia on
the same footing with New Brunswick. He
would go home and wait. Take these places;
use them. Don't take them however, and say,
we cared to seize upon the public patronage of
Canada. Our people are prepared to go out
manfully and fight the battles of the
world--men of intellect cannot well be tied
down with red tape. He admitted that the
labourer was worthy of his hire, but let those
pay who have got their services. So long as we
talked about the Red River Settlement question the opposition in this House were with us,
but the moment we spoke of economy i
connection with the public offices, we were
met with the remark, those officers are not
provided for. Through certain influences the
consideration of the report had been too long
delayed. In the course of fifteen days, he
should not hesitate to say certain influences
had been at work, and the long services, the
assiduity, the labor, and the necessities of
certain people were to be of more account
than justice to the country. The affair had
been all blown up by the action of lie would
not say whom. Yet we ought to be the masters
here, and woe betide the Legislature when
such influence cari be used. Had this report
been brought up the first day, there would
have been no difficulty.
Hon. Mr. Miller-What do you mean? There
were no such influences used. It is not true.
Hon. Mr. McCully hoped the hon. gentleman would use parliamentary language.
Hon. Mr. Blair-This is not the place to
make use of such language as "undue influences."
Hon. Mr. McCully did not use the expression undue influences, but he did not think
such interruptions added much to the dignity
of the House. It was possible, in the warmth
of debate, to make use of expressions, which
otherwise would not be used; but no man
should tell him that he could not see. He

SENATE DEBATES

December 12, 1867

understood the nature of these influences as should now start with a clean sheet, and he
well as anybody did. He referred to certain was sorry that his friends were not able to see
petitions which had been presented.
the matter in the same light as the Committee
saw it.
Hon. Mr. Miller rose to order and inquired
whether the hon. gentleman had a right to inHon. Mr. Holmes-He had not eloquence to
sinuate that improper influences had been boast of, and was not much in the habit of
brought to bear on any gentleman of that occupying the attention of the House. He
House.
might, indeed, have great difficulty in expressing himself; but he hoped that he might be
Hon. Mr. Speaker did not perceive that the able to speak to honourable gentlemen with
gentleman was out of order; but if he had at- common sense. Thirteen thousand dollars was
tributed improper influences as actuating the seemingly a large sum to be saved to the
conduct of any member of the House, he was country, and any man who dared oppose such
out of order.
a saving would be looked upon and spoken of
Hon. Mr. McCully-Influences have been as no friend to the people. Taking the risk of
brought to bear in this discussion and that, that, however, he would tell this House that
too, by officers of the House. He would remind the saving contemplated by the report, which
hon. gentlemen, with regard to certain peti- they had been so vehemently called upon to
tions, which had been presented to them, that adopt, would not amount to two cents to every
this was not an eleemosynary institution. It man and woman in the Dominion, and for the
was not a place intended to provide for the saving of this pitiable amount familles at
wants of poor people. If charity were wanted present in comfortable circumstances were in
hon. gentlemen might put their hands in their mid-winter to be put out of their houses in the
snow and cold without pity or consideration.
pockets.
Doubtless, at this moment these people were
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just-Charity! dreaming of the wretchedness in store for
who spoke of charity?
them, while we were comfortably talking of it
here. He was not against the report, but he
Hon. Mr. McCully-He was going to say it was decidedly opposed to its immediate effect.
would be a charity to these people not to keep Let those to be deprived of part, or the whole,
them here, because if this went out to the of their means of livelihood, stand
as they are
world many would be better off than in com- this session, and after that if they again come
ing here. A man is a slave, who, in public life, on as officers and servants
of the House at the
depends upon his salary for a living. For his reduced salaries, they will at least do so with
part he would reduce the staff of the House their eyes open. Having no intimation
still lower and pay better those who remained. the inauguration of the Dominion their that by
official
In 1850, in England, the House of Lords found positions had ceased to belong
to them,
it necessary to examine the staff, and they eut came into the service of the Senate withthey
the
it all up. Among other things that House de- expectation of receiving at
cided that six messengers were sufficient for amount of salary to that whichleast an equal
they had been
them, and they paid them only £100 a year in the habit of receiving. He wished to be
each.
understood that he had no friend, or relation,
Hon. Mr. Lelellier de St. Just-What do nor even an acquaintance among the officials
they give their Clerks? Does not the Chancel- who were to be deprived of their situations,
but they had been all kind to him, they were
lor get £4,000 a year?
familiar faces, nothing more, and they were
Hon. Mr. Speaker-I wish I had it.
willing and obliging. He saw no necessity for
Hon. Mr. McCully wished Mr. Speaker had, this cruel haste of dismissal. It was a long
if the Dominion should not have to pay it. In time since he was a boy at school, but he
England officers of the House of Lords, who remembered of having there read something
had been receiving £800 a year, were cut that occurred in the great commonwealth of
down to £450, and this, too, was done by the Rome, when during the heat of a debate in
grave and reverend seigniors to whom he their Senate, one Senator rising to his feet
looked up with respect. These officers of long exclaimed, Ye Gods! can a Roman Senate
service and experience had been suddenly cut hesitate to choose between liberty and death.
down in their emoluments, and yet here there He would ask, could this Senate hesitate to
was an outcry about keeping up the dignity, choose between the saving of two pence a
necessary for a doorkeeper (laughter). We head of the population, or the sore griefs of a

December 12, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

number of private families, unaccustomed to would not interfere with the exsting rights of
endure hardships, and little expecting to have individuals, would have his hearty support.
to suffer them at our hands.
He would be as strong an advocate for retrenchment in the right way and the
Hon. Mr. Anderson-One third of a cent place as any hon. gentleman, but if he proper
had a
per head.
choice to make between a little temporary
Hon. Mr. Holmes heard it whispered that he extravagance and maintaining the public faith
naturally enough sympathized with the offi- with old public servants, he could not hesitate
cers of old Canada. He had a sympathy with in the course he would pursue. Had the comjustice, with the weak, the defenceless weak, mittee adopted a list of oficers and servants
as opposed to the strong. Some of their officers, for the Senate, with an economical scale of
about to be curtailed of their emoluments, salaries to come into operation as the present
or to lose them altogether, had grown grey in incumbents dropped off, he believed they
the service, and is it because old age has made would be supported by honourable members.
them hoary that they ought to be made to Such a course would insure economy in a very
suffer want in their latter days? He begged short time, without any harshness or injustice
that the House would excuse him for his first to individuals who had grown gray in the
attempt at speaking. Though many years in service of the country. He repeated that the
Legislative Halls, and notwithstanding the op- hon. gentleman (Mr. McCully) had argued this
portunities of doing so which a long life had subject on a misstatement of facts-facts
afforded, he had not previously had brass which he did not think the Senate could
enough in his face, that kind of courage which ignore as easily as he appeared to do. His hon.
is necessary to a public speaker. But as sec- friend contended that himself and his suponder of the motion before the chair he could porters were only carrying out the report of
not remain silent. One of the first principles the Committee of Contingencies for the year
instilled into his mind was to fear God and 1864, of the old Legislative Council of Canada.
honour the Queen, and he trusted he did both In that year a report was adopted fixing the
in advocating the claims of those about to salaries at the rates now recommended, but
suffer by the adoption of the Select Commit- with seeming unfairness he withheld from the
tee's Report. He thanked the House kindly for Senate the fact that the coimittee of 1864
listening to him, and if they would grant him expressly declared that the proposed reducthe only favour he had asked of them, he tions were not to affect present incumbents,
but should only apply to new appointments.
would certainly feel happy. (Cheers.)
The hon. member had warmly contended that
Hon. Mr. Miller said that during the short the present committee were simply carrying
time he had the honour of being a member of out the first report alluded to, and in order to
the Senate, he had not often obtruded his do so suppressed this important qualification
views upon hon. gentlemen, and would gladly of the recommendations of 1864. This was not
avoid doing so on this occasion. But he would a fair style of argument, and was characterisnot be doing justice to his feelings-to his tic of the special pleader, but not at all
conviction of right and wrong, if he did not adapted to this House of Parliament. He was
briefly, but emphatically, disclaim all sym- opposed to the action of the committee from
pathy with the report of the Committee on the day they presented their first report,
for
Contingencies now under the consideration of he foresaw what that report was going to lead
the House. He had listened with some degree
of disappointment to the speech of the hon. to. He felt that by its 4th paragraph, under
member from Halifax, (Mr. McCully) as that the pretext of economy, some injustice might
gentleman had led the Senate to suppose by be attempted towards old officials. Being a
his opening remarks that he could justify the young member he did not care at the time to
action of the Committee, and refute the argu- dispute the ground taken by the committee,
ments of those who condemned their report. but he would say that he did not approve of
His hon. friend had failed to do anything of it, and did not feel himself bound by it now.
the kind, but had argued his case by suppos- The present report asks the House, under the
ing facts that did not exist, and suppressing principle conceded in the 4th paragraph of the
those that were patent to the whole House. He first report, to cut down the salaries of al the
desired to frankly that he believed the ex- Officers and servants of the Senate, some of
penses of this Branch of the Legislature were whom had been over 40 years in the public
too large, and would admit of retrenchment, service, and to turn a large number of others
and any scheme towards that end, which on the public streets, who had passed the best

SENATE DEBATES
of their days in the ,same way. It seemed to
him that in supporting this recommendation
his hon. friend (Mr. McCully) assumed to
speak not for himself only, but for all the
representatives of Nova Scotia in this House,
but he would be very much mistaken, if that
hon. gentleman does not find himself alone on
the division. He believed the members from
that Province and the people they represented, had too much regard for the moral, he
would alnost say the legal, rights of individuals to desire a cheese paring system of
retrenchment at the expense of these claims.
A small saving in the Public Fund would be
dearly secured by acts of harshness to our
officials, amounting to a breach of public faith.
It was difficult to discuss this question with
the honorable gentleman (Mr. McCully). It
was a delicate matter to talk of the rights of
individuals who were among them, and with
whom they were brought into contact every
day. It was an unpleasant duty for any hon.
member to oppose their interests, but it was
even more unpleasant to defend them, when
by doing so such insinuations as had been
thrown out by the hon. member (Mr.
McCully), of improper influences used by
these gentlemen with the House, could be
made against their defenders. His honourable
friend had exhibited very bad taste in making
that remark, and had taken an unjustifiable
liberty with the Senate, for which he had felt
it his duty to call him to order. Cannot
friendly social intercourse exist between gentlemen, without having the fact charged as
influencing their public conduct? The honourable member forgot what was due to this
House when he talked of influences from such
circumstances, in connection with the action
of honourable gentlemen on this question.
The man who is too ready to attribute influences of that kind to others, was generally
the most likely to be too open to them himself. Did the honourable member believe that
anything save 'a sense of justice, actuated his
hon. friend (Mr. Holmes) or the hon. members from Halifax and Shelburne (Messrs.
Wier and Locke)? The honourable member
would have it supposed that all the public
virtue of Nova Scotia was centered in himself, which was not at all correct. The report
of the Committee asked them to reduce the
salary of the first Clerk of this House, and
this step was justified by the report of 1864
of the old Legislative Council of Canada,
which recommended a reduction of $1000 in
the salary of the successor of the present
incumbent. Now it was contended by some
hon. members that the respected gentle-

December 12, 1867

man who sat at the head of the Clerk's
table was his own successor, because the
Act of Union rendered his reappointment
necessary. Was this not a style of argument
better suited to a court and jury than to
a deliberative assembly disposed only to
take a just and common sense view of
facts? Will any one assert that that report
ever contemplated the reduction under any
circumstances of the salary of Mr. Taylor by
$1000? If it did not, as must be admitted, then
the arguments based on it to sustain the
action of the Committee on Contingencies fall
to the ground. The report on the contrary
expressly protected old incumbents. It is
disingenuous to draw any other conclusion
from it. But in order to get over that express
protection, my hon. friend (Mr. McCully) assumes another position, and says that all
appointments since the lst of July are original
appointments, and must be so considered,
even where individuals are reinstated in their
former offices. He (Mr. Miller) admitted, in
one sense they were original appointments,
but it was unjust to say that because a great
change had taken place in our political system, rendering necessary the formal reappointment of the officials of the House,
advantage could be taken of that fact to treat
these individuals unfairly, or turn them on
the street under.the authority of an old report
of the Legislative Council. But this was what
the hon. gentleman (Mr. McCully) and the
other members of the Committee were endeavouring to do. They all knew the old
system had terminated in July, but the
officers of that system had been given to
understand that they would be continued as
usual under the new.
Hon. Mr. McCully: How do you know that?
Hon. Mr. Miller would thank the hon. member not to interrupt him, but would reply that
they had the best understanding to that effect
in having been continued until this hour, and
he believed the Government never intended to
inflict on the such summary punishment as
the report recommends. Next, there was the
French Clerk, whose salary it was proposed to
reduce some $600. That gentleman had enjoyed his present salary for years under the
Government of the old Province of Canada,
and had no doubt regulated his expenditures
by it. It was well known living was expensive
in Ottawa-more so than at the old seat of
Government-house rent was high, and everything else in proportion. At a time when
the- salaries of these officers only afforded

Dece2nber 12, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

them a comfortable livelihood, the gentlemen
of the Committee, when they could least spare
it, would place them on a smaller income.
Surely the Exchequer of the Dominion was
not in so bad a condition to demand this
cheese paring system of retrenchment. He did
not think this was the kind of economy that
would receive favour with the people of Nova
Scotia. He would now allude to the case of a
gentleman who he conceived had been most
unhandsomely dealt with and unfairly treated
in several particulars, and in a manner that
was repugnant to his feelings, and the feelings
of a large number of gentlemen in that
House. He referred to the Gentleman Usher of
the Black Rod. That gentleman is the second
officer of this House, and the position he
occupies is one of great importance and
respectability in England. The report of the
committee almost places him on a level with
the messengers, so far as salary is concerned.
Did any gentleman suppose when it was decided to amalgamate the offices of Black Rod
and Sergeant-at-Arms, that the individual
who should be called upon to do double duty
should not get even the former salary of these
officers. The Usher of the Black Rod whose
former salary was $1,350, was asked to do his
own duty and that of Sergeant-at-Arms,
which previously cost $1,000. The committee
amalgamated the two offices and asked the
Usher of the Black Rod to discharge the
duties of both for $1,000, the performance of
wh!ch had cost the Province of Canada $2,350.
All will admit the salary assigned to that
important officer is too low and that he has
not been fairly treated. He could not help
saying that although there may not have been
any studied intention on the part of the committee, or any individual member of it, to
treat that officer unjustly, or to degrade his
position-that would be the result of the
adoption of the report. It had been stated that
the vacancies left in the report were for
gentlemen from the Maritime Provinces. Now
he would always contend that the Lower
Provinces were entitled to a fair share of all
the public patronage, and he was happy to
observe a disposition among hon. gentlemen
on all sides to concede to them their rights. He
did not, however, consider it a matter of very
great consequence, except so far as the principle involved was concerned. If any of our
young men had a desire to enter the public
service as a Government employee, they had a
right to have their claims respected in every
part of the Dominion. Yet he looked upon it as
no favour to a yoqng man to take him away
from the true field of active enterprise and

ambition before every one in a country such
as this, and shut him up in a subordinate
position in some public office, where in a short
time he becomes unfit for anything else. The
blank left in the report for Nova Scotia was
made at the expense of an officer, who had
held the situation for a quarter of a century,
was advanced in life, with a family of ten
children dependent on him for support, and
whom it was intended to send into the street.
He did not believe there was a Nova Scotian
from Cape Sable to Cape North with the
education and position to entitle him to the
situation that would come here and accept a
place obtained by such injustice to others. The
position of the gentleman alluded to had some
causes of special interest about it. He was the
descendant of one of the expatriated Acadians, who were driven out of Nova Scotia by
an act of injustice and cruelty, which is one of
the greatest blemishes on British rule on this
Continent. One of the first acts Nova Scotians
are now called upon to do when they come to
Canada under the Act of Union, was to despoil this descendant of an expatriated
Acadian who had found a home in this country of the office which gives bread to his
family. Who thought the Nova Scotians
desired economy at such a sacrifice as that?
He had no hesitation in repeating that no
Nova Scotian gentleman would occupy the
position under such circumstances. (Hear,
hear, and cheers from the Nova Scotians.)
They did not want patronage obtained in such
a way, and will not take the places of men
dismissed only to make room for others. As
vacancies occur they will make their claims,
and will get their rights. (Hear, hear.) They
would wait for the consideration to which
they were entitled, and what he felt sure
would always be extended to them. He admitted that $13,000 was a large item to save, but
if it could not be saved without acting
unjustly and harshly to faithful public servants, he thought the country could afford to
lose it. That is not the sort of economy he
would like to see practised. The extravagance
complained of was not the sort of extravagance that made the public debt. If economy
was to be practised, let Parliament begin at
the head and go downwards. The hon. gentleman (Mr. McCully) was one of the delegates
to the London Conference, which fixed the
salary of the-Governor-General at $50,000, an
increase of nearly $20,000 on the former saJary of that functionary. He had no doubt the
hon. member would defend the large salary of
the Head of the Government as economical.
It was one thing to defend individuals ir high

SENATE DEBATES
position whose countenance might be valued,
and another to attack weak officials who were
dependent for protection on those only whose
sense of justice induced them to come to their
defence. He was not willing to help the hon.
member to save $13,000 of the increase in the
salary of the Governor-General by disregarding the rights of humble public servants, and
turning them adrift. He would sooner if he
could deduct that amount from the large
salary, if the country must have the saving.
His hon. friend the Minister of Marine had
said that the officials of the Senate had no
legal rights, but that they had moral claims.

December 12, 1887

Hon. Mr. Ferrier would only detain the
House a few minutes, because he thought the
hon. member who had first spoken this evening had made some ýreference to him. He need
scarcely say that he looked upon the greater
part of that gentleman's speech as mere special pleading. According to his statements he
had become associated with a class of persons
who gloried in, and had been addicted to the
grossest extravagance in the management of
public affairs. Notwithstanding the hon.
gentleman's boast of Nova Scotia economy, he
would show by an extract from a newspaper
which he held in his hand, that the cost of
Hon. Mr. Mitchell explained that he meant Government to Nova Scotia was just exactly
the officers alluded to had moral claims on the one cent per head less than it was to Canada.
Governments of Ontario and Quebec, not on
Hon. Mr. McCully-What paper do you read
the Dominion.
from?
Hon. Mr. Miller did not concur altogether
Hon. Mr. Ferrier-The Citizen. The article
with the Minister of Marine, but agreed with met my eye while the paper lay upon my
him that the Governments of Ontario and desk, and I resolved upon giving the hon.
Quebec had not done what they ought to have gentleman the benefit of it (laughter).
done in this matter, but that was no reason
Hon. Mr. Robertson had heard everything
why the Senate should resort to an extreme
measure of harshness, calculated to bring dis- for and against the adoption of this report
tress on a large number who were not to with a good deal cf interest and attention. The
blame. He therefore thought the amendment gist of the question lies in this. We have
of this honourable friend (Mr. Letellier) opened a new establishment, and require a
should receive the sanction of the House. It new staff of officers and servants, and are not
had been said that its adoption would destroy bound any more than in private life to take on
the report; he did not believe it would, but if and pay the officers and servants of a former
it did, he would not regret it. What did the owner of the establishment. The officers, who
amendment ask? Only to defer action in the have grown grey, have not grown grey in our
matter till the after part of the session, in service! Since July last we had nothing to do
order that it might be known what the with them. They had been simply hanging
Governments of Quebec and Ontario would be about the House, in expectancy of employwilling to do in relieving the Senate of some ment, and the report stated that some of them
of its officers and servants, and transferring were not wanted. That was the common sense
them to the Local Departments. What objec- view of the matter. He was not going to be
tion could there be to such a course? There mystified by eloquent speeches. We had alwas no need of acting hastily, when a little ready stated that we have the right to fix the
time might relieve them from an unpleasant salaries of our employees, and would any
position. In conclusion he wanted to correct honorable member affirm now that we have
the impression that the honourable gentleman not that right?
who had so forcibly advocated the adoption of
Hon. Mr. Mitchell considered that his honthe report, represented all Nova Scotia. On
the contrary, he believed that honourable ourable friend (Mr. Leteflier) had had the
gentleman would stand alone in the division. opportunity of putting his case very strongly,
He would again assert he was not opposed to but, although he had not been present at the
true economy, but he had no idea that the concoction of the report, he (Mr. Mitchell) had
first attempt at economy under the Dominion come prepared to support every word of it,
should be signalized by what he could only notwithstanding that his honourable friend
term an act of petty spoliation-an act which had asserted that the Committee had reported
he could not do otherwise than unhesitatingly upon a fact, on which they were not required
condemn. If the Senate could not get to report. As for patronage, so far as he
popularity except by such an act, he thought himself was concerned, he did not seek it, and
they could afford to do without it. (Hear, on the part of New Brunswick would withdraw that claimed by the report, and he
hear.)

December 12. 1867

SENATE DEBATES

thought his friends from Nova Scotia would
be prepared to do the same thing; but he
would then ask his friends in the House to
sustain the report, for notwithstanding the
appeals which had been made to their feelings
they had duties to perform; economy in the
public business had become a necessity, and
the representatives of the Maritime Provinces
had come hither also entertaining the belief
that, in the distribution of public employment,
full justice would be done them. He thought if
the report was discarded it would be impossible to justify such a proceeding in the eyes of
the people of the Lower Provinces. But some
honourable gentlemen had even gone so far
as to characterise the report as unfair and
unjust.

adoption of the report. He could not conceive
that, even with a view to the safety of the
Dominion, the adoption of the House to-night,
was desirable. He was decidedly in favour of
the amendment of the hon. member for
Grandville (Mr. Letellier) and would vote for
it, although he would also vote for the report,
when it came up two months hence.

Hon. Mr. Macpherson, as a member of the
committee, begged to say a few words. If the
adoption of the report were the question
before the Senate, he would vote for it, but as
the Hon. Postmaster-General favoured the
postponement of its consideration till the latter part of the session, to afford time for
endeavouring to provide for the parties who
would have to be dismissed, he saw no objecHon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just-The ques- tion to the postponement, especially as it
tion before the House is simply shall the would involve no loss to the country. The
report be adopted now?
gratuities proposed to be allowed would not
be increased by postponement, and therefore
Hon. Mr. Mitchell wanted particularly to he would not object to it.
know if the honorable gentleman (Mr.
The motion being now put, the vote stood
Letellier de St. Just) desired to characterise
thus;
the conduct of his colleagues as unjust?
CONTENTS:

Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just might not in
The Honourable Messieurs
English have sufficiently explained himself,
but he intended to say that a certain line of
Allan, Anderson, Armand, Bill, Bossé,
conduct was not characterised by a sense of Bourinot, Campbell, Cauchon, Chaffers,
fairness or injustice.
Cormier, Crawford, Duchesnay E. H. J., Dumouchel, Ferrier, Guévremont, Hamilton
Hon. Mr. Mitchell enumerated the claims (Inkerman), Holmes, Kenny, Lacoste, Leslie,
upon public sympathy of certain New Bruns- Letellier de St. Just, Locke, McCrea,
wick officials, and asked Mr. Letellier de St. McDonald, Macpherson, Malhiot, Matheson,
Just to withdraw his amendment, and added Miller, Odell, Olivier,
Price, Ryan, Shaw,
that if the report was not now adopted it Skead, Tessier, Wier, Wilmot.-37.
never would be, and he felt it his duty if there
were too many servants to eut them off. He
NON-CONTENTS:
would oppose the amendment if he should
The Honourable Messieurs
stand in a minority.
Aikins, Burnham, Christie, Dickson, Flint,
Hon. Mr. Campbell did not agree with his Foster,
Hamilton
(Kingston),
Leonard,
friend and colleague, (Mr. Mitchell), but con- McClelan, McCully, McMaster,
Mitchell,
sidered that as the report stated that the Reesor,
Robertson,
Seymour,
Simpson,
people of Canada were to pay certain salaries, Wark.-17.
the people of Canada should have something
to say in the matter. He did not perceive the
And at half-past 12 o'clock, the House addire necessity for such absolute haste in the journed.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Friday, Dec. 13, 1867
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock.
After routine,
Hon. Mr. Odell enquired whether any appointments had been made from the Province
of New Brunswick to the vacant seats in the
Senate, and when the Government would be
prepared to announce the same?
Hon. Mr. Mi±chell replied that no appointments had, as yet, been made, it having been
supposed that, at least, one of the gentlemen,
who had refused to take his seat might retract, and that it would, in any case, be
unlikely that gentlemen newly appointed
:ould, at this late stage of the first part of the
session, assume their seats. The Government
would, early in the second part of the session,
announce what had been done.
Hon. Mr. Odell remarked that already five
weeks had elapsed, and no appointments
made, He hoped, that when made, they would
be of men who would be a credit to the
country from which they came.
Hon. Mr. Seymour moved that the second
report of the Contingent Committee be taken
into consideration on the fourth day of the
second part of the session, which was agreed
to.
Hon. Mr. McCuUy drew attention to a rumor to the effect that the contract with the
Cunard Steamship Company for carrying the
mails to Halifax was to cease on the lst of
April, and asked if such were the case? He
also drew the attention of the PostmasterGeneral to the times of departure from Ottawa of the mails for the Maritime Provinces.
It was at present so managed that he got his
letters on Saturday evening, the mails being
closed on Saturday morning, or,, in other
words, letters to which he ought to have
immediately replied, were received six or
eight hours after the mails had closed, and he
could- not post his answers until the foHowing
Wednesday.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said he would make
enquiry, and, if possible, rectify matters. He

December

13, 1867

might mention that a Post Office Inspector
had .been instructed to go over the whole
route between Bangor and Calais, and report
upon it. There had been letters from the
Inspector, but, as yet, no Report, and he (the
Postmaster-General) was of opinion that it
might be found more convenient to have a
well managed daily mail by the valley of the
St. John, altogether through our own territory, as some inconvenience was suffered when
our mails were carried through the United
States territory, as their authorities would not
receive any compensation for carrying the
mails, and the contractors did very much as
they like; as, for instance, when the roads
were bad, tossing off bags-it might be newspapers or letters-and taking them up again
afterwards at their convenience. He intended
to establish a daily lne through our own
territory. With regard to the Cunard steamships discontinuing their trips to Halifax in
April next, he certainly had heard such a
rumor; but nothing official had been received
from the English Government to that effect.
The latest information was that the service
would cease on the 30th of June next.
Hon. Mr. Aikins drew the attention of the
Hon. Postmaster-General to the fact, that in
the copy of the Postal Service Regulation Bill,
the clause in the printed copy of the Bill
printed by the Commons, contained a clause
with regard to the registration of letters, net
as it had been amended by the Senate, but as
it was before such amendment had been made
at all.
Hon. Mr. Campbell explained that the Bill
had been sent down in blank, and the blanks
filled up by the Commons, and that the unaltered red-ink clause (so to speak) was the
result of a clerical error, caused by some
writing of his own in the margin of a Bill
from which certain copies had been printed,
in proof of which the original Bill, as sent
down, was laid upon the table, and the mattër
dropped.
The unlawful training to the use of Arms
Prevention Bill, was read a second time and
vrdered for-Comnittee on Monday next.
The Lawless Aggression Protection Bill,
and the Canadian Navigation Company's Bill
were similarly disposed of.

SENATE DEBATES

December 16, 1867

THE SENATE
Monday, 161h Dec.
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved that the time for
presenting petitions be extended to the 10th
day of the next part of the present session.
Hon. Mr. Allen in presenting the Report of
the Standing Committee stated it contained a
recommendation to purchase 100 copies of Mr.
Todd's latest edition of "The Parliamentary
Manual."
Hon. Mr. Seymour presented the third
Report of the Select Committee on Contingencies, showing the Clerk's disbursements for
the House, which is to be considered to-morrow.
The Canadian Navigation Company's Bill
was amended, read a third time and passed.
The Hon. Mr. Aikins complained that this
Bill, in which some changes had been made,
was disposed of before it was possible for him
to note them. He looked upon such hasty
legislation as offering a dangerous precedent.
Hon. Mr. Campbell explained that there
were only a few unimportant verbal alterations, of which he gave example, and the
House was satisfied.
Hon. Mr. Burnham presented the sixth
Report of the Committee on Printing, and
moved that it be taken into consideration
tomorrow.
Hon. Mr. Campbell gave notice that he
would move tomorrow that, for the future,
there should be two sittings of the House
daily-one at three in the afternoon, and the
other at half-past seven in the evening.
The consideration of the Fourth Report of
the Printing Committee was postponed until
Wednesday next.

Hon. Mr. Tessier-Might not Wednesday be
too late?
Hon. Mr. Campbell said there was no hope
of being adjourried on that day.
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the second reading of the "Lawless Aggression Protection
Bill."

Hon. Mr. Tessier had no desire to prevent
the second reading of the Bi, but he wanted
to know how long it was proposed that, after
the Bill had become law, the Act should
remain in force. The measure was of an
exceptional nature and not necessary in
peaceable times. As he understood the principles of the British Constitution, such measures could not have a permanent character,
and he thought, in the interest of public
liberty, a limit should be set upon them.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said there was really no
interference whatever with the liberty of the
subject. The Bill only aimed at the suppression of Lawless Aggression, and such a law
had, indeed, been in force in Upper Canada
since 1837. There could be no reason why
persons coming from a foreign country with
hostile intentions, and who committed acts of
aggression and hostihity, should not be summarily tried and immediately dealt with. The
application of this act was quite a different
thing from that implied by the suspension of
the Habeas Corpus Act, as might readily be
inferred, and although there was no disposition to make it a permanent act, no very great
harm could occur if it really were so.
The Lawless Aggression Protection Bill was
then read a third time and passed; and also
the Unlawful Training to the use of Arms'
Prevention Bill, after which
The House adjourned until tomorrow at
three o'clock.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
_____was

Tuesday, 171h December.
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock.
Afterthe
ASte rouineCanada
Hon. Mr. McDougall brought a message
from the House of Commons, stating that the
House had passed an Address to Her Majesty
on the subject of Rupert's Land and the
North-western Territory, and requesting concurrent action.
His Honour the Speaker, said that an
answer would be sent by message.
The amended rules were adopted.
Two messages, with the following Bills,
were received from the House of Commons:
To incorporate the St. Lawrence and Ottawa Railway Company.
An Act for the settlement of the affairs of
the Bank of Upper Canada.
Hon. Mr. Blair moved the resolutions on
the subject of the incorporation of Rupert's
Land and the North-western Territory with
Canada, and the resolutions were read.
Hon. Mr. Tessier was not disposed to agree
to the resolutions. The acquisition of such a
territory was not by any means a desirable,
being much beyond the means of Canada,
composed as she now was of four Provinces,
and with a population under, rather than
over, 4,000,000. By the acquisition of Rupert's
Land and the Northwestern Territory, Canada
would have under control an immense territory, fertile in mineral wealth, fertile in the
productiveness of the soil, and abounding in
water powers, navigable streams, and all that
contributes to the making of a great civilized
country. But it would be necessary to establish laws, to keep up a civil and military force
to carry such laws into effect, and to proitect
the country from external aggression, to reap
any real benefit from the possession of such
territory. There was certainly no present inducement for so great an outlay as the acquisition of this territory would involve, and the
indebtedness of Canada proper $8,000,000, or
rather of the whole Dominion, $24,000,000,
should not prompt the statesmen of this Dominion to immediately possess themselves of a
country chiefly occupied by savages, and
which for years yet, and under any circumstances, can only be used as a hunting ground.
There could be only one object to acquiring
sucw a territory at present, tte desire to have

December 17, 1867

a Northwest extension of terrttory. And if this
the desire, why did not England possess
herseif of the country? She was wealthy and
could afford to defray the cost of Government,
civil or military, while Canada ýcould not.
The acquisition of the territory would be
source of jealousy between the people o
and the United States. They would
look upon it as a menace. One great objection
to the acquirement of this territory, however,
was that we could nat keep it if we had it.
Gen. Michel has stated that it could not be
defended, and it is as easily accessible from
he United States as from Canada. The question arises, if we get it what shah we do with
it? He yielded in loyalty to the Queen's present Government to no man, but he thought
that the acquisition of Rupert's Land and the
Northwestern Territory at this early period in
the history of te Dominion, was not at al
desirable, nor likely to increase the power and
prosperity of this country.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson considered the acquisition of Rupert's Land and te Northwest
Territory as the most important matter tat
had come under the consideration of he
House, with te single exception of Confederation itself. It was the only vast tract of
land on tis continent which. was offered to
us, and must be accepted now or neyer. The
country was rich in everything, and as for not
being defensible, it was as much so as many
parts of Canada.
Hon. Mr Eyan stated that General Michel
had asserted that he Western Peninsula, he
might say from Montreal upwards, was perfectiy defensible.
M Letellier de St. Jus complained
hon
r
matter
the discussion
s gae
a tterha
t beiowd
an
an
acquisiton of te
tetor
o noe
an
epnitee
Mar. Mr. Aflan tought tat the subject was
one wffch had been long before te House
and the public, spoken or debated on, and
written about. He was exceedingly opposed to
keeping ever before them that horrible bugbear, te United States; but one thing was
certain, if te Dominion did not acquire te
territory, te United States, by some means or
other, wouid.
Hon. Mr. Campbell was surprised that
the honourable gentleman opposite (Mr.
Leteler de St. Just) should have supposed
that only a
,inited
time had been alowed for

December 17, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

the discussion of this matter. The subject had
been long before the public through the press,
and had been under consideration before
Confederation had been accomplished. The
extension of British territory westward was
one of the inducements to the people of Ontario to agree to Confederation, and yet some
Lower Canadian gentlemen seemed to see
danger in this western extension, forgetting,
probably, that to the commercial enterprise
and religious zeal of their forefathers the first
knowledge of these wilds and of the vast
region of the Miss'ssippi was due. He hoped
they had not degenerated, but were still desirous to penetrate into those vast, distant, but
fertile and wealthy regions, and so open them
up to relgion and civilization. It was a country that could feed millions. The climate was
so m ld that the buffalo and domestic cattle
spend their winters out of doors. The Hudson's Bay Company could not claim a grant
made to Prince Rupert, and they, indeed,
knew that they could not. The cost to Government would be infinitely less than the
honourable member (Mr. Letellier) anticipated, and at all events, it was the desire of the
Government that it should be acquired.
Hon. Mr. Wark took an interest in the
question, under the belief that whatever benefitted part of the Dominion must benefit the
whole. He remembered the outcry that was
made when the construction of the Erie Canai
was spoken of, and he knew the results of that
gigantic enterprise in which more than ordinary foresight was manifested. When that
great work was begun Toronto seemed as far
from Halifax as the Saskatchewan does now.
That work d'd more for the Atlantic States
than any scheme that could have been devised. It made way for a redundant population, and it gave business to the seaboard-a
business wh'ch they had not previously
dreamed of. He had heard with pain, allusion
made to a probable difficulty with the United
States, arising out of the acquisition of this
territory. The people of that country knew too
well the consequences of a war with England
to hastily beg'n one. They knew that England
was never so powerful at sea as she now was,
and they knew that their seaboard was open
to attack and their commerce to interruption.
Hon. Mr. Holmes spoke of the progress
which British North America had made during his time. Sixty-four years ago there was
not a footpath from Halifax to PIctou, while
now the whole country is intersected by railroads and canals, and every river and lake
99267-0

made navigable. Canada, Nova Scotia, and
New Brunswick were wood countries, their
men being literally born with axes in their
hands, and it was the surplus population of
these countries who would emigrate to Rupert's Land, and would literally make the wilderness blossom as the rose.
Hon. Mr. Reesor-The question before the
Senate is of a very important character. It
contemplates nothing less than the annexation
of half a continent to the Dominion. Although
the discussion of this question in another
branch of the Legislature has exbausted to
some extent the interest taken in it by hon.
members, there are nevertheless arguments in
favour of acquiring the Northwest territory,
that have not yet been presented. Since the
really better portions of our Canadian lands
have been taken up and settled, we find many
of our young men moving with the stream of
immigration from Europe into the rich valleys
of the Western States. But in that region,
there is extending from Texas, in the South,
to British territory, in the North, an immense
belt of comparatively barren plains in many
places, nearly 500 miles in width, extending in
some places from the Rocky Mountains in the
West, nearly to the Missouri River in the East,
which offers little or no inducements for settiement. While, if we may judge the rate of
immigration to the United States in the future
from the past, fifteen years will not elapse
before all of their really good lands shall have
been occupied. Now, if this be true, and no
one who has given this subject serious consideration can doubt it, then it must follow that
other more arable tracts of land will be sought
after. This plain which extends from Texas
through New Mexico, Kansas, Nebraska, and
thence to the source of the Mississippi, narrows down to small dimensions when it reaches the 49th parallel of latitude; and when
it extends north between Shoal Lake and Fort
Garry is less than 100 miles in width. While
the immense valleys of the Red River, the
Assiniboine, and the North Branch of the
Saskatchewan, present a region of arable land
over 1,200 miles in length, and from 100 to 300
miles in width, of land unsurpassed on this
continent in fertility of soil, a very large
portion of which is open prairie, beautifully
diversified with woodlands, and well watered.
But the agricultural capabilities of this region
are not all. Professor Hynd reports inexhaustible coal fields in that region, of a quality
equal to the best English coal. But while the
soil is rich and varied, it can be cultivated
without having first to remove a forest of

SENATE DEBATES
trees, and while the climate is of the North
temperate zone, it is favourable to the production in great abundance of all the more
valuable cereals, while it is even more favourable to the productions of the better qualities
of wool than the regions further South. An
inexhaustible supply of beef could easily be
produced in a country where the Buffalo
roam in thousands nearly all seasons of the
year. Add to these the vast mineral regions,
and we have at once combined the resources
to supply the raw material for the most
valuable manufacturing industry, and this
in a country with an inexhaustible supply
of coal. Who then can doubt the natural
resources of the Northwest territory and
Rupert's Land. But it is objected that this
region is not accessible? I answer then
that it should be made accessible. Our
means of communication are now so far perfect, that at any time during the season of
inland navigation a steamer may leave
Halifax, pass up the St. Lawrence and our
beautiful chain of lakes to the head of Lake
Superior without breaking bulk. What have
we then? Simply to construct two hundred
miles of overland road, and with a chain of
navigable lakes and rivers of 300 miles more,
including all the crooks and turns, we are at
Fort Garry, the commencement of this valuable agricultural territory. With a good road
into this territory, and the better qualities of
the wild lands of the United States settled,
can any one doubt that the tide of immigration
will flow to the valley of the Saskatchewan
and that a population will spread over that
region as rapidily as it has hitherto extended
over the prairies of Illinois. But the Northwest
possesses another advantage, that of an easy
pass through the Rocky Mountains to the
Pacific Coast in British Columbia. The
American Railway, now in course of construction on the overland route to California,
passes over the Rocky Mountains at an elevation of over eight thousand feet above the

December 17, 1867

level of the Pacific; while the pass on this
range of mountains, in latitude 52, is only
about three thousand feet above the Pacific, a
difference of about five thousand feet in favor
of the route through British territory. Indeed,
so slight is the elevation in this Northern
pass, that the explorers did not believe they
had reached the mountain range until they
had found themselves on the other side. On
this route the extensive Chilcotin-Plain is
reached, and a level valley to Waddington
harbour, head of Bute inlet; or tide water
navigation on the Pacific. With such a region
of country available for settlement, and once a
part of the Dominion, and with the immense
timber regions now available in the rear of
the settled portions of Canada, which will yet
settle the backbone of this country-with millions of acres in Ontario yet unsettled-every
way as good in climate and soil, superior to
the New England States. Can any one despair
of the future of the Dominion? Need anyone
doubt that before twenty years elapse a railway will connect the Atlantic and Pacific
through British territory? Why then do the
honourable gentlemen try to belittle the importance and prospects of this country or
make the claims of the Hudson's Bay Company
a bar to our going into possession of the North
West? The Hudson's Bay Company must first
establish their claims before they can be paid,
but at most, or even at their own estimate, the
cost would be a mere bagatell compared with
the commercial value of this territory or its
great importance to the Dominion in a national point of view. No greater mistake could
be made than refuse this magnificent addition
to our Dominion, while it may be had almost
as a free gift.
The resolution was concurred in and an
Address, in accordance therewith, sent to the
House of Commons for concurrence.
The House then adjourned until three
o'clock to-morrow.

SENATE DEBATES

December 18, 1867

THE SENATE
Wednesday. Dec. 18. 1867
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
After routine,
The Upper Canada Bank Settlement Bill,
and the St. Lawrence and Ottawa Railway
Company Bill were passed without amendment.

money came from England, and it took time
and trouble to get it. The road, short as it was,
had to cross two rivers and a canal-the
Rideau River, the Rideau Canal, and the Ottawa River.
Hon. Mr. Skead did not, however, move any
amendment, and the Bill was passed as it
stood.

Hon. Mr. Campbell moved that copies of the
proceedings of the Senate be sent, as an act of
courtesy, to gentlemen, not members of the
Hon. Mr. Skead objected to that part of the Senate, who had been members of the former
St. Lawrence and Ottawa Railway Bill which Legislative Council of Canada, which was
allows 5 years to commence and 10 years to agreed to, nomine contradicente.
complete the Chaudiere extension of the road,
Hon. Mr. Ryan moved for a return to an
and desired, in the interests of the lumber address for copies of all correspondence betrade, that 3 years should be allowed to com- tween the Minister of Marine and Fisheries
mence and 5 years to complete.
and the Boards of Trade and Harbour ComHon. Mr. Allan said the matter had been missioners of Montreal and Quebec, since 1st
most carefully considered by the Committee July last.
The third report of the Select Committee on
on Banking, Commerce and Railways; that it
was to the interest of the Company to push on Contingent Accounts was adopted.
matters as quickly as possible; and when the
The consideration of the fourth report of
time allowed was too limited there were in- the Printing Committee was deferred till the
variably applications for an extension of time, third day of the next part of the session.
which were as invariably granted.
The sixth report on printing was adopted.
Hon. Mr. Ferrier said that time was reThe Senate then adjourned till 3 o'clock
quired because money was required. The tomorrow.

99267--91

SENATE DEBATES

December 19, 1867

Hon. Mr. Ryan desired to know if the hon.
member had satisfied himself as to the truth
of the immediate cause of the dismissal of
these persons. As the hon. gentleman had
Thursday, Dec. 19, 1867
referred to newspaper statements, he might be
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock. permitted to say that from a similar source of
information he had learned that some regisAfter routine,
tered letters with money in them had disapThe Customs Bill was considered in Com- peared during the time of manipulation of
mittee of the Whole-Hon. Ferrier in the letters, generally by these dismissed clerks
Chair.
and it was supposed that they might have had
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just complained a hand in such disappearances.
that he had not seen a copy of the Bill, and
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just had the
that the legislation was proceeded with in too authority of a highly respectable gentleman in
hasty a manner.
Montreal for the statement that the PostHon. Mr. Aikins similarly expressed him- master had, on phrenological ground only,
caused the dismissals in question.
self.
Hon. Mr. Flint would suggest the inauguraHon. Mr. Campbell stated that the Bill had
been printed and distributed as quickly as tion of a new department, of which the
possible, to afford every facility to hon. mem- Postmaster at Montreal might become the
bers to inform themselves concerning it. It chief, to be called the Phrenological Bureau.
merely extended to the Dominion that which,
Hon. Mr. Campbell (smiling)-Phrenology
in the matter of Customs, had belonged to the has not yet become a test of capacity in the
present Provinces of Ontario and Quebec; and Post Office Department. Certain dismissals
that it would be a pity to take up time in had taken place on account of irregularities,
discussing the subject now, as it was intended which, in the interest of the public, it was
to get through to-morrow.
necessary to guard against. Two officers, on
duty at particular hours, were suspected of
The Bill passed.
improper practices, and many letters having
Hon. Mr. Skead moved that the expenses in disappeared while they were on duty, and not
fees, &c., incurred for the Bill to incorporate at other times, nor afterwards, they were
the Intercolonial Insurance Company be re- dismissed. While on the subject of the Post
funded, as action upon it had been postponed Office, he might say, in reply to an inquiry by
till a decision had been arrived at on a the Hon. Mr. Robertson, not now here, that he
constitutional question.
had received a letter yesterday, intimating
Hon. Mr. Campbell was understood to say that letters from New Brunswick and Nova
that if the Bill was withdrawn the expenses Scotia could now be sent direct to the West
for printing, &c., might have to be paid; but if Indies via New York.
laid over merely, the usual charges must
The Inland Revenue Bill was then read a
necessarily be exacted.
first time and ordered to be read a second
Hon. Mr. Skead did not withdraw the Bill.
time at the next sitting.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just would ask
The House then adjourned till half-past
the Hon. Postmaster-General if it were true seven o'clock.
that a phrenological examination had been
made by the Postmaster of Montreal of the
AFTER RECESS
heads of three of the officials in his office, and
that having found their heads ill-formed, he
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the House into
had dismissed them? It had been so stated in Committee of the Whole on the Inland
several United States newspapers, and he Revenue Bill, and in doing so stated that the
wanted to know if phrenology was to be the only change in excise made by the BIl was
test by which the capacities of Post Office equalizing the amount of excise on beer and
Clerks were in future to be determined. On
account of this rumor the people of Canada malt, and placing a license fee of $100 to $200
had been laughed at, and he wanted to know on brewers, with the view of making the
what was to be done. Is this mode of trial to collection of the revenue easier, and as operating against frauds.
be persisted in or not?

THE SENATE

December 19, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Wilmo regretted that the course
of legislation pursued by the Government during the present Session was one that he disapproved of, and he feared that the people of the
Maritime Provinces would also disapprove of
it, and as he would not be here to divide the
House on the tariff, he would now take the
opportunity of expressing his opinions on the
subject. The present bill was establishing a
new mode of taxation hitherto unknown in
New Brunswick; not only duties of excise
were imposed, but many charges for licences
in addition to the duties; stamps were hitherto
unknown in New Brunswick and the tax of
one per cent on the bank circulation, simply
meant an increase of interest to the borrowers. The changes in the tariff were to him
equally obnoxious; taking duties off manufactures, and other articles that had hitherto paid
duty, and placing them on the necessaries of
life, such as tea, sugar, molasses, and other
articles that were consumed by the mass of
the people, was in his opinion a movement in
the wrong direction; the best proof of it was
that the members from New Brunswick in the
House Commons had almost unanimously voted against the Government on the question,
but what he particularly regretted was that
the predictions of those opposed to Union in
New Brunswick were likely to be realized by
the policy of the Government, and the arguments made use of by the Minister of Customs
and others, that Confederation would not impose heavier charges on the people of the
Lower Provinces, would be completely falsified. When the late Minister of Finance
reduced the duties on manufactures in accordance with what he supposed to be the opinions
of the people in the Maritime Provinces, he
must have got his information from importers,
and not from the farmers, mechanics, and
manufacturers, and while the duty of three
per cent. was taken off articles used in shipbuilding, which, when imposed to meet the
interest on the railway debt, and which leading ship-builders at the time advocated, now
a duty of fifteen per cent. was imposed on
the pitch, pine, and oak timber which entered
so largely into the construction of our first
class ships. He thought the policy was in
many respects similar to that pursued in
Great Britain, where there was a great accumulation of capital, and great perfection in
machinery, but was not one adopted to a
young country like ours. We had within the
Dominion all the elements of wealth that
could exist in a temperate climate, and a wise
and patriotic policy which would give employment to the productive labour of the country

would make it prosper-but the practice of
recurring deficits in the Revenue, and borrowing money abroad, while we possessed in
the Dominion fourteen hundred millions of
dollars of invested and taxable property,
and an annual production of two hundred
and fifty millions of dollars of raw products, in addition to the value of manufactures-should, under a wise system of finance,
render us independent either of any bank in
this country or of financial agents abroad, for
the maintenance of our public -credit. Parliament had now been in session six weeks, and
for the first four or five weeks we had nothing
to do, and now at the close we are merely
called upon to register the action of the
Government without either seeing measures
of the greatest importance, or having either
time or opportunity to discuss or decide upon
their merits. He felt that a great responsibility
rested upon him for the course he had taken
relative to Confederation, and he regretted
that no member of the Government has since
his arrival, either spoken to or advised with
him with regard to any of these measures, and
he certainly thought that as by the course he
had pursued, he represented numbers who
had been opposed to the Quebec Scheme, that
this amount of courtesy at least should have
been extended to him, particularly as he had
had over twenty years experience in legislation. There was one subject before sitting
down, that with the permission of the House
he wished to explain. Hon. members might
recollect some correspondence that had passed
between the Hon. Minister of the Board of
Works, Mr. McDougall, and himself, relative
to what had occured between him (Mr. McD.)
and the Hon. George Brown, at a public
meeting held in Whitby during the late election. Mr. McDougall had charged Mr. Brown,
with having condemned the delegates from
Canada for having made concessions to the
Maritime Provinces, beyond what was authorized by the terms of the Quebec Scheme,
when he (Mr. B) was the person who had
agreed to changes being made, while a member of the Government, but without the authority of his colleagues, which Mr. Brown
denied, and Mr. McDougall gave my name
among others as his authority. At the request
of Mr. McDougall he (Mr. W.) had written to
him with his remarks on what had passed
between Mr. Brown and himself. When he
(Mr. W.) came to Canada in 1865 as a member
of the Council of Trade, he was opposed to the
Quebec Scheme, and while favorable to the
abstract proposition of Union he did not approve of either the Federal system or re-

SENATE DEBATES
presentation by population. Mr. Brown was
very anxious that he should entertain the
subject, and in his conversations with him
said, that no Union could be brought about
without those principles were admitted. He
(Mr. W.) further stated that he was not satisfied with the financial arrangements, and
gave his reasons for saying so, and on this
point Mr. Brown said the Canadian Government would be prepared to meet fairly the
objections of the people of New Brunswick,
and he (Mr. W.) was surprised at the charges
brought by Mr. Brown, or rather by the Globe
newspaper, against the delegates from Canada
for having assented to them. In this letter to
Mr. McDougall he gave the tenor of his conversations on this subject with Mr. Brown,
but he further said that at the conference in
London when the subject came up, he put the
question to the Chairman of the Conference,
Sir John A. Macdonald, whether Mr. Brown
had been authorized by his colleagues in the
Government to discuss the subject of
modification in the Quebec Scheme with him
(Mr. W.) and Sir John stated that Mr. Brown
was so authorized. What he had to complain
of was that that portion of his letter to Mr.
McDougall which referred to this matter had
been suppressed, and when Mr. Brown, in a
letter addressed to him in the columns of the
Globe, considered that he had not acted with
courtesy in writing to Mr. McDougall, without
first submitting the subject matter to him, he
had only to say that the report of what had
been said at the Whitby meeting was published in the Globe, substantially the same as
in the report forwarded him by Mr.
MeDougall, but that instead of entering into a
newspaper controversy, he had determined in
his place in Parliament to make the explanations which he now had done.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell thought it would have
been only fair to have called the attention of
the Hon. Commissioner of Public Works to the
occasion of such a passage in his (Mr. Wilmot's) letter before submitting the matter to
the House. Doubtlessly the omission had been
accidental, not intentional. He considered that
his distinguished friend had been uncourteous.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot-Perhaps his remarks
were uncourteous, but they were true.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell had seen the Commissioner of Public Works, who denied the story,
and there must be some mistake. He had
possibly altered a word or two in Mr. Wilmot's letter to make English of it, but so no
alteration had been made with any other

December 19, 1867

view. His colleague in the Government had,
however, assured him that he had no recollection of such an alteration. His friend had been
speaking from memory and might be mistaken. Why did he not produce the letter? It was
not a little curious that one of his (Mr.
Mitchell's) first attempts at economy had been
checkmated by his hon. friend. He was going
home to-morrow for Christmas, and if there
was hurried legislation, who was to blame?
Several Members-What is the matter
before the House? This has no reference to
Inland Revenue.
Hon. Mr. Miller joined with the hon. members from Victoria and Toronto (Messrs. Ryan
and Macpherson) in protesting against the
hurried manner in which such important laws
as those relating to the Revenue were being
rushed through the Senate, and while willing
to make every allowance for the peculiar
circumstances of this session, trusted the same
thing would not occur again. The Tariff Bills
contained provisions affecting important
branches of trade in Nova Scotia with which
he had no practical acquaintance, and it was
not fair to call on him and others to deal with
them until they had a chance of communicating with those interested. They could now
only permit the bills to pass and during the
recess of Parliament could learn the feelings
of their Provinces, and come back prepared to
advocate the policy most favourable to the
whole country. He was sorry to hear the
remarks of his hon. friend (Mr. Wilmot) to
which he had chiefiy risen to refer, because he
could not understand how any friend of Union, especially one who had taken part in
bringing about that measure, should so soon
lose faith in the result. Union had not yet
had even the beginning of a trial, and the
remarks of his honourable friend would help
to deprive it of such a trial, by strengthening its enemies and weakening its friends.
They should not allow slight disappointments
of any kind to interrupt their course, when
the success of the great project of Union
was concerned. However much they might
differ on some things, the Government should
on the main question have all the support
they could consistently give them. One hon.
member (Mr. Wilmot) said nothing had been
done this session to which the people could
look with satisfaction. He could not understand such an observation, when two such
important measures as those providing for
the construction of the Intercolonial Railway and the admission of the North Western
territory into the Union had been successfully grappled with by Parliament. On both

December 19, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

these subjects the Government had shown
themselves true to the question of Union,
and he did not think it fair unnecessarily
to carp against them, when everything did
not please hon. members. He (Mr. Miller)
never expected to receive all the benefits
which he believed would ultimately flow from
Union for nothing, and whoever did deserved
to be disappointed. Mr. Miller then went on to
show how New Brunswick had less to complain of in regard to the new tariff than Nova
Scotia, while the people of that Province
would derive immense benefit from the construction of the railway, and the expenditure
of millions of dollars in that Province, which
would have the greatest extent of road and
pay the least of the cost of all the Provinces.
He then refered to the condition of Nova
Scotia, and showed how without Union, the
construction of the Pictou and Annapolis
Railways, and other Public Works, would
have necessitated an increase in the ad valorem duties there to at least fifteen per cent,
and then they would not have the intercolonial highway, secured by Union. Under
the present system there were some items of
taxation that would be obnoxious to their
people, but it should not be forgotten that
they had received a great concession in the
Maritime Provinces, by the placing of ship
chandlery on the free list. Besides that many
articles which used to pay ten per cent ad
valorem in Nova Scotia were free by the tariff
of Canada. He expected in the next session
some alterations would be made that would
render this tariff fuIly acceptable to the

Maritime Provinces. He hoped we would deal
broadly with all these great questions however
much we might differ on minor ones, and give
the Government a fair trial in maturing the
great scheme of Union. He again regretted the
hurried manner in which the bills had to go
through the Committee, and hoped the like
would not occur again.
Hon. Mr. Campbefl explained that all such
bills necessarily originated in the House of
Commons, they belonged especially to that
Branch of the Legislature, and lingered there,
and it was always the case that bills of this
sort were suffered to pass through the Upper
Branch of the Legislature easily.
Hon. Mr. Aikins did not like to make a
burlesque of legislation.
The Inland Revenue Act was adopted without amendment, and passed.
The Supply Bill was read a first time, and is
to be read a second time at the next sitting of
the House.
The Act imposing duties on promissory
notes was read a first time, and will be read a
second time at the next session of the House.
The Bill to make the Auditor General an
officer of the Parliament, and not to allow,
except in emergencies, the expenditure of any
moneys without the express authority of
Parliament-balances to be always written off
on the 30th June yearly-was read a third
time and passed.
The Board of Works Bill was also passed.
The House then adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Friday. Dec. 20, 1867
The Speaker took the Chair at three o'clock.
After routine
The Supply Bill, the Promissory Note Bil,
the Customs Tariff, and the Intercolonial
Railway Bills were read a first time, and ordered for a second reading at the evening
sitting.
The House then adjourned.
EVENING SITTING
The Customs Bil being about to be passed
Hon. Mr. Ryan contended that an unclean
spirit must have actuated the Government in
the matter of the West Indian produce and
French brandies.
Hon. Mr. Campbell stated that the intentions of the Government were to deal as
fairly as possible with West Indian and French
productions, and that as regarded the imposition of duties on spirits, the greatest care had
been taken to place foreign manufactured
spirits on the same footing as home manufactured spirits-to equalize excise and duties.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson objected to the duty
imposed on breadstuffs as unsound in principle and unwise in policy. He thought that
when it was imposed it was done hastily and
under some degree of irritation consequent on
the repeal of the Reciprocity Treaty. He
thought that anything bearing the semblance
of retaliation ought to be avoided. Confederation afforded an excellent opportunity of
wiping out that blot on our legislation, and he
had hoped that that opportunity would have
been embraced.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell rose to make explanations in reply to the hon. member from Victoria (Mr. Ryan). He thought that the allusions to the policy of France were very
farfetched.
An Act concerning Banks, from the House
of Commons, the object which is to place al
the Banks of the Dominion on an equal footing, was read a second time, then a third time
and passed.
The Bill for the construction of the Intercolonial Railroad, by which Commissioners
are to be appointed to deal with contractors,

December 20. 1887

who are to be responsible to the Government
and Parliament for the construction of the
road, was read a second time.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just said that he
found great fault with the Government in not
defining their policy in reference to the route
of the Intercolonial Railway, and putting it on
the bill-they should have done so-numerous petitions have been presented in favour
of the Northern route and all on one side, not
one against it. The press and the representatives of the people had spoke out in the most
decided terms in favour of the adoption of the
Major Robinson route, and a large majority of
the other House, as well as this, was in its
favour, and he could not but think that the
Government should have at once declared
their policy and selected it, as he was sure
they would not in the face of public opinion
select any other.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell begged to say in reply to
the remarks of his hon. friend, when he
charged the Government with not having inserted in the bill now under consideration of
the House, the particular route which the
Intercolonial Railway should take, that had
they done so, they would have committed a
grave mistake. Did his hon. friend forget that
the Imperial Act which provides for the guarantee of the money for the construction of
the road, requires that the route selected shall
be sanctioned by one of Her Majesty's principal Secretaries of State, and his hon. friend
would perceive, that if the Government had
selected the Major Robinson route, or the
Frontier route, or any of the dozen Central
routes which have been projected, and if it
did not meet the approval of that official, that
they would have had to refer the whole matter back to the Legislatures at the suceeding
session for their action, and thus delay the
determination of the route for a whole year, if
not more.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just said he did
not object that the route was not fixed in the
bill, but that the Government had not a policy in reference to the route, and if they had
they should have announced it to the House.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell was glad that his hon.
friend had explained that he did not wish the
route defined in the bill, and that he had
recognized the force of the arguments which
had influenced the Government in framing it,
but he would tell his hon. friend that he was
again wrong in supposing that the Government held his policy on this great measure.

Decemiber 20, 1867

SENATE DEBATES

The Government had a policy based on national interest, and a desire to select that line
which would meet with the approval of the
people, and be of the greatest service to the
Dominion. The hon. gentleman had stated that
the people had given expression to their
wishes on this matter in unmistakable terms,
and though numerous and influential petitions from all parts of Quebec and all of
which seem to be in favour of one line; that
a large majority of the people were in favour
of that line, and that they should long since
have avowed their selection. Does my hon.
friend not see how inconsistent he is, and
how unfair it would have been on the part of
the Government he condemns, if they had
thus prematurely decided five weeks ago, the
information they possessed as to the wishes
of the people would not have been as ample
as it is today and had a policy been then
announced, they could not have had the
benefit of the able discussions which had
been elicited in an other place; nor felt
the force of the expressions of the people
in the numerous petitions which were now
on the table of the Senate. They would
have failed to obtain in aiding them in
that decision, the valuable opinions which
had been drawn from the press from one
end of this Dominion to the other, nor
would they have witnessed in their columns

99267-10

a degree of unanimity which the hon. gentleman had truly characterized as remarkable.
He was not going at present to express an
opinion in his place here, whether the conclusion at which his hon. friend had arrived was
correct or not, that the Northern route was
the right one. He would take the right time to
give his opinion on that point but this he
would say, that the policy of the Government,
on this matter, was to keep faith with the
Maritime Provinces, and lose no time that
could be avoided, and permit no obstacles to
stand in the way of the construction of that
great work, the completion of which alone
would tend to make our revenue more perfect,
and he had no fear that when the Government
announced their policy that it would be one
that would approve itself to the judgment of
disinterested men in al parts of the Dominion.
Hon. Mr. Skead was delighted at the statement of the Minister of Marine and Fisheries.
The Bill was read a third time and passed.
The House adjourned during pleasure.
After some time the House was resumed.
A message was brought from the House of
Commons by their Clerk, to return the Bill,
intituled "An Act for the Regulation of the
Postal Service," which was passed as amended
by the Commons. The House adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE

March 12, 1868

FIRST READINGS.

Hon. Mr. Campbell introduced a Bill respecting commissions and oaths of allegiance,
Thursday, March 12, 1868
and of office.
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
Also a BiH respecting the security to be
given by officers of Canada.
MEMBERS SWORN.
Hon. Mr. Campbell then moved that out of
Hon. Messrs. John Ross, (Ontario), and T. D. respect to the memory of the late Hon. FerArchibald, (Nova Scotia), were sworn, and gusson Blair, of whose most estimable qualitook their seats, as did also the Hon. J. C. ties as a man he spoke in the very highest
Chapais, recently appointed in the place of terms, when the Senate adjourns, it do stand
Mr. Bossé, Quebec.
adjourned until Monday.
The Clerk reported that the following offiHon. Mr. Christie seconded the motion, and
cers of the Senate had left its employment paid a tribute to the memory of his deceased
since last meeting:-John Walsh, Permanent friend. Their acquaintance dated back to boyClerk; Joseph Garon, Sessional Clerk, and hood, for they had been school mates, and the
Samuel Fraser, Sessional Messenger.
friendship then formed had lasted through
life. He was sure the Senate would willingly
NOTICES OF MOTION.
pay the tribute to his memory as proposed by
the Hon. Postmaster-General.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just gave notice
that on Monday next he would move an
Hon. Letellier de St. Just spoke in support
amendment to the report of the Committee on of the motion, and referred to the excellent
Contingencies, that the scale of salaries to be qualities and honourable character of the
adopted be that agreed to in 1864, and that the deceased Senator.
reduction in the staff of the Senate be prosThe motion was carried unanimously, and
pective only, and shah not apply to the present officers.
thereafter the Senate adjourned.

THE SENATE

of the bar in the Parliament Building, and
expressing the hope that the said bar would
not be reopened.

Monday, March 16, 1868
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.

GOVERNMENT

BILLS

Hon. Mr. Campbell introduced a Bill respecting publie inquiries by commissioners;
also a Bill respecting AIiens and Naturalization.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell, the
Officers' Security Bill was read a second
time. This Bill, he explained, was for the
extension over the whole Dominion of the
Mr. Benson, who was present, was sworn in provisions of the Act hitherto in force in
and took his seat; he was introduced by Quebec and Ontario.
Messrs. Campbell and Mitchell.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell, another
of the Bills in force in the late Province of
TEMPERANCE
Canada, that concerning commissions and
Hon. Mr. Ferrier presented a petition from oaths of office, made applicable to the
the Montreal Temperance Society, expressing Dominion of Canada was read a second time.
the gratification of the signers at the closing
The Senate then adjourned.
The Speaker stated that the following
gentlemen had been summoned to the
Senate:-Mr. J. Dever, of St. John, N.B.;
Mr. J. Glasier, of Sudbury, N.B., in place of
Mr. E. S. Chandler, who declined the appointment; Mr. J. R. Benson, St. Catharines,
in place of Mr. Fergusson Blair, deceased.

SENATE DEBATES

March 16, 1868

THE SENATE

OFFICIAL REPORTS OF DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Miller said that in the previous
part of the session the subject of procuring
an official report of the debates of this House
Tuesday, March 17, 1868
had been referred to committee, and he would
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock. desire to know whether any action had been
taken by them on the matter, and what
probability there was of the scheme of an
OFFICERS' SECURITY BILL
official report being carried out.
The House went into Committee of the
Hon. Mr. Macpherson as chairman of the
Whole on Mr. Campbell's Officers Security
sub-committee to whom the matter had been
Bill. Mr. Steeves in the chair.
referred, stated in reply that the committee
The committee rose and reported the bill had postponed action in the matter awaiting
with amendments, and the bill was ordered the action of the other House where the
subject of officially reporting the debates was
for a third reading tomorrow.
under consideration. The matter was still
before the other House, but action thereon
OATHS OF OFFICE BILL
was expected at a very early date. His
The House then went into Committee on opinion was that under the circumstances it
Mr. Campbell's Commissions and Oaths of would be desirable not to proceed further
until the other Branch of the Legislature had
Office Bill. Mr. Ross in the chair.
come to a decision on the subject.
The bill was reported and ordered for a
The Senate adjourned at 4 o'clock.
third reading tomorrow.

THE SENATE
Wednesday, March 18, 1868
The Speaker took the chair at 3 o'clock.

The Officers' Security Bill (Hon. Mr. Campbell) was read a third time and passed.
The Commission and Oaths of Office Bill
(Hon. Mr. Campbell) was read a third time
and passed.

The Public
GOVERNMENT BILLS
Hon. Mr. Campbell introduced a Bill to Bil was read
facilitate the winding up of the affairs of Committee of
The House
incorporated companies; ordered for second
reading this day week.
three.

99267-10

Matters Inquiries Regulation
a second time and ordered for
the Whole tomorrow.
adjourned at a quarter past

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Thursday, March 19, 1868
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
ALIENS AND NATURALIZATION.
Hon. Mr. Campbell in moving a Bill respecting Aliens and Naturalisation, said he
apprehended that the general feeling throughout the Dominion was in favour of a more
liberal policy upon this subject in New
Brunswick than there was in that Province at
present. It was for the advantage of the Dominion to allow persons coming in from a
foreign country to have the same right to
hold, convey, or transmit estate that naturalized subjects have. This is desirable as titles
have often been impaired by the fact, that at
some former time aliens have held property
and have not been able to transmit it. It is
proposed by this bill to make the law, rules,
and procedure respecting the naturalization of
aliens uniform throughout the Dominion.
These rules are of a general character; they
provide that if an alien takes the oath of
allegiance to the Sovereign, having been a
resident within Canada during a period of
three years, and his oath being accepted, he
becomes a naturalized subject. It is also provided in regard to married women who are
aliens, that if the husband has become naturalized the wife is naturalized too; but with
reference to single women, they will be required to take the oath of allegiance. These
being the principal features of the bill, he
would now ask the House to refer it to a
Committee of the Whole.
Hon. Mr. Hazen called the attention of the
hon. member of the bill to a section of the
Act of Union which provided that laws
relating to property and civil rights are to be
dealt with by the Local Legislatures. Although he approved of aliens holding property, yet he thought this bill affected property
and civil rights in the Province of New
Brunswick.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said this subject was
brought up when difficulties existed on account of raids which took place during the
American war, and which rendered a passport
system necessary. It was found according to
the law of Canada that naturalized subjects
here held a very unfortunate position. They
were naturalized simply for the Province in
which they lived, and had lost their status as
subjects of the country which they left. This

March 19, 1868

was brought under the notice of the Government at that time, and an intimation was
given that it would receive the attention of
the Government. The law gave the Dominion
permission to declare aliens subjects of Her
Majesty, after they had performed certain
conditions. After having given those parties
privileges as subjects, the Act should be left
for the sanction of Her Majesty, and then
those subjects naturalized here, would be
placed in a position which they were entitled
to hold. The way our naturalization laws
have been administered heretofore is rather
taking away a right instead of conferring it; it
being almost impossible for naturalized subjects to get passports into the United States at
the time passports were required. It was then
spoken of as a great grievance, and the
Government should have provided a remedy,
either by representation to the Imperial
Government, or by legislating upon the subject, and declaring the condition of the person
as a naturalized subject. There are only two
ways in which they could look upon this subject-one is to give aliens the rights and privileges which they would have had if born
under the rule of England; the other is to give
them certain specific rights-the rights of descent-of property, and other rights of that
kind. This bill is quite unsatisfactory, and
will not attain the object sought to be
attained, that is, to give a status which the
law has not before given.
Hon. Mr. McCully said the right of legislation in regard to aliens was expressly conferred upon this Parliament in the twentyfifth sub-section of the ninety-first section of
the Union Act. This Legislature then has the
power of conferring all the rights and privileges upon aliens, that the Imperial Government could have in any portion of the Empire.
It certainly would hardly be expected that this
Legislature would confer any power or privilege to extend beyond the Dominion itself; but
it is exceedingly desirable that in al the
Provinces there should be the same Act making these rights uniform within the Dominion.
There were many citizens from the United
States, from Germany and elsewhere, who
came into Nova Scotia, and connecting themselves more particularly with the mining interest, found it necessary to obtain titles to
land, but he had never heard any complaints
in regard to the operations of this law. He
would not say anything more at present, but
when the bill came up in detail for another
reading he would give it some further consideration.

March 19, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. McCrea said the Imperial Act
made a clear distinction between the powers
of the General and Local Legislatures. Parliament had the right to confer citizenship
upon aliens, while the Local Legislature had
the power to legislate upon property, and civil
rights. The 91st section of the Union Act gave
Parliament
the power to treat
upon
naturalization and aliens, while the 13th subsection of the 92nd section reserved to the
Local Legislature the right to treat upon property and civil rights in the Province. This
Parliament has the right to grant to aliens all
the privileges of British born subjects; the
moment this is granted all civil rights follow. The question then arises whether we have
the right to confer upon aliens, while they are
aliens, the right of transmitting property by
descent, which they can do under this Bill.
True, we have the right to make laws regarding aliens, but the right to confer civil rights
upon them belongs to the Local Legislature.
Hon. Mr. Hazen said that Parliament had
the right to say how aliens should be treated,
but they had not the power to say what rights
of property they should have, that power being expressly reserved for the Local Legislatures. The bill under consideration treated
of property, and affected the rights of individuals. The 94th section of the Union Act
says: "Notwithstanding anything in this Act
the Parliament of Canada may make provision for the uniformity of all or any of the
laws relative to property and civil rights in
Ontario, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick,
and of the procedure of ail or any of the
Courts in those three Provinces, and from and
after the passing of any Act in that behalf the
power of the Parliament of Canada to make
laws in relation to any matter comprised in
any such Act shall, notwithstanding anything
in this Act, be unrestricted:but any Act of the
Parliament of Canada making provision for
such uniformity shall not have effect in any
Province, unless, and until it is adopted and
enacted as law by the Legis!ature thereof. If
we pass this Bill will it be a law of this kind?
and if this section means anything at all we
are interfering with the rights of property by
this act. A bill of this kind was brought before
the New Brunswick Legislature in 1855 and
rejected. In 1858 it was again introduced and
thrown out on a division of 21 and 16. In 1859
the Bill was again rejected on a division of 20
and 14. In 1860 the Bill was read a second
time, and in 1861 the law was passed; but the
clause allowing aliens to hold and transmit

property was rejected. He made this statement to show how this measure had beent
regarded in New Brunswick, and he would.
fail in his duty to that Province if he did not
point out where this bil would interfere with.
their rights.
Hon. Mr. Hamilton could not agree with
those who had spoken, in regard to the right
of this Parliament to legislate on this subject.
They had as much right to legislate upon this
subject as they had to make laws respecting
bankruptcy and insolvency, as that would
concern the transmission of real estate in the
various Provinces of the Dominion, as much
as this. Then, again, they might take the question of marriage and divorce; a law made on
the subject would affect the rights of property
all over the Dominion. If you could not say
what rights aliens should have, or should not
have, how could you legislate at all upon
naturalization and aliens. If a subject cannot
be restricted or advanced, we cannot legislate
upon it. The paragraph referred to in the Act
is to be read in connection with other clauses,
and an interpretation given to it not inconsistent with the other clauses of the Act, therefore he could not agree with those who think
there is a doubt about the power of Parliament in reference to this Bill. The Imperial
Parliament up to the present time have declined to recognize naturalized subjects outside of the various Provinces in which they
had been naturalized. To obviate this difficulty it is proposed, after this Bill receives the
sanction of Parlaiment, to open a correspondence with the Imperial Government in order
to obtain for aliens who have been naturalized
in this Dominion, the same privileges as naturalized subjects in any other portion of the
Empire.
Hon. Mr. McCrea said that notwithstanding
what had fallen from the Postmaster-General
the case appeared to be strictly analogous
with the laws of the United States. There it
was held that Congress had no authority to
deal with the rights of property, they may
deal with the naturalization of foreigners and
give them all the rights of subjects, but it
required statutory enactment to enable aliens
to hold or transmit property by descent. This
power which we propose to give by this Bill is
not given by Congress, but by the different
States of the Union. He quoted from "Kent's
Commentaries" and other American authors
to show that it was only the State legislators
that had the right to give to aliens power to
enjoy property, and in conclusion asked the

SENATE DEBATES
House to give the subject every consideration
before passing the Bill.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said the Hon. Postmaster-General had failed to convince him that
this Parliament had the power to grant the
privileges to aliens which were contained in
this Bill. If Parliament carried out this principle in the case of marriage and divorce as
mentioned by his hon. friend, it would involve
every branch of property, and revolutionize
all the laws of the Provinces. It was never
intended that they should have this power, as
it properly belonged to the Local Legislatures,
but anything regarding the legality of marriage came within the jurisdiction of the
Dominion Parliament. Then in the case of
bankruptcy and insolvency, it would never do
to apply the same bankrupt law to Quebec as
to New Brunswick and Nova Scotia. A bankrupt law is not a permanent but temporary
law, enacted for the purpose of relieving existing difficulties, and in enacting the law it is
absolutely necessary that it should not be
general and universal, as it would have to be
adapted to the local law, in its machinery and
procedure. There are not the same difficulties
to be encountered in carrying out this law, as
there are in carrying out the law respecting
aliens, and the law of marriage, because in
these cases you have to deal with something
which enters into the permanent organization
of society, and when you make changes they
cannot be remedied hereafter.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot remarked that a bill similar to this had been brought up year after
year in the New Brunswick Legislature, and
rejected. He thought if there was any question, or any doubt, in regard to their right to
legislate upon this subject, the Local Legislature should have the benefit of that doubt.
None of the measures which they had passed
during the first part of the Session had been
agreeable to New Brunswick, therefore, they
should be very careful in passing a measure
which had been so repeatedly rejected in the
Legislature of that Province. He then referred
to an estate, part of which was in New
Brunswick and part in New York; the heirs to
the estate who resided in New York claimed
their share of the property in New Brunswick,
which they could not inherit being aliens, and
the Government gave it to them; but the heirs
in New Brunswick could not get their share of
the estate in New York. This he did not consider evenhanded justice, as they had as much
right to the estate as the others.

March 19, 1868

Hon. Mr. Mitchell said his hon. friend (Mr.
Wilmot) was not quite correct in his statement. He (Mr. Mitchell) was a member of the
Government at that time, and they thought it
was immaterial to them what any foreign
Government might do; it was their duty to
deal with what came under their jurisdiction.
According to the laws of this country all the
children in a family get an equal share in the
estate. In this case neither party were legally
entitled to the property, which consequently
reverted to the Government of the country.
They considered as neither party had a legal
right, the heirs in New York had as equitable
a right as the heirs in New Brunswick, therefore they decided that all should share alike.
His hon. friend asked them to give New
Brunswick the benefit of any doubts arising,
in regard to the power of this Parliament to
deal with the subject, assigning as a reason
the state of feeling existing in New Brunswick. He thought they should decide upon
the legal construction of the Act without any
reference to what the state of feeling in New
Brunswick may be. He differed with his hon.
friend about the peculiar condition of New
Brunswick, which would cal upon them to
make especial concessions on a point like this.
Though this Bill had been rejected for eight
successive years in New Brunswick, it had
been rejected upon very different grounds
from what we are now asked to reject it upon.
It was rejected because the Legislature of
New Brunswick was adverse to extending
those liberal principles which the policy of
Canada now seems anxious to extend to
aliens. Public opinion in that Province has
changed with the progress of liberal ideas,
and if this subject were now to be brought up
in the Legislature of New Brunswick, it would
be likely to be adopted, and the policy conceded to allow aliens the right to hold property.
Hon. Mr. Hazen said the bill not only gave
aliens power to hold property, but it made
enactments affecting civil rights in New
Brunswick. It was most unwise to pass a law
which might be the subject of doubts and
litigation. Eminent lawyers had spent nine or
ten months in London preparing this Union
Act, but still doubts arose on every side in
regard to constructions to be put upon it.
Hon. Mr. Tessier said they should have
some way of deciding what are the powers of
the General Government and what are the
powers of the Local Government, Section 94
of the Union Act makes provision for uniformity of laws relating to civil rights in
Ontario, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick,

March 19, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

but no provision is made for Quebec. Why is
that distinction made, and that power
confined to the civil rights of three Provinces?
It shows that the framers of the Union Act
would not allow the laws of this Parliament to
conflict with the local laws of Quebec, and in
the case of Ontario, Nova Scotia and New
Brunswick only with their approval. The law
should not come into operation until approved
of by the Local Legislatures of those three
Provinces. The hon. Postmaster-General said
if the Federal Legislature has a right to legislate on marriage or divorce, it does away with
the objection that we are infringing upon civil
rights. He (Mr. Tessier) said no, it did not do
away with that objection. The question of
marriage and divorce was a public question,
and not a question of civil rights. After the
dissolution of marriage, the parties are governed by the laws of different Provinces. The
Federal Parliament has the right to confer
the rights of a British subject upon any
foreigner living within the Dominion of
Canada, and he may become a subject for
military service and have some other privileges, but as to civil rights, the power to
confer them belongs to the Local Legislature,
and we infringe those rights by this Bill.
He believed that this Federal Parliament
had not right to declare that an alien, while
an alien, has a right to inherit or hold property, or any other civil right, unless these
civil rights are granted to him by the Local
Legislature. In the Province of Quebec the
same laws exist in regard to this matter as
exist in Ontario, but in New Brunswick the
law is different, there you conflict with civil
rights and infringe upon the rights of the
Legislature of New Brunswick in allowing
aliens to hold property before being naturalized.
Hon. Mr. McCully said it was scarcely possible to legislate upon any subject, but civil
rights are affected in some way or other. Take

for instance the subject of militia; the Militia
Law concedes certain civil rights to volunteers. According to the Union Act, we have
the right to legislate regarding "naturalization
and aliens". Suppose "naturalization" was left
out, and we were going to legislate upon the
subject of aliens. It is not supposed we are
going to legislate upon the subject of aliens in
a foreign country; the Act means that this
Legislature has the power to legislate, and
give aliens a status and right in the Dominion
which they did not possess before. We have
the right to naturalize them while giving them
certain privileges, or to give them privileges
without naturalization. The first clause of the
Act respecting aliens in Nova Scotia provides
that an alien may hold, convey, and transmit
real estate, and yet continue to be alien. That
is the status there given to an alien, but the
moment you naturalize him, the very act
makes him a British subject, and he does not
hold property as an alien, but as a British
born subject. The question arises in making a
law to qualify an alien to hold real estate,
whether or not it interferes with the right of
Local Governments to legislate upon property
and civil rights. He held that it was not an
interference with any of those rights, although
he quite agreed with some honorable members that it was a subject well worthy of
discussion in this House, and they could not
be better employed than eliciting the opinions
of members upon it. It seemed to him that if
they held they had no right to legislate upon
this subject, they would strip the House,
denuding it of many of the privileges, and
much of the powers, it was evidently intended
it should have, and which are requisite and
necessary to discharge the duties imposed
upon it under the British North America Act.
The bill was then read a first time, and
referred to a Committee of the whole House
on Thursday next.
The Senate then adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE

Friday, March 20, 1868
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
After the usual routine of business had been
proceeded with, the
Hon. Mr. Seymour brought in a report of the
Committee on Contingencies, which he said
differed slightly from the report previously
introduced, and which had been withdrawn
by permission of the House. This new report
recommended that certain permanent officers
of the House, whose services were no longer
required, if they had served less than twenty
years, should receive an allowance of one
year's salary, but if they had served more
than twenty years they should receive two
year's salary from the lst of July next. It was
proposed to make the salary of James Addamson, second English Clerk, now placed as
first Clerk, $1,100. He went on to mention
several alterations that were made, and then
moved that the report be taken into consideration on Thursday next.

March 20, 1888

actual incumbents of those offices had a right
to receive from the House salaries guaranteed
to them, and we could not touch those salaries. Since Union has taken place, it has been
said this is a new Parliament and all those old
servants of Canada should be sent adrift. He
thought they would not be faithful to the
country if they did so, as it was their duty to
retain those officers without reducing their
salaries. He considered officials should not be
dismissed unless they were guilty of bad conduct, as we would lessen our position to dismiss them for any other cause. Would it not
be a better principle in diminishing the expenses of the Senate to say what the amount
of the salaries of officers shall be in the future, having due regard to those salaries
which have been paid in the past, instead of
saying to one clerk, "We will dismiss you with
one year's salary," and to another. "We will
dismiss you with two years' salary" and to a
third, "You shall be left." He did not think
this scheme could be supported. It was the
principle in the past that these officers should
be retained, and the same principle stands
good to-day. There was nothing gained by
rash economy, therefore he did not think this
House would sustain this report, as the right
of actual incumbents must be protected. When
it has been found necessary to dismiss public
servants in England, France, or any other
country that has shown glory by its just doings, we find the rights of those servants have
been respected. With these few words in support of the rights of public servants, he would
ask the House to reflect upon the matter, in
order that this report may not be adopted.

Hon. Mr. Letellier de S±. Just said the principle shown in the first report was shown in
this, and it proves itself to be a false one. It
was stated in the first report that certain
officers of the House should be dismissed, in
one case with six months' salary in advance,
and in the other case with one year's salary.
Now, it is proposed to make a further allowance; thus they have proved that the principle
is wrong by bringing in a report in this shape.
The motion was then carried, and the House
In 1864 the question of retrenchment was
brought up, but it was considered that the adjourned.

March 23, 1868

THE SENATE

SENATE DEBATES
Department, but if his hon. friend's motion
was sustained to have it done by the House he
would equally agree with it.

Monday, March 23, 1868.
Hon. Mr. Miller thought if the motion was
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock. allowed to pass 500 copies of these reports
should be printed for the use of the members.
After routine,
Hon. Mr. Mitchell observed that as head of
Hon. Mr. Dever was introduced by the Hon. a Department he might not consider he was
Mr. Mitchell, and having duly qualified him- justified
in charging his Department for those
self according to law, took his seat.
special reports on those subjects. Some hon.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn presented a number of member from Ontario may not appreciate the
petitions, praying that the line for the Inter- publication of these Reports with reference to
colonial Railway surveyed by Major Robinson Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, although
they are important from a Lower Province
be adopted.
stand point. He did not think it necessary for
Hon. Mr. Miller moved "that an humble the duties of his Department to publish
Address be presented to His Excellency the them, but if the House desired it, he believed
Governor-General, praying that His Excel- it would be a judicious expenditure for the inlency will be pleased to cause to be laid before terests of the public service to have them
the Senate copies of the Annual Report of the printed by the House.
Stipendiary Magistrate in charge of the GovHon. Mr. McCully was not disposed to sancernment schooner for the protection of the
Fisheries in the Gulf of St. Lawrence; also tion the principle that the returns as a matter
for copies of any report made under the of necessity should be printed at the expense
direction of the Minister of Marine and Fish- of the House, unless there was a great necessieries, on the Fisheries of the Dominion, to- ty, or one out of the ordinary course. The
gether with copies of any special reports made printing of a Department ought to be borne by
under the same direction on the subject of the that Department, so that the community
failure of the Fisheries and the distress ex- would understand what are the expenses of
isting among the fishermen of Nova Scotia the Legislature, and what are the expenses of
the Government. At the early part of the
and parts of the coast of Labrador."
previous session he had moved for returns
Hon. Mr. Aikins would like to know wheth- from the Department of Marine and Fisheries,
er those papers would be laid before the but he had not yet seen those returns. Some of
House by orders from the Department of those returns would be very necessary before
Marine and Fisheries.
the subject is discussed, as he had understood
him to say then, that it would be at an early
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said if it required to be period of the session.
done by his own Department he would have it
done, but since his hon. friend made the moHon. Mr. Mitchell-What returns do you
tion and as those reports were very volumi- refer to?
nous, and members would be glad to obtain
Hon. Mr. McCully said he referred to reinformation before the Fishery Bill was
brought in, he would suggest that his hon. turns of the harbours and ports of the Dominfriend had better add to his motion that the ion, and the expenses connected with them.
papers be printed.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said it would be exHon. Mr. Bourinot asked whether it would tremely difficult to get the information; innot involve the expense of printing the papers deed, he doubted whether it could be got at
now, and again in the report of the Depart- all.
ment.
Hon. Mr. McCully replied that this information ought to be got, and he felt certain it
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said if the printing came
would be very gratifying to have those rein the ordinary course he would submit sim- ports, if they could be
obtained without any
ply the report of the Department, but seeing
large amount of expense. They should have
the information asked for is more extensive all the information which
could be obtained.
than is given in the Report, and as there was
an important question coming up, he would at
Hon. Mr. Tessier doubted if it was addressonce assent to it, and have it done by his ing His Excellency with that courtesy with

SENATE DEBATES
which he should be addressed, if before the
return to the Address was made, the return
was ordered to be printed. To adopt this
suggestion to order the papers to be printed
would be against the rules of the House,
and would establish a precedent which would
not result in the economy desired.
Hon. Mr. Simpson said that according to the
contract made by the Committee on Printing,
they must employ the contractors to do the
printing. To do otherwise would be to overrule the action of the Committee and establish
a bad precedent, and place them in an awkward position.
The motion was then carried.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn asked whether it was the
intention of the Government to propose dur-ing the present session, a law for patents for
inventions, involving the principle of reciprocity with all nations.
Hon. Mr. Chapais replied that it was the
intention of the Government to do so.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot moved that an humble
Address be presented to Ris Excellency the
Governor-General, praying that His Excellency will be pleased to cause to be laid before
the Senate, copies of any correspondence between the Local Governments of Nova Scotia
and New Brunswick, or of any individuals or
associations of individuals in those Provinces,
with the Government of Canada, or any
Heads of Departments, complaining of losses
or grievances consequent upon the operation
of any of the Acts passed by the Parliament
of Canada during the early part of this Session, relative to customs, tariff, excise and
banking, or relative to the policy of the Government, affecting the interests of those
Provinces.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said he would give an
answer tomorrow, if the matter was allowed
to stand over.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot said some of the hon.
gentlemen would recollect that the Government had passed some of their most important
measures at the close of the first part of the
Session, when there were but two members
from New Brunswick present-Mr. Wark
and himself. (Mr. Mitchell-I was here).
He took it for granted that the members
of the Executive would be here. He then expressed his opinion in regard to the effect
those measures would have on the people of
New Brunswick. He regretted that upon the
first commencement of this Confederation, he

March 23, 1868

had not been able to go back to New Brunswick and congratulate the people upon the
advantages which they had gained by
Confederation, instead of having to say the
prognostications of its enemies had been
fulfilled. Ever since he had been in public life,
he had always been in favor of union of
British North America. He had always been
opposed to the terms of the Quebec Scheme,
and one of his principal objections was, that
the allowance of eighty cents per head on the
population to the Local Governments, was not
a fair arrangement. He went upon the princi-ple that a large community can be governed
at a much less expense than a smaller community. The cost of making our roads and
bridges is much greater than in Ontario,
which is more densely populated, and which
now has a considerable surplus over and
above their wants. New Brunswick, as a commercial and maritime Province, pays a larger
amount per capita, as custom dues, than an
agricultural population. If the importations
into the Province of New Brunswick were the
same under the tariff passed last summer, as
they were in 1866, New Brunswick would
have to pay this year $463,933 more than she
did then. This fully proves that a maritime
commercial population pay a larger amount of
custom duties than an agricultural people.
This Senate, under the Act of Union, was
supposed to be the guardian of the interests of
minorities, as Ontario, with its large population, and the Maritime Provinces with only
500,000 have an equal representation in this
body. Have the interests of the minority been
regarded? Measures of importance which the
members from the Maritime Provinces had
almost unanimously voted against in the
House of Commons, were deferred to the last
moment, when nearly all the members from
the Maritime Provinces had left, before being
passed into this House. He had remained to
the last to record his vote against those measures, so prejudicial to the interests of New
Brunswick. If the people's representatives
were not to be consulted, and we were
merely to be considered as annexed to
Canada; then he would protest against this
confederation. (A member-It is too late.)
Whether it was too late or not, that was not
the feeling that should be displayed by the
Government. He believed the interests of the
British North American Provinces were one,
and though these might be varied, he could
see no reasons for their clashing if any statesmanship existed. He thought his hon. friend
(Mr. Mitchell) in leaving such measures as the
tariff, bank regulations, stamp act, &c. till the

March 23, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

last of the Session, and not allowing them to
stand over until after the adjournment, must
have lost his head, or been advised by the
spirit of evil. He had a right to complain, as he
had helped to carry Confederation, which was
carried in New Brunswick by the coalition of
two parties. His hon. friend (Mr. Mitchell)
belonged to a party he had never acted with,
but he was prepared to give him his support,
because he came here to support the Government, and so did every member in the House,
who came from New Brunswick; yet they
were compelled to record their votes against
the Government in consequence of their
measures. Though he had supported the
Government, he had never asked anything
from them, except that they should fill up the
vacancies in the Senate, occasioned by the
resignation of the Hon. Mr. Chandler, and the
Hon. Mr. Todd, with representatives from
both parties. He said if such bills as the excise
bill were to be put through the Senate, merely
by their titles, without any consideration being given them, then Confederation was a
failure. As he passed through St. John, on his
way here, gentlemen with great influence,
both anti-confederates and confederates told
him to take action and assist Nova Scotia in
getting this Confederation Act repealed. He
was as strong a believer in Union as he had
been, but if the same policy with which this
Union has been commenced, is to be carried
out, he would hold up both hands to get out of
it as soon as possible, and he believed fourfifths or nine-tenths of the people of New
Brunswick would do so too. With regard to the
tax of one per cent on the circulation of the
banks: he was not in favour of taxing the
borrowing banks when the public revenue is
not to be benefitted by it. So far as our public
wants were concerned the Government never
paid more than six per cent, for any money
they required. He saw in the return in answer
to the motion of the Hon. Mr. Connell in the
House of Commons, for a statement of the
amount of taxes received on the circulation of
the banking institutions in Ontario and Quebec, that the amount was $16,018.71, and the
one per cent. additional charged to borrowers,
$542,729. If this same proportion is paid in
New Brunswick, it shows that the bill was not
for the benefit of the public interest, but for
the interest of the capitalist. With regard to
the excise bill, he had told his hon. friend the
Minister of Customs that it would have the
effect of closing up a number of manufactories
in St. John, and it has had the effect of closing
the tobacco, cigar and vinegar manufactories.

Then again the duties have been reduced on
foreign alcohol, while an excise duty has been
put upon our own breweries. If there was any
policy in these measures, it is for the benefit
of the rich, and for the encouragement of
monopolies, and the discouragement of productive labor at home. Whether this policy
was suitable to Ontario and Quebec, they
could judge for themselves; but so far as the
Province of New Brunswick was concerned,
he was satisfied that eighteen out of twenty
men would vote against it. It had been represented that the alterations in the tariff of 1866
were for the interest of the Maritime Provinces. He could say, that taking the duties off
the superfluities, and putting them on the
necessaries of life, was adverse to the views of
the people of New Brunswick, and he believed of the people of Nova Scotia, toward
whom, if a conciliatory policy had been pursued, they would be prepared to submit to the
Union.
Hon. Mr. Locke-They were determined to
be opposed from the beginning.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot-Whether they were
right or wrong, the effect of those measures
was to intensify the feeling of the opposition
in Nova Scotia.
Hon. Mr. Locke-The feeling was so great
it could not be made any stronger.
Hon. Mr. Wilmo said it would be best to
have the returns asked for, even if it cost a
large sum of money to get the required information, as he felt convinced that the members
of the House of Commons now were willing to
take such a course as would meet the just
demands of the people of the Maritime
Provinces. He complained that the representatives from New Brunswick, although they endeavoured to aid and support the Government, and to do everything to make Confederation a success, were never consulted
in any measure the Government intended to
bring forward. He thought from his experience in the affairs, and Legislature of New
Brunswick, that they might have asked his
opinion in regard to the tariff, then when
he went back to New Brunswick he could
have justified what had been done. His hon.
friend (Mr. Mitchell) may think there is a
different state of feeling in New Brunswick,
but he (Mr. Wilmot) had expressed his own
judgment, which was the result of conversations had with leading men throughout the
Province.
Hon. Mr. Wier said he thought it was the
intention of the Government to make amends

SENATE DEBATES
to the Maritime Provinces in some way or
other although he considered no great injury
had been done. Having committed certain errors, they should have time given them to
rectify those errors. With reference to the
feeling in the Maritime Provinces concerning
Confederation, it reminded him of an Indian
who was persuaded to plant potatoes and sow
wheat, with the expectation of receiving great
returns. Unfortunately he commenced to dig
up his potatoes in three weeks after they had
been planted, because he had not the patience
to wait until his crop became ripe. This is the
way some of the friends of Confederation act.
His hon. friend, (Mr. Wilmot), instead of attempting to remedy the errors committed,
goes against Confederation.
Hon. Mr. Wilmoi explained that he did not
say he was against Confederation, but he said
Confederation would be a failure if a certain
policy was pursued.
Hon. Mr. Wier said there was a certain class
in Nova Scotia who are against any connection at all with Canada. His hon. friend was
wrong in saying the feelings of the people of
Nova Scotia would be intensified by the doings of the Government. He had every confidence in the Government and in the people of
Ontario and Quebec, that they would do justice to all parts of the Dominion. He did not
think it was proper, whatever our feelings
may be, to run down the administration for
committing acts, which they have every disposition to make right as soon as the information they require is obtained. He thought
there was some force in the remark that the
Government should have consulted the representatives of the people in regard to their
measures, but he would make all possible allowance for their not listening to every communication, when they had so much business
to do. With reference to this motion for correspondence, it takes an enormously wide range,
requir-ng not only all communications of the
different Legislatures of the Provinces, both
public and private, but the correspondence of
individuals. All that was asked for could not
be supplied under two months, and then after
it was obtained what would it amount to? The
motion speaks of losses sustained by the operation of these Acts: he knew of persons, especially those engaged in the wine trade, who
had made a great deal of money in consequence of the provisions of the new tariff, and
he would ask whether it was intended they
should disgorge it. He could not see that any
practical good would follow if the papers were
brought down.

March 23, 1868

Hon. Mr. Mitchell said his hon. friend (Mr.
Wilnot) had thought fit to ask of this House,
that the Government should be directed to
furnish certain information contained in this
notice to lay on the table of this House, and in
the course of his remarks in reply to a casual
observation made by me, he said the Government would not afford the information
desired. The Government are prepared to give
every information this House may desire. If
the House desire the information asked for in
this notice, it shall be given by the Government, as they are quite prepared to give it.
The only objection the Government can have
is, first, the expense which will be incurred,
and next in regard to the policy of the
Government. The expense involved would be
very serious, as it would take a number of
clerks four months to get this information,
nine-tenths of which when got would be of no
use to the country. He would suggest to his
hon. friend to put his motion in a more concise shape, so that the information souglt
would be that which would subserve the puolic interest, or afford him the means to determine whether the Government had fallen into
errors. If he would put it in that shape, the
Government would at once assent to it. He
had suggested that course to him, but his hon.
friend had insisted upon having the "pound of
flesh". In reference to the first portion of that
address down to the words "policy of the
Government," the Government can have no
motive in refusing. They would only ask the
House to hesitate on account of the expense,
and the time taken up, the extent of which he
could not realise. Did any of the hon. members consider the extent of this correspondence, in connection with one or the other of
those branches referred to? If it was official
correspondence alone, he would have no objection to it, but it includes the correspondence of every tobacco manufacturer, importer
of dry goods, tailor, shoemaker and every individual, comprising this Dominion, with the
Heads of Departments since the passage of
these Acts. He would like to ask his hon.
friend before he presses the matter, whether
the object he has in view, and the necessity of
obtaining these documents, is of such great
importance as to justify the enormous cost of
obtaining this information. If his hon. friend
would point out any specific correspondence,
despatch, or communication, to which he has
reference, which can be got here in three
weeks, the Government would be prepared to
submit it; but to submit the whole would involve an enormous amount of copying, as it

March 23, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

would include the copying of every letter received by every Head of a Department. This
correspondence would only have the individual
weight of the writer, and would not be considered by the country to warrant the expense
incurred. If the Government did not call the
attention of the House to this, they would fail
in their duty. In reference to the latter portion
of the Address concerning the policy of the
Government affecting the interests of those
Provinces, he would ask whether the Government would be justified, while their policy
is undetermined, and their course is not announced, in giving correspondence on their
policy before they have arrived at a conclusion as to what that policy shall be. It is
unparliamentary to ask the Government to
give that correspondence, before their policy
is announced which is based upon it, and the
Government cannot in justice to themselves,
or to the interests of the country, lay upon the
table of this House a correspondence upon a
policy not yet settled upon by them. His hon.
friend had referred to the policy of the
Government during the first part of the Session, and from his mode of attacking the
Government he intends to elicit an opinion
from the House, as to whether they have
confidence in the Administration or not.

other, because they charge one per cent more
than they have been in the habit of charging
before. No man knew better than his hon.
friend (Mr. Wilmot) that in the Maritime
Provinces the banking interests do not meet
the requirements of the community. These
institutions were under the control of AntiUnionists, and they opposed Union because it
was going to make them pay what they had a
duty to pay, a tax upon their issues. It is
because they are still opposed to it, that they
endeavor to excite animosities through the
length and breadth of the Provinces. They are
responsible for the ill-feeling which has been
aroused.
Hon. Mr. Ha:en-I deny it.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell-He may deny it; but he
would leave it to his hon. friend to say if he
was not right in saying those banks were
universally controlled by Anti-Confederates.
Why should they now charge seven per cent
instead of six? (Hon. Mr. Wilmoi-they had
not the power to charge seven per cent
before.) His hon. friend had always advocated
free trade in money, free trade in interest. He
said it was necessary to abolish to some extent
the limitation of interest, so that capital would
be introduced into the Province. That was
now taken advantage of by his hon. friend to
Hon. Mr. Wilmo-That was not my inten- make a charge against the Government, as
tion.
one of the sins of which they had been guilty.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell was glad his hon. friend If we permit the banks to get market values
disavowed that intention. He had asked for their money it prevents the money of
whether or not it was judicious, politic, or for capitalists from passing our shores and being
the interest of New Brunswick, to have sub- invested in New York and other places at a
mitted a measure which enabled the Banks of higher rate of interest. Has he not been for
it
New Brunswick to charge their customers one years endeavouring to convince us that
per cent extra. He said this tax realized but a was for the benefit of the Province, not to
small sum to the country while it was a loss of limit the rate of interest, and now forsooth,
hundreds of thousands of dollars to the cus- when we remove a portion of that limitation
tomers of the Banks. He would call the atten- he makes it a charge against the Government!
tion of his hon. friend to the fact that the In reference to the Excise Duties, his hon.
issue of one per cent stamp tax, and the friend said the Government had failed to
charge of one per cent additional to the cus- meet the just expectations of the people of
tomers of the Banks were two distinct ques- the Maritime Provinces. He compliained that
tions which did not affect each other, or he was not consulted in regard to the measaffected each other only in an infinitessimal ure, and that he (Mr. Mitchell) had promised
degree. Because the Legislature of the Do- to let him know before that bill was inminion in the interests of the Dominion, as- troduced. It may be the case that he had
similated the stamp tax which existed in promised to let him know, but he knew
Ontario and Quebec to the Provinces of Nova already, and everybody knew, that the
Scotia and New Brunswick, and because the bill was going to be introduced. We may
banks there now pay one per cent upon their not have consulted him about the policy
of the bill, but his hon. friend could not
issue, is it to be inferred that this necessarily fail to perceive
that it would
involves the charge of one per cent more by very criminal for him having be impolitic,
as a Privy
the local banks, or as discount to their cus- Councillor taken the oath of secrecy, to mentomers. It does not involve these conse- tion the policy of his colleagues until that
quences. One does not necessarily follow the policy had been announced. Did not his hon.

SENATE DEBATES
friend know that hundreds of applications
were made to get information in advance in
reference to the Customs and Excise Bills. It
would have been unfair for him to have given
information to any one in regard to them. If
his hon. friend had got this information in
advance he was not bound to conceal it, as he
had taken no oath of secrecy. He might have
communicated it to his friends, and fortunes
might have been made in consequence of the
information given regarding that bill. Therefore it is an unfair charge to bring against
the Government that they failed to consult
him concerning their policy. His hon. friend
had said, he (Mr. Mitchell) must have lost his
head. He referred, no doubt, to when we
acted together, and he could bear testimony
to the important part taken by his hon. friend
in bringing about a Union of the Provinces,
but he regretted very much the course his
hon. friend had recently taken, which made
him doubt the extent of the benefits his advocacy of Confederation has been to the
cause. When a man has been opposed to Confederation as was his hon. friend Mr. Hazen,
and has talked about the evils that would
result from a Union of the Provinces, people
would have said of him as they say of his
hon. friend, "it is only Mr. Hazen, he has
always been against Confederation, nobody
minds him". But if he has been in favour of
Union, when he joins in with those who have
opposed it, and says Ontario is overriding the
interests of the Maritime Provinces.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot-I beg leave to deny that
I said the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec
were overruling the interests of the Maritime
Provinces.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said his hon. friend
would notice that he did not say his hon.
friend, but he had only put a supposition's
case. He would accept his explanation. When
he stands up here and assails the Administration, and charges them with pursuing a
policy adverse to the interests of the Maritime
ProvincesHon. Mr. Wilmot-I said I thought the policy of the Government was adverse to the
interest of the whole Dominion.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said his hon. friend had
been a friend of Union, and been responsible
for bringing it about, and now before they
had an opportunity of testing it, he had attacked it, thus doing more damage to the
cause than the attacks of a dozen men who
had always opposed it. He says the Govern-

March 23, 1868

ment acted unwisely in passing such a Customs Bill as they did. What did he expect?
Could the administration justify themselves in
the public opinion of Ontario and Quebec if
they allowed 25 per cent to be paid on certain
articles, and 10 per cent to be paid on the
same articles in the Maritime Provinces? Does
he think they should not pay their share of
the Excise Duties. His hon. friend charged the
Government with not taking the advice of
their friends. Was the advice which they
wished the Government to adopt, to defer the
imposition of the Excise, Postage, and Stamp
Bills until this present Session? (Hon. Mr.
Wilmot-Yes.) He would ask if the Government was wrong in extending the Excise Bill,
the Custom Duties, the Bank Tax, and the
Post Office Bill to the whole Dominion? If the
Government had not brought down these
measures, what position would they have been
in as regards Ontario and Quebec? The people
of those Provinces would say to them, are we
to pay those Excise Duties into the general
revenue, while New Brunswick and Nova
Scotia go on manufacturing tobacco and alcohol, and bring it in here free? This policy
would be indefensible on the part of the
Government. His next ground of complaint is,
that those taxes apply unfairly to the Maritime Provinces, as they consume imported articles more extensively than the people of
Canada, which was more of an agricultural
country than New Brunswick. He was not
going to dispute that; he was not going to
defend every act of the administration of
which he was a member (laughter); don't
jump before you come to the stile. He might
as a matter of policy, or as a matter of necessity, (hear, hear,) be cautious and wait until
the sentence is finished. Very often measures
have to be adopted as measures of policy. (A
member "Right or wrong.") We found it
would not do to abolish postage upon newspapers simply for the benefit of New Brunswick
which has to pay but one-thirteenth part of
the tax. There has been a great, deal of odium
attached to the Government on account of the
passage of that Act. He was glad his hon.
friend had brought the subject up for discussion, as there was a great deal of false thinking in the Maritime Provinces about it. He
says we were wrong in bringing in that measure when we did, as we should have waited
until this present part of the Session. This
should be considered from a New Brunswick
standpoint as well as a Dominion standpoint.
If the Government had not brought in their
measure, we would not have had the expression of public opinion upon them. In justice to

March 23, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Ontario and Quebec, the Government had either to relieve them of this tax, or impose a
similar tax upon New Brunswick and Nova
Scotia. Then he would ask his hon. friend, if
he would be prepared to advise the Government to relieve Ontario and Quebec of the
postage on newspapers. It is true, we like to
get our newspapers free, but that involves a
charge upon the public treasury for carrying
those newspapers. It is right, we should pay
our portion of the expense involved in this
carriage. He considered it just as right and
fair to impose a tax upon newspapers, as to
impose any other tax which is to go into the
general revenue. The same principles apply to
the Excise and Customs bills. The introduction of those Bills has elicited an expression of
opinion throughout the length and breadth of
the Dominion, especially in the Maritime
Provinces, and has brought forth information
which this House will see the benefit of. It is
with a view of getting that information his
hon. friend had put his motion on the table. If
he had confined his motion to the production
of the papers of Boards of Trade, public meetings of merchants, Chambers of Commerce,
&c., they could have been given without any
very great expense. When the Government
introduced this tariff bill, it was with the
distinct understanding that it was a temporary measure to assimiliate the tariffs of the
Dominion. If the Government introduced any
measure, and there were good grounds for
opposition to it, they would be liable to severe
censure, having this information before them
which has been given by Boards of Trade, &c.
His hon. friend said many influential men
expressed to him the wish that if this tariff
continued, they would like to see Nova Scotia
secede and New Brunswick get clear, too. He
had no doubt, but some men said that, for
there was not a time since the Union commenced that his hon. friend could not have
found men, and influential men too, who did
all they could against Union, and would
like to see it repealed. These duties were
imposed at a time when trade was dull, therefore, we should not be surprised that there
should be some dissatisfaction expressed,
but he had yet to learn that the sentiments
of the people of New Brunswick were anything but in favour of Union. He could
speak for a portion of the country, for he
knew something about the Northern part of
the province; he had not heard one disunion
sentiment there. They have accepted the
Union, and are willing to carry it out. He

would say to his hon. friend that the Government intended to submit a measure,
which though it might not suit him (Mr.
Wilmot) it would do something to give satisfaction in the Maritime Provinces, and show
the people of those sections that the statesmen
of Ontario and Quebec are doing what they
can for the interests of the whole Dominion,
and especially for the interests of the Maritime Provinces. He thought his hon. friend
was judicious in not making this a test question. He presumed he wanted information given by Boards of Trade, &c., concerning public
matters, questions of trade, &c. If he would
so shape his resolution as to comprise those
subjects and those communications, the Government would be quite willing to give him
that information, but he would warn them
that the motion in its present shape would
involve a large amount of expense, and much
valuable time in getting this information for
the House.
Hon. Mr. Ross thought it would be very
desirable to have the discussion postponed, in
order that the hon. members of the Senate,
who wished to do so, might take part in it. He
would move that the debate be postponed
until next Thursday, so that the members of
the Government might all be present, as the
discussion was of the utmost importance.
Members would then be prepared to speak
upon the subject, and much information might
be derived from them.
Hon. Mr. Hazen said that it could not be a
matter of much interest for the House to
know that he had always opposed Confederation. He had stated in his place in the Legislative Council of New Brunswick, that the
question of Confederation was a question for
the people to decide, and the moment the
people of New Brunswick accepted Union, his
opposition was at an end. His hon. friend (Mr.
Mitchell) was wrong in saying he was still
opposed to Confederation. He never said a
word in opposition to Confederation after it
was accepted in New Brunswick. There is
now in St. John a great feeling against Confederation, and this feeling has arisen from
Confederation itself. The people who most
favoured Confederation are now the people
who most oppose it. The people accepted
Union because they were misled and deceived by their leaders. He would not say
they were wilfully misled, but if any one
would take up the speeches made in 1865 and
in 1866 in favour of Confederation, he would
see that they were calculated to mislead the

SENATE DEBATES
people. These speeches were then called unanswerable, but now they are read with astonishment. The people now turn on the Privy
Council and blame them. This he thought was
an unreasonable course. They complain now
of the tariff, excise duties, &c.; did any man
suppose New Brunswick would be exempt
from them? He had pointed out over and over
again that if they joined the Union the Stamp
Act, and all these other duties, would be imposed upon New Brunswick, but the people
were told that they would have men in the
Government who would not allow these taxes
to be imposed upon them. Now they have
been imposed they should blame those men
who led them into Confederation, and not the
Government of the Dominion. In regard to the
bankers, they have a right to their opinions;
there were many men connected with the
banks who opposed Confederation, and who
oppose it yet. They now put seven per cent. on
their money, which has to be paid by the
borrower; for this the people turn round and
blame the Dominion Government. The people
of New Brunswick were led to believe they
had nothing to do but to come to Canada, that
great country, and share in all the blessings
promised them, and make a great deal of
money out of it. They were told that nine
million dollars would be spent in the Province
on a railway running from St. John to Riviere
du Loup, the moment Confederation took
place. The people in every county were told
the Intercolonial Railway would run through
their county, and they were induced to believe
they would have such a representative in the
Government that the tariff would be made in
accordance with the wishes of the 250,000
people of New Brunswick. When in St. John
he had been requested to join an antiConfederate meeting; he went, and he told the
people that as they had Confederation now
they should endeavour to work it out. They
say in St. John they will break up Confederation at once. Every person there wants a
tariff to suit themselves and their own particular business, and finding they cannot
have it they blame the Dominion government.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell could not quite agree
with the motion to postpone the debate until
Thursday, but as the hon. gentleman (Mr.
Hazen) had made some remarks he would
then reply to him. His hon. friend did not
mean to say he had any speeches of his (Mr.
Mitchell's) calculated to mislead the people.
He would challenge any man to bring a
speech of his here next Thursday, in which he
had stated what has not been carried out, or
what will not be carried out.

March 23, 1868

Hon. Mr. Sanborn did not see any reason
why the debate should be adjourned. To do so
would be to assume that there was a gravity
and importance in this question which does
not belong to it. The hon. gentleman who
made this motion for adjournment implied
that our existence as a Confederation was to
be discussed.
Hon. Mr. Ross-I said it was a matter of
great importance.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn-What is a matter of
great importance? The motion is to bring
down certain papers which the hon. Minister
of Marine has assented to with certain
modifications. He has accepted the motion
with reference to all contained in it, except in
regard to communications from individuals
which were not supposed to be official, and
the production of which would entail a great
expense without our deriving any benefit
from them. He stated he was prepared to send
down all correspondence from Boards of
Trade and commercial associations. They had
only to strike out of the motion the words "or
of any individuals" and what was left would
cover the whole ground.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said he had objected to
the last part of the motion which refers to the
policy of the Government. That did not refer
to the documents which his hon. friend wanted brought down. He declares he has no intention of conveying any censure upon the future
policy of the Government. He wishes to bring
up his own views, and to show the effects of
the legislation of the first part of the Session
upon the Maritime Provinces. He (Mr.
Mitchell) could not see why the debate could
not now be concluded. It would give the question a degree of weight to which it was not
entitled, if they adjourned the debate for
three days, in order to be prepared to discuss
whether these papers are to be brought down
or not.
Hon. Mr. McCully quite agreed with his
hon. friend, especially as he was prepared to
submit to the House those documents which
were the object of the motion. They should
wait until they got the papers before they had
a discussion upon them. The only question
before the Senate to-day was, shall we have
those papers or not, and what papers ought
we reasonably to ask for? The Minister of
Marine has promised to bring them down;
shall we then have three days' delay for the
purpose of knowing whether the papers ought
to be brought down or not? The subject of
Confederation was not before the House, and

March 23, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

we would have nothing to discuss except
whether it would be wise to increase the expense, and wait for certain papers to be produced; and whether it would be politie for us
to ask the Government to submit any part of
their policy until that policy is in a state to
submit to both branches of the Legislature.
Hon. Mr. Locke observed that the question
of Confederation had been brought up in the
debate, and he believed the object of the mover of the motion was, to give us time to
understand the facts and figures of the subject.
Hon Mr. Ritchie said that was a reason why
we should not bring it up, as it was not a
debate we should raise upon this motion. It
looked as though the mover had an idea of
moving a vote of want of confidence in the
Government. It was very unsuitable to have
this debate proceeding while the papers are
not here. The idea is that something will appear from those papers which will indicate the
sentiments that exist in the Maritime Provinces in regard to the measures of the Dominion Government.

Govermnent should be present when a motion
of this kind is brought forward. His hon.
friend (Mr. Wilmot) had said that every step
taken by this Government and this Legislature, had been to exasperate the people of the
Maritime Provinces, and to make them
stronger in their opposition to the Union. It
was vain for gentlemen from Nova Scotia and
New Brunswick to conceal the fact that there
is a great deal of dissatisfaction in those
Provinces. Both Houses of Parliament should
discuss the subject in a fair way, and every
means should be taken to remove the cause of
dissatisfaction. The country should know what
the difficulties are, and the judgment of the
people should be appealed to. Having said this
much he would withdraw his motion.
The motion for the production of the papers
was then agreed to, with certain changes
which had been suggested during the debate.

Hon. Mr. Simpson brought up the fourth
report of the Joint Committee on Printing. He
said the report simply told that they could get
2,500 copies of the debates in English during
a session of sixty days, and 800 copies in
French, reported and printed, for $12,019. The
Hon. Mr. Allan said his hon. friend from edition was supposed to contain daily about as
New Brunswick had asked for certain returns. much matter as fourteen columns of the ToWhen those returns were brought in, then ronto Globe, to be printed in pamphlet form.
would be the proper time to discuss them. It It is proposed that the debates will be slightly
was not the proper time now to discuss the condensed. His impression was that $12,019
subject of Confederation.
will not cover the amount required to complete the work, and that they would not get
Hon. Mr. Miller was decidedly opposed to
value for the expense. He was not very anxthe motion for adjourning the debate. When
but in
the papers which may be brought down, are ious to have his speeches reported,
be the time to discuss order that the report may have due consideron the table, then would
ation, he would move that it be taken into
any question which may grow out of them.
consideration on Thursday next.
Hon. Mr. Ross remarked that he was not
The motion was then carried and the House
bound to defend the Government, but he
thought it was fair that the members of the adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES

March 24, 1868

Shediac. Ie had every reason to believe from
the arrangements entered into that the service
would be performed satisfactorily and regularly during the whole summer season. No
Tuesday, March 24, 1868.
arrangements had been made for the service
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock. up the Bay Chaleur, but arrangements will be
made if possible for securing the service to
Several petitions were read.
that port.
Hon. Mr. Allan presented the sixth Report
Hon. Mr. Steeves enquired if there were no
of the Comnittee on Standing Orders and arrangements made with the company in rePrivate Bills.
gard to Richibucto.
Hon. Mr. McCrea gave notice that when the
Hon. Mr. Campbell said there was no proviHouse went into Committee on the Bill res- sion made for vessels calling there, and they
pecting Aliens and Naturalization, he would had no information as to whether the depth of
move to strike out certain sections and words, water was sufficient for them to enter that
and substitute others in lieu thereof.
harbour. The nearest port at which they
called was thirty-six miles further down.
Hon. Mr. Steeves gave notice of an enquiry
as to whether it was the intention of the
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said the Local GovernGovernment to bring in any measures rela- ment made provision for the service between
tive to, or affecting the seats of members of Shediac and Miramichi, touching at RiParliament, who may receive appointments to chibucto. The Canadian boats never touched
offices of emolument from the Government.
there. In regard to the service in Bay Chaleur,
there had been a great deal of anxiety maniHon. Mr. Nazen gave notice of his intention fested that the service should not be neglectto move an amendment to the report of the ed, and no doubt every effort would be made
Committee on Printing.
by the Government to give them as good comHon. Mr. Miller enquired if any arrange- munication as they have heretofore had.
ments had been made for the maintenance of
Hon. Mr. Wark said if the Government
steam communication during the coming sea- could not include Richibucto in the arrangeson, between Montreal or Quebec, and the ments, there could be no difflculty in arrangGulf ports of New Brunswick and Nova ing with the proprietors of the steamboats to
Scotia? If so, what are they, and if not, are take freight for that section on as favourable
any such arrangements in contemplation?
terms as it was taken to other ports.
Hon. Mr. Campbell replied that arrangeHon. Mr. Mitchell replied that way boats
ments had been made with the Quebec and leaving Shediac and Miramichi would be glad
Gulf Steamship Company for steam communi- to take freights for Richibucto as far as they
cation between Quebec and the Gulf ports of could on reasonable terms, but that was a
Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. This compa- matter the Government could not enter into.
ny had a contract for the performance of a
Hon. Mr. Steeves referred to the Bar in
similar service last year, but the service was
not satisfactorily performed. During the pres- Richibucto harbour, which prevented that
ent season a contract was arranged for, un- port from receiving the benefit of these
der which the company will be obliged to steamers.
Hon. Mr. Wark said the steamer Empress
provide three steamships instead of two, and
there are certain stringent provisions inserted touched there all last summer. He thought all
in the contract to give security for continuity steamers which were subsidised by the
and regularity of the mail service. The line Government should have a scale of charges
would run between Quebec and Pictou, touch- for passage and all other services.
ing at Rimouski, Gaspe Basin, Miramichi and
The House then adjourned until Thursday.

THE SENATE

March 26, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

regard to Judges who had resigned their
offices before the first of July last. He hoped
to be able before many days to inforn the
House whether or not the Government would
Thursday, March 26, 1898.
be able to introduce such a bill during the
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock. present Session.
THESENATE

After routine:
GRANTS TO CHARITABLE
INSTITUTIONS

NEWSPAPER POSTAGE.
Hon. Mr. Dickey enquired whether it was
the intention of the Government to submit,
during the present Session, any measure for
the postponement or abolition of the postage
on newspapers.

Hon. Mr. Ryan enquired of the Government
whether any arrangement had been made for
the payment of the usual grants which had
been appropriated in aid of charitable instituHon. Mr. Campbell replied that it was not
tions which had gone into arrears owing to the intention of Government to introduce any
the change of the fiscal year from January to measure for that purpose.
July. These appropriations had never been
received, although included in the annual
REPORTING DEBATES.
grant.
Hon. Mr. Hazen said that as the report of
Hon. Mr. Campbell said this matter had the Printing Committee in reference to the
come under the consideration of the Gov- publication of official debates, was not to be
ernment, and it was their intention to insert brought before the House to-day, he would
an item, to pay these grants, which were ac- beg leave to allow his amendment, "That it is
cidentally omitted on account of the change in not advisable in the present state of the
the fiscal year. It being the evident intention finances of the Dominion, that a sum estimatof the late Canadian Parliament to pay these ed at $24,000 and upwards, should be applied
grants, the amount would be refunded by the out of the consolidated revenue of Ontario,
Provinces of Ontario and Quebec.
Quebec, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick, for
of Hon. Senators in
Hon. Mr. McCully said this House should reporting the speeches
questions before this House," to stand over
have the assurance that this amount would be
of the Printing Committee
charged to those Provinces, on account of the until the Report said he had no objection to
was taken up. He
amount received by them as indemnity.
paying a small amount for some reasonable
Hon. Mr. Campbell said there was no doubt abstract of the debates, if any such proposibut this amount would be paid, and there tion was brought forward. He could not see
could be no objection to putting it to their why it was that the reports given in the newspapers were not satisfactory to the House.
credit.
SALARIES OF JUDGES.
Hon. Mr. McCrea enquired whether it was
the intention of Ministers to introduce a Bill
regulating the salaries, allowances and pensions of the Judges of the Superior, District
and County Courts, under the 100th section of
"The British North America Act," during the
present Session, and if so, whether the same
will be retro-actory, so as to affect Judges
who resigned their offices before the first day
of July last.

Hon. Mr. McCully said that his hon. friend
had copied the opinion expressed by the
chairman of the Committee on Printing, that
the probable expense of publishing the debates would amount to double the estimated
cost of $12,000. He (Mr. McCully) had, upon
enquiry, received information which was entirely reliable, that it would be impossible for
the expense to be beyond $12,000. Under the
arrangements made the sum is fixed by tenders.
First on behalf of the reporter, and secondly, on behalf of the publishers, so that while it
may be less than $12,000, it is impossible for it
to be more.

Hon. Mr. Campbell replied that it would be
necessary to have a bill passed to regulate
those salaries, but he did not know whether
the Government would be able to introduce a
Hon. Mr. Hazen said he supposed his hon.
bill for that purpose during the present Ses- friend had derived his information from some
sion or not; neither could he state what the person who was interested in having the debill would be, as to the effect it would have in bates published.

SENATE DEBATES
Hon. Mr. Wilmot said he was decidedly in
favour of having those reports published, as
official debates could be depended upon. It
had been said that we must look to this Senate as a protection to the interests of the
Maritime Provinces, as they had an equal
representation with Ontario and Quebec,
therefore it was for the interest of the Maritime Provinces to have a record of the opinions of the members of this House.
Hon. Mr. Hazen considered it a useless
waste of money to publish the debates in the
manner proposed. He would repeat that he
was willing that some provision should be
made to get a report of their speeches, for
which he was willing to expend a reasonable
amount of money.
INCORPORATED COMPANIES.
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the second reading of the "Bill to facilitate the winding up of
incorporated companies" and said the Bill
was compiled from an English Act, and from a
bill which some years ago was introduced into
the Legislative Council of the former Province
of Upper Canada. He had added to the bill in
order to adapt it to the circumstances of the
country. He did not think it necessary to explain the various clauses of the Bill at the
second reading, as he would have an opportunity of doing so when the Bill was before
the House clause by clause.
The bill was then read a second time, and
on motion referred to a committee of the
whole House on Tuesday next.
ALIEN LAWS.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said when this bill was
before the House for a second reading an
objection was taken as to the legal right of
this Legislature to deal with the subject in the
mode which this Bill contemplated. He was
desirous of having the advice of the Law
Officer of the Crown upon those points to
which objection had been made. Circumstances had prevented the Chief Justice from
giving his attention to it to-day, but he hoped
during the week to get the benefit of his opinion upon it. He would move that the bill be
referred to a committee of the whole House
on Thursday next.-Carried.
CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS
Hon. Mr. Seymour brought in the second
report of the Select Cornmittee on Contingent
Accounts, as amended by that Committee. He

March 26, 1868

then read a portion of the first report of the
Contingent Committee, and said that the hon.
members would see that the House having
adopted this report, took the ground that all
the offces of the Senate were vacant, until
the officers were re-appointed to their offces:
that is, Confederation swept out all the employees of the establishment. The Committee
have in obedience to that order submitted the
report now before the House. He then read
the report of the Committee, which recommended the discharge of some of the officers,
giving them one and two years' salary, according to the time they had been employed,
and the reduction of the salaries of some of
the offcers who remained. He said it was
impossible that so great a change could be
made, as was made in the constitution of a
country, without producing hardship in certain cases, but the Committee had recommended very liberal gratuities to all those
officers who had been long in the service, and
had not been reappointed. The Legislative
Council having been abolished by the Act of
Confederation, it follows that all the employees were also discharged. In this report it
is recommended that $2,400 per annum be
paid to the Clerk of the House. This seems a
large reduction from the salary enjoyed by
him as Clerk under the late Legislative Council of Canada. It was perhaps advisable that
he should show what were the salaries fixed
and recommended by former committees. In
1841 after the Union of Upper and Lower
Canada a committee was appointed on the
subject of salaries, and according to the scale
of salaries fixed by them the Clerk was to receive five hundred pounds a year. That
amount has been increased without any method, at various times, according to the reports
of different committees. In the Sessions
of 1854 and 1855 the salaries of the
officers were increased in each year. He then
read from the journals of those years showing the rate of increase of the salaries of
officers, that of the Clerk being increased to
£750, with a recommendation by the committee that his successor should receive only
£600 per annum. In 1855 under the authority of an Act which authorized the Governor
in Council, by order of the Council, to increase the salaries of employees, an increase of £60 a year more was made to the
Clerk's salary, as well as an increase of the
salaries of the other employees of the House.
He was never able to find, although he had
examined the journals, upon what authority
this increase was made. He had found authority for increasing the salaries of officers in

March 26, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

the Departments, but none for increasing the
salaries of employees of the House. In explaining the reduction of the different salaries
he said they had fixed the salary of the
"Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod" at
$1,000 a year. The salary of this officer had
been fixed at £100 after the Union of Upper
and Lower Canada, and it was considered sufficient, the office being filled by a gentleman
from Upper Canada for a number of years,
who had never made any application for an
increase of salary. The incumbent of this
office now received in addition to his salary, a
residence, fuel, etc., which was worth a considerable sum. It was not really necessary that
this officer should remain here longer than
during the Session of Parliament, because he
has no duties to perform after the close of the
Session. The Clerk had the supervision of
all the officers, and it was his duty to
remain at the seat of Government, as his
services could not be dispensed with unless
relieved by one of the assistant clerks. In
England the Usher of the Black Rod was the
resident by order of the House of Lords; but
here no such action has been taken by the late
Legislative Council of Canada, or the Senate.
It has been urged as one reason why the
Usher of the Black Rod should have a residence in the Parliament building, because he
is the principal officer in the House of Lords.
Here the case is different, the Clerk being the
principal officer, and his attendance being required, he should have a residence in the
building. He thought the comparison which
had been made between the Senate and the
House of Lords would scarcely apply. In the
House of Lords there were Benches of Bishops and Lords; but in Canada it was found
expedient that Bishops and Judges should not
occupy seats in the Senate. The circumstances
of the two bodies were entirely different.
What would be thought of the Lord Chancellor of England if, were it possible, he should
get returned for a Local Legislature and take
a seat in a Local Parliament, but here our
Hon. Speaker, though holding a place similar
to that of the Lord Chancellor, occupies his
place in the Local Legislature of Quebec. He
did not say that this was not right, but it
showed that the circumstances of the two
countries were entirely different. In regard to
the other officers' salaries, there was no reduction made, in that of the Housekeeper. The
Postmaster's situation being permanent, the
acting Postmaster must be a permanent messenger. The Library messenger having to act
as clerk and messenger it is proposed to make

no reduction in his salary. The assistant doorkeeper has been appointed a permanent messenger, his salary was fixed at $300 a year as
Sessional messenger, but now his services
having to be continued the whole year an
increase is made of $200 for that service.
Sessional messengers are to be paid $200 each.
In regard to the report he did not attach so
much importance to the amount really saved
as to the principle involved. It was a step in
the right direction and at the right time. It is
a step which ought to be taken now, when we
have started under a new constitution. We
already see the other Branch of the Legislature following our example, and it is to be
hoped the Government in organizing their
Departments will introduce an efficient system
of reform. If they allowed this opportunity to
pass they would not be able to make any
retrenchment. It was necessary that every
cent should be saved, as well as all the revenue collected which can be collected from
every department of the service, if the credit
of the Dominion is to be maintained. We have
now a very large debt considering our resources, and it is proposed to increase that
debt by a very large sum, for the construction
of the Intercolonial Railway, in opening up
the Northwest Territory, and in the defence of
the country, therefore, unless the greatest
vigilance and economy be pursued, it will be
utterly impossible to make the resources of
the country increase the revenue enough to
meet our expenses and maintain our credit.
With these few remarks he would move that
this report of the Contingent Committee be
adopted.
Hon. Mr. Lefellier de Si. Jusi could not
come to the conclusion that the principle upon
which that report was based, was sound. It is
true if you adopt that report a considerable
saving will be made, but th*s argument should
have no weight with statesmen where principle is concerned. The parliamentary history of
England, which should be our guide in this
matter, presented no precedent of this kind.
The Civil Service Act declares that nothing in
that Act should affect the salaries of any of
the officers of the Civil Service, so long as
they continue in their office, and this principle
1s what we have always acted upon in this
House. In 1864 the Committee on Contingent
Accounts of the Legislative Council reported
that the salaries of the officers of the House
were too high and a reduction was recommended, but only to apply to future appointments. He admitted that the salaries were too
high, but if we could pay those salaries in the

SENATE DEBATES

March 26, 1868

late Province of Canada we could better Additional Clerk's Assistafford to pay them now when four Provinces
ant, additional French
were united. Let us pay the present
Translator, Examiner for
incumbents their present salaries, and declare
Standing Orders and
beforehand that in future we shall not pay
Clerk of Private Bills
1,800
1,600
any such high salaries as we now pay. If they Additional Clerk's Assistant
passed this report in its present form it would
and Second Office Clerk
1,800
1,600
deal a very severe blow to a number of fami- Clerk of the English Journals
1,300
1,200
lies, who had not done anything to deserve it.
of the French
In 1864 the scale of salaries which was recom- Clerk
Journals, in 1864, $1,390 1,200
1,200
mended in future appointments was nearly
the same as is recommended by this commit- Clerk of Committees and
French Translator
tee, and that was the scale they should now
1,400
1,400
adopt in regard to future incumbents. He then Additional French translator 1,200
1,200
quoted from a speech made by the Hon. Mr. Assistant Accountant
600
600
Seymour when the subject of Confederation
English Writing Clerk
500
500
was being discussed in which he argued that
Chaplain and Librarian,
persons who held offices under the late
not disturbing present
Canadian Government could not be turned
incumbent as Chaplain
adrift without due consideration. He quoted
and Librarian
400
from several reports of previous committees Law Clerk acting as Engto show that the principle of not reducing the
lish Translator
2,600
2,000
salaries of present incumbents was always Gentleman Usher of the
recognized by the House, and he also referred
Black Rod
1,350
1,000
to the English Parliament as recognizing the Sergeant at-Arms
same principle. He thought at this moment Door Keeper
600
400
when we were a dependency of the British Chief Messenger
800
1,130
Crown, we should act in accordance with the
House Keeper and MesBritish standard. After making some remarks
senger in 1864, $700
in regard to the officers affected by the
Permanent Messengers
proposed scale of salaries, he hoped certain
reductions had not been made on account of Sessional Messengers
national prejudice, and concluded by moving
Hon. Mr. Campbell said that, however unthe following amendment:
e
ni±
pleasant the ques~tion might hei
That under present circum stances it is not met. It would be desirable to have had the
advisable to recommend an r material inter- matter settled without coming before the
ila it as
ference with the officers an d servants who Hou0serie, but asthi had been impossible, iti was
House, wte as this ondeen ei
have been in possession of their respective necessary to decide what was to be done in
to t. The satisfactory manner in
offices as officers and servan tsreference
present which the duties connected with the House
the preenthad been discharged by the officials, adds to
since the first of July last ntil inti
th
day, but that in the event of vacancies occur- the unpleasantness of the duty the members
ring in future, the following scale of reduc- of the House were called upon to discharge. It
tions in the salaries be acte d upon and fol- seemed to hlm that they had no alternative,
but to consider the facts before them without
lowed in each case:
Present Proposed any reference to the servants of the House.
Salaries Salaries Perhaps it was putting it a hittle too strong to
Clerk of the House, Master
say they had no more rights tan persons who
$
$ 2,6002,00
swhich, the due
were the employeesconniete thrlthve or priof corporate firms, Houis
in Chancery, Cashier and
3,400
2,400
vate individuals, because some additional conAccountant
sideration might be had for persons who perDeputy Clerk, Clerk Assisformed duties in connection with the Senate
tant Master in Chancery
and the House of Commons. But as we now
and Chief French Trans2,600
2,000
have new machinery coming into operation,
lator
having new constituent parts of the Dominion,
Deputy Clerk, Master in
each having a right to bring officers into the
Chancery
and
Chief
Office Clerk

March 26, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

of the several Provinces, and what they may
expect in reference to the subject, as well as
the rights of those persons who were formerly
the incumbents of the Legislative Council of
the late Province of Canada. He did not believe some of those rights existed. If it could
be said that those gentlemen, who were servants of the late Legislative Council, have
rights in this Parliament it can be said with
equal propriety, that the servants of the Legislative Councils of Nova Scotia and New
Brunswick have equal rights. He did not see
how any hon. member could dissent from the
scale of salaries proposed in the report. He
understood that his hon. friend (Mr. Letellier
de St. Just) did not dissent from it, but would
not like to see it applied to present incumbents. There could be no doubt but this scale
would meet the requirements of the duties to
be performed by the officers of this House.
Everything that was done could be measured
in a general way by the length of the sittings
of the Senate. If one sitting does not extend
beyond an average of an hour a day it affords
some insight into their duty. In order to make
this more clear he would make a comparison
between the duties discharged by the officials
of this House, and the duties discharged by
the officials of the other Branch of the Legislature, and of the Public Departments. The
duties of the officials in this House terminate
within four or five weeks of the close of the
Session, being only occupied for a few hours
daily for about four months of the year. Is
that anything like the work performed in the
Public Departments? The Auditor-General
and the Deputy Postmaster-General get but
£650 a year each, and they work the whole
year round, their duties being immensely in
excess of any duties performed by any officer
of this House. During the early part of the
Session he was anxious to have this subject
postponed until the present period, in order to
give a little more time to the parties to be
affected by this report to look out for other
situations. His hon. friend (Mr. Letellier de
St. Just) may then have contemplated the
course he has now pursued, but there was
nothing in his motion to indicate that he contemplated putting it in its present shape.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just said that
when this motion was proposed he had not
made up his mind as to the course he should
pursue, but when he reflected upon the matter
he resolved to move this amendment.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said something had been
gained by delay. One of the officers of the
House he was able to give employment to in

his own Department, and another had retired
altogether. Other sessional messengers had
taken the sessional allowance and found employment elsewhere. It was no hardship at all
to tell a young man that a certain sum was
allowed him, and he could get employment as
well in other situations. Since the adjournment of the House he had the satisfaction
of being able to inform the Chairman of the
Committee that the Government of the Dominion would assume the responsibility of
sanctioning the payment of one or more years'
pay to some of the older servants whose
services would be dispensed with. He would
ask was not this a liberal mode of dealing
with them? Would any gentleman be willing
to have the House pension them if they had
the power? To do so would be against the
public opinion of the country, and they could
not possibly carry it through the Legislature.
A different state of things exists here, to what
exists in England, therefore the instances
which his hon. friend had cited with so much
force are not in point and ought not to weigh
with this House. In England they have a
system of pensioning, but we have no such
system here, therefore if we come to the
conclusion that a large staff of officers is
unnecessary, and it is desirable to show them
some consideration, as that consideration cannot be given in the shape of pension, it must
be given as a liberal allowance to those who
are likely to suffer by the practice of such
economy on our part, as we think the country
requires. We say we will give two years'
salary to those officers who have served the
House for upwards of twenty years. This in
reference to two of these officers will amount
to upwards of £2,000. These gentlemen are
beyond the meridian of life, and they get
nearly £ 1,200, which at their time of life
would buy an annuity not to be despised. If
they do not wish to buy an annuity they
would have that money to see them over
several years, which will allow them time to
get other employment; but if there is no other
employment to get it would give them ninety
or one hundred pounds a year as interest upon
the amount. In the absence of a system of
pensioning the change to them is as favourable
as is given to any one, and is beyond their
anticipations. Those who have served for less
than twenty years, it is proposed shall have
one year's salary. Surely it cannot be a hard
thing for us to say to those officers-a majority of whom have not served over six or seven
years-that we will give them one year's pay
on their dismissal. Shall it be said that the
fact of a person's being appointed by the late

SENATE DEBATES
Legislative Council of Canada for the past
seven years gives him a right to have a
pension? He thought not. While he sympathized with those who would suffer, he could
not help coming to the conclusion that if
action is necessary, as he assumed every one
admitted, then the action proposed in the report brought in by his hon. friend the
Chairman of the Committee, was of the most
considerate kind under our system of Government. In reference to the officers to be
retained in the service, they are to be allowed
to continue their present salaries a year from
the first of July next. Under the first arrangement it was to be six months, but we have
come to the conclusion that they might not be
able to bring down their expenses to their
reduced salaries in six months, therefore the
time was extended to one year. He was in
favour of adopting the report, because he acquiesced in the opinion that the expenses of
the staff are unnecessarily large, and far beyond the requirements of the House. Then as
to the staff retained, he believed it would not
only be efficient, but in excess of the actual
necessities of the work. The action of the committee was in the public interest, and they
should not for mere sympathy of their own
adopt this amendment to continue the present
incumbents in their offices. We were acting in
the interest of the country, and we ought to
satisfy ourselves, whether it is for the interest
of the country to continue this unnecessarily
large staff during the life of the present
incumbents. It was no use to adopt a scale for
the future: it has been tried on several occasions, and failed, therefore it is perfectly
useless for the House to say we will economize in future. Our business is with the
present, and it is a waste of time for us to
promise economy in the future, when certain
contingencies shall happen. He had reason to
believe that if the House adopted this report,
it would be the means of introducing economy into the other Branch of the Legislature,
and into the Departments of the Government
(hear, hear). It is the object of the Government to assist in carrying out this principle
of economy in all their Departments. He concluded by saying this report was arranged
after every consideration had been given to
the subject, and he hoped the House would
adopt it precisely as it stood.

the Local
Provinces.

March 26, 1868

Governments

of

the Maritime

Hon. Mr. Hazen said it had been customary
in New Brunswick for the clerks of both
Houses to receive an equal salary, and the
same custom was followed here; but could any
hon. gentleman say the duties of the Speaker
of the Senate were as arduous as the duties of
the Speaker of the House of Commons. They
received an equal salary, Sessional allowance,
and travelling expenses, because they were
paid not according to the duties they performed, but according to the dignity of the
two Houses. This rule has been maintained
both here and in the British Parliament. The
people of New Brunswick would never be
satisfied with this economy of cutting down
the salaries of officers who had been so long
in the service. If the committee had a report
recommending that every salary in the Dominion should be cut down ten per cent,
including our own, then after adopting that
we could go back to New Brunswick, and say
a measure of economy has been adopted
which would add to the revenue some thousands a year. All we will be able to say, if we
adopt this report, will be, we have dismissed a
few poor messengers and left them starving in
Ottawa. This is miserable economy, and there
is no justice in it. Economy is one thing and
injustice is another. He was quite prepared to
adopt a motion for reduction if each case was
brought before them separately, but as the
matter stood now he was bound to vote for
the amendment. He would like to have the
hon. Postmaster-General explain why the
Speakers of both Houses have an equal salary
when one had to perform so much more duty
than the other.
Hon. Mr. Campbell replied that it would not
be consistent with the dignity of the Senate
that their Speaker should receive a less sum
than the Speaker of the House of Commons.
He did not think that principle applied to the
subordinate officers of the House.

Hon. Mr. Ritchie said the only question for
the House to consider was, whether the salaries proposed by the Committee were sufficient
compensation for the officers of the House. He
said he quite agreed with a great deal said by
the hon. member who moved the amendment.
No one was more indisposed to interfere with
salaries than he (Mr. Ritchie) was. If he had
Hon. Mr. Holmes said he did not look upon been a member of the late Legislative Council
these officers of the late Legislative Council of of Canada, and these salaries had existed at
Canada as being officers of this House, neither that time, he should not have been disposed,
did he think the Dominion should have any- as a member of that body, to propose their
thing to do with looking after the servants of reduction. He would have said the reduction

March 26, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

should be made prospective. Now we are
meeting for the first time under a new Constitution, and he would ask by what right
have the most of these employees to be here
at all? Al those officers who hold their offices
from the Governor-General have a right to be
here, but any other employee of the House
comes here with the possibility of his services
not being accepted, inasmuch as it is for this
House to say not only how many employees
there shall be, but who they shall be. How is
it that the officers who have been employed in
the Legislature of Canada are here, and no
officers from Nova Scotia and New Brunswick? Why not bring our officers from
Fredericton and Halifax at the same time?
These persons here are the old servants, not of
Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, but of
Ontario and Quebec. What would be said if
we should come to the House and ask pensions for the old servants of the Maritime
Provinces. The question we have to consider
is not whether these persons should, or should
not, receive pensions, or a consideration, for if
they do, they must receive them, not from the
Dominion but from the Provinces of Ontario
and Quebec. If it be true that the Governments of Ontario and Quebec have passed
over these old public servants and employed
new ones, and they have lost the opportunity
of giving them situations in those two Legislatures they can have no claim upon this
Dominion Senate. He would ask his hon.
friend if this was not so.
Hon. Mr. Hazen-That is a legal quibble.

What was the point in dispute? Take the clerk
for instance: what was he on the 30th day of
June? A clerk of the Legislative Council of
Canada. What was he on the first day of July?
A clerk of the Senate of the Dominion of
Canada. Is it not then a legal quibble to say
he is not continued in his office? His commission is from the Governor-General of Canada,
and he has been a continuous public servant
for forty years; therefore he considered it
would be doing injustice to displace him from
office, or make a reduction in his salary.
Hon. Mr. Chapais said he had not the pleasure of personally knowing the officers and
servants of the House, but he had heard on
all hands, of their fidelity to their duties. It
was unquestionably a very delicate thing to
interfere with the salaries of old and faithful
servants, still the House had a duty to perform in this matter, and could not escape it.
Now it had become the duty of the House to
appoint its servants; and if they found that
there were more of the officers of the old
Legislative Council than were necessary for
the Senate, it became indispensable to decline
reviewing the appointments of some of them.
He (Mr. Chapais) had examined the subject
with every desire to avoid, if possible, the
unpleasant necessity of dispensing with the
servants found in excess.
Hon. Mr. Tessier wished to know if the
action was to be understood as one, the
responsibility of which was assumed by the
Government?

Hon. Mr. Chapais said if the Government
Hon. Mr. Ritchie was surprised to receive
such an answer; it was not the language had wished to assume the responsibility they
which he would use under the circumstances. would not have allowed the Senate or the
He would be careful how he asked him a Commons to take it up independently as they
question again in a similar way. It was had. He would vote as a Senator, not as a
against his feelings for him to speak in favour Minister. The hon. member then said that on
of the report, as he would rather increase the 30th June, 1867, all the public servants
every man's salary here than take one cent had, in effect, gone out of office, and could
from him. In the Lower Provinces they were pretend to no vested rights in their situations.
not accustomed to pay their officers such large However, sympathizing with them, he had
salaries, as they are paid here. It was very done what he could to get them the best
well to talk of a reduction of salaries all over conditions he could from the Comrnittee on
the Dominion: there were men in offices of the Contingencies. He was quite cognizant of the
Dominion who possessed intellectual faculties public feeling on this subject, and it was that
of the highest order, and who were working while Confederation was
generally approved,
from morning till night every day in the year,
there was as general a dread of increased
and get less salaries than gentlemen whom
expenditure and consequent taxation. The acthis House employs two months in the year.
tion now proposed would tend a great deal to
Hon. Mr. Hazen was surprised that his hon. allay these fears.
friend should take offence at the phrase "legal
Hon. Mr. Tessier would like to know from
quibble," which was used so often in the
courts of law. He would put it before the the Hon. Minister what reductions he had
House whether or not it was a legal quibble. made in his own Department?
99267-11

SENATE DEBATES
Hon. Mr. Chapais said he had made some
retrenchments, and that his hon. friend must
know that the Government had a bill now
before the other House, which would accomplish a considerable economy. With respect to
the employees of the Senate who were to be
dispensed with, they would have a claim upon
his sympathy, and he would ever be ready to
serve them so far as he could, and to give
them the preference whenever vacancies occurred in the public service, always, however,
remembering the claims of the Lower Provinces to have their proper proportion of men
in the Civil Service.
Hon. Mr. Ferrier said it had been stated
that the whole amount which would be saved
to the country by adopting this motion would
be about $3,000. If they were going to practice economy, he would like to introduce a report that the members of the Senate should
give their attendance here without receiving
any indemnity. It should be thought an honour
to be called to a seat in the Senate without
receiving any indemnity. He had attended the
Legislative Council for a great many years
without any remuneration, and he would acquiesce in having the principle adopted here.
If the chairman of the Contingent Committee
would recommend a measure of that kind,
which would have an effect upon the Legislature and the Departmental officers of the
Government, then we would show some
economy, but this reduction proposed is only

in regard to a few offices, and would be a very
small affair.
A motion was made to adjourn the debate
until to-morrow, which on being put was lost.
The Speaker then left the chair, it being six
o'clock.
AFTER RECESS

Hon. Mr. Tessier would make a few remarks upon this subject. This question ought
not to be one of money, but a question of
principle. They were about to commit an act
of injustice in regard to persons who had
small influence, and no recourse before any
tribunal, but had what he conceived to be
right on their side. He did not deny but the
Senate had the power of reducing salaries,
and dismissing servants, but there was a rule
of equity which was followed in every civilized country. In the country from which we
derive our constitution there were no examples of servants being dismissed without a
compensation, if they were worthy of it. It
had been said that we were beginning under a
new state of things, but by whom were this

March 26, 1868

new state of things brought about? By the
whole people of the Dominion of Canada. If
the whole people of Canada have by their will
made a new order of things, and in consequence certain offices are abolished, are not
the same people of Canada bound to see
justice done to those parties? This is the rule
adopted in England: if a judgeship or any
office supposed to be permanent be abolished
by Act of Parliament, the person holding that
office has a right to indemnity, and according
to the rules of Parliament a remuneration, or
another situation, is given him, where he can
enjoy the same salary as he had before. He
believed the framers of the Act of Confederation never thought the officers employed in
the late Legislature of Canada would be dismissed on the plea that they were not provided for by the Confederation Act. Under a
clause of that Act he found that officers of the
Provinces were provided for, but he was
told this clause did not refer to the officers
of the Legislature of Confederated Canada. He
considered the principle was the same, and the
reason it was not put in was because it would
not be constitutional to do so. The 130th
Clause of the Union Act, says "Until the
Parliament of Canada otherwise provides all
officers of the several Provinces, having duties
to discharge in relation to matters other than
those coming within the classes of subjects by
this Act assigned exclusively to the Legislatures of the Provinces shall be officers of
Canada, and shall continue to discharge the
duties of their respective offices, under the
same liabilities, responsibilities and penalties,
as if the Union had not been made." That is
the right principle, and though the framers of
the Act of Confederation thought proper to fix
that principle for all the officers of the Government of Canada; why should not the same
principle be applied to the Legislature of
Canada? The reason that clause of the Act did
not include the officers of the Legislative
Council of Canada was, because it is a constitutional branch of the Legislature, and it was
their privilege to fix the salaries of their
officers, without the action of the other branch
of the Legislature, or of the Executive Government. If the framers of the Act of Union
had said the officers of the Legislative Council
of Canada shall be officers of the Senate of
Canada, they would have intruded upon the
rights of that body, therefore, that provision
was not made, although the principle was
established. It is better to judge the Ministry
by their actions than by any other standard.
Let us judge by their actions what were their
intentions: were the officers dismissed or their

March 26. 1868

SENATE DEBATES

salaries reduced on the lst of July? If the
Ministry do not give an example of dismissing
their officers, why ask the Senate to do it. Let
it be settled by the Civil Service Act, that the
salaries, in all the Departments of Canada
shall be reduced, and he would support it. It
has been said that by adopting this report we
will be setting an example to the Ministry and
the other branch of the Legislature; if they do
not follow our example, will we have to corne
back and increase the salaries of our officers.
He did not think the Ministry, as a Ministry,
would support a measure of this kind to be
applied to the House of Commons.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said he had stated that
this question could not be a ministerial measure, although the Government were anxious
to see this report adopted. He believed if it
was adopted, the other branch of the Legislature, and the Governnent, would endeavor
to carry out the same principle in the House
of Commons, and to pursue the same course
in the public departments.
Hon. Mr. Tessier said the question was not
whether the Government were in favour of
the policy of economy, but it was whether
the members of Government, as a body, would
support this measure of retrenchment if
brought into the other House.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said they were not
bound to support it; he merely indicated what
he supposed would be the action of the
Government.
Hon. Mr. Tessier said a member of the
Government voted against a measure of this
kind in a committee of the other House.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said the principle of
economy was advocated by the gentleman
alluded to, but his desire was to adopt such
economy in the report as would carry in the
House as well as in the Committee.
Hon. Mr. Tessier said the Government were
responsible for the Civil Service Bill, and
there it was stated that no officer should be
paid under a certain wage. The salaries to be
the first year, $100, and never to exceed
$1,800. The maximum rate to be not over
$500. This showed a retrenchment was to be
made in public offices, but there is a clause in
the Act which says, "nothing in this Act shall
affect the salary of any officer in the Civil
Service at the time of the passing of this Act,
so long as he shall continue in office." The
principle of this Bill shows that the policy of
the Government is not well settled on that
99267-11

point. He believed it was the true policy
consonant with British practice. There was
another objection made to this amendment,
which at first sight appeared very strong:
it was said the officers of the Legislatures
of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick had
the same right to an indemnity as the
officers of the late Legislature of Canada.
They are right in saying so; who disputes it?
He liked to see hon. gentlemen standing up
for their rights. If the Imperial Parliament
had passed an Act abolishing the Legislatures
of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, he would
like to know if their officers would not have
corne forward and said they had a right to
indemnity. They do not claim it because they
have appointments in their own Provinces;
but is this the case in the late Legislative
Council of Canada? Before whom have they
to corne to get their rights? Have they to corne
before the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec?
In the Province of Ontario they have no
Legislative Council by the Constitution, therefore these officers cannot be appointed as
officers of a body which does not exist. If any
of the officers of the Legislatures of New
Brunswick and Nova Scotia were dismissed
by the Act of Union, or by the Act of this
Dominion, they would have a right to corne
here and complain, but if they are dismissed
by their own Local Legislatures it is their own
affair. What was the state of affairs before the
first day of July? The Clerk of the Legislative
Council was in possession of papers and
money to a large amount: he filled the office
and paid the officers, and being the Clerk of
Confederated Canada, he would still continue
his office when that Confederation was extended. There could be no question but Nova
Scotia and New Brunswick had a right to
their fair share of the patronage, but this
must not be exercised to the injustice of any
other province. If Canada has not provided
for certain things to the prejudice of private
individuals, we are bound to repair the damage done. The question by whom it is to be
paid in the end comes afterwards. The Governments of Ontario and Quebec were formed
under the sanction of the present Ministry
and if they thought Ontario and Quebec were
bound to take up these officers as their own,
why could not they have appointed them
when appointing the Ministry of the Local
Governments? No one at that time thought
they would be dismissed. He was afraid he
had wearied the House and he would conclude
with making one observation upon the question of economy itself. The staff of officers of
the old Legislature of Canada would compare

SENATE DEBATES
favourably, as to respectability and efficiency,
with the officers of any other Legislature,
wherever it may exist. The Chief Clerk received the salary of £850 after 46 years service; he is now chief clerk of Parliament and
the guardian of the most important laws
passed in the Dominion, in which great
.damage could be done to the country by
merely striking out one word and adding another, therefore we say he ought
to be paid a higher salary than the clerk
of any Court in the Dominion of Canada.
The Clerk is responsible for a large amount
of money which passes through his hands,
and during forty-six years he has committed but one small mistake, which he made
good by taking the money from his own
pocket. He has not always received this large
salary; he commenced with a salary of £100
a year, which has been increased from year to
year, and it has only been during the last
eleven years that he bas enjoyed his present
salary. It is estimated that his average salary
bas only been about three or four hundred
pounds a year. To show what had been done
in England when it had been found necessary to dismiss public servants, he read an
extract from "Todd's Parliamentary Government," stating that when a new Divorce and
Probate Court was established in 1857 provision was made to compensate the Proctors
who had presided in the old court which was
then abolished; this compensation amounted
to the sum of $116,000 per annum. It is the law
of the English Parliament to provide compensation for its officers, and why should it not be
the law of the Dominion Parliament? He
believed that it was of much more importance
that a good practice should be followed, and a
proper principle laid down, than to economise
in a small amount which would do injustice to
persons who were not guilty of any impropriety, and who certainly were not responsible
for this new state of things.

March 26, 1868

with the understanding that they were to take
such salaries as would be fixed by the Senate.
His bon. friend (Mr. Tessier) had based his
argument entirely upon the English practice.
He would treat the English practice with
respect, but here we were not wholly bound
by the English rule as regards pensions and
indemnity. All those rules from "May's Parliamentary Practice" have never been acted
upon here, because , they are applicable to
cases where officers have been removed by
those who appointed them. We are arguing
this question upon a state of things which has
only been in being within the last year. What
is that state of things? These are officers of
the late Legislative Council of Canada which
bas passed away.
His hon. friend (Mr. Tessier) said because
the people of the Dominion of Canada agreed
to Confederation, they should indemnify every
officer affected by that Act. This is the logical
conclusion of his argument. If we adopt that
argument we must indemnify every officer in
Nova Scotia and New Brunswick affected by
that Act. If he should come here and ask
indemnification for the officers of Nova Scotia
removed by this Act the reply would be that
is a question which only affects Nova Scotia.
His bon. friend said the Legislatures of Nova
Scotia and New Brunswick were left; so they
were, but they were shorn of many of their
powers, and reduced almost to municipal bodies, and the consequence was that many of
the officers had to be removed, but was it ever
contemplated that they should come to the
Dominion for indemnification? We had to cut
off two departments with all their staff, but
they did not come here for compensation. The
Union Act gave them three legislative bodies
to provide for in Canada, and if a little pains
had been taken in this matter from the first of
July, until the meeting of Parliament we
might have been spared this trouble. Nova
Scotia and New Brunswick had to make their
own arrangements, but the theory was not
Hon. Mr. Dickey said he would take his full started there that we were bound,
share of the responsibility of the report. This to the English practice to pension according
off these
question was not one of sentiment; they had a persons. At any rate, we did not act upon it.
duty to perform which they should discharge If we adopt this amendment, we will establish
irrespective of sympathy, but coupled with a principle in this Legislature which we will
feelings which should commend themselves to have to act upon, and we will have to count
our judgment. The arguments in favour of the the cost.
amendment were based upon the fact that the
Hon. Mr. Tessier- How many officers have
persons to be affected by this report had
been affected by this Union Act in Nova
vested rights to offices in this Dominion. The
Scotia?
grounds upon which that amendment is based
Hon. Mr. Dickey said there was quite a
have been entirely removed. The officers to be
affected by this report have never been offic- number of therm, including the Board of
ers of this Dominion, except upon sufferance, Works and Receiver-General's Department.

March 26, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

There were many officers in Canada affected
by that Act: the old Crown Lands Department
had been swept out of existence. Were they
not to be indemnified as well as the officers of
the Legislative Council, as they have an equal
claim? His hon. friend (Mr. Tessier) said he
felt inclined to vote against this report because it did not include in its provisions that
indemnification for members should be abolished. The Contingent Committee have nothing to do with the indemnification to members. If there had been any chance for such a
motion being carried, he would give his hon.
friend more credit for mentioning it.
Hon. Mr. Ferrier said he had suggested it,
and hoped it would be adopted by the House,
he for one being prepared to support it. If this
House resolved unanimously not to take the
indemnity, they would save $58,200, and show
to the country that they were serious in their
endeavours to reduce the expenses of the
Legislature.
Hon. Mr. Dickey said it was quite open for
the hon. member to move a resolution in this
House to deny himself this indemnity, but it
would come with greater effect from those
who had to travel a thousand miles to come to
the seat of Government, and who had not free
passes over the Grand Trunk Railway. We all
know, it is very well for gentlemen to say
"you might have done something else, but as
you have not done something else, you shall
not have my support in this." He had never
heard of a course of economy recommended,
but it was met in the same way, "why not go
to some other Department, or to yourselves.".
We should take the question upon its own
merits. He thought hon. members should be
satisfied with the assertion of the Postmaster-General, that this question had more in it
than the mere reduction of $13,000 a year in
this body, because it was an example which
was about to be followed in the other branch
of the Legislature and in the Public Departments. What will be the effect of rejecting this
report? If it is rejected there cannot be another successful effort made to reduce the notoriously large salaries connected with these
Departments. If this amendment was carried
he would give the whole thing up as hopeless,
as it postponed the operation of this scale until after the death of the present incumbents.
Has not there been resolution after resolution
on the Journals of the House providing for the
same thing, but instead of this reduction being
made, the salaries have been gradually increasing; now when we are inaugurating this
New Dominion we are asked to take the

highest scale for our officers, and to pass a
resolution that at some future day we will
take into consideration the propriety of reducing them. He would ask his hon. friends if they
give any groups to hope that any good would
result if this amendment was adopted, or
whether or not it would be shelving the
question and doing away with any good we
expect to result from it. His hon. friend who
moved the amendment had said there was a
question of nationality in the report. The only
question of nationality he could see was that
$200 a year had been given to the French
Clerk in excess of the amount given to the
English Clerk. His hon. friend (Mr. Tessier)
had referred to the Civil Service Act, which
had been submitted from the other House;
that Act did not affect this House, but was
simply an Act regulating the Civil Service
Departments, and if it should become law, it
would afford no argument against the adoption of this report. The 131st section of the
Union Act gave the Governor-General power
to appoint officers to carry on the business of
the country, otherwise it would have been at a
stand still. The object of the 22nd clause of
the Civil Service Act is to protect those persons; this does not apply to Legislative officers; but to officers in the public departments.
In that Act the highest salary proposed to be
given to a resident housekeeper is $500, whereas we give $800; there the highest salary
paid a messenger is $500, while our messengers are paid $700 and $800. He mentioned
this to show that the Contingent Committee
had every disposition to be liberal in fixing
the salaries. He might say the report of the
Committee was almost unanimously agreed to
by them on the basis of a compromise; although they felt the new scale of salaries was
still in excess of the actual requirements of
the service. .He regretted that with all their
efforts they had not satisfied some of the hon.
members of the House, and they had to fight
the battle over again. He regretted he had
been obliged to say what he had, but candor
and fairness compelled him to take this
course. Al these offices were abolished by the
Union Act, and no one had a right to complain. We in the Maritime Provinces do not
come here with claims for compensation, we
have scarcely asked for more than the appointment of two or three persons on the staf
of the whole building, and these were in one
or two of the Departments. We feel we have
to account to the country for our action in this
matter. It is a question not so much of
amount, as of principle; if we adopt the
amendment we will assent to the principle

SENATE DEBATES
that we are to adopt the officers of the late
Legislative Council of Canada and the House
of Assembly of Canada, and take upon ourselves to indemnify them as if it was a body
that still continued in existence. His hon.
friend from St. John (Mr. Hazen) when
pushed for an argument said "the Clerk of this
body on the 30th of June was the Clerk of the
Legislative Council of Canada, and on the lst
of July he was clerk of the Senate by commission from the Governor General." Would his
hon. friend say if the Clerk had not been so
appointed, he would have come here for indemnification more than the Clerk of Nova
Scotia? The same officers, when appointed,
became new officers, and the amount of remuneration they were to receive was left entirely
to the Senate. How is it possible with all their
ingenuity and appeals for sympathy the members can expect to have this amendment sustained after the adoption of the report upon
which this is based. We must go upon the
principle embodied in a former report, that
this Committee can recognize no officers, as
officers of this body, at the time this Legislature first met. That principle was adopted
by the solemn Act of this House without a
division, and they would now stultify themselves if they set aside that principle upon the
ground that they were officers of the Dominion of Canada. Having done their duty the
Committee would leave the matter in the
hands of the members, who would have to
justify themselves to their own consciences
and to the people of the country.
Hon. Mr. Wilmo± thought if this report was
adopted it would cause a great deal of hardship to those persons affected by it; he would
rather see the measure apply to future incumbents. He characterized the principle and action of the Government as most extravagant
and wasteful. He said that the Dominion was
now in a worse condition to sustain any
expenditure than the former Province of
Canada. Every measure brought forward, so
far as New Brunswick was concerned, was to
take money out of the pockets of the poor and
put it in the pockets of the rich, and to take
the burdens off the rich and put them on the
poor. It had always been his opinion that they
should endeavor, as much as possible to employ the productive labor of the country to
promote its prosperity. The saving of even
$400,000 would amount to but 10 cents a head
on the population, and he doubted whether
the people throughout the Dominion would be
made much more prosperous by it. His principle was that while they practiced economy
they should not do injustice. When he saw

March 26, 1868

salaries reduced from $1,100 to $800, and $1,350
to $1,100 he believed they were doing injustice. If economy was to be carried out, it
should be carried out in every department of
the public service. The same economy which
was practised in New Brunswick in regard to
Judges' and other salaries should be extended
throughout the Dominion.
The question was
then taken on the amendment.
Contents-Hon. Messieurs Allan, Armand,
Cauchon, Cormier, Duchesnay, E.H.J., Dumouchel, Ferrier, Hagar, Leslie, Letellier de
St. Just, Locke, McDonald, Malhiot. Miller,
Mills, Olivier, Oliver, Ross, Shaw, Tessier,
Wilmot, Wilson.-21.
Non-Contents-Hon.
Messieurs
Aikins,
Archibald, Benson, Bill, Botsford, Bourinot,
Bureau,
Burnham,
Campbell,
Chapais,
Christie, Dever, Dickey, Dickson, Ferguson,
Flint, Foster, Guévremont, Hamilton (Inkerman), Holmes, Lacoste, Leonard, McClelan,
McCrea, McCully, McMaster, Macpherson,
Mitchell, Odell, Reesor, Ritchie, Seymour,
Simpson, Steeves, Wark, Wier.-36.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Jusi spoke in
favour of one of the blanks in the list of officers being filled with the name of Mr. Doucet,
and asked for him the consideration of the
members from the Maritime Provinces.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said as an individual
Senator he had no right to pledge any section
of the country to forego anything they had a
right to. If his hon. friend would bring the
matter under the consideration of the Contingent Committee, he was sure every man in
it would give the subject, not only a fair, but
a generous consideration.
The question being then put on the main
motion, the House divided as follows:
Contents-Hon. Messieurs Aikins, Archibald, Benson, Bill, Botsford, Bourinot,
Burnham, Campbell, Chapais, Christie, Dever,
Dickey, Dickson, Ferguson, Flint, Foster,
Guévremont, Hamilton (Inkerman), Holmes
Lacoste,
Leonard,
McClelan,
McCrea,
McCully, McMaster, Macpherson, Mitchell,
Odell, Reesor, Ritchie, Seymour, Simpson,
Steeves, Wark, Wier.-35.
Non-Contents-Hon. Messieurs Allan, Armand, Bureau, Cauchon, Cormier, Duchesnay,
E. H. J., Dumouchel, Ferrier, Hazen, Leslie,
Letellier de St. Just, Locke, McDonald, Malhiot, Miller, Mills, Olivier, Ross, Shaw, Tessier,
Wilmot, Wilson.-22.
The House then adjourned until to-morrow
at three o'clock.

SENATE DEBATES

March 27, 1868

THE SENATE
Friday, March 27, 1868.
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
Hon. Mr. Seymour stated that the Rev. Dr.
Adamson had resigned the office of Chaplain, and that the Committee recommended
that he be paid two years' salary. They also
recommend the office to be discontinued.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot gave notice of a resolution
to make such reasonable reduction in the
salary of the Governor-General and other
public officers as may be necessary to carry
out a system of retrenchment in all the public
departments.
OFFICIAL REPORTS.
Hon. Mr. Simpson brought up the fourth
report of the Committee on Printing and said
he did not intend to move it, but merely to
place it before the House to deal with it as
they saw fit. He referred to what his hon.
friend from Halifax (Mr. McCully) had said in
regard to the cost of publishing the debates
being not more than $12,000, and thought he
had not as much experience of the difference
between estimates and actual expenses as
they had in Canada. He then referred to various public works in Canada, giving a statement of the estimates and the actual cost,
showing that the latter far exceeded the former. He said he had spoken generally when
he said the publication of the official debates
would cost twice the estimated amount. When
the question of Confederation was before the
House, it was resolved to have a report of the
debates published; after much calculation
they estimated the cost at $8,000, and although
they tried to keep down the expense as much
as they possibly could, the actual expense was
$14,600. The present estimate is based on a
Session of sixty days, giving at the rate of
fourteen columns of the debates a day, each
column to contain 1,400 words. He had no
hesitation in saying that if the debate
which took place in this House last night was
taken down substantially, it would have filled
up the fourteen columns. The speech of an
ordinary speaker will fill four and a half
columns an hour. Sir John A. Macdonald
would fill five; while Mr. George Brown, if
accurately reported, would fill nearly six. The
calculation here is made upon an estimate of
fourteen columns a day. What we say here we
would like to have reported, but if we are

restricted to three columns a day, as is
proposed, it cannot be done. An interesting
debate in the other House in which Sir J. A.
Macdonald, Mr. Holton, and Mr. Blake take
part, would require more than 14 columns a
day for that House alone. It requires more
than fourteen columns to give a true record of
ordinary debates. Then they are to be limited
to sixty days, at the same time, we propose to
record all that has been done during the first
part of the Session. No doubt, but this Session
will last over thirty days, and you will have to
increase your calculation by the number of
days. He was prepared to endorse what he
said that the work will not be done for
$12,000. If he was not mistaken when the
location of the Intercolonial Railway is taken
up, there will be a great deal of spouting, and
this House could alone fill the fourteen columns. He would leave the matter in the
hands of the House; if they were anxious to
have their speeches reported, he would bear
his portion of the expense. He would be
satisfied whatever course they adopted.
Mr. McCully said he was not anxious to
increase the public expense in order to multiply the taxes of the country. In the early part
of the Session, a question came up in regard
to having a record of the debates in the nature
of "Hansard's" for the purpose of perpetuating the speeches of the members of Parliament, which although eut down to some extent would be a tolerably fair record of what
had transpired in the Dominion. He had not
taken an active part in it, not having so much
as expressed an opinion upon the subject. He
had heard it stated here by his hon. friend
from St. John (Mr. Hazen) and saw it in print,
that the expense of procuring this work would
be twice $12,000. He then made some enquiries which satisfied him that responsible persons had actually made tenders, which were
in the hands of the Printing Committee. He
had received information, authentie and reliable, that the entire expense of publishing this
record of the proceedings of Parliament would
not exceed $12,00. He then challenged the
statement that the work would cost $24,000,
and his hon. friend, (Mr. Hazen) gave the
Chairman of the Committee as his authority,
and he now disavows it.
Hon. Mr. Simpson-I stated then, as I
state now, that I think double the amount
would be nearer the mark.
Hon. Mr. McCully said that was a considerable qualification, and would leave a margin of
$5,000 in disputed territory. He did not know

SENATE DEBATES
whether the amount would be $12,000 or
$20,000, all he had to say was if the amount
was going to be very large he was not prepared to vote for it. Therefore, if the Chairman of the Committee could give the House
satisfactory evidence that his conclusions
were right, he would pause before he committed himself to such an expense, but if they
could get a satisfactory record of the proceedings of both Houses at a cost of not more than
$12,000, he thought the House would be prepared, and the people of the country would
sustain them in giving that amount. He
thought the Senate would study its own
respectability and dignity if they took care to
secure a faithful and brief record, not only of
the votes, but of the reasoning which the hon.
members presented to this House in the
course of their career, and this would influence other members in their decision of measures which would come before them. If it is
the policy of the House to shut down all
record of the proceedings, and pay neither
reporters or printers-to allow nothing to go
abroad but a mere abstract of votes in the
journals, this House would soon fall into a
state of disrespect. He did not mean to say the
members would not be respected, but they
would not have the influence before the country, it was desirable they should have. He
was not prepared to go to a very extravagant
expense in order to publish them, for he was
always found as a general rule, not voting for
the larger, but for the lesser sum, if it was
sufficient for the purpose for which it was to
be applied.

March 27, 1868

Hon. Mr. Simpson said he knew of a person
who was willing to report three columns a day
of the debates for the House for $60 a week;
this would give a very fair synopsis of the
debates without much expense.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson said he was one of
those who thought, and still think, the parliamentary business of the Dominion of sufficient
importance to be preserved in a condensed
form, if it could be done for a reasonable sum,
but pending the action of the other House, it
would not be well for us to make any move in
the matter. In the meantime we can get a
report of three columns a day for $60 a week,
and if the report should exceed three columns
a day-as it will not do to restrict the debates,
if published at all-an arrangement can be
made by which any excess over three columns
a day will be published at the same rate-that
is four dollars a column. Until action was
taken by the other House it would be well to
have a brief report published, which could be
done for the sum which he had named.
Hon. Mr. Miller thought if such an arrangement could be made, and a report of the
debates of the Senate could be had for $700 a
Session, it was desirable to have it, as they
would thereby effect a great saving in their
arrangements for that purpose.
Hon. Mr. Locke was of the same opinion,
but thought that the reporter should give good
security that the work would be done.

Hon. Mr. Wilmoi considered this a very
important question, as he thought if this Senate wished to maintain its position it was
Hon. Mr. Hazen could see no reason for necessary that the sayings and doings of the
making this appropriation, as a very good members should be reported. He, as one memreport of the speeches of members was now ber of the Senate, wished his ideas to go
given in the newspapers. He would not go for abroad as to what he thought would improve
appropriating $24,000 for reporting the de- the condition of the country, and he concurred
bates, nor yet $12,000. It had been said they in opinion with the hon. members who said
wished the utterances of their statesmen to be we should have a record of the debates to
preserved for future reference; he did not refer to in future.
pretend to be a statesman, but was an humble
Hon. Mr. Simpson said he would now move
member of the Senate, and he had no desire to that the order be discharged, and that it be
have his utterances handed down to posterity. taken into consideration on Thursday next,
If they adopted this report three columns a but he thought the Contingent Committee
day would not be sufficient for the debates of should be authorized to make an arrangement
the Senate. When the banking question and in the meantime to have the reports published
the Currency Bill came up for discussion, in one of the daily papers.
there would be a great deal of speaking, and it
Hon. Mr. McCully said he was not content
might take the fourteen columns for one
speech, which, after all, might contain but a that the other Branch of the Legislature
single idea.
should out of the public money provide a

March 27, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

record of their own debates to go abroad, and
no record should be provided for this House,
as he considered the arguments and reasoning
of the members of the Senate, to be just as
instructive as those of the House of Commons.
Therefore until the other House took saine
action upon this question, it was quite right
that we should remain passive. The motion to
consider the question on Thursday next was
then adopted.
On motion of the Hon. Mr. Campbell, the
name of the Hon. Mr. Dever was added to the
Committee on Commerce, Banking and Rail-

99267-12

ways and the names of the Hon. Messrs. Ross
and Chapais were added to the Library
Committee.
Hon. Mr. McCully enquired when the
"return" he had asked for at the commencement of the Session, in respect of judiciary
expenses, would be laid on the table.
Hon. Mr. Campbell requested his hon,
friend to allow the matter to stand over until
Monday.
The House then adjourned until Monday at
three o'clock.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE

March 30, 1888

which was read a first time, and the second
reading ordered for Wednesday.

Hon. Mr. Simpson presented the lth report
of the Joint Committee on Printing, and movThe Speaker took the chair at three o'clock. ed that it be taken into consideration on
Wednesday next.-Carried.
On the motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell the
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said in referring to the
time 'limited for receiving petitions for Private
Bils; also for presenting Private Bills, and for recommendation for the publication of Mr.
receiving reports of any Standing or Select Fleming's and Mr. Wilkinson's reports, that he
Committee on a Private Bill, was extended to had no objections to their being published, but
as they had included the observations of Mr.
20th April next.
Wilkinson the House should have the
A "return" of the Northern Railway Com- of Major Robinson's reply. He intended benefit
to ask
pany, made up to the 31st Dec., 1867, was laid on Wednesday that this reply
be added.
on the table. Also-a number of petitions
were brought up and laid on the table.
Hon. Mr. Tessier said as this was a joint
committee, if the report was then amended, it
The Hon. Mr. Campbell presented to the would have to
House a return in part to an Address to His House. It wouldbe referred back to the other
be better to
Excellency the Governor-General, dated the at once; therefore, he would make the motion
move that Major
fifth day of December, 1867, praying that His Robinson's reply
to Wilkinson's letter on the
Excellency will be pleased to cause to be laid Intercolonial Railway be
referred to the Joint
before this House a statement showing the Committee to report on
the advisability of
total expenses of the Judiciary of the Dominion of Canada, so far as the same are printing such letter.-Carried.
chargeable on the Consolidated Revenue Fund
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved that a Select
for the quarter next commencing on the lst Committee be appointed to consider and reJuly, 1867. What proportion chargeable to port whether, by any alterations in the forms
Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia, and New and proceedings of this House, the despatch of
Brunswick respectively. To whom paid, when, public business can be more effectually provin what capacity, for what services, and in ided. He said that during the early part of the
what Courts respectively, distinguishing salar- Session, very little business came before the
ies from travelling or other charges. What Senate; but during the latter part of the
amount for pensions, date of commencement Session, Bills were brought before them so
of the same, names of each of the Provinces, rapidly that they did not have time to give
names of recipients as prosecuting officers, them that consideration which they should
nature of the offences prosecuted, distinguish- have. This he said could not be remedied
ing those for which convictions were obtained, altogether, but at the same time it was possiwith the punishments awarded.
ble that something might be done. In England,
Hon. Mr. Macpherson presented the first under similar circumstances, they have
report of the Select Committee appointed to Separateof Committees on the part of each
branch
the Legislature, who discuss the
enquire into the causes of the recent financial subject and suggest some mode by which the
crisis in Ontario, and explained, that the public business may be so managed as to give
Conmittee had received evidence from many each Branch a full opportunity of considering
of the bankers and cashiers in the country, and deciding upon the various points submitwhich it was desirable to have printed for the ted for their judgment. Upon this committee
information of members. He then moved that he had ventured to put the names of those
the said report be now adopted and referred members who had been Speakers of the
House, and the others selected were gentleto the Committee on Printing.-Carried.
men of great experience. He had no doubt but
A message was received from the House of some decision would
be arrived at by this
Comimons requesting the Senate to grant leave Committee, which would place the business of
to Hon. Mr. Chapais to attend and give evi- the House in a more satisfactory position than
dence before a Select Committee of that formerly. He would move that Hon. Messrs.
House on elections. Leave granted.
Ritchie, Kenny, Ross, Duchesnay, Tessier,
Also, a Bill to continue the Parliament of McCully, Dickson, Aikins, and the mover,
Canada in the event of a demise of the Crown, compose the said Committee.
Monday, March 30, 1868.

March 30, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

At the suggestion of the Hon. Mr. McCully,
the name of the Hon. Mr. Botsford was added
to the Committee.
The motion was then adopted.
Hon. Mr. Simpson moved that

the 9th Re-

also referred to the catalogue of the Library
being printed upon the responsibility of the
Librarian and having cost a much larger sum
that if it had been printed under the direction
of the Printing Committee. A great many
cases

àke LI

d.1

i

Ilu

Uc&uILVu

an

th

-it

C

1

J

port of the Committee on Printing be adopted; tee now desîred that no officer of either House
and referred to certain irregularities in the should command any document to be printed
mode of distributing the papers and docu- until it passed through their hands.
The report was then adopted, and the House
ments of the House. This report recommended
a better mode of performing that duty. He adjourned until three o'clock tomorrow.

99267-121

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Tuesday, March 31, 1868.

March 31, 1868

Province. He thought as this question was
of much importance, they had better allow it
to stand over for further consideration.

Hon. Mr. Dickey would call the attention of
the Postmaster-General to this bill, as to
whether it did not interfere with the civil
A message was received from the House of rights left to the Local Legislatures. He beCommons for the organization of the De- lieved it not only dealt with subjects which
partment of Secretary of State, to be read on belonged to the General Parliament, but it
Thursday next.
affected Joint Stock Companies, incorpoAnother message, also from the Commons, rated by the Provincial Legislatures before
informing the Senate that Messrs. Chauveau the first day of last July. He thought it imporand McGee had been added to the Committee tant that the Postmaster-General should take
time to consider the bill before it was passed.
on Library.
The notices of motion were to stand for the
Hon. Mr. Campbell said the bill related to
present.
two classes of companies. It included any
company incorporated by any Act of the
INCORPORATED COMPANIES.
Parliament of the Dominion of Canada; and
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the House into also any company not being a company with
Provincial objects, incorporated before the
Committee upon "A Bill to facilitate the first day of July, 1867, by any Act of Proof Incorporated
winding up of the affairs
vincial Parliament. The words are limited in
Companies."
their meaning, the Acts of Nova Scotia relating to these companies being repealed, though
Hon. Mr. Leonard in the chair.
not repealed altogether, but only so far as
After a number of the clauses of the Bill related to those companies that can be wound
had been passed, Hon. Mr. Campbell asked up under this Act. Those companies which
the House to report progress, and ask leave to cannot be wound up under the Nova Scotia
sit again, as he desired to consult some mem- Act will be wound up under this. He wished
bers of the other Branch of the Legislature on to report progress in order to give his attenBankruptcy and Insolvency.
tion to a suggestion that the jurisdiction in
Hon. Mr. McCully read the second clause, these cases which the bill proposes to give to
"the word Court, when used in this Act shall the Superior Courts in the Provinces of
be construed to mean the Court of Chancery Quebec be given to the Court of the Queen's
for Upper Canada, when proceedings shall be Bench.
taken under its provisions in Ontario; the
Hon. Mr. Tessier said these causes should be
Superior Court for Lower Canada, when pro- given to those judges, who kept a registry of
ceedings shall be taken thereunder in Quebec; the proceedings in insolvency causes, instead
the Supreme Court, when proceedings shall be of giving it to those who are not accustomed
taken thereunder in Nova Scotia; and the to them and who have no time to attend to
Supreme Court of Judicature of New Bruns- this business. He referred to the reports which
wick, when proceedings shall be taken there- had been circulated to the disadvantage of the
under in New Brunswick; and the jurisdic- Judiciary of Lower Canada, and said they
tion of such courts respectively under this Act were utterly untrue. He believed there was
shall be determined by the situation in such not to be found a body of men who fulfilled
Provinces respectively, of the chief places of their duties better than the judges of Lower
business of the respective companies to be Canada.
wound up under this Act." He said the machinery of this Act was more easily carried
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just desired to add a
into operation through that branch of the Su- few remarks in corroboration of what fell
preme Court in Nova Scotia that conducts the from the hon. member who last addressed the
equity business. This court stood in the same House, (Mr. Tessier,) regarding the efficiency
relation to this kind of business as the Court and character of the Judiciary of the Province
of Chancery in Canada. These two courts are of Quebec. He was pained to read exaggerated
amalgamated in Canada. The Equity and statements made in another quarter lately,
Supreme Courts were also amalgamated in detracting from the merit and usefulness of
Nova Scotia, but since then it has been the these hon. judges. There may be some grounds
policy to reconstruet the Equity Court in that of complaints arising from infirmity and old
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.

March 31, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

age, but he for one did not believe in the other
causes aluded to in the newspaper reports. He
spoke with knowledge of his own section of
the Province of Quebec, where he resided.
Progress was then reported and leave asked to
sit again.
ALIEN LAWS AMENDMENT.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell, the House
went into Committee of the Whole (Hon. Mr.
Bureau in the chair), on the above Bim.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said that observations
had been made both in and out of the House
that we had not power to legislate upon the
subject. The Legislature of the Province of
New Brunswick up to this time have objected
to the passage of a law of this description, the
people of that Province not being satisfied
that it was for their interest to allow aliens to
hold and transmit land. If we have the power,
it is a matter for consideration how far we
should force that legislation upon them, which
they have upon several occasions pronounced
against. Under these circumstances he had
thought best to give way upon this point, and
would make such changes in the bill as related to aliens holding and transmitting land. In
reference to ai the Provinces in the Dominion, except New Brunswick, the state of aliens
would remain as at present. In New Brunswick they will retain the law they have
thought most conducive to their interests.
Hon. gentlemen would of course differ as to
the wisdom of the course pursued in New
Brunswick in regard to bringing in persons
who would not otherwise come and spend
their money in enterprises in that Province.
Whether they are right or not they have pronounced against the principle of this bih on
several occasions, therefore he had omitted
from the bill all that part which related to
aliens; as the bill now stood, it was simply a
Bill regarding naturalization. We enact a Bill
by which when a person becomes naturalized
in one Province of the Dominion, he will have
the same rights in al the Provinces of the
Dominion.

not approve of allowing them to hold property
while they continued to be aliens.
Hon. Mr. McCrea thought the object they
should have in view was to facilitate the
naturalization of aliens. He believed the law
they had in Upper Canada, in reference to this
subject was a very judicious one.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell the Bill
was ordered to be printed and taken into
consideration on Friday next.
The consideration of the 5th report of the
Select Committee on Contingent Accounts.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Seymour the consideration of the report was deferred until
Thursday next.
DIVORCE BILL.
Mr. Whiteaves, Biil for a divorce (from
Julia Wolf) was then introduced by the Hon.
Mr. Ferrier. and on motion of Hon. Mr.
Ritchie it was ordered to be read on the 15th
day of April next.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said under their constitution they had no more powers and privileges than the House of Commons and as they
had not the power to administer and examine
witnesses under oath, it was necessary before
proceeding with this case to have an Act of
Parliament giving them the necessary powers.
Hon. Mr. McCully said since the previous
Session of the House he had prosecuted two
cases of divorce in Nova Scotia, although divorce cases were not common there. When the
necessity for these cases did arise in Nova
Scotia the process was very simple, the whole
proceeding not occupying more than ten days.
In the Dominion it was of much importance
that they should have a court for marriage
and divorce, instead of going back to the law
which they had in England one hundred years
ago and which was substantiaily a denial of
justice.
Hon. Mr. Ritchie observed that there had
not been more than four divorce cases in
Canada in twenty-five years.

Hon. Mr. Wilmoi approved of naturalization
laws which alowed foreigners on coming into
The motion was then carried and the House
the country to become naturalized, but he did adjourned until to-morrow at three o'clock.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Wednesday, April 1, 1868.
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
Mr. Montizambert received the title of
"English Translator," as well as "Law Clerk."
The petition of Mr. Fortier, late Sergeantat-Arms, was read and referred to the Contingent Committee.
After some other routine business the Bill
for continuing the Parliament in case of the
demise of the Crown, was read a second time
and referred to Committee of the Whole tomorrow.
PRINTING.
Hon. Mr. Simpson moved that the 10th Report of the Comittee be adopted. He said
the substance of the report was not very important, except in regard to the work performed by the Queen's Printer by mistake, for
the Librarian, and for which they charged
$2,100. The Committee had taken steps to
prevent any recurrence of any mistake of this
kind in future, and they had recommended
that $1,548 be paid the Queen's Printer for this
work.
Hon. Mr. Ross said he must bear testimony
to the attention which the Chairman of the
Committee had bestowed upon this subject, in
order to cut down the expenses of the public
printing, but he did not think the Chairman of
the Committee or the members generally, understood what the effect would be if they
adopted this report as it now stands before the
House. They could not always get this particular kind of work done in as satisfactory a
manner, by contract, as they could by the
Queen's Printer, on account of the contractors
not having the necessary machinery for this
purpose. The work referred to, which was
now placed before the members for their use,
was of a superior character, both in type,
paper and binding. He had never seen any
work of this kind so well done by contractors
for printing. He supposed the Librarian was
desired to get the best work done, and therefore took it to the Queen's Printer, following
the example of the Government in this matter,

April 1, 1868

years ago, was very good both as regards
type and paper, although the binding was
not quite as good as the present. Al contracts
for printing should be managed by the
Committee, and if we have not done our duty,
we can be displaced; but if we have accomplished a service for the country, our report
should be adopted, and all contracts for printing pass through our hands. The charge made
by the Queen's Printer for printing this catalogue is $2,100, while according to our contract
we could have had it done for $1,250. Now the
Queen's Printer had no better mode, or in fact
any other way of getting paid, but through the
sense of justice of this Committee, as the
Librarian had no power to order the work or
certify the account, and the Government,
much to their credit, refused to interfere with
the functions of our Committee. We were so
desirous of acting fairly and honourably in the
matter, that we called in men of great experience from Montreal and elsewhere, who
agreed that the offer made was most liberal
and handsome under the circunistances.
Hon. Mr. Steeves agreed with his hon.
friend (Mr. Simpson) in his remarks. The
charge made by the Queen's Printer for the
catalogue was $2,085, but they had allowed
the matter to stand over for some time, in
order to get information from a person acquainted with printing and the prices that
should be charged for work of this kind. From
that information we came to the decision to
allow the Queen's Printer $1,500 for the work,
which was a sum considerably in advance of
the amount we would have had to pay if it
had been done by the parties who had contracted for the public printing. If the contractors had done the work it would have cost
$1,247, but in order that there might be no
complaint we agreed to recommend that the
sum of $1,500 be paid to the Queen's Printer.
Hon. Mr. Aikins would like to know
whether the Queen's Printer had agreed to
accept this sum; if not it would place the
Librarian in the position of being responsible
for the difference between $2,000 and the
amount proposed to be paid, while at the same
time the committee acknowledge that he acted
under a misapprehension of his authority.
They ought to be extremely careful in adopting the report, if it placed the Librarian in
that position.

Hon. Mr. Simpson said this printing ought
to be done by contract, it being no object to
Hon. Mr. Simpson said the committee held
have the work done at any great expense, as that the Librarian did know that the work
this catalogue has to be republished every two ought to be done by contract. In regard to the
years. The catalogue they had published two price they were to give for the work, the

April 1, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

committee did not depend upon their own
judgment, but they had a gentleman of experience to measure the work and certify to
its correctness.
Hon. Mr. Allan thought there was a necessity for their observing the rule to have their
printing always done by contract, and then if
the Librarian took the responsibility of getting
this work done by the Queen's Printer, he
should take the consequences.
Hon. Mr. McCully said there could not be
much misapprehension in regard to the matter, as it was well known both to Parliament
and to the public, that their printing was done
by contract. He was surprised that the
Queen's Printer should not know it, but
should print this catalogue without discovering whose duty it was to do it. If any one had
a right to complain, it was the Parliamentary
Printer, as he had provided material, and
might well have anticipated that he would
have had this work to do.
Hon. Mr. McCrea said there was no one
responsible for the payment of the amount
claimed; the Queen's Printer could not get
any part of his claim unless the House gave it
to him.
The report was then adopted.
Hon. Mr. Simpson presented the llth report
from the Joint Committee on Printing, which
was adopted.
ADJOURNMENT-EASTER HOLIDAYS.
Hon. Mr. Ross said as the House of Commons intended adjourning for two or three
days during the Easter holidays, lie thought it
was advisable that the adjournment of this
House should take place tomorrow evening,
instead of Friday evening, as several members
wished to reach home this week, which they
could not do, if they adjourned on Friday.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said the responsibility
of the adjournment rested with the House,
and not with the Government. It was his
opinion that it would be for the advantage of
public business, that this House should remain
until the House of Commons adjourned. If
they adjourned tomorrow a portion of the
business of the other House might come up to
the Senate in their absence, and public business be thereby retarded. He believed the
other House would adjourn from Wednesday
until the following Tuesday. If the Senate
remained in session until next Wednesday, it
would then be for the members to say wheth-

er to return on Tuesday, or postpone their
meeting for a day or two after. If there was
to be any difference in time between the adjournments of the two Houses, it would be
more convenient to have that difference after
the Easter holidays than before, because now
they could be advancing the business which
came before them; but after the holidays it
would be some time before they would have
anything to do.
Hon. Mr. Dickey said it was understood that
the adjournment of the Senate was to be for a
longer period than that of the House of Commons, and he thought the time had better be
taken off the early part of the session, because
the business to come before them would, in
the latter part of the session, be in a greater
state of forwardness than it was now. Then
there was an order of the day for the 15th of
April on a delicate subject, and he did not
know but it might interfere with this separating a man from his wife.
Hon. Mr. Steeves said he regretted to oppose any measure that was intended for the
accommodation of the members from Ontario
and Quebec. He thought it was as well to
understand at once whether we were to have
a longer adjournment than necessary for the
purpose of accommodating members to visit
their homes. If so, the adjournment would
have to be much longer to allow members
from the Maritime Provinces to avail themselves of the same privilege. He did not think
it was desirable or wise for this Branch of the
Legislature to assume that it was not necessary for them to be here all the time the other
branch was in session. They should not now
establish such a precedent. Some of the hon.
members were anxious that this Session
should be brought to a close in the early part
of May; this adjournment of ten days would
not facilitate business, or add to the shortness
of the Session. The Government were getting
their measures prepared, and they would soon
be brought before the House of Commons.
The Minister of Militia had a very important
measure before that House yesterday in relation to his department, therefore it was necessary, in order to close the Session by the lst
of May, that they should turn their attention
to the business of the Session, instead of adjourning for ten days.
Hon. Mr. Ferrier had no very strong feeling
on the subject, but thought as an adjournment
admittedly must take over the Easter holidays, that the public business would not suffer
any inconvenience for twelve days.

SENATE DEBATES
Hon. Mr. Wilmot thought from the past
experience we had, that all the legislation is
hurried through at the end of the session, that
it would be desirable if we did not allow the
business to accumulate.
Hon. Mr. Bureau hoped that a little reflection would convince hon. members of the inutility of prolonging the adjournment beyond
Thursday of this week. The House could only
sit at most, three times in Holy Week, viz.,
Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, as on Holy
Thursday and Good Friday (being holidays of
obligation) no hon, member pretended the
House should meet. He appealed to the Government if the bills from the other House
would probably be delayed.
Hon. Mr. Chapais said that the ministerial
measures were ready to be submitted, but
thought it unlikely that the debates on them
would be finished, or the measures sent down
to this House before their return to their
duties.
Hon. Mr. Wilson considered it a custom from
time immemorial, that we should have a
recess over Holy Week, and the difference of
the few days added would be required for the
hon. members of Ontario and Quebec Provinces to reach their homes and return, and he
could see no possible ground of objection-the
despatch of public business could in no way
suffer from it.

April 1, 1868

they had better have a few days before Easter
than afterwards.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said if it was the
desire of the House to adjourn he should not
oppose it, but he had not changed his opinion
that the business of the House would be in a
more forward state if they did not adjourn
until the adjourninent of the House took
place.
Hon. Mr. Simpson thought it would be very
important for the farmers to be at home for a
few days, in order that they might give directions to their men. He did not think it was
right that this House should at any time, or
under any circumstances, give up its rights
and allow public business to be retarded for
the personal convenience of members, but as
it was the intention of the House to adjourn
for some days, he thought it would expedite
business more by having them before than
after Easter. It was the custom in England to
adjourn for a fortnight at Easter, and he
thought we, out of respect for our Roman
Catholic citizens, should adjourn during the
whole week.
Hon. Mr. McMaster thought the proper despatch of public business would be in no way
interfered with by the proposed adjournment.

Hon. Mr. Wark regretted to see the feeling
so strong, and so general, that this House can
Hon. Mr. Macpherson opposed strongly the abandon their posts at pleasure during the
adjournment of this House whilst the other sitting of the other House, and felt it was
Branch of the Legislature was in Session. Of injurious to their reputation out of the House,
course by adjourning from day to day we and lead to the general impression that their
could attend to any bills sent to us from the duties were of routine, and of little imporother House, but these long adjournments he tance under the constitution.
felt were inconvenient.
Hon. Mr. Dickey gave notice of motion for
Hon. Mr. Ross did not desire any other to-morrow, that when this House adjourns it
adjournment than the three Easter holidays, stands adjourned until Tuesday, the 14th inst.
but having understood that an adjournment
Hon. Mr. Simpson moved, seconded by Mr.
was to take place, he had mentioned the matter in order to know at what time the House Christie in amendment, that it stand adintended to adjourn, so that he could make his journed until the 15th inst. (Wednesday.)
arrangements accordingly.
Hon. Mr. Steeves gave notice of motion for
Hon. Mr. Christie said the adjournment to-morrow, that during the proposed adjournwould have to extend over some five days as ment the deduction prescribed by law of five
Easter holidays, but this would not give time dollars per day, shall be made from the sesto members from Ontario and Quebec to go sional allowance of hon. members for each
home. This was an unusually early spring, day such adjournment shall continue.
and as they were aware spring operations had
Hon. Mr. Mitchell introduced the Bill inbegun in Ontario, therefore a few days before tituled a Bill for the "Navigation of Canadian
Easter was of great consequence to those en- Waters," which was read a first time. The
gaged in agriculture in that Province, and second reading was fixed for Monday next.
would in a great measure insure the success of
The House then adjourned until to-morrow
their coming crop. If the public business was
not to suffer, and he did not think it would, at three o'clock.

SENATE DEBATES

April 2, 1868

Hon, Mr. Locke did not see any reason why
the House should adjourn for so long a period.
They should not adjourn until the adjournment of the other House, because we were
Thursday, April 2, 1868.
here to transact the public business in connecThe Speaker took the chair at three o'clock. tion with that Branch of the Legislature, and
it was very improper to leave them to do
After routine,
business alone without any personal comHon. Mr. Allan presented the seventh Re- munication with us.
port of the Committee on Private Bills.
Hon. Mr. Ferrier understood the Postmaster-General to say yesterday, that if the House
COURT OF APPEAL.
wished to adjourn to-day he would assent to
Hon. Mr. Sanborn enquired "whether the it, in order to allow members time to return
Government have any intention to provide home.
during this Parliament, for a General Court of
Hon. Mr. Campbell replied that he had said
Appeal for Canada."
that he would assent to what was the wish of
Hon. Mr. Campbell said the subject had the House, but he believed the public business
been taken into consideration by the Gov- would be better served by our remaining. He
ermnent, but more particularly by the Min- had information since then that there is a
ister of Justice, and he hoped to be enabled to possibility of some bills coming up very shortannounce to the House after the adjournment ly from the House of Commons, but he could
that it was the intention of the Government to not inform the House whether or not these
introduce such a measure during the present bills could be as well taken up when this
House re-assembles. So far as the Government
Session, but of this he was not quite certain.
was concerned, we feel a desire to attend to
the public business of the country, and we
ADJOURNMENT.
think we can advance that business better by
Hon. Mr. Dickey moved "that this House on remaining here until the other House adbeing adjourned, will stand adjourned until journs.
Tuesday, 14th April, at half-past seven
Hon. Mr. Simpson said his hon. friend (Mr.
o'clock, p.m."
Letellier de St. Just), had made a very nice
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just wished to speech, and he seemed to think that the
remark, that under all the present circum- Province of Ontario would have some advanstances, he thought that this House might well tage in this matter. He (Mr. Simpson> thought
remain in session for eight days more, when if they did get the start of their friends from
in all probability the facilities of travel in the Quebec on one occasion, it was time they had
Province of Quebec would be increased. Of some advantage. They did not have much
course the members from Ontario did not ex- work to do at present, therefore it was very
perience the same difficulties, as the seasons desirable to adjourn now, and they would
were much eailier. He thought the recess overtake the work when they returned. He
much too long, and might reflect rather unfa- had been told that a gentleman who had spokvourably on the usefulness of this Branch of
the Legislature. The session will be prolonged en eloquently yesterday against the adjourntoo far into the summer, and this long adjourn- ment, had already made arrangements to go
ment in place of advancing them, must neces- to Detroit. (Mr. Steeves-Name him), and
sarily retard them. Of course he would be another hon. gentleman desired to go to
very sorry to inconvenience any member of Chicago. If the business of the House was
this House, but they could absent themselves going to be interfered with, he (Mr. Simpson)
for the few days mentioned, without injury to would be willing to remain, but if they were
the public business, to attend to their private satisfied that the despatch of the business
affairs. The holidays of obligation were only before them had kept up with the progress of
two, Good Friday and Easter Monday. He the other House
we had better adjourn (hear,
remembered the House sitting on Holy
Thursday in Toronto, and also in Quebec if he hear). He thought their friends from Lower
was not mistaken. He thought the Govern- Canada had some respect for some of their
ment should inform the House frankly of their Saints' days, and they wished to adjourn over
wishes, as representing the public interests of next week, therefore, he hoped the motion
the country, and take the responsibility.
would be carried.
THE SENATE

SENATE DEBATES
Hon. Mr. Boisford thought that from the
statement made by the Postmaster-General
there would not be much public business to
come before them for some time. To adjourn
now would be following the precedent established by the Parliament of the mother country. If this was simply an adjournment to
allow members to go home, but not on account
of the Easter holidays, it would put the subject in a different light. This adjournment
would not interfere with the public business
of the country, and he was quite willing to
vote with the majority of the members to suit
their convenience.
Hon. Mr. Benson said the difnculty appeared to be not in regard to the time of the
adjournment, but whether the additional days
should be before or after the adjournment of
the other House. He should like to hear what
were the views of the members of the Government upon this point.

April 2, 1868

er. His hon. friend (Mr. Simpson) had said
that two hon. members had made eloquent
speeches yesterday against the adjournment,
while at the same time they had actually
made arrangements, one to go to Detroit, and
the other to Chicago. That charge could not
apply to him as he never made eloquent
speeches. He did not think his hon. friend
would assist his cause by making this public:
it was no reason for them to adjourn because
one or two members had arranged to go on a
pleasure excursion. During this discussion
there had not been one good reason given why
we should adjourn before the House of
Commons. The Senate should be here in
Session to receive such measures as came
from the House of Commons and deliberate
upon them. It was quite possible he might be
in error, but these were the views he had
always held upon this subject.

Hon. Mr. McCrea had abstained from taking
any part in the debate for the purpose of
knowing what the opinion of the majority
were; if the members of the House wished for
a few days adjournment he would not oppose
them; but the proceedings of this Legislature
being jealously watched in certain Provinces,
his impression was that we ought not to adjourn this House unnecessarily. There would
be no objection in any of the Provinces to
their adjourning during two or three days for
Easter holidays, but to adjourn for thirteen
days would be very objectionable. Then there
was something to be said on the other side; in
his own Province the Legislative Council had
frequently adjourned over for two or three
days; therefore as an abstract principle there
could be no great harm done to the public
service, although there was a jealous feeling
in the country that we should not be wandering about the Dominion when we are supposed to be at the seat of Government. If a
majority of the House are disposed to adjourn
he would go with them, but if it was to be a
trial of strength he would vote against the
motion. He would not like to see the House
Hon. Mr. Steeves thought it was useless to divided upon the question, therefore he would
oppose this motion as it was the feeling of a offer no opposition.
large majority of the members that they
Hon. Mr. Wark was not going to oppose
should adjourn for this long period, but at the
same time he thought it unwise and impolitic the adjournment at present, but he hoped
to adjourn now when business was shortly to when they re-assembled, the Government
be brought before them from the House of would have their measures in a forward state,
Commons, as they had been told by the so they could get through the session as rapidPostmaster-General, and when they had no ly as possible. His hon. friends from Ontario
information when that House would adjourn. frequently took a run home to see their famiWhat object hon. members could have in ad- lies, and to attend to their business, but the
journing this House he was unable to discov- members from the Maritime Provinces could
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said he did not think
until now that he was bound to speak upon
this matter at all, but when the hon. member
places the responsibility upon the Government, he would say that the Government had
not much responsibility in matters of this
kind. It was a question of convenience to the
House, and whatever the feeling of the House
is upon this question, the members of the
Government will not oppose it. but so far as
he individually was concerned, he did not
think they ought to adjourn longer than they
could help. Comments would be made
throughout the country, after this question
goes abroad, that while the Government were
ready and willing to go on with the work, the
House were not willing to remain until the
adjournment of the other House. He thought a
great deal of work from the other Legislature
might come before them very soon, and they
should not be absent. He was opposed to any
adjournment beyond what the law gave, but
he did not wish to place himself in opposition
to a majority of the members of the House.

April 2, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

not have that pleasure on account of the distance they were from home. Our friends from
Ontario and Quebec should remember that we
have our business of various descriptions, to
attend to there, and we would like to have the
session to close as soon as possible.
The motion was then adopted.

were large tracts of land reserved for the
Indians in New Brunswick. This property still
belongs to the Crown, but there was some
regulation made by the Government of New
Brunswick by which the proceeds of those
lands go to the Indians.
The motion was then carried.

Hon. Mr. Steeves' motion (regarding members' indemnity during the proposed adjournment) stands over until then.

INCORPORATED COMPANIES

Hon. Mr. Tessier introduced a Bill to amend
and prolong the National Bank; second reading fixed for the 16th inst.

Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the House in
Committee, <Hon. Mr. Ryan in the chair) on
this Bill, and said that since the Committee
sat on a previous occasion he had had the
opportunity he desired of consulting some of
the members of the other branch of the Legislature who have charge of matters of
Bankruptcy and Insolvency: he also had -an
opportunity of consulting with gentlemen
from the Province of Quebec, and at their
suggestions he had altered some of the clauses
of the Bill. He had also adopted the suggestion
of a member of this House from Nova Scotia,
as to the proper tribunal to take charge of
these causes in that Province. He had made
several changes, though they were not of
much consequence, yet they all tended to improve the Bill, and render it more serviceable
and applicable to all the Provinces of the
Dominion. The first change was in respect to
companies which are to come under the operations of this Bill: it is provided that those
companies which are incorporated by the Bill,
and those companies which are not Provincial
shall come under the provisions of the Bill; it
also provided that any Provincial company if
it should become insolvent should be wound
up under this Act, but not for any other cause.
The 19th clause provides that a curator appointed can sell any property, and convey
the title the same as if the sale was made by
the company. He then explained the alterations made in this section to meet the requirements of the Province of Quebec, and referring to the subsections of that clause, he said
difficulties might be raised where railways,
roads and piers were owned by companies, if
all the rights and obligations in reference to
the original companies should be continued to
their successors. That he thought was going
too far. A railway or other public work might
fall into the hands of two or three persons,
and they should not be obliged to continue ail
the obligations connected with using the work
under which the original company held it;
obligations not particularly connected with
the work should fall into abeyance. After re-

Hon. Mr. Tessier gave notice of motion to
Governor-General <on the subject of navigation) for 16th April.
Hon. Mr. Simpson moved, seconded by Hon.
Mr. Sanborn, that the consideration of the
fourth Report on printing be discharged from
Orders of the Day.-Carried.
DEPARTMENTAL BILLSECRETARY OF STATE.
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the second reading of the bill respecting the Secretary of
State's Department, and explained that some
of the provisions of the bill were the same as
those in force in the late Province of Canada,
in relation to that office, then called the office
of Provincial Secretary. To these duties were
now added the management of the Indian
Lands and Ordnance Lands. He thought there
was nothing in the bill which called for any
special remarks from him; he would move the
second reading of the bill, and then refer it to
the House after the adjournment.
Hon. Mr. McCully said the bill referred to
the Indian Lands throughout the Dominion,
but he did not see any reference to the laws
they had in Nova Scotia at the present time,
in respect to those lands. He had not read the
bill carefully, but they should see that there
were no Acts in force in Nova Scotia which
are really controlled by this Act.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said anything of that
kind could be rectified when the bill came
before a Committee of the whole House.
There was a section in the bill which repealed
the laws in Nova Scotia and New Brunswick
which were inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act.
Hon. Mr. Steeves said the Government
should carefully consider this matter, as there

WINDING UP FACILITY.

184

SENATE DEBATES

ferring to several other changes he said one of
the hon. members had called his attention to
an Act in New Brunswick in reference to this
subject which had not been repealed. This had
escaped his attention as there was no volume
of the Statutes of New Brunswick here which
contained that Act when this bill was drafted;
he had now inserted a clause to repeal it.
Having made these amendments he would ask
the House after they were adopted to have the
Bill printed and allow it to stand over until
the House reassembles, the members would
then have an opportunity of considering it.

April 2, 1888

Hon. Mr. Aikins-Would it increase the
liabilities of stockholders?

Hon. Mr. Campbell-No, not in any way.
The Bil with amendments was then reported, which Bill as amended, was ordered to be
printed and considered on the 16th instant.
The House then went into Committee of the
Whole on "Bill for continuing the Parliament
of Canada in case of the demise of the
Crown," (Hon. Mr. Shaw in the Chair), and
reported same without amendment, which bill
was then read a second and third time and
passed, and reported to the House of ComHon. Mr. Aikins would like to ask if the mons.
bill applies to mining companies?
The House was then adjourned until the
Hon. Mr. Campbell-Yes.
14th instant at 7.30 o'clock, p.m.

SENATE DEBATES

April 14, 1868

this Senate alone, but the Dominion, and especially Nova Scotia sustains in the death of
our departed friend. He was a man of great
ability, energy and perseverance, in the disTuesday, April 14, 1868.
charge of the duties devolving upon him, and
The Speaker took the chair at eight o'clock it was difficult to see where a successor, as
devoted as he, was likely to be found. He had
p.m.
been called away very suddenly from among
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said the painful announce- us, and he (Mr. McCully) would not detain
ment of the death of the Hon. Benjamin the House further than to say, that there was
Wier had taken them all by surprise: none of no man of any profession, or class of opinion,
us last evening expected we would now be who will not receive these tidings with deep
speaking of him as of the past. He was sure sorrow. They will, indeed, cast a shadow over
when he expressed his sentiments, he ex- the length and breadth of the Provinces.
pressed the desire of every member of the
Hon. Mr. Ritchie said this sad event had
House, that every respect should be paid to
one whom all esteemed, and one whose life come suddenly upon them, and they could
has left pleasing associations with those who hardly yet realize their loss. He (Mr. Wier)
were acquainted with him. His death follow- was a man who had always taken a deep
ing as it did upon the public calamity which interest in the affairs of our own Province,
so recently marked the other branch of the and also in the affairs of the Dominion. There
Legislature, has added a deeper shade to that was no man from the Province of Nova Scotia
gloom which has overspread the community. who had a larger or more extensive experiHe felt that on an occasion like this, it ill ence in legislation, or who was better fitted
became him to speak at any length, he would for a Senator of the Dominion than their
now, out of respect to the memory of their departed friend.
departed friend, move that when this House
Hon. Mr. Locke, as a member from Nova
adjourns, it will stand adjourned until
Thursday, at three o'clock in the afternoon. Scotia, said he would say a few words in
respect to his late colleague. He had known
Hon. Mr. McCully in rising to second the him for twenty years, and during sixteen
resolution, moved by his hon. friend from the years they had sat together in the Councils of
Ministerial benches, said he felt unequal to their country. He had always known him as a
the duty he had to discharge, but he could not firm, honest, consistent man, both in a legislalet this opportunity pass without making some tive capacity and in private life. Whatever
remarks as a tribute of respect to one he had course he took in public life he was always
long known. Their late lamented colleague sound and consistent, and when such a man
from the Province of Nova Scotia, was a man left them it was a loss to the country. He
whose acquaintance he had had the happiness knew that the public, and especially the
of enjoying for many years. He had sat in the Province of Nova Scotia, would feel that they
had lost a good and generous man.
Governnent of Nova Scotia with him for four
years, and perhaps there was no man in the
The House then adjourned until Thursday
House who more deeply deplores the loss-not at 3 p.m.

THE SENATE

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Thursday, April 16, 1868.
The Speaker
o'clock.

took

the

chair

at three

April 16, 1868

that this question was to be brought up to-day
and was not prepared to speak upon I. He
suggested that it should be allowed to stand
over.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said it had been the
desire of the Senate to take some initiatory
steps in reference to this subject, but they had
been prevented by the great calamity which
had fallen upon the House by the death of the
Hon. Mr. Wier. He approved of the suggestion
that the question should stand over until tomorrow.
The motion was accordingly allowed to
stand over.

The Speaker reports receipt of the following
telegram from Prince Edward Island relative
to the assassination of the Hon. T. D. McGee:
"The Legislative Council of Prince Edward
Island having learned by recent telegrams
that the Hon. Thos. D'Arcy McGee, a member
of the Parliament of the Dominion of Canada,
was assassinated on the morning of the 7th of
His Hon. The Speaker said a bill with
April, when returning to his lodgings from the
amendments had been sent from the House of
House of Commons;
"Therefore, resolved, that this Council takes Commons, entitled an Act respecting securithe earliest opportunity of expressing its hor- ties to be given by officers of Canada.
ror and detestation of the atrocious crime
Hon. Mr. Mitchell moved that the amendwhich has thus suddenly deprived the people ments to the bill be adopted, and at the reof Canada of an able and patriotic statesman, quest of the Hon. Mr. Ross he explained the
and a wife and family of their natural protec- alterations which had been made, which he
tor; to the Parliament and people of Canada, said were merely verbal alterations.
and to the bereaved widow and children of
Hon. Mr. Wilmo said that when the bill
the deceased, the Council desires to express
its heartfelt sympathy on this melancholy oc- was before them on a previous occasion it had
casion. Resolved, that the President communi- been explained that bonds to the Crown in
cate the resolution of this House to the Pres- New Brunswick were liens on real estate, and
sident of the Senate of the Dominion of that it was not so in the other Provinces. It
was then said that the subject would be
Canada, and also to Mrs. McGee.
brought before the Government in order to
(Signed,)
"Donald Montgomery,
have a similarity of action in all the Prov"President." inces. He would ask whether anything had
Hon. Mr. Mitchell moved that the Senate been done, or will be done, to bring about this
give an answer to the telegram which they similarity of action. It was but right to New
had received from the Legislative Council of Brunswick that this information should be
Prince Edward Island, in relation to the death given. He was not aware whether the same
law existed in Nova Scotia as in New Brunsof the late Hon. Thomas D'Arcy McGee.
wick on this subject.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de Si. Just said they had
Hon. Mr. Ritchie said the Courts of Nova
had no opportunity to express their sympathy
for the family of the deceased, or to join in Scotia had decided bonds of the Crown have
the general grief which his death had caused no priority over other bonds in that Province.
in the country. He would say on the part of
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said the bill had been
the members of the Senate that if it was in discussed here and agreed to, and he thought
order to move a short adjournment in respect they should not object to the Act which they
to the deceased they would do it to express had passed into Committee. He said that the
their grief at this awful calamity. Mr. McGee second subsection of the fourth section of the
was in his life a statesman, philosopher, poet, Bill gave the information required, which was
and editor, and devoted his best energies to as follows: For the purpose of so registering
advance the interests of his adopted country, bonds or securities under this Act the
while at the same time he did not forget his
native land. In Montreal and throughout the Secretary of State of Canada shall provide a
Dominion every effort had been made to do separate Register Book, every page of which,
honour to his memory. He hoped that every and every bond or security recorded therein,
means would be taken for the safety of society shall be numbered; and the day of the month
and to bring the guilty parties concerned in and year when every such bond or security is
this sad event to justice. He was not aware registered, shall be entered in the margin of

April 18, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

the said Register Book, and in the margin of
the bond of security.
Hon. Mr. Hazen said it appeared from this
section that office holders should give bonds to
the Crown. He had stated that bonds had
always been given to the Crown in New
Brunswick, and those bonds had been a lien
on the estate of those office holders. Subsequently he had suggested to the PostmasterGeneral that the same law they had in Canada
should be extended to New Brunswick, and
the Postmaster-General had agreed that it
would be desirable to insert a clause in the
bill that those bonds should not be a lien on
estate. As that clause must have been struck
out in the other branch of the Legislature, as
it is not in the bill, he would suggest that the
matter stand over until the PostmasterGeneral was in his place. In regard to the
Courts in Nova Scotia declaring that a bond of
the Crown did not in any way operate as a
lien on land, he could only say that in New
Brunswick the Courts held quite the reverse.
It had been admitted in New Brunswick that
a bond of the Crown operates as a lien on the
real estate of the party giving the bond, and a
case of real hardship took place not long since
m consequence of the operation of this law.
He would now ask the Minister of Marine to
allow the matter to stand over until the
Postmaster-General was in his place.

Hon. Mr. McCully: He would be obliged to
search the registry of the county and the
Secretary's office at Fredericton, too. In regard to the observation that bills had been
passed here without reading, he would say
we had to take a great many of the measures
of the Government upon trust, and the responsibility of those measures should rest upon
those who brought them in, but he was glad
to find the Minister of Marine so ready to
give explanations when required.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said he was happy at all
times to give information, and he could only
regret that his hon. colleague the Postmaster-General was not here to give fuller explanation than has been given. The amendments
made by the House of Commons were merely
verbal, and of no serious importance. The
point to which his hon. friend from St. John
had taken objection had never been in the
bill. If the House wished the bill to stand
over he would have no objection.

Hon. Mr. Wilmoi said he had brought the
question up in consequence of great complaints having been made in New Brunswick
that according to the ternis of the Excise Law
parties there would have to give security
which would affect their real estate. The
Postmaster-General had said that he would
call the attention of the Government to the
matter in order to relieve the parties who had
Hon. Mr. Mitchell had not the slightest ob- given those bonds. It is a very important
jection to allow the bill to stand over, but he question, and it is very desirable that parties
would say that the hon. gentleman was wrong in New Brunswick who gave those bonds
should be relieved from this responsibility,
in assuming that the other Branch of the they were in other parts of the Dominion. as
Legislature had altered that part of the bill,
as the clause just read covered the whole
Hon. Mr. Hazen said that in New Brunswick
they had no registry at al for those bonds and
ground.
he believed that was according to the common
Hon. Mr. McCully said there must be some law of England. They are not registered at all,
to the law in New but are in the archives of the Crown. He
great mistake in regard
Brunswick, as he could hardly suppose that believed this was the common law of Nova
any bond given to the Crown and not regis- Scotia, too. They had very learned men on the
tered in any registry of deeds, could be held bench in Nova Scotia who had decided in one
way, and they had very learned men on the
as a lien upon real estate.
bench in New Brunswick who had decided the
Hon. Mr. Hazen-It is unquestionably so.
other way, and foi this reason he had pressed
Hon. Mr. McCully said it was most extraor- the matter upon the Postmaster-General, and
dinary that in any county where there was a he now wanted the matter to be enquired into
as to whether what had been adopted in
registry of deeds kept, that Crown bonds were Canada should extend to New Brunswick.
registered somewhere else. No attorney would
Hon. Mr. Steeves said to allow time to look
know whether a Crown bond was registered
in the Secretary's office, or in the office of the into the law as regards New Brunswick, the
matter should stand over. He did not see why
Registrar of Deeds.
we should take these Government bills upon
Hon. Mr. Steeves: He would have to search trust and allow them to pass through without
giving members an opportunity to look into
both places.

SENATE DEBATES

April 16, 1868

them. It was the duty of this Branch of the in the bill when it went to the House of
Legislature to look carefuily into all bills, Commons.
whether they emanated from the Government
Hon. Mr. Mitchell: There is not.
or from any other source. He was sure there
could be no objection to allowing the question
Hon. Mr. Hazen would say that the Minister
to stand over.
of Marine was in error in regard to the regisHon. Mr. Mitchell said that upon the only try of Crown bonds. They were never regispoint that had been raised he had shown con- tered in New Brunswick. There was no record
clusively that no change had been made in the given, or book of registry kept. He knew the
bill from what it was when passed in Com- section read covered the ground of objection,
mittee. The extract which he had read cov- but he wished to know whether this clause
ered the very ground of objection in reference for registry had been added in the House of
to New Brunswick, and entirely removed it. Commons.
His hon. friend (Mr. Hazen) had stated the
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said there had not been
construction that had been put upon the law a provision in the bill by the other House for
relating to these bonds in New Brunswick, the registry of Crown bonds. That provision
and however singular it may appear, such is was made and agreed to by this House. He did
the fact, that those Crown bonds did not re- not see how they could bring up a point for
quire to be registered in the county registry. discussion now here upon which no amendWe will suppose that when the laws relating ment had been made by the House of Comto them were established, the Crown wished mons. In regard to this registry of Crown
to place as little duty upon the Crown officers bonds in New Brunswick, his hon. friend (Mr.
as possible, and they adopted a system which, Hazen) would see that he had put a supposithough it was not a verbatim registry, yet it tious case; he said if the second was kept at
was a record from which any person could the Secretary's office, it would place much less
find whether or not a bond was in existence. responsibility upon the Crown. The GovernIf they had had a record of these bonds in ment now thought it desirable to create a
every county, there would have been fourteen registry of bonds, so that any man could see
records, and every one of these would have by a glance whether or not there was a lien
added additional labour to the Crown officers; upon property. The bill meets the objection
therefore, they arranged the law to put the made in regard to New Brunswick, and places
onus of ascertaining whether these bonds ex- the Crown in reference to the bonds in the
isted upon the individual, and not upon the same position as private individuals.
Crown. He would like in any case where
Governmnent Bills were under consideration,
Hon. Mr. Miller said that as a clause had
to receive every assistance to make those bills been added giving to New Brunswick all she
as perfect as possible. The objections made wanted, and as no alteration had been made
were covered by the section he had read, and in the House of Commons to that part of the
he hoped the hon. House would not allow the bill to which objection had been taken, he
matter to stand over without there was some could see no reason why it should be postreal objection made.
poned.
Hon. Mr. Hazen: What is the registry for?
Hon. Mr. Mitchell: It is to establish some
systematic means by which a person can, by
applying to that department, ascertain whether the property of an individual has any
charge or lien upon it. This was the most
secure method that could be adopted for this
purpose. He hoped the bill would be allowed
to pass as the alterations were merely verbal.
Hon. Mr. Aikins would like to ask if this
clause was amended in the House of Commons, otherwise they could not go back and
reconsider it.
Hon. Mr. Hazen would like to ask whether
there was a registry provided, which was not

Hon. Mr. Hazen said as no amendment had
been made to that portion of the Bill which
provided for registry of bonds, he had no wish
to postpone it.
The Bill as amended was then adopted.
The consideration of the amendments to
Bill J, Alien Laws amendment, as amended,
was then proceeded with.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson called attention to the
increased obstacles that were placed by this
bill in the way of parties desirous of naturalization, by requiring them to make oaths
before the Judge of a Court of Record, instead of before a Justice of the Peace, as
required by the law now in force in Ontario.

April 16, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

He said that the policy should rather be to
facilitate naturalization not to interpose new
obstacles.
After a few words from the Hon. Messrs.
Mitchell, Sanborn, Aikins and McCrea, the
further consideration of the Bill was postponed until Tuesday next.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell moved that the Bill relating to the navigation of Canadian waters be
now read a second time. The object of the bill,
the hon. mover explained, was to extend the
provisions of the bill applying to the late
Province of Canada, to those of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, which contained
provisions and clauses much more comprehensive than the Acts in force in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, and the present bill
would assimilate the laws of the whole Dominion of Canada, which was a great advantage. After consulting with mariners and others interested in the shipping trade of the
country, he found that it worked very satisfactorily, and hence he wished to have a similar law in force in all the Dominion, and
would prove of incalculable benefit if extended to the Maritime Provinces. The hon. gentleman went on at great length to explain its
provisions, such as to prevent collisions, lights
they were to carry when under way and
at anchor during the darkness of night, on
what side the lights should be carried, and
the course they were to steer on meeting, to
prevent collisions. The bill only applied to
vessels navigating the inland waters and not
outside the three marine mile limit and was
convinced the bill would work very satisfactorily in the Lower Provinces, as it had in
the Provinces now con-posing Ontario and
Quebec.
Hon. Mr. Hazen opposed the extension of
the clauses of the bill to the Lower Provinces,
and said that they could never be worked
satisfactorily in New Brunswick, and enumerated its inconveniences in various particulars
in the navigation of the inland waters of that
Province. What was suitable for the large
lakes and rivers of the Upper Provinces were
badly, or not at all, adapted to the small
streams and creeks of his Province. He ridiculed the idea of the smallest steamer and tug
and ferry boats being obliged to carry the
same large and expensive lights as the largest
steamers, such as the Cunard and other large
sea-going steamers, which would work a great
hardship, and would never give satisfaction
besides it being quite impossible for these
smaIl vessels to comply with the law, and

amidst some merriment expatiated at length
on the magnificent system of blue, red, white,
and all the other lights imaginable.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell defended the bill, and
explained that the only doubt he had was
whether ferry boats should not be exempt, but
on further consideration considered it better
to make its provisions general. He considered
it much more necessary in smaller inland waters, where there was very little sea room, to
have wise and stringent regulations, than in
open sea, though he would not agree in the
estimate put on the rivers in New Brunswick
by the hon. member who last spoke, (Mr.
Hazen) but that if they were much smaller
than they are he considered the urgency of
the case greater to enforce a regular system of
lights, signs, &c., as provided for in the present bill. But he denied there were such
paltry, insignificant boats on the River St.
John as the hon,. gentleman described, and
regretted to hear him belittle his own noble
rivers. He said the hon. gentleman may be,
and he no doubt was, a very clever lawyer,
but he understood nothing of the subject
on which he was speaking. The formidable
lights and their cost were entirely imaginary,
as they could be supplied at $2 or $3 each. He
was not obstinately bent on carrying the
bill against any well founded or reasonable objections, and would be willing tom
accept any amendments or improvements
whieh hon. gentlemen might suggest.
Hon. Mr. Hazen replied, denying many of
the passages attributed to him by the last
speaker (Mr. Mitchell) and said he never intended, and was certain he never did here or
elsewhere, try to belittle the River St. John
or anything else in New Brunswick, and certainly much less than the hon. gentleman himself, who unfairly imputed motives, and put
words in his mouth which he never entertained or expressed. The debate was prolonged for a considerable time.
Hon. Mr. McCully regretted the tone of the
debate between the two hon. members; he
would be sorry to see the principles of the
British Navigation Act, by the proposed bill,
enforced on foreign vessels, though he belîeved they had been applied in Nova Scotia
to the bays and ports. But what was the use in
passing the present Act if they were actually
in force in Nova Scotia? He did not wish to be
understood as giving an unqualifled opposition
to the bill, but asked this merely for the sake
of information.

SENATE DEBATES
Hon. Mr. Mitchell explained that New
Brunswick had legislated on the subject, and
so had set aside the Imperial Statute, but
surely if the provisions of the Imperial Act
are now in force in Nova Scotia, there could
be no valid or well grounded objection to the
present time for formally enacting it.

April 16, 1868

only one lot. The object of the Government
should be to relieve the settler, rather than
the speculator. To show the hardship of the
settlers having to pay this amount for their
land, he would state that the land adjoining
sold for one dollar and half per acre. The
Government should have power to extinguish
the Indian claims altogether, and to deal with
Hon. Mr. Skead had considerable experi- the settlers as they may deem equitable and
ence going up and down the river St. Law- right in each case. His object was to give the
rence, and was satisfied the old Canada Act Government power to set a value upon those
had given great and universal satisfaction, lands and to exchange a landed trust for a
and he had yet to learn that any well ground- money trust on behalf of the Indians, and at
ed, or any, complaints had ever been made of the same time deal liberally with them. He
its provisions. He hoped, therefore, the would ask whether the Government have this
Minister of Marine would not consent even to power under the bill.
exempt ferry boats. He had some interest in
several tow boats on the Ottawa, and would
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said he was obliged to his
concur with the Hon. Minister of Marine in hon. friend for calling the attention of the
saying that the cost of lights was very trifling. Government as to whether they had sufficient
The hon. gentleman explained fully how rafts power under this bill to carry out the object
were required to be lighted to avoid doing proposed. He would suggest that they had
damage to vessels, and on the whole highly better go on with the bill until they came to
approved of the bill.
the section it was proposed to alter, and then
The bill was then read a second time, and let it stand over for further consideration.
ordered to be considered in Committee of the
Hon. Mr. Aikins had no objection to proWhole to-morrow.
ceeding with the bill, as had been suggested
Hon. Mr. Chapais brought in a Bill relating by the Hon. Minister of Marine, but at the
to agriculture, which was read a first time, same time he agreed with the remarks made
and the second reading ordered on Tuesday by his hon. friend, (Mr. Macpherson.) He had
some knowledge of the hardships experienced
next.
by settlers upon those lands. He had known
The consideration of the Whiteaves Di- many individuals who had purchased those
vorce Bill was postponed until Tuesday next. lands with the intention of becoming bona
The "Banque Nationale" Bill was postponed ftde settlers, and who had to pay more for
until to-morrow week.
those lands than they were worth, while the
The House then went into Committee of the Government would not give them that considWhole on the Secretary of State's Depart- eration to which they were entitled. He had
known many cases where they had forfeited
mental Bill. Mr. Miller in the chair.
their first payments and given up their lands.
Hon Mr. Macpherson called the attention of It was very desirable in the interests of the
the Government to the fact of persons having public generally that this trust should become
bought certain Indian lands in the Saugeen a money, instead of a land trust. The GovPeninsula at from eight to ten dollars per ernment of the Dominion should be the trusacre, to be paid by instalments, and the land tees to sell the land, and hold the money on
not being worth that amount those settlers behalf of the Indians. Owing to the manner
had made application to the Government to under which those lands are held at present,
make a reduction in price, but they were met they are not occupied, but if they were held
by the statement that the Government had not under a different system they would soon be
the power, because the lands are held in trust settled.
for the Indians. In some cases several parties
Several sections of the bill were then passed,
agreed that their first instalments should ap- when
ply to one or more lots, and thus release the
On motion of Hon. Mr. Mitchell progress
other lots held by them. This did very well for
the speculators, who having bought more than was reported, and leave asked to sit again
to-morrow.
one lot consolidated their first instalments and
liquidated all they owed to the Government,
The House then adjourned until three
but it was of no use to the settler who had o'clock to-morrow.

April 17, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

severe loss the country has sustained in consequence of the murder of the Honourable
Thomas D'Arcy McGee, and being desirous of
marking his sense of the public and private
Friday, April 17, 1868.
virtues of Mr. McGee, and of affording relief
The Speaker took the chair at eight o'clock. and assistance to his afflicted family, recommended to the Senate to concur in such measAfter routine.
ures as may be necessary for enabling His
The Speaker submitted a telegram he had Excellency to make such provisions for the
received from the Duke of Buckingham in wid6w and family of the late Hon. Thomas
D'Arcy McGee, as to the liberality of Parthese words:
liament may seem proper.
Downing Street,
December 11th, 1867.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell moved that an address be
presented to His Excellency the Governor(Circular).
General in answer to the said message, and
Recent circumstances have directed my at- remarked that the consideration of the loss
tention to the expendiency of assimilating, as which this country has sustained in the foul
far as possible, the law of the different crime committed
upon the late Mr.
Colonies respecting treasonable offences to the McGee-which is the subject of the message
law of the United Kingdom. There can, I received by this House-had been at his rethink to be no doubt but that on a subject quest allowed to stand over since yesterday, in
thus concerning the interests of the whole order to give time to the hon. members of the
Empire, the laws of the Empire ought, if pos- House to consider what expressions of sympasible, to be uniform, and with this view I thy and what remarks might be made upon
desire to call your attention to the provisions this subject. He felt a hesitation in speaking
of the Imperial Act II Vic., Chap. 12, intituled upon a subject of this kind for although some
"An Act for the better security of the Crown days had elapsed since the abhorrent crime
and Government of the United Kingdom," by was perpetrated, he could scarcely bring his
which you are no doubt aware, the offence of mind to look back upon that abhorrent act
treason [except in the case of offence against without giving way to his feelings. Every hon.
the person of Her Majesty] is made a felony member of the Senate feels that although Mr.
and may be tried as such. This Act has been McGee was not a member of this Branch of
for some time in operation here and has been the Legislature, but occupied a prominent pofound to work well, and I am anxious that sition in the other House, they have sustained
enactments similar to that Act should be a loss in being deprived of him. They feel, not
passed by the several Legislatures of Her only from the manner of his death, but from
Majesty's Colonial possessions.
the fact itself that the country has been deI desire therefore that you will cause this prived of one of the most eloquent men-not
circular despatch to be brought under the in British America alone-but on this Connotice of your Legislature with a view to the tinent. He was not only eloquent in words,
passing of such a measure.
but in thoughts, diffusing happiness and
I take this opportunity of reminding you geniality in his social and domestie life. He
that if any person commit an overt act of felt assured that this House would unanitreason in the colony under you Government mously sustain the Govermnent in providing
and escapes from the Colony, it would be your for his family, who should receive that aid
duty to avail yourself of the provisions of this which has always been afforded to talent.
Act for the better apprehension of certain They should more especially be provided for
offenders 6 & 7 Vie. Chap. 34, as extended by
16 & 17 Vic., Chap. 118, so as to secure the when we consider the noble, manly, and disinapprehension of such offender in that part of terested course taken by the late Mr. McGee,
Her Majesty's Dominion in which he may for the purpose of sustaining the Crown in the
have taken refuge and his reconveyance to the relationship we entered towards the Queen of
England, and when we believe, as he imaColony for trial.
gined they all believed, that the Hon. Thomas
I have the honor, &c.
D'Arcy McGee's end was hastened, he could
(Signed), Buckingham and Chandos.
almost say was brought about, by the noble
Hon. Mr. Mitchell brought up a message and manly expressions which he had given
from His Excellency as follows: The Gover- utterance to in connection with an organizanor-General, deeply impressed with the tion which he felt had obtained a foot-hold in

THE SENATE

SENATE DEBATES
this country to some extent, and which was
rampant in the neighbouring Republie. The
Government have submitted a proposition
to the other branch of the Legislature, by
which the widow of Mr. McGee will receive
during her life an annual sum and the two
daughters will receive a specific sum of money
each, with a view not to allow them to be
dependent upon the charity of the world. The
provision to be made will be a respectable
competency, but not extravagant in amount,
considering the great services Mr. McGee has
rendered to Canada. After what has been
said in the other Branch of the Legislature,
and from the warn feeling entertained by
many gentlemen in this Senate Chamber, who
have known Mr. McGee longer than he had
known him, and who have had a better opportunity of appreciating his talents and
worth, and who desire to speak upon the
subject under consideration, he did not desire to continue to occupy the attention of
the House, but he felt as a member of the
Government of the Dominion, and as one who
had taken part with Mr. McGee in the incipiency, working out, maturing, and bringing
to fruition this scheme of Confederation, it
would ill become him to allow this opportunity to pass without paying a tribute of
respect to his memory, not alone for his
talents, brilliant as they were, but for the
kindly feelings which prevailed in every action of his life, and for the manly independence which made him speak out nobly, when
the interests of his country required it, in
order to resist treason and prevent its gaining
ground in Canada. We should show to the
public that when a statesman by a course of
uprightness and manly independence suffers
for the cause of his country, the Senators of
Canada appreciate what is right, and are
ready to make such provision for his family,
as will show to the public that such statesmen
need not fear that they will leave their families in want if they are suddenly cut off. If
there is one act which will recommend itself
to the whole Dominion, from the Western
point of Lake Superior to the Eastern point of
Cape Breton, it will be the act which gives a
competency and independence to the widow
and orphan daughters of the late Mr. McGee.
If you take up any paper published in the
extreme West of Canada, where you would
suppose there was not so much regard for Mr.
McGee's nationality, you will find a lamentation expressed for him, and a deep sympathy
for his family, and at the other extremity
of the Union you will find that a respected

April 17, 1868

and venerable Archbishop who occupies a
prominent position in the Maritime Provinces, and who occupies a prominent place
in the minds of the people of British North
America, having to defer the delivery of a
very important service for which he had
appointed a day, and ask the people to allow
it to stand over for another day, as his feelings in consequence of the death of Mr.
McGee, whom he respected so much, would
not warrant him to proceed with it. Then if
we look at the United States we will see that
almost all the leading papers which represented the nation, though some had referred to his
antecedents, express a horror at the deed
which has been done. He meant all the respectable papers, for he did not speak of those
in the interest of any secret society or conspiracy. In conclusion he would say that after
the Government made a proposition to provide for the family of Mr. McGee, and had
passed it through the other Branch of the
Legislature, they would have to bring the
matter under the consideration of this House,
when he hoped every hon. member would
cordially assent to the views submitted for
their action on this very serious question, and
that it would receive the unanimous support
of every member in this Legislature.
Hon. Mr. Chapais (in French) begged to add
his tribute to the memory of the great and
good man whom this hon. House honours and
mourns, on this melancholy occasion. This
House and the whole country has heard with
indignation and grief of the assassination of
such a true and able missionary of peace, who
devoted his great and varied talents to the
role of peacemaker and a union of all nationalities in this Dominion: we all know with
-what success. It is amazing that at the moment when the dreams of his boy-hood, and
the earnest wishes of his heart, were about
being realized by the introduction of measures
into the Imperial Parliament by which justice
would have been secured to his fatherland,
which he loved with such pure, ardent affection, that the hand of a dastardly assassin
should have cut him off in the midst of his
career of usefulness, and in the prime of life
and vigor. The death of the late President
Lincoln, in the neighbouring Republic, by the
hand of a cowardly assassin, (though not even
so cowardly and tragic as the one we now
lament), when he too had about fulfilled his
role of consolidating and uniting the different
States of the North and South, and proclaiming an amnesty to the political offenders, was
almost a parallel case. If we look for sympathy we see it on all sides of this vast extent of

April 17, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

continent. Montreal, the first and greatest
commercial city in British North America, did
itself honour in honouring the illustrous deceased. If all places and all the people with
one common accord do justice to the memory
of this great man, the Government too has its
duty to do, as well as this hon. House. The
whole country, without one single dissentient
voice, will approve of the just and reasonable
provision which the gracious message from
the head of the Government proposes to the
Legislature of this Dominion, to make for the
independence and comfort of the bereaved
widow and children of the illustrious patriot,
who are left to us as a precious legacy. The
hon. gentleman concluded an able and touching eulogy by expressing his hearty concurrence in any vote which might be proposed to
make a liberal provision for the family of the
deceased martyr.
Hon. Mr. Allan said, I shall venture to trespass for a few brief moments on the time of
the House, to express the very strong feeling
-which I as a Canadian entertain-a feeling
which I am sure is shared in by all my fellow
countrymen-that of all who have ever come
to us from our Fatherland, and have made
Canada their home, none have done worthier
or better service to their adopted country,
than the hon. gentleman whose untimely
death we have so lately been called upon to
ýdeplore. His warm and unceasing advocacy of
British principles and British institutions-his
patriotic and untiring efforts to promote a
spirit of unanimity and concord among the
people of these Provinces, and thus to lay the
best and surest foundation for that fabrie of
Confederation of which he was so earnest and
ardent an advocate, ought to secure for his
rnemory the grateful and affectionate respect
of every British American. In him we have
lost one whose influence for good, amongst
those of his own creed and nationality, can
hardly be over-estimated-one whose place it
will be found almost impossible to fill. While
he earnestly sought to promote kindly and
cordial feelings amongst all classes of his
countrymen, he never ceased to denounce that
insidious organization which was endeavouring to extend itself into his adopted country,
and to uphold to the utmost, by his tongue and
by his pen, loyalty to the Crown, and union
among ourselves. He spoke and wrote on these
subjects, from that strong sense of conviction,
which experience and mature reflection had
produced; and it was this which gave an earnestness, and force to his teaching, which
couldi not be resisted, and as they could not

meet him on the fair field of reason and
argument, those misguided men to whose
wicked designs he was so strongly opposed,
doomed him to be silenced forever by the
assassin's bullet. But in Mr. McGee's death,
honourable gentlemen, we have not only to
deplore the loss of the patriotic and eloquent
statesman, but of the accomplished man of
letters, whose voice and pen were ever
ready at the call of those who were endeavouring in this new country to foster and
encourage the love of literature, and the
desire for mental culture amongst our people.
Few of those who have listened to his
admirable lectures and addresses upon the
many subjects which his extensive reading
and wonderful intellect enabled him to treat
so clearly and forcibly, but will feel the pangs
of sharp-but alas! unavailing-regret, that
those eloquent lips have been for ever closed,
and that he whose mental powers seemed to
have just attained their fullest and ripest,
proportions, is now gone for ever from among
us. I rejoice that an opportunity has been
afforded us by the message of His Excellency,
which has been brought down to us this afternoon, of joining with the members of the
other Branch of the Legislature, in expressing
our sense of the loss which the country has
sustained-our detestation of the atrocious act
by which the true patriot and statesman has
fallen a martyr to the sacred cause of loyalty
and order--and our hearty, most hearty, concurrence in such measures as may be necessary to make due and fitting provision for his
afflicted family. And now, honorable gentlemen, I shall not trespass longer on your time.
I should feel, indeed, as if it were almost
presumption in me to have addressed the
House at all, on a subject to which I can do
such scanty justice, were it not that upon an
occasion like the present, men, I think, look
not so much for eloquent speeches, as for the
expression of the feelings of the heart! and I
could not therefore allow this opportunity to
pass of expressing, however imperfectly, what
I feel in my heart of hearts, that Canada has
sustained an irreparable loss, in the cruel
death of the warm-hearted, loyal, and accomplished gentleman, who has been so suddenly
and fearfully taken from our midst.
Hon. Mr. McCully wished to express his
opinions and bear his testimony to the worth
of this great man, who had been called away
from our midst. He had known him for eight
or ten years, but had been intimately acquainted with him only during the last four
years. He had had the honour to sit with him
in Quebec at the time the subject of the

SENATE DEBATES
Confederation of the Provinces was first
brought into public notice. He had met him
previously to that in Charlottetown, and he
saw him again in London, where he had sat
with us a short time and took part in the
deliberations of the Delegates previous to the
passing of the British North America Act. He
had known him in public life, and from
speeches delivered by him on several occasions he could bear testimony to the greatness
of his mind, and the soundness of his opinions.
He must say that although he had heard many
public men, some of them the ablest men of
the age, in England, but few, if any of then,
more deservedly obtained the high position of
being an accomplished orator than the late
Hon. Thos. D'Arcy McGee. He was a man
familiar with history, and ready to give information on any point, as his memory was very
retentive. He (Mr. McCully) had never seen
his equal: he was a ready man: he was a
learned man: he was an orator; and he (Mr.
McCully) though he might be pardoned if he
said he was a philosopher, for there was
scarcely a subject on which any person could
talk that Mr. McGee did not seem to be always ready and able to express himself creditably to a man of letters. That man has
been suddenly taken away from our midst,
and we can all bear testimony that a great
man has passed away from the Dominion. It
was only left for him to express his grief at
the loss the Dominion had sustained, and to
express his sympathy and condolence for his
family, whom he never had the happiness of
knowing. It would be a long time before his
equal would be found to take the place that
has been made vacant in this Dominion by the
ruthless and dark midnight assassin. He
would not further occupy the time of the
House, but he felt that he could not allow
this opportunity to pass, as a member of the
Senate, coming from a distant part of the
Dominion, without expressing his views on
this occasion, and he trusted that when the
Government were prepared to make a generous provision for his widow and children, they
would receive the unanimous support of this
House.

April 17, 1868

House in regard to the sorrow expressed for
the loss which the country had sustained in
the death of the late Hon. Mr. McGee, and of
sympathy for his bereaved family. The talent
of the deceased, and the services which he
had rendered to the country, were well known
and acknowledged, and he wished the country
to understand that it was only because this
House was not in Session at the time of his
assassination, that we have not before expressed an opinion upon this subject. It was
only to-day the message was brought before
them, and this was the first opportunity they
had had to discuss the virtues of the deceased,
and the services which he had rendered to his
adopted country. This had now been done so
much better than he could do it, that he would
say no more than that he heartily concurred
with the motion now before the House.
Hon. Mr. Benson could not allow this occasion to pass without saying a few words upon
this subject, and thought he might not have
the capacity to express his feelings, he could
assure the House that nevertheless his feelings
were no less strong on that account. A few
weeks ago he thought such an occurrence as
this could not possibly take place in this country, but the act had been done and they could
now only express their abhorrence of it. He
concurred with all that had been said in regard to the virtues and talents which had
been attributed to their departed friend, and
he hoped that when a proper time came they
would do all that was left for them to do to
ameliorate in some measure the calamity
which had fallen upon his family.
The motion was then put and carried.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell, seconded by Hon. Mr.
McCully, moved that a Committee be appointed to draft an address, founded on the resolution; said committee to be composed of Hon.
Messrs. Mitchell, McCully, Hazen, Ross, Letellier de St. Just, Allan and Benson. The
House then adjourned during pleasure. The
House having resumed, reported the following
address:

May i* Please Your Excellency:We, Her Majesty's dutiful and loyal subHon. Mr. Ross thought as much had been
said on this subject in the other Branch of the jects, the Senate of Canada, beg leave to reLegislature in the public press, and in this turn Your Excellency our grateful thanks for
House, for him to express his horror at this Your Excellency's gracious message.
We assure Your Excellency, that we deeply
act, which had already been so strongly expressed throughout the Dominion, would be participate in the severe loss the country has
only occupying the time unnecessarily. He sustained in consequence of the murder of the
could only say how heartily he concurred with Honourable Thomas D'Arcy McGee, member
the expressions which had been made in this of Parliament for the electoral district of

April 17, 1868

SENATE: DEBATES

Montreal West, of which most atrocious act
we cannot, in terms sufficiently strong, express our abhorrence; and being desirous of
marking our sense of the public and private
virtues of Mr. McGee, and of affording relief
and assistance to his afflicted family, we beg
leave to assure Your Excellency, that we shall
feel it a grateful act of public duty, under the
melancholy circumstances of this afflicting
case, to enable Your Excellency to make such
provision for the widow and family of the
Honourable Thomas D'Arcy McGee, as may be

175

consistent with the justice and liberality of
Parliament. Adopted unanimously, which was
ordered to be engrossed, signed by the Hon.
Speaker, and presented to His Excellency by
such members of this House as are members
of the Privy Council.
Hon. Mr. Hamilton moved, seconded by
Hon. Mr. McCully, that out of respect to the
memory of the late Thomas D'Arcy McGee,
this Hon. House do now adjourn until Monday
next, at 3 o'clock p.m.-Carried unanimously.
The Senate then adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES
THE SENATE
Monday. April 20. 1868
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
After routine,
The Speaker read the following reply from
the Governor-General:-

April 20,.1868

New Brunswick it would be totally inoperative. He did not wish to make any amendment
to the Bill, as he considered if it passed the
responsibility would be upon the Government.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot said he had some knowledge of the navigation on the River St. John.
They already had a law in New Brunswick
which required that all vessels should keep a
good signal light at their mast heads. If the
provisions of this law which they now proposed to pass were to be carried out on each
of those small vessels which navigate the
River St. John it would cause a great deal of
bad feeling among the boatmen and raftsmen
on that river. Nearly all of these men are
voters, and the result of this law will be to
add to the feeling of opposition which already
had a very extensive existence in New
Brunswick. To comply with the provisions of
this Bill raftsmen will have to keep a large fire
burning on their rafts during the night. He
thought so far as the navigation of the River
St. John was concerned this Bill was entirely
unnecessary. They might have the general law
to apply to the Bay of Fundy, but the River
St. John and the Grand and the Washademoak
Lakes should be excepted. In regard to Nova
Scotia the law did not affect that Province as
much as it did New Brunswick, because their
rivers were small, and there were not many
vessels passing up and down on them.

Gentlemen,I thank you for your loyal address, and for
the expression of your willingness to concur
in any measure which may be necessary to
secure a suitable provision for the widow
and children of the late Thomas D'Arcy
McGee.
The circumstances of this sad case are such
as not only justify, but invite Parliament to
mark at once its approbation of the able discharge of public duty, and the abhorrence of
the detestable crime by which the country has
been deprived of one whose talents, energy,
and self-devotion enable him to confer lasting
benefits on his fellow-subjects.
Amongst other notices of motion to the
Government, the Hon. Mr. Ryan gave notice
of motion for Wednesday next, that he would
then enquire if the Government had appointed or contemplated appointing, a successor to
the late Mr. Buchanan, as Immigrant Agent at
Hon. Mr. Mitchell observed that his hon.
the port of Quebec. And also, what steps the
Government are about to take, or have taken, friend from St. John (Mr. Hazen) had said this
to facilitate and encourage Immigration to law cannot be carried out in New Brunswick.
He (Mr. Mitchell) would like his hon. friend to
this Dominion.
tell him why it could not be carried out. He
Hon. Mr. McCully notified the House that had consulted many of the members of this
on Wednesday next, he would move a resolu- Legislature, and had endeavored to get all the
tion on the subject of legal interest within the information he could from whose connected
Dominion. At the present time the laws of with navigation in regard to the Bill, but he
interest relating to Canada proper, are differ- had not yet found one person but had stated
ent from the laws in force in New Brunswick, to him that this old Canadian Act had worked
which again differ from the law in Nova well. Then if it had worked well in Canadian
Scotia. It is desirable that the rate of interest waters, and those lights are wanted, where
should be made uniform throughout the Do- there is plenty of sea room, they are much
minion during the present session.
more wanted where there is but little sea
room. It is well to be guided by the experience of those countries who have had those
CANADIAN WATERS NAVIGATION.
laws in existence and adapt them to our counOn motion of Hon. Mr. Mitchell the House try. It is a wise course to take the experience
went into Committee of the Whole (Hon. Mr. of England in regard to this law, improved
Bureau in the Chair) on a Bill regarding the upon and adapted as it has been to the wants
of Canada. This law having been in operation
Navigation of Canadian Waters.
in Canada for some years, and having worked
Hon. Mr. Hazen said it was impossible that well, he could see no reasonable objection to
the provisions of this bill could be carried out, its provisions being extended to the Dominion,
as every small vessel on the River St. John or why it was assumed that it would not work
could not carry those lights. If the law was well in New Brunswick. His hon. friend (Mr.
passed to apply to all the Lakes and Rivers in Wilmot) had said this law would be very irk-

April 20, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

some to the raftsmen and navigators of small
vessels on the River St. John, and would influence their votes. He (Mr. Mitchell) thought no
desire for votes should prevent us in this
Legislature from passing such a law as this, if
the exigencies of the case required it. The
New Brunswick law to which his hon. friend
(Mr. Wilmot) referred, requires raftsmen to
keep a Lght burn-ng during the night at an
elevation of ten feet, under the penalty of
$20. The objections of his hon. friend (Mr.
Hazen) were two-fold, he first objects to the
class of vessels which navigate the river St.
John being brought under the provisions of
this Act, on account of their size. He (Mr.
Mitchell) said there were between one hundred and two hundred vessels, ranging from
between fifty to one hundred and fifty tons,
constantly employed going up and down the
river St. John, and he asked would it be
right to except those vessels from the operations of this law, and thus endanger the
lives of passengers by the liability of collisions. His hon. friend next objects to the Act
as being too elaborate to be carried out,
and to the lights as too expensive. In this
he was entirely wrong, as the cost of these
lights would be very small. This Bill was
meeting with the same opposition it had
met with some time ago when first introduced
into the former Canadian Legislature but
now the Act is very popular and the people
of Canada would not desire to do without
it. Nothing very serious will result when this
law is applied to a class of vessels in New
Brunsw.ck, which are nearly the same as
those to which it has been applied in Canada.
In regard to rafts, he thought this method
was a cheaper mode of lighting than was
provided under the old New Brunswick Act,
where they were required to elevate a light
upon a pole, as during four or five months
of the year every raft has to have a fire
built upon it for cooking purposes, warmth
and light. He thought it would be wrong to
attempt to alter the Bill without any just
cause, for the purpose of adapting it to the
old New Brunswick law, but at the same
time he would be happy to meet the views
of his hon. friends as far as possible.

light at the mast head, whether they are under sail or at anchor. Passenger steamboats
are required to carry a whte lght on their
bows, while steamboats towing rafts are required to carry a red light, and this is all
perfectly understood, but the bill under consideration requires all this to be changed. The
Hon. Minister of Marine, I think, has made no
provision in the bill in reference to steamboats towing rafts; if they are required to
carry only white lights it will lead to more
confusion. His impression was that this bill
would cause the irritation to wh ch hls hon.
friend from Lunenburg (Mr. Wilmot,) alluded.
When Confederation was under conssderation
it was said that a great many benefits would
accrue to the people of the Lower Provinces if
they went into the Union. They had experienced none of those benefits yet, on the
contrary the legislation here had caused a
great deal of dissatisfaction, therefore the
Government should be careful not to increase
that dissatisfaction by pass.ng any Bills that
would be obnoxious to the people of those
Provinces. All that is now requlred in regard
to this matter, is for the Government to bring
in a short bill transferring the powers vested
in the Local Government to the General
Government of the Dominion, and then the
different laws could be made uniform after
the consolidation of the laws by comm'ssion.
This bill provided that every law conflicting
with it shall be repealed, therefore the summer will be over before a person would know
under what laws he was sailing his vessel, as
he would have to find out how much of the
New Brunswick law remained in operation.

Hon. Mr. Mitchell said the chief objection
made by his hon. friend (Mr. Wark) was that
instead of having two white lights they should
have one red light on tow-boats, so that it
would be known that a raft was in tow. The
Bill provided that steamshps when towing
other ships shall carry two bright white masthead lights vertically, in addit'on to those side
lights, so as to distingush them from the
steamships. He (Mr. Mitchell) did not know
but they would be distingu'shed as well by
having two lights, one above the other, as by a
red light, but if his hon. friend desired it, he
Hon. Mr. Wark said he had looked carefully would have no objection to provide that one
over this bill, and he thought at the present of those lights shall be red.
tine it would not work very well on the lakes
Hon. Mr. Wark said he had stated the law
and rivers of New Brunswick. There they al- at present required that passenger steamlaws well adapted for this pur- boats on the St. John River shall carry one
ready have
pose. On the River St. John steamboats carry light In the bow, and another light ten feet
one light under the bow, and another light ten above, and that steamboats towing rafts shal
feet above the deck. Woodboats, which are have a red light. There was nothing in the
very numerous there, are required to have a present bill which referred to steamboats
99267-13

SENATE DEBATES
towing rafts, it only referred to steamboats
towing steamboats. If they were now required
to carry a white light it would be some time
before the object of the light would be well
understood. That was one reason why it was
best to leave the law as it was at present, until
all the laws were consolidated.
Hon. Mr. Hazen thought the Hon. Minister
of Marine was mistaken when he said the
lights which vessels were required to carry,
under the bill, could be bought for one or two
dollars. He did not think they could be purchased for ten pounds, and these expensive
lights had to be suppled to vessels of every
description. He did not at all object to the use
of those lights on the steamships which sail on
the Great Lakes of Canada, but he objected to
every description of steamboat being obliged
to carry them on small rivers. The Minister of
Marine was determined to pass the bill, but
he knew it could not be carried into operation
in New Brunswick. The most brilliant lights
which can be constructed on a locomotive can
only be seen about two miles, but these lights
will be requ"red to be seen five miles on every
description of vessels. He did not think these
lights could be obtained, and if they could
they would be very expensive. What effect
this bill would have upon Confederation he
would leave those who were so anxious that
Confederation should take place to settle
among themselves. He did not wish to prolong
the discussion, he objected to the bill because it was impracticable, and it would be
found impossible to carry it out.
Hon. Mr. Allan said as the chief objection of
his hon. friend (Mr. Hazen) was that these
lights, which would have to be procured to
comply with the requirements of the Act,
would be too expensive, it would be well for
the Minister of Marine if he had the proper
information to state what the cost of the lights
would be which could be seen for upwards of
five miles.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said he had been for the
past fourteen or fifteen years actively engaged
in the building and sailing of ships, and every
year he had to purchase those very lights, as
under the Imperial Act we could not send our
vessels to England without them. He beleved
those lights cost from two to three dollars. He
had imported his direct from England at that
price, but in some localities where partes buy
them second hand from the brokers they may
,cost more.

April 20, 1868

rivers of Ontario cost from four to five dollars, and the best description could be seen for
six or eight miles.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson said these lights were
really necessary for the safety of vessels, and
it was all important that the provisions of the
bill should extend to all parts of the Dominion. They had narrow rivers in this part of
the Dominion, as well as in the Maritime
Provinces, and all on the steamboats navigating those rivers, these same lights were used.
He considered it essential to the safety of
vessels that uniform lights should be carried,
and he hoped the Minister of Marine would
endeavour to adopt a uniform regulation for
all parts of the Dominion.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell did not wish to excite his
hon. friend, (Mr. Hazen) but he had no right
to say the Minister of Marine was determined
to carry the bill. He (Mr. Mitchell) had stated
that though he wished to make the bill as
perfect as possible, yet he d-d not wish to
make any change unless the House decided
that it was based on sound principles. His hon.
friend (Mr. Walsh) has suggested that it
should stand over until next year. He differed
with his hon. friend; he did not think because
the bill would be unpopular at first, it should
be postponed. He had been told that when this
bill was first introduced into the Legislature
of Canada, it was very unpopular, and it was
thought that it would be a great hardship
upon the trade and navigation of the country;
but now after it has been tried, the people of
Canada are in favour of continuing this system,
which has worked so well. He would call the
attention of his hon. friend to the many d'sasters that have occurred, not only in Canada,
but on New Brunsw ck waters, in consequence
of there being no efficient system of signals in
force. He would adopt the suggestion made,
and after the words "steamships when towing
other ships," he would add, "or rafts."
After the different sections of the bill were
passed,

Hon. Mr. Mitchell, in answer to a question
put by the Hon. Senator Wark, stated if the
hon. gentleman would examine a bill before
the House of Commons to regulate the duties
of Steamboat Inspectros, Engineers, &c, he
would find the des red tnformation. In the
Province of Ontario the power was now vested in the Board of Surveyors, he believed,
which was formerly held by the Board of
Works Department, wh'ch were now again
Hon. Mr. Hamilton (Kingston) said the transferred to the Department of Marine and
lights used in the steamboats on the lakes and Fisheries.

April 20, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

The Committee then rose, reported the bill
with some amendments, which were concurred in, and the third reading was fixed for
next Wednesday, when
Hon. Mr. Mitchell invited the members of
the House to be prepared with any reasonable
or useful amendments which might make the
bill more perfect, and give greater satisfaction to the country, and he would be quite
willing to accept them.
The House then went into Committee of the
Whole on the Bill from the House of Commons-"Secretary of State's Department Bill,"
(Hon. Mr. Allan in the Chair.)
Hon. Mr. McCully wished to express his
strong disapprobation and objection to the
vast and dangerous powers, as he thought,
which the bill gave to the head of the Department, respecting the administration of the
Indian Lands and taking the functions and
powers of the ordinary tribunals of the country, which would be alike dangerous and unwise, such as the arrest and imprisonment of
trespassers, &c. Such vast and extraordinary
powers were unheard of in any free and civilized country, where British laws were administered.
Hon. Mr. Ross replied that these powers
which seemed so alarming to his hon. friend,
had been possessed and exercised by the late
Government of Canada for years, and never
exerted any susp;cions or alarms of dangers,
and had never been complained of to his
knowledge. In fact he thought these extraordinary powers the only safe and wlse mode to
adopt. In case of the Indians, who were infants in the eye of the law, some guardian had
to be appointed, and who so well suited and
1 kely to act so fairly as the Government, who
could have no motive or inducement to do
wrong between them and the public domain.
He knew it as a fact, until the Government
got that power, there were perpetually cases
of complaint and hardship occuring to those
poor people by trespassers on these Indian
lands, wh'ch the Government could only settle
by some such powers granted as those under
the present Act, which were not new in
Canada, having always been the law of this
part of the Dominion.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell defended the provisions
of the bill as not open to the objections of the
hon. member (Mr. McCully). The Governor in
Council was authorized by the bill to take
cognizance of any such cases as might be
petitioned against. In whose hands could the
remedy be placed with as much security to
99267-131

these poor people, (who wanted all the protection the Government could give them,) as in a
Minister of the Crown, responsible to the
country for his administration of these, as
well as all other matters.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn argued that he thought
it of the last and greatest importance that the
Government should be invested with full
summary powers, to reach and punish trespassers on Indian lands, which powers were
quite compatible with the liberty of the subject; which of course he was no advocate for
restricting or interfering with. The hon. member referred to instances in his own immediate neighborhood, in a township composed
nearly all of Indian lands, where he contended
that it was absolutely necessary that the
Government should possess such powers in
trust, as would enable them to deal with
speculators summarily. Of course the case was
of its nature exceptional, and so should the
powers be, which would be more honoured in
the breach than in the observance, but he had
no doubt, that in future as the past, the wisdom and moderation of the Government
would enable them to steer clear of difficulties
and well-grounded complaints, and enable
them to administer justice to all parties.
Hon. Mr. Ritchie felt strongly the danger of
investing any one Minister of the Crown with
such extraordinary powers as in this bill. It is
no security that in future some M'nister may
not abuse these powers, which the subordinates, it appears, up to this time, have not
fortunately done. He felt strongly against assisting in granting increased powers ta the
Secretary of State. While heretofore the
authority was only granted to the employees
of the Department by instructions from the
Governor in Council, now we empower the
head of the Department directly under this
bill.
The debate was prolonged at considerable
length by Messrs. McCully, Ritchie, McCrea,
and Wark, against this clause, and Messrs.
M.tchell, Ross, Sanborn, Macpherson, Hazen,
Dickey and Tessier in support of the provisions contained in the said clause of the bill.
Mr. Tessier dwelt at some length on the
right of petition which every British subject
had of petitoning the Crown for redress of any
wrongs. He could not see where the Act authorized imprisonment summarily, which
could only follow persistence in illegal trespass or occupation on these lands, which was
surely not too great power to give the Government against squatters in bad faith on

SENATE DEBATES
lands belonging to these poor Indians, who
are minors in the eye of the laws and must
have guardians. He concluded an energetic
and able address by expressing the clauses
of this bill as eminently in keeping with
British institutions and laws. And under all
the circumstances of the case would much
prefer giving the power to the Government
than being obliged to have recourse to the
courts with all the delay, uncertainties and
loss attending an appeal to these tribunals.
Hon. Mr. Dickey suggested a proposition
giving the Government the summary powers
wished for; but that there should be an appeal
so that any injustice done by haste or inadvertence might be remedied. He hoped this
might be accepted as a kind of a compromise,
and the measure would be improved by it he
felt convinced, and meet the views of both
sides of the House.

April 20, 1868

Hon. Mr. Sanborn did see how the right of
appeal could be allowed unless several other
clauses of the bill were altered so as to harmonize with the proposed change, which
would alter the whole complexion and principles of the bill, and if the House decided to
accept the amendment he would suggest that
the Bill be referred to a Select Committee to
make the required changes.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell then explained, in answer
to questions by some hon. members, that it
was the intention of the Government to
change the land to a money trust, and felt
some change was required for the investments
of these trust funds, but assured the House
the Government would give the matter their
earnest attention during the recess; and would
thereupon bring in some measure providing
for the education of the Indians, and whatever
other measure might be deemed wose and advantageous to their interests and ameliorations physically and morally.
The Committee then (it being six o'clock)
rose, reported progress, and asked leave to sit
again to-morrow.

Hon. Mr. Mitchell wished to consult his
colleagues on the subject, and begged the
clause might be passed over for the present,
and to-morrow he would be able to state if the
Government could accept the amendment, and
The House thereupon adjourned until toso meet the wishes of this House.
morrow at three o'clock p.m.

SENATE DEBATES

April 21, 1868

THE SENATE
Tuesday, April 21. 1868.
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
After routine,
RETRENCHMENT.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot in moving "that this
House having on the 26th day of March instant, adopted the Report of the Contingent
Committee, recommending the dismissal of
several of the employees of this House, and
the reduction of the salaries and emoluments
of others, that in order to make such retrenchment general and beneficial to the public, in
the opinion of the Senate it is the duty of the
Executive Government to take immediate
steps to carry out a policy of retrenchment
and economy in the several Public Departments, having a due regard to the efficiency of
the public service and making such compensation as may be just, equitable and reasonable;
and that such action be taken, by address or
otherwise, for such reasonable reduction in
the salaries of the Governor-General and other officials as may be deemed necessary, as
well as in the indemnity to Members of
Parliament," sad it could not be supposed
that the principles of economy to be carried
out would simply rest upon the employees
connected with the Senate or with the House
of Commons. To advance the principles of
economy and retrenchment they should commence with the fountain head and carry it out
in every part of the public service; but to
meet the views of the hon. member for Ontario he would strike out the latter part of the
motion, which provided "that such action be
taken by Address or otherwise for such reasonable reduction in the salaries of the Governor-General, &c. He would leave with the
Government the responsibility of carrying out
that principle of economy. He referred to the
expenditure for the year ending June 1867,
being far in excess of the income, and when
he looked at the state of trade throughout the
Dominion, his impression was that there
would again be a large deficit this present
year. In an individual capacity, each of the
hon. members, if he found his expenditure
was in excess of his income, would endeavour
to retrench in some way, and they should
apply the same rule in the affairs of the
Government. When the report of the Contingent Committee had come up he had said
they should begin the work of retrenchment
with the large salaries, but that the old employees of the House should continue to receive their present salaries.

(A Member-Who employed them?)
If they were to be discharged because the
new Dominion was just started, the same
principle would apply to every official
throughout the Dominion. He would draw no
distinction between those employed in the
public departments, and those employed in
the service of the Senate. When these Provinces were first confederated the employees of
the Legislature of the old Province of Canada
should have been provided for by the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec; then this Senate
would not have had to discharge men who
have been thirty years in the public service in
order to make a saving of $13,000. If there
was any principle involved in this it should
extend to the whole Dominion of Canada. He
could say so far as his own Province was
concerned that al that has been received from
Confederation so far was simply an increase
in the amount of taxation, and an increase in
the number of officials employed. So far as he
could judge the people of New Brunswick had
derived no benefit whatever from this Union.
He regretted to have to say that there was
now a strong feeling in New Brunswick
against this Union. The City of St. John at the
last election returned himself and colleague
by a majority of 700 over their opponents, but
now this same constituency had returned a
gentleman, for whom he had the greatest respect, but who was opposed to Union, by acclamation, because no man ,coming forward on
the Opposition ticket could have run in opposition to him.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said he would reply to
this by and by, lest his silence might be
misconstrued.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot never knew bis hon.
friend to remain silent when there was a
chance to reply. He (Mr. Wilmot) had been
one of the representatives for the city and
county of St. John nearly continuously for 20
years, and his father had been a representative of the city for an equal length of time
before him. He received letters from both the
Confederates and the anti-Confederates, and
he knew the opinions of the people were such
that no man in favour of Confederation could
come before that constituency-which is the
whole commercial power of New Brunswick-without having an enormous majority
against him. He las also information from the
county in which he resided, and which county
his family had been connected with since the
American revolution, that they would elect a
man to represent them in the Local Legislature, who would go for a Repeal of the Union,

SENATE DEBATES
to fill the place of the man from that county,
who had been appointed to this Senate. He
thought if Confederation was to be continued,
it was time for the Government of the country
to change their policy. He had pointed out
during the first part of the session what would
be the result of that policy in New Brunswick.
This extravagant expenditure and increased
taxation was part of that policy, but to eut
down this or the other salary would not do
much towards bringing about a change of
feeling in the Maritime Provinces: they must
have a general system of retrenchinent, and it
should be their policy to find some way by
which the people could get remunerative employment. They had all the elements of wealth
in this Dominion which could be found in a
temperate clmate. In the United States their
taxation was some $30 per head, while ours
does not amount to $4. He did not suppose
that the country was going to be made prosperous by the reduction of the salary of this
one or that one, but it must be made prosperous by giving the people remunerative employment and to carry out retrenchment they
must begin at the fountain head and carry it
out in all the Departments.
Hon. Mr. Dickey remarked that in supporting the report of Contingent Committee he
said that it would be powerful in the way of
example; he had ventured to say that this
example would be followed up, and the result
would be that a great saving would be effected. To show the correctness of this reasoning
he would say they had succeeded in making
one convert in the gentleman who had just sat
down. (Hear, hear.) He (Mr. Dickey) was in
hopes something practical would be carried
out. He did not think these abstract resolutions were of any use at all, and when anything practical did come up his hon. friend
who has now made a declaration in favour of
economy was always found voting on the
wrong side. His hon. friend had proposed to
strike out the last part of the resolution, and
at the same time he says to practice economy
they must begin at the top and go to the
bottom. Some little explanation was due to
the House why he has withdrawn it. This
resolution was of no practical use whatever
unless they had a bill upon the subject. They
soon would have before them bills upon all
the public departments, including the salaries,
and they would then be in a position to deal
with the subject practically. His hon. friend
had referred to the St. John elections, and he
draws the conclusion from it that this is a
vote of the whole people of the Province
against Confederation. In January, 1865, the

April 21, 1868

people of New Brunswick decided against
Union, in March 1866, it was carried by a
great majority of the people, and now if the
conclusion of his hon. friend was correct, the
people of New Brunswick must be a very
changeable people (laughter). His hon. friend,
(Mr. Wilmot,) too, had been against Union in
1865, for it in 1866, and now he would have us
to believe he has changed his mind again. He
would not say that his hon. friend was wrong
either in the first or second instances, but he
would say that it was a matter of regret that
such a great question as the Union of these
Provinces should depend upon trifling circumstances. He had been struck yesterday with
what fell from the hon. member (Mr. Wilmot)
and another hon. member, when the subject
of lights for vessels was before the House; his
hon. friend had said that it was an important
matter and if it was not settled satisfactorily
it would cause a strong feeling against
Confederation.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just objected to
the debates going on, as there was no motion
before the House.
Hon. Mr. Wilmoi moved the resolution, seconded by the Hon. Mr. Armand.
His Hon. the Speaker said there was a
preamble to the motion, and the debate could
not go on.
Hon. Mr. Hazen thought they had better
proceed with the resolution and strike out the
preamble.
The Hon. Speaker said the mover should
make his motion in writing.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said the resolution was a
breach of the rules of the House, and the
mover ought to amend it.
His Hon. the Speaker thought as the motion
proposed was not the one of which notice had
been given, the mover had better give notice
of his motion as amended.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said his hon. friend had
better withdraw his resolution altogether as it
could be of no practical benefit and would not
advance the public interest. The hon. gentleman lays down a certain proposition which
has already been agreed to by both Houses
and by the Government. When the question of
the number of employees in this House was
under consideration, it was stated that it would
be the precursor of a similar movement in
the other Branch of the Legislature, and that
the Government intended to follow that up in

April 21, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

the various Departments. After a declaration
of that kind is made by the Government there
is no occasion for this resolution to be passed
to re-assert that which the Government have
already admitted, and which the members of
the Government have said they would endeavour to carry out. The hon. mover would
see that no particular good would result
from the general assertion that economy was
necessary. The Government have said without
any pressure that what the resolution says
ought to be done, will be done, and after
this assertion this resolution would only be
a want of confidence in the Government, who
would be driven into opposition to it in asserting their self-respect.

ENQUIRIES
Hon. Mr. Anderson enquired what action, if
any, has been taken by the Canadian Government in regard to the conveyance of the
mails between Halifax and Great Britain, after the expiration of the present contract made
by the British Government with Messrs. Inman Co., and which will terminate in June
next?

Hon. Mr. Campbell said tenders would be
invited for the continuance of that service,
after the first of July, from the owner of the
Cunard Line, and from Messrs. Allan Co.,
and he hoped the result of that negotiation
would be that they would be able to make a
Hon. Mr. Wilmot said that after what had contract with one or the other of those firms
fallen from the Postmaster-General, he would for the continuance of that service from
withdraw his resolution, but in doing so he Halifax to England.
would say that if this retrenchment is to be
Hon. Mr. Anderson also inquired if any
carried out, it should be general and not par- arrangement can be effected by the Canadian
tial. In reply to his hon. friend, who tried to Government with Messrs. Allan Co., so as
show his incompetency,
to have one of their steamers call at Halifax
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said if the hon. gentle- fortnightly, on the voyage to and from Great
man went on to make a speech, other mem- Britain?
bers would have to reply.
Hon. Mr. Campbell replied that he did not
Hon. Mr. Steeves rose, amid cries of order, think any arrangement could be made for
and said he was not going to inflict many vessels to call at Halifax, at least not during
words upon the House; he thought he should the summer. The competition is so great with
have the same privilege to speak as those who steamers going direct to New York, that to
had spoken. They had now pledged themselves call at Halifax would entail upon them serious
loss both as regards travel and the postal
to carry out this work of retrenchment.
service. The loss of time by calling at Halifax
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just rose to a is greater than at first sight supposed, as it
question of order.
was impossible the service could be regulated
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said there could be no as regards hours, and great delay would be
question of order without there was a ques- occasioned by the vessels arriving at night,
tion before the House. It was unfair that this and other contingencies. The only way of havimportant question should be crushed in the ing an efficient service was to have a direct
way it has been. He was anxious to show his line. The Government propose to establish a
views upon that question, as it has been his line from Halifax, and although the vessels
misfortune to be absent when the report of will in all probability commence their trips
the Contingent Committee was under consideration, and he now hoped an opportunity from New York, yet the principal object in
view will be to accommodate Halifax.
would be afforded him to state his ideas.
The orders of the day were then taken up.
Hon. Mr. Steeves complained that he was
called to order, and then the discussion was
Hon. Mr. Benson on moving the second
allowed to go on.
reading of the Bill "Niagara District Bank
The Hon. Speaker said he could not call to Charter Amendment," said the main object of
order, as there was not anything before the the Bill was to obtain powers to increase the
Capital stock of the Bank, which was only
Chair.
now $400,000.00 and for some other ordinary
Hon Mr. Steeves said if the discussion was power usually allowed Banks in this part of
now to be stopped, he had no desire to say
another word. He then sat down amid repeat- the Dominion.
The said Bill, on motion of Hon. Mr. Bened cries of "go on," and the subject was dropped.
son, seconded by Hon. Mr. Dickson, was read

SENATE DEBATES

April 21, 1868

a second time, and referred to the standing was when foreigners could be naturalized the
Committee on Banking, Railways and Com- more immigrants would flock to these Provmerce.
inces. We had nothing to fear from that
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the House in class of people, however strange it might
Committee of the Whole on Bill J "Alien Laws appear; it was British born subjects who
Amendments as amended." (The Speaker seenied now to trouble us the most.
called the Hon. Mr. Sanborn to take the
Hon. Mr. Campbell thought two years
Chair.)
would meet the views of all the hon. members
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved that the Bill be of the house.
amended by giving powers to the GovernA general conversation here occurred and
ment to name Commissioners who would be at the urgent solicitations of almost all the
empowered to take the affidavits of Aliens.
members,
Hon. Mr. Dickey thought it would conduce
Hon. Mr. Campbell inserted one year in the
more to the public interests, if the ordinary Bill, which was carried without opposition.
Justices of the Peace were named, as they
The Committee rose, reported the bill
would be more accessible over the country to
the great mass of the Aliens, and besides with several amendments, which were conbeing more convenient would be less expen- curred in by the House, and on motion of the
Hon. Mr. Campbell, seconded by Hon. Mr.
sive to the parties and the Government.
Mitchell, the bill was ordered to be read a
Hon. Mr. Campbell said that the Com- third time tomorrow.
mission of the Peace had been conferred of
Hon. Mr. Chapais moved the second reading
late years on a number of persons who might
not be qualified to give al the required infor- of the Bill P-"Agricultural Department Ormation to the Aliens, however capable in oth- ganization."
er respects. This being a new duty to many of
The bill caused considerable discussion
them, he thought the duties would be more about the division of the duties under the bill,
correctly and efficiently performed by special some members contending that the Minister
Comm:ssioners, appointed with that view, of Marine and Fisheries should have the manthan by the original Magistrates of the coun- agement of the Marine Hospitals in Quebec,
try, who might not know the formalities to be and complaining that the Local Governments
observed. The motion was then carried.
were not called on to contribute their fair
Hon. Messrs. Dickey and McCully objected share of the expenses of those institutions,
to 3 years as too long a term before Aliens which they used so much.
could be naturalized.
Hon. Mr. Steeves objected to the number of
Only one year was required in the Province thirteen departments, and the expenses of
of Nova Scotia, and no inconvenience was maintaining such a numerous staff of officers.
found with the law there, which seemed to Of course the costs of the Ministers were
invite and encourage immigration, of which nothing near so alarming to those in the
the country stood in so much need; and urged Maritime Provinces, as the numerous highly
that one year be substituted for three years' paid officers employed in these various deresidence.
partments. He could never see the necessity
for such a staff of employees, and he knew the
Hon. Mr. Campbell explained that in the
people of his part of the Dominion felt strongold Province of Canada first 7 years residence
was required, then 5 years, and now the bill ly on this question of what they considered
unwarrantable extravagance. He hoped, after
proposed 3 years; but if the sense of the
the resignation of the head of one of these
House was in favour of a shorter period he
Departments, viz: the Secretary of State for
would not object.
the Provinces, that that Department at least
Hon. Mr. Reesor felt quite convinced that a would be abolished as unnecessary; and also
period of one year was ample. The country that some other Departments might profitably
wanted to encourage immigration on our wild and easily be united with the Hon. Minister's
lands and forests, and the shorter the period Office who has charge of this bill, and so get

April 21, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

rid of a number of the clerks and staff now
supported by the hard earnings of the poor
people of these Provinces, but after looking
over the estimates, it is evidently the intention of the Ministry to retain all the officers,
and he called the attention of the Government
to these facts, though he feared it would have
no effect. We seem to be providing the
Governmental machinery for a country of
twenty millions, instead of a young, poor
country of three to five millions. He warned
the Government of the danger of continuing
the present state of things, which must bring

99267-14

on general and wide spread dissatisfaction
amongst the people of this country.
Hon. Mr. Chapais answered that as far as
his Department was concerned, he felt he had
quite enough to do. The Immigration Department in itself was a very important part of
the Public Service of the country, and entailed
a great amount of labour on his office.
It being now six o'clock, Hon. Mr. Campbefl
moved the adjournment of the debate until
tomorrow.
The House then adjourned until three
o'clock p.m., tomorrow.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Wednesday, April 22, 1868.
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
The Speaker reported a member waiting to
be introduced.
Hon. Mr. Glasier, from the Province of
New Brunswick, was then introduced by
Hon. Messrs. Mitchell and Steeves, and took
the oath and his seat. And the Speaker reported that the Hon. Mr. Glazier had made declaration of qualification.

April 22, 1868

Hon. Mr. Chapais said the Local Governments, at their last sessions, had passed laws
which would aid as much as possible the settlement of the country. Some of the Local
Legislatures had passed Homestead Laws,
which would not only help to induce the
young men to stay in the country, but would
attract immigrants from other countries.
A message was received from the House of
Commons-"Treaty for apprehension
of
Offenders' Bill," which was read a first time,
on motion of the Hon. Mr. Campbell, seconded
by Hon. Mr. Kenny, and ordered to be read a
second time on Friday next.
Also a message to the return-"Oaths of
Allegiance and Office Bill," with amendment,
which was read a second time and adopted,
and the Clerk was ordered to inform the
Commons thereof.

Hon. Mr. Hamilton (Kingston) from the
Banking Committee, reported the Niagara
District Bank Bill without amendment. He
then moved, seconded by the Hon. Mr.
Dickson, that the 60th Rule be dispensed with.
Hon. Mr. Bill enquired:
The said Bill was then read a third time and
If it is the intention of the Government to
ordered to be sent to the House of Commons
supply the Magistracy of the Dominion with
for concurrence.
the Statutes? If not, what mode they intend to
Hon. Mr. Ryan enquired whether it is the adopt to enable the Magistracy to administer
intention of the Government, in anticipation the laws of the land in their respective jurisof the opening of navigation, and of the ar- diction?
rival of ships with passengers from abroad, ta
Hon. Mr. Campbell said the Government
appoint a chief immigrant agent at Quebec, in
place of the late Alexander Carlisle Bucha- had that subject under consideration. The former Government had distributed copies of
nan, Esq.?
the Statutes to Magistrates, but now the numHon. Mr. Chapais replied that it was not the ber of Magistrates was so large that the
intention of the Government to fill up that Government were not yet prepared to say
vacancy, but that care would be taken that whether they could distribute them, but he
the interests of immigrants should not suffer would give them the information as soon as
in the meantime.
the Government had decided upon it.
Hon. Mr. Ryan enquired whether the GovHon. Mr. Bill enquired:
ernment are in possession of any informaWhat facilities have been afforded by the
tion showing the probable extent of immigra- Government to the inhabitants of Nova Scotia
tion to the Dominion of Canada, during the to obtain stamps for Notes and Bills of Exapproaching summer, and whether any and change?
what steps have been taken, or are contemHon. Mr. Campbell said these stamps had
plated, for the purpose of affording additional
inducements to foreigners to settle in this been sent to the various Post Offices, but obcountry? And said he made this enquiry be- jection was made that this was not affording
cause emigration, or immigration rather, by the people facilities enough to obtain them. To
the British North America Act was put under meet this objection, instructions have been
the management of the Government of the sent within the last fortnight to extend this
Dominion. The great inducement to bring im- facility to all the way offices. He did not think
migrants into a country was to make such further facilities could be extended as there
arrangements in regard to public lands as was no other way in which they could be
would make the country attractive to them. more thoroughly distributed than through the
The sole control of these lands now belonged post and way offices of the Dominion.
to the Local Governments, and the General
Hon. Mr. Bill said that when the Stamp Act
Government had no power to make a grant of
land without their assistance. This enquiry came into operation, there were not more than
was made with a view of calling the attention one-quarter of the inhabitants of King's
County, (N.S.,) knew what the law was or
of the Executive Government to this point.

April 22, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

where the stamps could be obtained. In some
localities they had not a regular post office
within thirty miles of them, as the mail accommodation was supplied by way offices. He
would suggest that, as the inhabitants did not
have a knowledge of the law, and did not
have facilites for obtaining stamps, and as
even those few who knew how to use them,
only obtained their information through the
newspapers, and not from the Act itself, that
the Government should legalize the Notes
drawn up to this time to which stamps have
not been affixed.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said the suggestion
made to legalize certain Notes drawn since the
Stamp Act came into operation should receive
due consideration, but he was not able to say
whether a bill of that kind would be necessary or not. He would make inquiry upon that
point, and he would then be able to give his
hon. friend the necessary information.

opening their daily sittings with prayer to
Almighty God, should not be discontinued by
the Senate.
Hon. Mr. Allan said he heartily agreed with
the resolution, and was quite prepared to second or support it, but he thought they had
better allow it to stand over.
Hon. Mr. Hazen expressed his willingness to
allow the motion to stand over, but expressed
his intention to divide the House upon the
motion when it came up.
Hon. Mr. Campbell brought in a bill entitled
"Oaths to Witnesses in either House of
Parliament".

Hon. Mr. McCully asked the Postmaster
General the reason why this bill was not incorporated with the "Privileges of Parliament
Bill." He thought there should be some good
and sufficient reason for making that a separate bill, as it would be more convenient to
Hon. Mr. Simpson said the Notes could be have all these matters comprehended in one
made all right by doubling the value of the bill.
stamp.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said they had made this
Hon. Mr. McCully said he should ask the a separate bill because the draft of the origiconsent of the House to allow his motion, "to nal bill took up the clause of the Constituresolve that in the opinion of this House, it is tional Act, giving us such powers as were
desirable that the law on the subject of inter- enjoyed by the House of Commons at the time
est should be made uniform throughout the that bill was passed. The hon. gentleman at
Dominion during the present Session," stand the head of the Government thought it was
over until Friday, as he received information best to keep that bill distinct, and as it was
from the Ministerial benches that a measure incorporated into the Constitutional Act he
of this kind was now under the consideration did not think it desirable to introduce any
of the Government. If the Government took clause to which some objection might be takany action in the matter it would render his en by the Imperial Government. At that time
motion unnecessary, but if not he would bring the House of Commons did not enjoy any
the subject before the House.
power of administering oaths except before
Hon. Mr. Hazen moved to amend the fifth committees on private bills, therefore it might
be concluded that this bill was going beyond
Report of the Select Committee on Contingent the powers conferred upon the House of
Accounts as follows:- After "accordingly" in
Commons, and for this reason the two bills
the third paragraph, leave out the words "and were not incorporated. It was very essential
no successor be appointed."
that this power to administer oaths should be
Hon. Mr. Seymour said the latter part of the given as provided for in the present bill. It
fifth Report of the Committee on Contingent was not proposed that these oaths should be
Accounts was carried by a small majority, and administered by the Senate or by the Speaker,
as several of the members of the Committee but by the Clerk. There could be no illegality
wished it to be considered again in Commit- in conferring upon an officer of this House the
tee, he would ask leave of the House to have power of administering oaths. The bill was
the report referred back to them.-Leave then read a first time and the second reading
ordered for Friday.
granted.
The Hon. Mr. Campbell presented returns
Hon. Mr. Hazen moved to resolve that the
practice which prevails in the Parliament of and address relative to Customs tariff and
England, and which has been adhered to by Excise duties.
the Legislative Councils of Canada and other
On motion of Hon. Mr. Mitchell the
Provinces now forming the Dominion, since "Canadian Waters Navigation Bill" was orthe establishment of their Constitutions, of dered to be read a third time to-morrow.
99267-141

SENATE DEBATES
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved that the order of
the day be discharged in reference to the
"Alien Laws Amendment," and the bill be
referred back to a Committee of the whole
House to-morrow. He said that the hon. members would recollect that when the bill was
before the committee, the time an Allen
should reside in the country before becoming
entitled to the privileges of the bill, was reduced from three years to one, at the suggestion of the hon. members from Nova Scotia.
Since then, it has been thought that limiting
the time to one year, might have the effect of
allowing parties to go into the North Western
Territory for the purpose of controlling affairs
there for a time. He did not think it was
prudent to afford them the facilities the bill
did in its present shape. At the proper time he
would have the bill amended to meet the case
of Nova Scotia, so that 3 years' residence
there would have the same effect under this
bill as it would have under the laws of Nova
Scotia.

April 22, 1868

Hon. Mr. McMaster could not see why this
act could not be supplied to the Bank of
Upper Canada as well as a special act. He
would ask the Postmaster General whether
the double liability clause, would apply to the
Bank of Upper Canada.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said it would not apply
to that Bank, as it was being wound up under
a special Act.
Hon. Mr. McMaster said that principle
ought to apply to all the banks, as they had
no special Act for that purpose.
Hon. Mr. Campbell did not think it fair to
apply the provisions of this b.11 to a bank
which had already failed, and for which a
special provision had been made.

Hon. Mr. Odell said the 46th section provided that this Act should not apply to or affect
suits now pending, or to any companies which
have discontinued business, or which have
dissolved before the passing of this Act. This
Hon. Mr. Hazen asked whether they intend- would meet the case of the bank in New
ed to make one law for Nova Scotia and Brunswick which was now being wound up; if
it did not then the amendment moved by the
another for the rest of the Dominion.
Postmaster General would be quite in order.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said that was not the
Hon. Mr. Campbell said it was very true
intention, but a provision would be made that
those persons who are Aliens in Nova Scotia, that the 46th clause would not apply to suits
and who may have expected at the beginning now pending against such companies as were
of the year to become naturalized according to now being wound up, but there was another
the laws of Nova Scotia, shall not be deprived clause in the bill which repealed all the old
of this privilege by the operation of this bill, laws, therefore it was necessary to say that
but in reference to all others the law will be they should not be repealed so far as regards
that bank.
the same all over the Dominion.
The motion was then put and carried.

Hon. Mr. Dickey said this bill went farther
than
Hon. Mr. Ferrier moved that the "Whit- nies to provide for the winding up of compawhich were insolvent; it provided for
eaves Relief Bill" stand over until to-mor- w.nding up companies where business had
row.-Carried
been suspended, or where it had never been
Hon. Mr. Bureau gave notice, that on the commenced, and he would ask whether this
order being called for the second reading of Parliament was competent to regulate a mode
of procedure which would affect civil rights of
the bill, he will move, seconded by Hon. Mr. parties outside of those companies. The 92nd
Dumouchel, that the bill be not now read a clause of the Union Act provides that the
second time, but that it be resolved that in the administration of justice in the Province, inopinion of this House, the divorce a vinculo cluding the constitution, maintenance and ormatrimonii destroys in marriage those two ganization of Provincial Courts, both of civil
characters of unity and indissolubility which and of criminal jurisdiction, and including
Christian communities have always deemed to procedure in civil matters in those Courts,
be essential safeguards of moral and family should belong to the Provincial Legislatures.
ties.
Under this bill we not only regulate proceThe consideration of "Incorporated Com- dure in cases of insolvency, but in cases of
panies' Winding up Facility Bill," as amended business suspended, or charters expired. He
in committee of the whole, was then taken up considered he had discharged his duty in calland further amendments were moved by the ing attention to this, and he would now leave
the matter in the hands of the House.
Postmaster General.

April 22, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Campbell said his hon. friend had
raised that point when the bill was before the
House on a former occasion, but he (Mr.
Campbell) believed that it was within the
Constitution for them to pass such an Act as
they now contemplated passing. The objections to the bill had been under the consideration of the members of the Government,
and under the consideration of the members
of the Legislature, who are familiar with
such legal subjects as the rights of this
Parliament, and they believe that this
Parliament has the power to deal with those
subjects provided for in this bill. It only
deals with three classes; they are, companies
which are now being wound up, companies
which are Dominion in their character, and
companies to be incorporated by the Dominion
Government. Some legislation must be had
upon these subjects, and until it is otherwise decided, Parliament must act upon the
assumption they have the power, and make
provision for cases which must necessarily
arise.
The amendments were then adopted, and
the Bill concurred in, read a third time,
passed, and sent to the House of Commons
for their concurrence.
DEPARTMENTAL BILL
On motion of the Hon. Mr. Campbell, the
House went into Committee of the Whole on
"Secretary of State's Departmental Bil,"
Hon. Mr. Hazen in the chair.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said he desired to make
some remarks upon the 8th clause of the bill
for the organ zation of this Department. This
B 11 proposes to give to the Secretary of State
the charge of the Indian affairs, which has
formerly been exercised by the Minlster of
the Crown Lands, in the late Province of
Canada. He had been four years in that Department, and had an opportun.ty of seeing
the working of the bill, and forming an opinion as to the necessity of its provisions being
cont nued. Its provisions at first sight seem to
be arbitrary, but they must bear in mind that
the Ind ans are very frequently surrounded
by a set of lawless white people, who seem to
cons'der Indians as having no rights of property at all, and invade their possessions, and
treat them with a h gh hand. There is a large
tract of Indian land in Lower Canada, which
for the most part is wild land, covered with
half wood and half brush. This was once covered with wood which the Indians did not
wish to sell, and unless it was sold by their

Council it could not be lawfully sold. Some of
the Indians premising that they had a right,
sold this wood to some parties there whowanted it, for which they did not receive an
adequate compensation, and their land wasinjured thereby. Then again a similar case
occurred in regard to some Indian lands at the
West near Brantford. In spite of all the resistance which could be made all the white oak
timber was taken off this land. The Indians
there farm only eight or ten acres, whereas
the tract of country belonging to the tribe is
half a township, and at the outskirts of this
land where there is no one to look after it,
everything of value is taken off. Therefore, if
there are some extraordinary provisions in
the bill, it is in order to meet any emergency
such as has been described. The same difficulties often arise on public works, such as the
construction of canals or railways. Such a case
occurred in the construction of the Lachine
Canal, where there was no order, and people
would go in and take what they wanted. A
general law was passed, by which this public
work was put under an etpecial Act by Order
of Council, as the provisions of the Act were
arbitrary, and gave the Government the same
power as it is proposed to give them by this
bill. This is not a normal law, but an abnormal provision by which certain Indian lands
shall be brought under its provisions after a
proclamation is made by the Governor in
Council, "these provisions shall extend to such
Indian lands only, as the Governor from time
to time, by proclamation published in the
Canada Gazette, declares and makes subject
to the same, and so long only as such proclamation remains in force." This is the security
for these provisions, which he admitted were
severe and arbitrary : they cannot be put in
force, unless the Governor in Council sees a
good and sufficient cause for it. No reason can
be assigned why the House should apprehend
that this power will be abused. Would the
Government bring any portion of this territory under the provisions of this law if no
circumstances rendered it necessary for them
to do so? He could not believe it possible that
under any circumstances the Government
would proclaim any tract of land as coming
within the provisions of this clause unless the
circumstances warranted it. A great deal of
the valuable products of those lands could be
removed before the ordinary laws of the land
could be put in force. There would be considerable difficulty in putting them in force, as in
reference to some of the Indian lands the
patent is in the Crown, and in others the title
is in certain Indians, some of these being dead

SENATE DEBATES

their titles are in the hands of the trustees,
which would cause great delay in the Courts
dealing with the matter, and is another reason
why the Government should be armed with
this power. He could see no reasonable apprehension that it would be abused, as the
Government were responsible to Parliament
for all their acts done in the country. The
proclamation of the Governor must issue
before the law could be put in force, therefore, he trusted that the Committee would
concur in the clause, which he could vouch for
as being essential to the welfare of the Indians.
Hon. Mr. Bureau (in French) could see no
cause for alarm at the summary powers given
in this bill to a member of the Government,
and instanced the case of the Indian reserve
at Caughnawaga, where timber and cordwood
had been removed by trespassers; these lands
at the door of Montreal being of immense
value, the Government should have power to
deal summarily with such trespassers. This
tract comprised some of the best lands in the
parishes of St. Constant and Caughnawaga.
The late Sir George Simpson, Governor of
the Hudson Bay Company, was empowered by
the Government of the late Province of
Canada to try to negotiate some arrangement
with this tribe of Indians to concede these
lands à titre de service, and invest the proceeds for their benefit.
Hon. Mr. Chapais (in French) advocated the
emancipation of some of the most intelligent
of the Indians, many of whom, if not all, were
more intelligent than the negroes emancipated
long since by Great Britain in several of her
colonies. They were generally loyal, peaceable
subjects, if properly treated by the white
man. They should be ensured by the Government the benefit of their lands free and unmolested, and to ensure this the powers under
this bill were none too large or comprehensive. If their emancipation were effected gradually, giving the leading and best educated
amongst the tribes their freedom firstly, and
continuing to train and prepare them to enjoy
the rights of freemen, no danger to society
would be apprehended, but great benefits to
themselves and the Dominion generally.
Hon. Mr. McCully said he had thought this

matter over with a great deal of care, and had
given it considerable consideration, but he
must say in reply to his hon. friend who spoke
in a language which he (Mr. McCully) but
imperfectly understood, that he, coming from
another part of the country, seemed to be
getting connected with a class of people who,

April 22, 1868

if they are as they are described, will set all
justice at defiance, and can only be controlled
in this arbitrary manner. If this was the case
he was sorry he had not understood it at an
earlier period. He could not bring himself to
believe that at this time, under any circumstances, they should be required to seize a
man, take him to jail by force, and become
judge, jury, and executioner; that he should
be held, and that it should not even be lawful
for a judge of the Supreme Court, or of any
court in the land, to hear the cause or to
consider the case. The Postmaster-General has
conferred these powers not merely upon the
Secretary of State, but he is about to confer
these powers upon a class of those persons
distant probably, some thousands of miles
from his office of Secretary of State, and with
whose qualifications, for the exercise of those
high powers, the Secretary of State must be
but imperfectly acquainted. These persons
will have the power to seize a man because he
continued upon these Indian territories and
hurry him into jail, while no habeas corpus
can issue, and no judge of the tribunals of the
country can be permitted to hear the cause. If
there should be such a case as a man being
committed for trespass who was not the cause
of that trespass, an innocent man would be
kept confined in jail because he could not be
relieved, as the Deputy appointed by the
Secretary of State is judge, and no court in
the Dominion can re-hear the case or consider
it. He had thought that practice had been for
ever abandoned. He was sorry that the state
of society in Canada was such as to make it
necessary to confer upon any Secretary of
State the powers sought to be conferred by
this bill. No such powers as this existed in
England, although an attempt to take such
power was made two hundred years ago, in
the time of Charles I. It was said that neither
Her Majesty nor the Privy Council have, or
ought to have, any jurisdiction in such matters, but that they ought to be tried and determined in the ordinary courts of justice, by the
ordinary courts of law. He did not think the
position he took upon this question was such
an extraordinary one, as some who had spoken on the subject allowed. He did not ask that
the Secretary of State should not have large
powers, but he did ask that such a provision
should be made, that when the DeputySecretary of State made a mistake, it should
not be a final judgment, but the courts of law
should correct it. It may be necessary that the
Government should control the rights of the
Indians, but he presumed any Justice of the

April 22, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Peace could try those cases, subject to review
in the courts of law in the Province, and then
every man could be heard. In this class of
cases he said the law they sought to enact was
the legislation of a by-gone period, which was
swept off the Statute Book of England two
hundred years ago. We have the right to suspend the Habeas Corpus Act, but it can only
be done where the rights and lives, perhaps, of whole classes of people are involved,
but we do not arbitrarily take away a liberty
without judge or jury, on account of a few
oak staves or shingles being taken from wilderness land. It was not so much in regard to
this particular Act that he took up the time of
the House, but it was the principle which was
being introduced of giving Secretaries of State
the power to take away a man's property and
personal liberty, and allowing no Judges of
the Supreme, or other Courts, to re-hear the
case or consider it. We find that the decisions
of high tribunals are not as final as the decisions of the Secretary of State will be under
this Act, because these decisions often call for
the exercise of the prerogative of the Crown
in consequence of some mistake being made to
which everyone is liable. He would ask the
Postmaster-General if he knew men in the
distant Province of Nova Scotia to whom he
would be willing to confer such a power; he
could only know them by report, and if having conferred this power it came to his knowledge that some man had been grievously oppressed, no man would be more willing to
give redress than he would, but under this
Bill if an innocent person was committed to
jail, the operations of the warrant could not
be arrested until he had made an application
which would satisfy the Governor-General in
Council, that it was a wrong act, and then he
would receive pardon, but in the meantime
his feelings would be very much lacerated by
any such misfortune. He would ask the
Postmaster-General to strike out the two last
lines of the 21st Section, "and such judgment
shall not be removed by certiorari or otherwise, or be appealed from, but shall be final."
The whole thing was wrong; the Judges of the
Supreme Court were as able to protect the
Indians as any one else, as they have no
motive in allowing the laws to be frustrated.
He did not think this was the period in the
world's history when they ought to be passing
laws in the Dominion of Canada by which
deputies of the Secretary of State would have
the power to seize the most respectable men
in the communty, and cast them into the
common jail, and hold them there for at least

thirty days; this officer not being amenable to
the law, no proceedings can be taken against
him. He could not understand what necessity
there could be in regard to the case of the
Indians, or Indian lands, which made it necessary to enact such a stringent law, and to put
such a power in the hands of any subordinate
of the Government to execute it. He did not
know what acts they may have had in force in
Canada, but he knew that no such Act was
ever placed on the statute book of Nova
Scotia. They had made every provision for the
Indians, but they did not give the Government
power to seize upon persons and property,
because a few trees had been cut down within
the Indian territory. He would raise his voice
against this measure, lest it should be said
hereafter that he had consented to allow a
measure to be passed in this first Parliament
of the Dominion which gave up the rights of
the subject. Many of the most serious difficulties have arisen in consequence of arbitrary
powers assumed by Secretaries of State. He as
a public man coming from a liberty-loving
Province, where men's rights are passed upon
by tribunals in which we have most unbounded confidence, would ask the PostmasterGeneral not to put this law upon the statute
book, for by doing so we would say to our
people, we have connected ourselves with a
country whose law cannot be enforced unless
such arbitrary power is given to the Secretary
of State. If his hon. friend would so ainend his
bill, that although it might give summary
powers to be exercised in a summary way, yet
in case a mistake should be made the bill
should provide that it might be remedied by
submitting the case to the highest courts in
the land, then nothing would give him greater
pleasure than to assist in passing the Bill.
Hon. Mr. Bureau (in French) in answer to
the remarks of the hon. member, (Mr. McCully) felt that the Government were only the
Dépositaires or guardians of the domain set
apart for the benefit and support of the Indians, and consequently should be of necessity
invested with all requisite powers to protect
these lands from speculators and trespassers.
He could not understand how hon. members
would feel more security to the liberty of the
subject if the remedy were referred to the
adjudication of any one man, Justice of the
Peace, or Judge, than if these same powers
were conferred on the Government, who are
directly responsible to this Parliament for all
their acts. He could apprehend no danger in
leaving the summary power sought for by this

SENATE DEBATES
bill in the hands of the Secretary of State and
the Government, who could not be actuated
by any private malice, but would necessarily
act in the public interests. Let the opponents
of the bill suggest some amendments which
might meet the difficulties of the case, and
then he could appreciate their reasoning. It is
very easy to find fault, but not easy to frame a
measure that will give universal satisfaction,
and meet the requirements of this exceptional
case. The only defence that any trespasser on
these Indian Reserves should possibly be allowed to make, that the lands occupied by
him, were not a portion of this domain, and
this would necessarily give rise to an action
en bornage, to have the lines drawn and established. If the Hon. Postmaster, (who has
charge of this bill), could possibly see his way
to allow the decisions to be brought up for
revision before the Courts by writ of Certiorari,it might end all the opposition to the
bill, and give general satisfaction, though,
as he said before, he would willingly support
the bill in its entirety, having full confidence
that all interests will be safe in the hands
of the Government of the country.
Hon. Mr. Ritchie said although he was willing to go very far in giving the Government
power to protect the Indians, he was not
willing to put the liberties of white men
under their control. He thought the difficulty
would be removed by proceedings being taken
in a summary way before a judge at the instance of the Secretary of State. It was inconsistent with the due administration of justice,
for a person's property to be subject to injury,
and his liberty to be taken from him without
his having an opportunity of being heard.
Under this bill a person could be imprisoned
upon an ex parte statement without his having any chance of defending himself, or even
of knowing upon what ground he has been
imprisoned. If this power were given to the
Secretary of State, his Deputy may do something wrong, or it is possible he may be deceiving himself and thinks he is doing r'ght
when he is doing wrong, and the aggrieved
person would have no redress. There should
be a provision for an appeal to the Courts of
Justice, but the parties making this appeal
should give good security for all expenses
attending this appeal. The case would not be
between a white man and an Indian, but between a white man, supposed to be an offender, and the Government. If the Crown prosecutes a man for infring'ng upon the Indian
lands, surely, it is not wrong to say, he shall
have an opportunity of defending himself.

April 22, 1868

Hon. Mr. Sanborn thought that after what
had been said, it would be well for the Hon.
Postmaster-General to allow the 19th and two
following sections to stand over for another
day, to see if any remedy could be devised to
meet the objections made. It was true that
this was a most extraordinary power which it
was proposed to give the Secretary of State,
but there was another objection-that the
writs should be issued out in the ordinary
course, and the Sheriff of the county would be
called upon to perform duties of a most extraordinary character. The bill also raised the
difficulty which was continually coming up,
that it interfered with the rights of property
which came under the jurisdiction of the
Local Legislatures, because here they would
have to decide in regard to boundaries between the Indian lands and private lands.
He thought proceedings against trespassers
should be taken through the ordinary channels, by summary proceedings, at the instance
of the Secretary of State or his Deputy.
Hon. Mr. Campbell had listened with the
greatest attention to the views advanced by
the hon. members, but he thought they laid
undue stress upon the character and provisions of certain sections of the bill. In the first
place, those provisions were not law, but
could only be brought into effect when a case
should arise of such importance as would induce the Government to issue a proclamation
giving effect to them. It was an exceptional
provision, only to be resorted to when circumstances rendered it absolutely necessary as
was the case of the exceptional law in regard
to labourers on public works.
Hon. Mr. McCully: Did the Government of
England ever enact a law of that kind?
Hon. Mr. Campbell said it was a Canadian
Act, only to be put in operation when the
necessity arose. In regard to this bill, the
Secretary of State, or some one authorized by
him, has to visit the locality and ascertain if
those persons are really there, and if so, they
would insist upon their leaving those lands,
and it is only when they return to them that
the Sheriff can issue his warrant for their apprehension. This can only take place after a
section of the country has been put under the
force of the Act by proclamation, which will
not be issued without a necessity should arise.
What earthly motive could the Government
have for issuing such proclamation, unless the
circumstances of the country called for it?
When the Act is put in force parties can only

April 22, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

be arrested after they go back upon those
lands wilfully, knowing what the penalty is.
The Secretary of State can then send them to
jail for thirty days. His hon. friend said, why
not allow them the right of appeal? Because
it would destroy the possibility of remedying
the evil promptly. He then related the case of
an Indian being put out of his house by force
of arms, and said they must have abnormal
laws to deal with such cases, and you could
not provide for appeal as you could in a more
civilized country. To do prompt justice to the
Indians, you want an officer armed with
prompt power. He referred to the difficulty in
bringing these cases before a Court of law in
localities like the Island of Manitoulin, where
there was no judge within nineteen or twenty
days travel. White persons go there at certain
seasons of the year, and if they find anything
valuable, or any advantage to be gained, they
will not remove, but use their intelligence to
the prejudice of the Indians. Surely the experience of sixteen or eighteen years in the
operation of the law was sufficient to justify
the House in coming to the conclusion that no
evil can arise from a provision of the kind. We
have found that no evil has resulted from it
to the white people, while it has been a benefit to the Indians, and we can favourably contrast their love for our constitution, with the
sympathies of the Indians in the United States
with that Government. In no country is the
law better administered for the protection of
the Indians than Canada, and in no country
are they more firmly attached to the Crown.

Hon. Mr. Campbell asked if his hon. friend
thought that any Government would put the
law in force in any section of the country
where it was not absolutely required?

Hon. Mr. McCully said when they put that
law on the Statute Book they would introduce
a principle which no man in Nova Scotia,
educated as they have been, could support for
a single moment. It was an exceptional state
of things that required a law for Man.toulin, a
perfectly uncilivized country, and he would
not be found opposing a measure to protect
the Indians in that Island, but he would oppose so obnoxious a law being passed in a
civilized country. A man should know what
offence he is charged with, and be able to
meet his accusers face to face. It is provided
in the Bill: "If any person after having been
removed as aforesaid returns to, settles upon,
resides upon, or occupies any of the said
lands, or roads, or allowances for roads, the
Secretary of State, or any officer or person
deputed, and authorized as aforesaid, upon
view, or upon proof on oath made before him,
or to his satisfaction, that the said person has
returned to settle or reside upon, or occupy
any of the said lands, or roads, or allowances
for roads, shall direct and send his warrant,
signed and sealed, to the Sheriff of the proper
county or district commanding him forthwith to arrest such person and commit
him to the common jail." Suppose a person
has been removed beyond that territory, and
was afterwards seen upon it. There might be
some ill feeling between him and the Deputy
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just remarked Secretary of State, who would be glad of a
that it was all very well for the Postmaster- chance to arrest him, and would now take
General to say that up to this time, this power advantage of his happening to be upon the
had not been abused. Suppose a case should land.
arise in which great injustice would be done,
Hon. Mr. Campbell-It is only when he rewould there be any means of redress? There turns and settles upon the land that he can be
would be none whatever, as the aggrieved arrested.
person could not take his case before the
courts of law.
Hon. Mr. McCully-He has come back, he
has returned, that is the language, and the
to the deputies would take the literal interpretation
Hon. Mr. McCully said that according
arguments of the Postmaster-General they
were to have these laws which were necessary of it. He would say, "I have seen you here, and
for a half civilized country, to extend to a I arrest you, and commit you to jail for thirty
country where there was not the least ground days without bail." He did not wish to prevent
their removing a man from those lands, but
for that state of things.
he wished the man to have the right of appeal
Hon. Mr. Campbell-They will only be put by giving security for five times the amount
in force by proclamation when a necessity
of costs if necessary. When a man is arrested,
arises.
he does not care so much for the amount as
Hon. Mr. McCully said his hon. friend as- for the indignity to which he is subjected, and
serted that the Government would not do it, he would sometimes rather give all he is
but he does not know what future Govern- worth rather than submit to it. In consideraments may do.
tion then of the wrong done he should have an

SENATE DEBATES
opportunity for redress. If they gave power to
remove the person trespassing upon those
lands they would attain the object of the Bill,
without stamping the statute book of Canada
with this most disgraceful principle, which
has never been heard of in the Lower Provinces. In regard to disturbances on public
works in other countries, the criminal law
takes charge of such outrageous characters.
Hon. Mr. Campbell objected to the defence
mentioned or suggested, as all the trespassers
would be prepared to deny that they occupied
the Indian lands, and so defer the decision for
months, and get delay, and in the meantime
pillage the lands and put the Government to
all the expense and trouble of a contested suit
at law.

April 22, 1868

Hon. Mr. Tessier thought it much safer to
refer the exceptional remedy of this class of
cases to the Secretary of State and the Government, than to any judicial functionary, either Magistrate or Judge. The right of petition
remains to the subject, and surely this House,
or the country, will not be deaf to such cases
of hardship, if by any possibility any member
of the Government could be guilty of any
injustice to parties affected by this bill. He for
one, felt no fears of any such alarming results
under this bill.
The Committee then reported progress, and
asked leave to sit again to-morrow.

Hon. Mr. Seymour moved, seconded by
Hon. Mr. Dickey objected to the arbitrary Hon. Mr. Simpson, that the order for considpowers of the bill. He thought some redress or eration of the fifth report of the Contingent
means of justification should be allowed to the Committee be discharged and referred back to
parties who might be accused of occupying the same Committee for further consideration.
these lands, and urged at length the danger of
The House adjourned at 6 o'clock until
such arbitrary and exceptional powers, entirely at variance with the spirit of our laws. three o'clock tomorrow afternoon.

SENATE DEBATES

April 23, 1868

THE SENATE
Thursday, April 23, 1868.
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.

agree to it, but he thought as the object was to
economize as much as possible, the members
of New Brunswick should waive their right
for the purpose of allowing those vacancies to
remain as they are.

Hon. Mr. McCully, as one of the members of
After routine,
the Committee, would say that the practice
Hon. Mr. Seymour moved the adoption of adopted in this instance was precisely the
the 6th Report of the Contingent Committee, same as was adopted on a former occasion.
which provided that Mr. P. Miller be appoint- The Committee made the recommendations
ed English clerk at a salary of $1,000 per which were adopted by the House. In regard
to Nova Scotia, the gentlemen on that comannum.
mittee having talked the matter over among
Hon. Mr. Hazen said this office was filled up themselves, and made such enquires as they
against his wishes. The late incumbent was deemed necessary, concluded not to make any
dismissed against his consent, but after the recommendation, but the gentlemen from
office became vacant Mr. Tucker and Mr. New Brunswick recommended a person to fill
Miller became candidates for it, but he had no up the vacancy belonging to New Brunswick.
desire to see it filled, or the salary of $1,000 He did not think it was expected that the
attached to it. He considered the appointment members of the Contingent Committee should
of Mr. Miller a most extraordinary proceed- go around the Senate and make enquiries, as
ing, and one in which he did not feel disposed they supposed the members from New
to concur.
Brunswick represented New Brunswick, and
Hon. Mr. Odell said it had been well upon that principle they acted.
understood that the members of this House
Hon. Mr. McClelan said that in the early
from New Brunswick and Nova Scotia were to part of the Session this matter was under
make the appointments to fill up the vacant consideration, and they came to the conclusion
Clerkships in this House, if it was found to decline to make the recommendation, as
necessary to fill them up at all. With regard to they did not know of any suitable person to
the gentleman in question, he did not know fill the situation, and the matter remained
him by sight, and therefore was not prepared over until the present Session. When it was
to say whether he was competent to fill the determined to fill up the vacancy he had conoffice or not, nor yet was he able to under- sulted with several members from New
stand what the duties of the office were. It Brunswick, and they had a recommended Mr.
was true he had been called upon by one of Miller as a man who would discharge the
the members of the Contingent Committee, a duties very efficiently; other gentlemen
few days ago, to ask if he had any objection to recommended Mr. Tucker, and others again
the appointment of Mr. Miller or Mr. Tucker, declined to make any recommendation, saying
or whether he had any desire that any one that they thought it was necessary to use
else should be appointed. He had replied that economy and retrenchment, and it was better
he thought that it was not best to fill up those not to fill up those vacancies. He had considvacancies at present, that it was the better ered it his duty, as a member of the Contincourse to allow them to remain vacant, and as gent Committee, when the members from
the work was now being performed he New Brunswick made this recommendation,
thought they could get through this Session to support this appointment.
without making any appointment at all. Then,
Hon. Mr. Miller would like to know upon
hereafter, if there should be any necessity for the appointments they could be what principle the patronage of this House
made. He believed the gentleman appointed was distributed. Are the Committee alone, or
by the Committee was holding an of- are the members of the House, to have a voice
fice under one of the Departments, he in filling up those offices? It had been distinctthought under the Minister of Marine and ly stated that in filling up those vacancies
Fisheries. He thought it was hardly right either for New Brunswick or Nova Scotia, the
for the Committee to have made this re- members of the Senate would be consulted,
port without having had the sanction of the and not the members of the committee alone.
members of this House belonging to New
Hon. Mr. Seymour said it had been the
Brunswick. If a majority of the members usual custom for the Committee on Continthink the office ought to be filled up, he would gencies to nominate such persons as are to be

SENATE DEBATES

April 23, 1868

appointed for the approval of the House, and should be here in order that they might be
it was the privilege of the House to say added to the staff of the House. He had taken
whether those
nominations
should
be the liberty in accordance with the suggestion
confirmed.
of the Government to name two persons, one
of them was employed as a messenger and the
Hon. Mr. Miller thought the hon. gentleman other name was in connection with the vafrom New Brunswick had reason to complain, cant clerkship left for the Province of New
as it was distincly understood that before a Brunswick. It was his misfortune not to be in
recommendation would be made to this a position to consult his confreres, not having
House, the members from New Brunswick had an opportunity to do it. He was expected
would be consulted. It would have been better to submit the names at the opening of the
to have allowed some of the old officers to Legislature, and he did so, and the persons
have retained their offices, and they would whom he expected would be appointed to fill
have saved the amount given to the retiring those offices at his suggestion came on from
officers. If the vacancies were to be filled up, New Brunswick. He said he would not go into
they might as well fill up the one assigned to the vexed question of patronage, but one prinNova Scotia. He wished to have it understood ciple he had laid down on that occasion he
whether the appointments of these officers would repeat now, that upon entering this
were to be made by the House or by the Dominion the Maritime Provinces had a fair
Committee.
and just right to claim from the legislature of
Hon. Mr. Wark said the patronage was to be this country as fair a proportion of the paexercised by the Senate. It was the duty of tronage as Ontario and Quebec, and that the
the Contingent Committee to make the recom- staff of officers occupying positions in the
mendations, but it was left to the Senate to House had no more right to those positions
accept, reject, or modify that recommendation than those coming from other sections of the
as they think proper. The members of the Dominion. We did not persist in claiming
Committee should consult the members of the what we had a right to claim; we heard the
Senate from the same section of the country feeling on both sides of the House, and we felt
from which they came. He had been asked to that whatever might be the right of the
recommend a person to fil one of the offices, Maritime Provinces to a fair and proper rebut he had declined: he said perhaps he would presentation, the fact that certain persons
see a Senator from New Brunswick upon that were in attendance to perform duties connectcommittee, but he did not wish to hamper ed with this branch of the Legislature, inhim, and whatever their decision might be he duced us to consider their claims, and we did
consider them when the committee had the
would be satisfied.
matter referred to them. A sub-committee of
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said there was no room five was appointed who were to submit to the
for discussion, hon. genlemen would recollect Contingent Committee the staff necessary for
that in the early part of the session this ques- the House, and the names of the persons to fil
tion excited a great deal of dissatisfaction, not those offices; that committee reported to the
on the part of the members from New Contingent Committee the names of the officBrunswick, but around the House. The name ers it was desirable to have in attendance
of the gentleman recommended by the Con- upon this Senate, and the salaries they were
tingent Committee was then the subject of desirous to give them. He would ask the
considerable discussion. He had then stated House to recollect the large number of names
that he was in an unpleasant position, because of officials before the committee, and out of
he was somewhat answerable for the fact that that there was but one clerkship for New
this gentleman's name was before the Com- Brunswick, and one for Nova Scotia, and
mittee for one of the vacant clerkships. He three messengers for the Maritime Provinces.
has stated that it was distinctly understood In place of filling up those clerkships, the
between the gentlemen representing the late sub-committee stated that they thought it
Province of Canada, that a fair distribution of desirable that they should ascertain the sentithe patronage of the Dominion should be given to the Maritime Provinces. It was then said ments of hon. gentlemen from the Lower
that two clerks and two messengers should be Provinces before they were filled. He had
appointed from each of the Maritime Prov- agreed to that and had made a selection from
inces for each branch of the Legislature. It a gentleman of the legal profession possessing
was also stated that we should submit the every qualification to fill the position. After
names of the persons we intended to appoint that gentleman had been waiting here for five
at the opening of the session, and that they or six weeks, the question was brought before

April 23, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

the Committee, and the hon. gentleman who
made the objection to-day, took the ground
that the Senators of each Province should be
consulted. He at once assented to it, and said
let the matter stand over, and let them be
consulted. It did stand over, and the gentleman was temporarily attached to the staff of
the Marine and Fisheries, because he (Mr.
Mitchell) had been the means of bringing him
from his home to occupy this position to
which he has a right. He believed every
Senator from New Brunswick had been consulted in this matter, and if they have, where
are their grounds of complaint? If they have
other names to recommend let them bring
them forward; but they should not say they
have had no opportunity for expressing their
opinion. The hon. member from St. John (Mr.
Hazen) says he never was for turning one man
out and putting another man in. That hon.
gentleman persisted in resisting the reduction
of salaries, or the reduction of the staff, and
he now objects to filling up this office reserved
for New Brunswick. He says it should not be
filled up this session. If not at this session why
at any time? If he thought it necessary at the
first part of the Session that this office should
be filled, upon what principle can he resist
filling it now when reserved for New Brunswick, when it is filled by the best man among
the names put forward as candidates for that
office. In regard to the objection made by his
hon. friend from Nova Scotia, he would say
that because the members fron Nova Scotia
could not agree upon a nominee for their
vacancy, it was no reason why the vacancy
for New Brunswick should remain over too.
The Contingent Committee are entitled to
some consideration for the efforts they have
made to economise in connection with the
efficiency of the staff, and for performing the
unpleasant duty imposed upon them of refusing to employ many gentlemen in connection
with the staff of the old Province of Canada.
He considered their recommendation should
be carried out, unless they could find some
gentleman better qualified for the position.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot said that when his hon.
friend from the county of Albert (Mr.
McÇlelan) consulted him concerning this appointment, he (Mr. Wilmot) told him that he
was opposed to appointing any person,
that they should economize instead of making
new appointments. He had stated that the
Minister of Marine, not only arrogated to
himself the right to make appointments in the
Government, but he arrogated to himself the
right, when certain employees connected with
this Senate were to be appointed, to take the

responsibility of naming the persons, without
consulting the members from New Brunswick.
It has been understood and agreed to, that
when any appointment was to be made, the
members from New Brunswick were to be
called together to express their opinions upon
it. When his hon. friend (Mr. Mitchell)
charged him with extravagance in connection
with retaining the employees of the House, he
should remember that the Government when
they put the machinery of this Dominion in
motion, should have provided for these officers in the Legislatures of Ontario and Quebec.
He regretted to see such an anxious desire for
public offices; it was the last thing he wanted
to see any of his friends get. He had always
advised his own connections to have nothing
to do with public offices.
Hon. Mr. Dickey thought if the hon. members from New Brunswick could not agree
among themselves, the best thing they could
do was to fill the office from Nova Scotia. We
in Nova Scotia did not think it necessary to
make any appointment, but on the representation of the members of the Committee for
New Brunswick, we acceded to their wish and
recommended a gentleman every way
qualified to fill the office, taking it for granted
that the House would adopt the recommendation. The hon. member from Albert (Mr.
McClelan) had consulted the members from
New Brunswick in regard to the appointment,
and he did not think the House should now
for the first time set aside the name of a
person selected by the Committee, unless
there was some very strong objection made.
Hon. Mr. Hazen did not think respectable
men should be turned out of office to make
way for aspirants from New Brunswick, and
he would protest against it. The Minister of
Marine had provided for two or three of his
friends at Ottawa. He did not object to this
because he, as a member of the Government,
had a perfect right to dispose of his patronage
as he thought proper, provided he was satisfied he could justify it before the country,
but he denied his right to appoint a gentleman
to an office in this House with the salary of
$1,000 a year, and say that it had received the
sanction of the members of the Senate from
New Brunswick. No such proposition was ever
made to him; he had had two names put
before him, one was the gentleman who was
appointed, and whom he did not know, as he
lived in a different part of the country; the
other he should have preferred, as his naine
was that of a most respectable family. It was

SENATE DEBATES
not the desire of the people of his Province to
turn out of office a respectable person to make
room for a person from New Brunswick.
He understood something had to be given to
New Brunswick, and he thought if this practice went on they would by and by have
separate officials for each Province, then if he
asked a door-keeper to open a door for him he
might be met with the reply, "I don't belong
to New Brunswick." If we are to remain as a
Confederacy those distinctions ought not to be
kept up, but we should all be united as one
people. He thought the power of the committee had been indiscreetly exercised, but he
would not protest against the adoption of the
report, though he would repeat that this appointment had not been made with the assent
of the members of the Senate from New
Brunswick.
Hon. Mr. McClelan said he had consulted
the hon. member from St. John (Mr. Hazen),
who stated he was in favour of the other applicant. He had felt it to be his duty to consult the Senators from New Brunswick, and
he did so with a great deal of satisfaction.
Three of the members were in favour of not
filling the vacancy, but the majority were in
favour of making the appointment, but would
not agree upon the individual to be selected,
therefore we did the best we could to meet
their views. He regretted that there should
be any dissatisfaction, but he did not think
there was any just cause for it, as those who
had taken objection failed to recommend any
name in place of the one now appointed.

April 23, 1868.

the Senators of the Dominion. Now it is stated
by the hon. gentleman from Albert (Mr.
McClelan) that he consulted the members
from New Brunswick. He consulted them in a
very informal way; if members were to be
consulted they ought to be asked to meet and
come to some unanimous conclusion, or pass a
resolution by a majority. It could not be called
consulting the members for a gentleman to goto the members singly and ask their opinions,
and then from what he has gathered to form
his own conclusions. He complained because
the members fron New Brunswick were not
consulted, and also because they were not
made aware that such an appointment was
to be made. The Minister of Marine said he
brought Mr. Miller up here.
Hon. Mr. Mi±chell observed that he brought
him up here by direction of the Government,
as all the offices were vacant.

Hon. Mr. Odell asked what the Minister of
Marine, or the Government, had to do with
the action of the House? Why should they
take this matter out of the hands of the
House? That gave him no claim whatever. Not
only did the Minister of Marine bring him
here upon speculation, but he puts him in his
own Department until he can find an opening
for him. He will always have somebody ready,
and the patronage will be taken out of the
House, and placed in the hands of the Minister of Marine. He did not blame him for
providing for his friends in this way, but he
did not think it was fair to the Province of'
New Brunswick. He had now explained his
Hon. Mr. Bo±sford said there were two very reasons for opposing it, and he did not think
substantial reasons why this report should not there was any occasion for putting the quesbe adopted. In the first place there was no tion off, as they might as well settle it to-day
occasion to appoint this officer until they as to-morrow.
found a necessity, as the duties could be perThe motion was then carried on division.
formed without his appointment. In the
second place he should not be appointed
Hon. Mr. Seymour moved the adoption of
because four of the members from New the fifth report of the Committee on ContinBrunswick have decided against it, and it was gencies, recommending that as the Rev. Dr.
desirable that they should agree upon the Adamson has not been appointed Chaplain to
appointment.
the Senate, his appointment as Librarian be
Hon. Mr. Hazen said the report could not be cancelled, and that he be allowed to avail
adopted to-day, as it was against the rules of himself of the provisions of the second and
third sections of the committee's report of the
the House.
twentieth day of March last, which had been
Hon. Mr. Mi±chell replied there was no rule adopted by the House.
against it.
Hon. Mr. Dickey said the adoption of this
Hon. Mr. Odell thought a most extraordinary course had been pursued. When the first
report of the Contingent Committee was made
it was distinctly understood that these vacancies should be filled up by persons selected by

report should depend upon whether or not a
Chaplain was to be employed by this House. It
had never been contemplated to give Dr.
Adamson a retiring allowance of two years'
salary, and then appoint another Chaplain.

April 23, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Malhiot (in French) objected to a
Hon. Mr. McCully spoke in favour of the
verbal translation by the Clerk at the Table,
adoption of the report.
as insufficient to enable hon. members to catch
Hon. Mr. Seymour said that Dr. Adamson the full meaning and signification of such
received the principal part of his salary as documents as might enable them to vote intelLibrarian, and in retiring from that office, he ligently on their merits. He had a right to
was entitled to the same privileges as the have them printed in French, and he felt
other officers.
strongly on the subject, and could not yield to
It was then moved that the report be taken the point in dispute.
into consideration to-morrow.
The Speaker decided that a document was a
Hon. Mr. Malhiot (in French) raised the record, whether printed or not, and therefore
question of order, that under the Constitu- the reports of committees were records, and
tional Act all proceedings should be translated consequently he must decide that the demand
into French, if demanded by any member of of the Hon. Mr. Malhiot was in order, and so
the House, and, as this was rather an impor- it was decided.
tant matter, he insisted on the rights guaranHon. Messrs. McCully, Dickey and Ritchie
teed him and his compatriots under the entirely disapproved of the decision given by
Constitution.
the Speaker, and thought it would be most
Hon. Mr. Chapais (in French) entirely sym- inconvenient in the despatch of the business
pathized with the objection taken, which he of this House, and considered such doctrine
considered fair and reasonable, and suggested unheard of, and hoped the House would opthat the Report be translated in French and pose the ruling of the Speaker.
laid over until to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. Bureau attempted to speak, but
A general discussion here arose amongst the "spoke, spoke," was called by several memmembers as to the utility or right of having bers, when he sat down.
all the proceedings of the House submitted in
Hon. Mr. Sanborn entirely coincided with
the two languages. Some objecting to the
the ruling
delays and expenses of double printing; whilst submitted of the Speaker. Al documents
to the House were printed in the
the minority insisted on their rights on all
minutes and entered on the journals of the
important questions of having the proceedings House,
and of course became matter of record,
submitted to them in their mother tongue.
and were records of the House, whether
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just recommended passed by the House or rejected, the saine as
that the delay asked should be granted, if only all papers filed in a case in the courts of laws
were matters of record.
to prevent any bad feelings.
Hon. Mr. Seymour then moved that the
Hon. Mr. Sanborn thought the demand
quite reasonable and simple justice to the report be considered tomorrow, and that it
members who may not thoroughly understand remain over until then.
the English language, and thought that if deHon. Mr. Dickey was surprised at the opinferred until to-morrow the minutes would appear in both languages, so then all the mem- ion of the hon. member (Mr. Sanborn), and
entirely dissented from the Speaker's decision
bers would understand the matter.
as a dangerous precedent.
Hon. Mr. Bureau (in French) complained
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St.
that the French language was completely ig- question of order. The hon. Just rose to a
member could
nored, and wished the Speaker to decide the have appealed from the Speaker's decision,
question of order raised by the Hon. Mr. but was now too late to do so, and was out of
Malhiot.
order in discussing the ruling without an apHon. Mr. Campbell, Postmaster-General, peal.
said the rules of the House only required the
Hon. Mr. Dickey moved as an amendment
records of the House to be printed in both to the motion, that the ruling of the Speaker
languages, but he thought the Clerk could in the matter of the Contingent Committee
translate the present report at the Table, and Report should not be adopted by this House.
meet the wishes of those hon. members who
The Speaker declared the amendment inaddesired to have it translated into French, and
thus save time and the expense of printing missible and out of order. Cries of "Chair,"
these matters in the two languages.
"Chair," on all sides.

SENATE DEBATES
Then the motion of Hon. Mr. Seymour was
put and carried.

April 23, 1888

Hon. Mr. Hazen said he would like his hon.
friend to show him any other report, to which
it could be moved as an amendment.

Hon. Mr. Odell enquired whether it is the
intention of Government during the present
Hon. Mr. Campbell remarked that the one
Session to take any measures for equalizing which had just been under discussion, was
the salaries and allowances of the Judges of one of the orders of the day for tomorrow.
the Superior Courts throughout the Dominion,
The motion
and to make any and what provisions for stand over untilwas accordingly allowed to
tomorrow.
pensions to the present incumbents?
Hon. Mr. Locke enquired of the Minister of
Hon. Mr. Campbell replied that arrangeMarine and Fisheries whether the Bill relating
ments had been made for making a fair ar- to
the Fisheries, which had been promised in
rangement of the salaries of the Judges
the early part of the Session, would be soon
throughout the Dominion. Not an equal distri- brought in for their consideration,
as in all
bution, but a fair one has been made which probability some of
the members would be
will meet with the approval of ail.
leaving for home before the close of the SesHon. Mr. Odell said the Postmaster-General sion.
had not informed them in regard to provisions
Hon. Mr. Mitchell would state for the inforfor pensions to the present incumbents.
mation of his hon. friend, that it was thought
Hon. Mr. Campbell said no arrangements more desirable by the Government that the
were being made to make any other provision bill relating to Fisheries should be introduced
than now existed in regard to pensions to into the other Branch of the Legislature. The
bill had been prepared for some time past,
Judges.
but owing to the pressure of business it had
Hon. Mr. Odell asked if the arrangements not yet been introduced, but would now be in
that now existed applied solely to Canada?
a very short time. He hoped no hon. gentleHon. Mr. Campbell said he was not aware man from the Maritime Provinces would so
of any arrangements in regard to the Lower far neglect his duty, as to leave before the
close of the Session. The only gentleman likeProvinces, although there was an arrangement in regard to Quebec. That subject would ly to leave the House is a gentleman said to be
not occupy the attention of the Government as leaving for a very interesting purpose.
they had no reason to suppose any application
Hon. Mr. Ritchie said there was very little
would be made from the Lower Provinces inducement for members to remain until the
during the present Session.
close of the Session, because then there was
such a pressure of business from the other
Hon. Mr. McCully thought it was a matter House, that it merely went in one door and
well worthy of the consideration of the Govcame out at the other. This bill should have
ernment whether or not those pensions should been introduced into this House before this
be drawn out of the Consolidated Fund, as
time, when they could have given it a proper
they had no provision for pensions for Judges
consideration. He thought from the amount of
in Nova Scotia.
business to be transacted by the other House,
Hon. Mr. Hazen moved to resolve that the we would have to remain here until the end of
practice which prevails in the Parliament of June before we got through.
England, and which has been adhered to by
Hon. Mr. Miller complained of the delay in
the Legislative Councils of Canada and the
bringing this bill in, which was said to be so
other Provinces now forming the Dominion,
important to persons who were making prepasince the establishment of their Constitutions,
rations for the coming season, and who ought
of opening their daily sittings with prayer to
Almighty God, should not be discontinued by to be aware of what changes were to be made.
If the bill was ready it should have been
this Senate.
submitted three weeks ago and come up here
Hon. Mr. Campbell said his hon. friend had for our examination. It was a bill which more
better allow his motion to drop, as the fifth particularly interested the Maritime Provreport of the Committee on Contingencies was inces, and it should receive more considerano longer in existence, therefore, the amend- tion from the House than it is likely to get in
ment could not be on that report.
the latter part of the Session.

April 23, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Mitchell said it had become fashionable of late to lecture him. He had already stated the facts in connection with this
matter. The bill has been prepared since the
early part of the session, but the Government
did not think it right to introduce a bill of
that kind into this Branch of the Legislature
first, as it involved matters which had better
be brought up in the House of Commons.
The Hon. Minister of Justice had charge of
the bill, and he had no doubt but it would
be soon brought forward, when they would
have an opportunity to consider it.
Hon. Mr. Campbell introduced a Bill entitled "An Act respecting the Department of
Justice."
The "Bill respecting the Navigation of
Canadian Waters," was then read a third
time, and passed.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Simpson, the 9th
and 12th reports of the Joint Committee on
printing were adopted.
On motion of the Hon. Mr. Chapais, the
continuation of the adjourned debate on the
Act for the organization of the Department of
Agriculture, was allowed to stand over until
tomorrow.
The House went into Committee of the
Whole, on a Bill entitled, "An Act respecting
aliens and naturalization," Hon. Mr. Bill in
the chair.
Several amendments having been made, in
regard to aliens in Nova Scotia, the Bill was
reported as agreed to. It was then read a third
time, passed, and sent to the House of Commons for their concurrence.
On motion of the Hon. Mr. Ferrier the consideration of the Bill entitled, "An Act for the
relief of Joseph Frederic Whiteaves," was
postponed until this day week.
SECRETARY

OF STATE'S DEPARTMENTAL BILL

On motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell the House
went into Committee of the Whole for the
further consideration of this Bill, when after
the adoption of several clauses, and the question being put upon the 21st clause.
Hon. Mr. McCully said that an extended
debate had taken place upon this clause and
probably the principal points had been pretty
well understood. He did not object to giving
the Government plenary powers for this purpose, as probably they required them, but
what he requested was, that they should be

subject to review. This could be arranged by
striking out the two last lines of the section,
"and such judgment shall not be removed by
certiorari or otherwise, or be appealed from,
but shall be final." If they passed the bill
without this amendment they would be bringing the Provinces of Nova Scotia and New
Brunswick under laws adapted to Manitoulin,
because the Postmaster-General says this
question cannot arise in either of those
Provinces. If it is not likely to arise down
there it is not likely to arise here, but if it
should these laws will not give satisfaction.
About four or five years ago the Government
of Canada had some trouble on this question
with respect to Manitoulin. That state of
affairs may have been satisfactory to the
Government, but it was not to the press of
Canada, a portion of which attacked them for
the course they took on that occasion, because
the proceedings of the Government were considered very unsatisfactory. The public mind
of Canada was agitated for a long time as to
why this plenary power, given to the Secretary of State, when placed in the hands of the
Commissioner of Crown Lands, did not work
so satisfactorily as they desired. Whether this
power was given under this clause he was not
prepared to say, and he was not going to make
any statement which he was not prepared to
verify. If Manitoulin is an exceptional case he
did not think it was necessary that there
should be such a stain upon the statute book
as would appear if this Act was passed.
Suppose an officer should seize a man and
imprison him for sixty days, or for some other
illegal time, or takes some illegal advantage,
how were they to get over the difficulty. The
difficulty would be to set proceedings in motion to know whether the individual had exceeded his jurisdiction. He would ask, when a
Judge makes a mistake on the bench, whether
he is liable to action or not? The Secretary of
State is made a Judge by this Act, and is
protected in his official capacity, the same as
any Judge of the Supreme Court. These Secretaries of State were the very men who sat
in the Star Chamber of England, and did the
mischief there. It was they who disturbed the
peace of England, and they were one cause of
the revolution. They supposed then that they
were transacting business with the best intentions, but they made mistakes. Secretaries of
State are not infallible, therefore it is that the
laws of England are so extremely jealous of
the liberty of the subject, and will not allow
one man to incarcerate another and hold him
without bail. Neither was there any law in

SENATE DEBATES
this Dominion which authorized any Judge to
commit and hold a man in jail unless under
very peculiar circumstances. It was the province of a jury to protect men against Judges
who may unintentionally make mistakes. Why
is it we can boast we live in a land of liberty,
where the rights of subjects are well protected? It is because we have never given this
power to Secretaries of State. At the time
when encroachments were attempted to be
made upon the ancient rights of the people of
England by the Secretaries of State. Parliament did not give them the power, but instead
of continuing such an Act forbade the attempt
of any Secretary of State, or of Her Majesty
and all the Secretaries of State together interfering between subject and subject, as these
matters were to be decided in the courts of
law alone. It is said this is an exceptional
state of things; admit it. Is it so exceptional
that a judge cannot look over the papers to
see whether the right man has been arrested,
and whether he has been legally condemned to
this severe and undeserved punishment. He
thought not. He would like to see the press of
England treat on a subject of this kind. The
Secretary of State has the right to depute that
power to any man he may think proper. He
may depute it not to a judge whose mind is
trained in judical matters, but to a land surveyor, as the question of lands more especially
comes under that bureau. In his (Mr.
McCully's) country there were no class of men
who had been the cause of so much litigation
as the land surveyors.
Hon. Mr. Campbell: -Except

the lawyers.

April 23, 1868

time, as he has used the same arguments
again which he used yesterday. These arguments were better adapted to the jury of some
small town than addressed to an audience of
this kind. He (Mr. IHazen) questioned his right
to speak on this subject in behalf of New
Brunswick; he should recollect the state of his
own Province which though not in open rebellion was in open defiance of this Parliament,
as they had declared through their Attorney-General. He was not sympathizing with
them, but he mentioned it because his hon.
friend had characterized the people of Nova
Scotia as being, so law abiding, and so fond of
justice, in fact as being the most intelligent
people on the face of the earth; while at the
same time he designates this law of Canada as
one only fit for the Indians of Manitoulin. It
was just a law of this kind which has been
required in New Brunswick and the want of
which, during the last fifty years, has deprived the Indians of some of the most valuable lands in the Province. This was a good law
and was a protection to these poor people, in
order that they should not fall into the hands
of needy lawyers, and to prevent them from
being dragged into courts of justice. To bring
the law into operation, the Crown has to make
a proclamation to put under the protection of
this law, not Nova Scotia or New Brunswick,
but Manitoulin, or ten miles square at the
Tobique as it may be required, and if injustice
has been done to any man he can appeal to
the Privy Council for redress. The members of
the Privy Council are sworn to do Justice, and
would any man object to go before a jury of
that kind? Suppose a great wrong was done to
a man; that he was put in j ail, if he makes out
a case before the Government, would not they
give him redress whether it was one hundred
pounds or one thousand pounds? His hon.
friend (Mr. McCully) had put before the
Committee facts which could never exist, for
if a man is wronged he has an appeal through
public opinion through the press, and redress
can be obtained.

Hon. Mr. McCully-It is they who keep the
lawyers, as they never agree upon any
surveys, and their proceedings are always a
fruitful cause of litigation. It is this class of
men who will be called upon to administer
this law. He had said enough, perhaps too
much, as it was nearly the hour of their
adjournment; he was sorry to have detained
the House so long, and now with their permission he would move that the last two
The time for adjournment having arrived,
lines commencing "and such judgments &c.,"
progress was reported and leave asked to sit
should be omitted from the clause.
again.
Hon. Mr. Hazen said he extremely regretted
The House then adjourned until 3 o'clock
that the hon. gentleman should have thought
it necessary to go over his speech a second to-morrow.

SENATE DEBATES

April 24, 1868

THE SENATE
Friday, April 24, 1868.
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
After routine,
On motion of the Hon. Mr. Tessier, a Bill
entitled "an Act to continue the charter of La
Banque Nationale and to provide for the increase of its capital stock," was postponed
until this day week.
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the second reading of the Bill entitled "an Act respecting the
Treaty between Her Majesty and the United
States of America, for the apprehension and
surrender of certain offenders."
Hon. Mr. Campbell having briefly explained
the objects of the bill, it was read a second
time, and ordered to be referred to a Committee of the whole House on Tuesday next.
The Speaker announced a message from the
House of Commons, with a Bill entitled "An
Act to define the privileges, immunities and
powers of the Senate and House of Commons,
and to give summary protection to persons
employed in the publication of parliamentary
papers,"-read a first time.
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the second reading of the Bill entitled-"an Act to provide for
oaths to witnesses being administered in certain cases, for the purpose of either Houses of
Parliament," and said this was a Bill to give
the Houses of Parliament power to examine
witnesses in certain cases under oath, and to
give the Clerk of the House power to administer such oath, in order that the House may
be able to proceed with Divorce Bills, in the
same way in which the Legislative Council of
Canada did in past years. When the Whiteaves
Divorce Bill was before them, members would
naturally desire to have witnesses examined,
and without a bill of this kind was passed,
they would have no power to examine the
witnesses under oath.
Report on Contingent Accounts.

Legislative Council at a salary of two hundred
pounds a year; Dr. Adamson then was Rector
of a Parish in Upper Canada. After the removal of the seat of Governnent to Lower
Canada Dr. Adamson resigned his living in
the country, and removed to the seat of
Government. Very shortly after he was appointed joint Librarian. As the question of
appointing a successor to the present Chaplain
is likely to arise he would refer to the proceedings at that time in relation to this case. A
committee was appointed for the organization
of the officers of the House at that time, and
they made a report which Hon. Mr. Seymour
read and went on to say that the committee at
that time did not appear to consider that the
Executive Government had the authority to
make the appointment. The salary was fixed
at £100, but notwithstanding this sum was
fixed by the House, £200 was paid by warrant. After Dr. Adamson was appointed Librarian the salary was increased by the Legislative Council of Canada to £500 a year,
and it has been further increased from time to
time, until it reached £600 a year, which is the
existing salary of the Chaplain and Librarian. In 1864 a committee was appointed, who
undertook to revise the salaries of the officers
and employees of the House, and that committee recommended that in the event of a vacancy occurring in the office of Librarian, no
successor should be appointed, as one Librarian was considered sufficient, but it was the
opinion of the committee that they should not
interfere with present incumbents. The gentlemen composing the present committee were
desirous that the report of that committee
should be adhered to as nearly as possible, but
as the case of Dr. Adamson was considered an
especial case, it was considered he should not
be left out in the same category as the other
officers who were not appointed, but he should
be retained as Chaplain and Librarian at £500
a year. At that time it was supposed that the
appointment of chaplain had been made by
the Crown, but it seems that was not the case.
It is now proposed by this report that Dr.
Adamson should be allowed to retire upon the
same terms as other officers who were not reappointed. By this the large annual salary of
Librarian will be saved, and if another Chaplain is appointed the salary need not be more
than two or three hundred dollars a year.
Taking all these matters into consideration, he
thought the House should adopt the report.

Hon. Mr. Seymour moved the adoption of
the fifth report of the Select Committee on
Contingent Accounts as amended, and said he
would explain the matter very briefily as it
now stood before the Senate. At the time of
Hon. Mr. Miller would like to know by what
the Union of Upper and Lower Canada in
1841 the Rev. Dr. Adamson was appointed by right or authority any of the members of this
the Executive Government as Chaplain of the House assume that we have the power to

SENATE DEBATES
surcharge the amount of these retiring allowances against the Provinces of Ontario and
and Quebec. We know that neither the Government of the Dominion, nor both Houses of
Parliament together, have any right to say
they will surcharge this amount unless there
is some understanding between them and the
Governments of Ontario and Quebec. If there
is no understanding of this kind, the report
which provides that they shall be so paid is
worth no more than so much waste paper and
the Maritime Provinces will have to pay their
shares of those gratuities. Perhaps the Government, or the Chairman of the Committee,
could give them some information in regard to
whether these gratuities would form a charge
on the Dominion or not?

April 24, 1868

tion. Therefore we are the parties representing the Maritime Provinces who have a right
to complain if this assurance is not carried
out.
Hon. Mr. Bureau wished to know by what
authority this pension was to be surcharged to
the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec, or if the
Dominion Government had made arrangements with the Local Governments. He
thought it would be difficult to enforce the
payments. He wished to hear from the Ministers themselves what had been done in the
matter.

Hon. Mr. Campbell observed that he did not
say there was any agreement, or that we
would undertake to say that the Government
Mr. Campbell said that the previous report of Ontario and Quebec would absolutely unof the Committee to which that now under dertake to pay this money, but he said the
consideration referred had been assented to Government would undertake the responsibilby him on behalf of the Government, and that ity of getting it.
he supposed that Dr. Adamson was now by
Hon. Mr. Bureau was apprehensive that the
the present report placed in the category of Local Governments would refuse to pay these
those officers to whom the original report re- sums and then the Government of the Doferred.
minion would have to result to coercive measHon. Mr. Reesor did not see what right this ures, which would create difficulties and bad
Government had to charge those sums against feelings, which should be deprecated. This
the Governments of Ontario and Quebec. It House and Parliament may recommend the
seemed to him to be perfectly absurd for the payment of such like claims on the Local
Senate to undertake to vote certain sums to Governments, but could go no further than its
retiring officers whether as gratuities or pen- recommendation.
sions, and the Government to take the matter
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just said this
under consideration to see the same charged
Government had no power to compel the
to the Local Governments. The result will be
that it will have to come out of the contingen- Local Governments to pay this £1,200, the
principle was more than the amount. The
cies of the House.
Local Governments were no parties to this
Hon. Mr. McCully said the House should legislation, and if the principle were once adhave the fullest information upon this point. mitted there might be no end of it. Again, is it
The gentlemen from the Maritime Provinces intended to appoint another Chaplain? He had
never would upon any circumstances allow no objections to prayers, and was quite sure
these gratuities upon any other terms, than none of his compatriots or co-religionists had,
that they should be paid by the Governments but if another were to be appointed it should
of Ontario and Quebec, and of this they have be without pay, or else continue Dr Adamson
had the assurance of the members of the as chaplain. He thought the Senate would do
Government who have the money in their better to continue Dr. Adamson than pay hirn
hands, as they have to pay the 80 cents per a gratuity or pension, and then appoint anothhead on the population to those Governments. er in his place
at a salary.
There were no arguments used, nor did the
Government require the Maritime Provinces
Hon. Mr. Ross was sure that the most libto contribute to this allowance. It would have eral feeling prevailed among the French
been very unseemly for any gentleman from population of the Province of Quebec. He did
the Maritime Provinces to interpose to pre- not believe that because by accident no provivent the making of some reasonable compen- sion had been made for those public servants
sation to those officers. The moment we re- in the Departments at the time the Union waS
ceived the assurance that it was the wish of proclaimed on the first of July last, the
those Provinces to pay their old servants this Governments of Ontario and Quebec would
gratuity we had no right to make any objec- not accept the payment of this small suIn

April 24, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

said the judgment of the House, whether
wisely or unwisely, had been expressed, and
this matter had been determined. The mem-bers of the Senate had placed themselves, in
relation to these officers, under a contract,
which these parties have a right to avail
Hon. Mr. Dickey-On the llth of Dec. last, themselves of. Under these circumstances, al
when this report of which the present motion, this discussion upon the matter is too late, and
is only a sequence, the Government then ac- can be of no use whatever, because it is imcepted the responsibility of surcharging the possible to reverse the decision, that that alsums to be paid the retiring ofcers to the lowance be granted to those officers.
Local Governments. The Report was adopted
Hon. Mr. Mitchell-To what decision do you
on that understanding by the House and so
discussed both in the Contingent Committee refer?
and in the House. The whole question was
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said he referred to the
well understood, and supposed to be entered
decision of the Committee, who said in their
into in good faith, fairly and honestly.
report this money should be surcharged to the
Hon. Mr. Boisford said he took it for grant- Governments of Ontario and Quebec. The aced that the Commitee had ascertained the tion of the Committee established the fact,
opinions of the Governments of Ontario and that the officers found here when this ParQuebec on this subject. He thought no diffcul- liament assembled, were not officers of the
ty could arise, and from the generous manner Dominion, and they also recognized the obliin which Canada has always paid her serv- gation of the late Province of Canada to proants, she would never allow those persons who vide for these officers, but the Local Govare not retained to be thrown out of employ- ernments had already filled the places which
had become open by the recent creation of
ment.
those Parliaments, and were not in a position
Hon. Mr. McMasier thought there would be to take those officers. It appeared to him that
more diffculty than some of the hon. gentle- the Local Governments would fail in the ordimen anticipated. One hon. member had ex- nary obligations which belong to all Govpressed himself to the effect that the Local ernments, of providing for their employees
Governments of Ontario and Quebec would who had been so long in their service, if they
pay the gratuities to the ofmcers. He (Mr. Mc- failed to meet these comparatively small sums
Master) would like to know his authority for in order to carry out these arrangements. It
that statement. He thought the people of the was perfectly clear that the Maritime Provcountry wouid come to a different conclusion. inces could be under no obligation to provide
It was well known that the Government of for those officers. The matter was placed in
the Dominion had been exceedingly anxious the hands of the Dominion Parliament, and
to transfer these ofcers to the Local Govern- they could not alter the constitution, but had
ments; but notwithstanding all their influence, to act according to the machinery they had in
they utterly failed to accomplish that object. their hand. All they could do was to give us a
If they could not prevail upon those Govern- pledge, as they have done, that the Local
ments to take these officers into their employ,
he would like to know by whose authority Governments will carry out this arrangethey will enforce the payment of this money. ment, but even if the Local Governments do
He did not think they could do it. Whatever not carry out this arrangement, we make a
the hon. members from the Maritime Prov- gain by paying this amount from the Doinces might think about the matter, if they minion Treasury, because in carrying out the
vote this surn he considered it would report of the committee, there is a large reultimately come out of the Contingent Com- trenchment made in the expenses devolving
mittee.
upon the country by retaining those officers.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn could see no object to be
Hon. Mr. Reesor thought the hon. members
gained by discussing the matter at the present from the Maritime Provinces expressed a high
time, for let the matter be important as it may
be, the House could not negative what has degree of confidence in the Government, when
been provided by the previous report of the they said they had no doubt, but this money
Contingent Committee, and adopted by the would be paid by the Governments of Ontario
House. To prove this Hon. Mr. Sanborn read and Quebec, as they had the promise of the
an extract from "Parliamentary Law," and Postmaster-General that it would be done. He
which is asked in fairness to their own servants who had served them so long. He thought
they would be glad at any time to pay them
such retiring allowance as they were entitled
to.

SENATE DEBATES

April 24, 1868

thought the Postmaster-General had not guaranteed anything of the kind he says "we will
charge the Local Governments with it," but
he does not guarantee that the Local Governments will meet this charge. His hon.
friend from Nova Scotia (Mr. McCully) went
further, for he says "the Government have not
only made this generous promise, but they are
the paymasters and have the money in their
hands," as much as to say they retain it. He
must know their position is that of trustees,
when they have the funds of the Dominion
and Local Governments in their possession,
and they have no right to retain one dollar the
Constitution does not entitle them to retain.
That hon. gentleman had proclaimed to the
House that we would have Courts of Appeal
established on questions between the Local
and General Governments, it would then be
no difficulty to come to a conclusion that this
was a matter with which we have no right to
deal. He had no objection to supporting the
report, but not with the expectation that the
amount would come out of the Local Governments, because it ought not, for the reason
that we have no right to assume the privilege,
or power, of voting gratuities, and saying the
Local Governments shall pay them. If those
Governments were disposed to act generously
towards the servants of the late Legislative
Council of Canada, they certainly would have
accepted some of those servants in filling up
the places which they had to fill in their
Departments. They declined to do so on every
occasion when they were urged; they said
they were forming Governments of their own,
and were going to appoint their own officers,
and would take such as they were disposed ta
take and no others. If there is any claim to be
made upon those Governments, let it be made
direct, but if those officers have no claim but
on this House, let us pay the amount. In
regard to the Chaplain, until we know whether or not, another Chaplain is to be appointed we should not pronounce upon that report,
as that report provldes that no successor shall
be appointed.

account the extreme economy of the Local
Government of Ontario, we have no reason to
say they will assume the payment of this
money. If he was a member of the Local
Legislature he would not consent to the payment of this amount, however just those
claims might be, because he should consider
they should make those claims direct to the
Local Government. These Local Legislatures
watch with a good deal of jealousy the proceedings of this Parliament, and we have no
right to pass any measure like this which will
have a tendency to make them more jealous.

Hon. Mr. Reesor-Then if a Chaplain is to
be appointed, why not appoint Dr. Adamson,
but if not let us vote him this gratuity directly. The whole amount of these gratuities will
be from forty to fifty thousand dollars, which
is quite a little item, and when we take into

Hon. Mr. Hazen moved to resolve that the
practice which prevails in the Parliament of
England, and which has been adhered to by
the Legislative Councils of Canada and the
other Provinces now forming the Dominion,
since the establishment of their constitutions,

Hon. Mr. Simpson said a report was made
by the Contingent Committee on the 20th
March, providing that permanent officers who
were discharged, if they had served under
twenty years, should have one year's salary,
and if over twenty years they should receive
two years' salary. We have been told that in
adopting the principle of that report we were
bound in honor to grant to our late chaplain
this two years' gratuity. This was not the
case; the report says, "if an officer be discharged and his place be not filled up we will
pay this gratuity." He was perfectly willing to
do his part in compensating these old officers,
but he agreed with his hon. friend (Mr. Reesor) that we should economise as much as
possible in the settlement of these affairs, and
that the best way would be to have all these
gratuities charged to the common fund. He
thought this sum would not be divided between the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec,
as from what he understood of the feeling in
the Province of Ontario there would be some
trouble about it.
Hon. Mr. McClelan said it had been distinctly understood that this sum would be
divided between the Provinces of Ontario and
Quebec, but it was not quite so clear in regard
to the late Chaplain. He would ask the Postmaster-General whether the pledge given in
regard to the others would include this.

Hon. Mr. Campbell could only repeat what
he had said before, after the previous report
Hon. Mr. Mitchell-That portion of the re- was carried, that he assented to it on behalf of
port was withdrawn, and he (Mr. Mitchell) the Government. He presumed this case
was in the minority of the Select Committee would come within the same category.
The report was then adopted.
when it was decided to leave that part out.

April 24, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

of opening their daily sittings with prayer to vote for the amendment, because this religious
Almighty God, should not be discontinued by service of the House is not very onerous and
should not require much pay. The prayers
the Senate.
could be read even if there was not a clergyHon. Mr. McCully said there was a pream- man present to read them. He did not think
ble attached to the resolution stating facts, this discussion would be very edifying to anywhich may not be the case. We have no right one, but whatever the decision might be he
to assume that any such practice prevails as should vote for the amendment.
mentioned in the resolution. A similar case
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just would withwas ruled out the other day, when it was
stated that no preamble was allowed to ap- draw his amendment, but in doing so, he
hoped it would be considered he did it out of
pear at all.
regard for the feelings of some hon. members
Hon. Mr. Hazen said there was no preamble of the House.
or recital or any matter, but a mere descripHon. Mr. Mitchell said it could not be withtion of what the practice is.
drawn without the unanimous consent of the
Hon. Mr. Armand seconded the motion in House, and it should not be withdrawn until
hon. gentlemen had an opportunity to express
amendment.
their opinions upon it. As a great deal had
Hon. Mr. Chapais wished to say that he been said in regard to this matter, and the
approved of the amendment. After having resolution concerning Dr. Adamson, some exproposed this retiring allowance to the late planation was due by himself, and to himself,
Chaplain, by way of retrenchment, he could in reference to the proceeding of the Connot see with what propriety we could select tingent Committee as regards this question of
another with a salary. He would approve of a Chaplain. As he was not in during the last part
layman reading the prayers, which would be of the discussion on the resolution for the
thus non-sectarian, and might be more conso- gratuity to Dr. Adamson, he would take this
nant with the feelings of all the members of opportunity of placing himself in a correct
the House, and thus do away with the necessi- position in that matter. When the question
ty of appointing any new Chaplain, and meet came up before the Contingent Committee, of
the required order of the day, which seems to which he was a member, it was desired by the
be all for retrenchment and economy.
friends of Dr. Adamson that the provision
which has since been made in regard to him
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just moved in be recommended or adopted by resolution of
amendment, that after the word "Senate," the the committee. In amendment to that, he had
following be added, "and that salary be grant- moved that no future Chaplain be appointed.
ed to the Chaplain, or the person performing This was discussed in committee, and was
the duties of that office".
carried by the casting vote of the chairman.
Hon. Mr. Allan said he should vote for the Dr. Adamson was to get the allowance, and
resolution in that shape, rather than that it no future Chaplain to be appointed. It was the
should be lost altogether. He was not ashamed opinion of the committee that Dr. Adamson
to confess that it is a source of great satisfac- should receive his allowance on condition that
t'on to him to have each day at the opening of no future Chaplain should be appointed. (Cries
the Senate, the Divine protection implored to of No, No.) He had voted for it for that
over-rule all our consultations for the prosper- reason.
ity of the country, and he should regret exHon. Mr. Macpherson would call the hon.
ceedingly if that practice was abandoned.
gentleman to order, the motion before the
Hon. Mr. McCully thought the question was House was not in relation to Dr. Adamson, as
that has
of.
of no very great importance, as in general necessity been disposed the He did not see the
for informing
House in regard to
there were not more than sixteen members what had transpired in the Committee, espresent when prayers were read. For his part pecially
as
he was in favour of their being read, but as the he should the question had been disposed of,
have spoken upon
discussion had risen out of the salary attached when it was before the House. the subject of
to the previous Chaplain of the House, he
Hon. Mr. Mitchell contended that he was in
would say there was not a gentleman in the
House who did not conscientiously feel that order, as the question before the House was
there was a larger salary attached to the duty whether a person was to receive remuneration
than there should have been, and whatever or not; therefore it was quite right and in
may be the policy of the Senate, he should order to go into the history of the whole

SENATE DEBATES

April 24, 1868

question which had been before the Com- not right that they should be compelled to
mittee. His hon. friend says he (Mr. Mitchell) listen to religious services performed by a
might have spoken upon the subject of the Chaplain in whose religious principles they
retiring allowance to Dr. Adamson when it had no great faith.
was up. He had a right to speak upon it now,
Hon. Mr. Tessier observed that his hon.
as it was involved in the question before the
friend knew that the majority of his (Mr.
House.
Tessier's) countrymen representing Lower
Hon. Mr. Macpherson again called the hon. Canada had no objection.
gentleman to order in referring to what had
Hon. Mr. Mitchell was very glad to hear
taken place in the Committee.
that was the case as he had been induced
The Speaker decided that any allusion to by statements made by some hon. gentlemen
conversations which had taken place by the to believe otherwise.
hon. members in Committee was out of order,
Hon. Mr. Armand said they were opposed
but allusions to proceedings in the Committee,
only to the salary.
or to his own acts, was not out of order.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said if the Roman CathHon. Mr. Mitchell said as he had only made
allusion to the influences which controlled olic members had no objection, he would
him he considered he was in order. The only have none, except as regards the salary, for if
grounds upon which the committee could jus- they were going to give Dr. Adamson £ 1,200,
tify to the country the passage of a motion in they should justify it to the country by saving
favour of giving Dr. Adamson a retiring the expense of a Chaplain.
allowance was on the ground of economy. The
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just, by permissolemn resolution of the Contingent Com- sion of the House, withdrew his amendment.
mittee was that it was to be given upon the
condition that no successor was to be appointHon. Mr. Sanborn thought it better to name
the salary, as he was sure hon. members did
ed.
not wish a Chaplain to officiate for nothing,
Hon. Mr. Macpherson would again call him and so avoid trouble and contentions therefor.
to order. He (Mr. Mitchell) knew that was not The Chaplain would only be wanted about 3
in the report. The report previous to the months in the year. He had no objections to
amended report did contain such a clause but these prayers himself, though he differed in
that report was withdrawn. How could the religious practice from many other hon. memhon. gentleman say in the face of this report, bers for whose special ministrations the
that such was the understanding. He seems to proposed Chaplain was to be named, perhaps,
be under the impression, that he (Mr. Mac- not so widely as his Catholic fellow mempherson) was in favour of a salary being paid bers. He wished the practice continued of
to the Chaplain, and therefore was opposed to having prayers read, provided we had a
retrenchment in this case. This was not the moderate rate of salary named and so undercase, for if the amendment was put to the stood that no claims can be hereafter made.
House, he (Mr. Macpherson) would support it. He then proposed in amendment, seconded
Hon. Mr. Mitchell could see no reason why by the Hon. Mr. Bourinoit, "that after the
he should be called to order, and he must beg word Senate" the following be added,
"provided that the salary of any Chaplain
his hon. friend not to interrupt him. He should
ask the House to keep his hon. friend in order, hereafter appointed shall not exceed $200
for certainly he is very unruly today. He per annum."
spoke upon this question, because he felt some
Hon. Mr. Chapais (in French) supported the
explanation would be required by the country amendment. If a Chaplain is to be appointed
as to why we permitted that retiring allow- he would not oppose the sun named though
ance to be given, and a successor appointed as he would prefer a layman to read the prayers
chaplain, therefore he had said that it was and meet the wishes of al hon. members.
only on condition that no successor was apThe question of concurrence being put
pointed. It had been asked what was the policy of the Government upon this question? He thereon, the House divided, and the names
would reply that the Government were will- being called for, they were taken down as
ing to do what the House desired in regard to follows:
the matter. This Senate was composed of
Contents-The Honorable Messieurs Allan,
members of various denominations, and it was Anderson, Archibald, Benson, Bill, Botsford,

SENATE DEBATES

April 24, 1868

Bourinot,
Bureau,
Burnham,
Campbell,
Cauchon, Chapais, Crawford, Dever, Dickey,
Dickson, Dumouchel, Ferguson, Glasier,
Guèvremont, Hazen, Holmes, Kenny, Leonard,
Leslie, Letellier de St. Just, Locke, McCully,
McDonald, Macpherson, Miller, Odell, Olivier,
Reesor, Ryan, Sanborn, Shaw, Skead, Tessier,
Wilmot.-40.
Non-Contents--The Honorable Messieurs
Aikins, Armand, Cormier, Duchesnay, E. T. L.
J., Flint, McClelan, McCrea, MeMaster,
Malhiot, Mitchell, Simpson, Steeves, Wark.
-13
So it was resolved in the affirmative.
The main motion, as amended, was then
carried.
A Bill intituled "Act respecting the Department of Justice," was read a second time.
On motion of the Hon. Mr. Campbell, seconded by the Hon. Mr. MitchelL it was resolved that the said Bill be committed to a
Committee of the Whole House on Tuesday
next.
It being 6 o'clock, the Speaker left the chair.
AFTER RECESS
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
On motion of the Hon. Mr. Chapais the
House went into Committee of the Whole, on a
bill entitled, "An Act for the organization of
the Department of Agriculture,"
Hon. Mr. Benson in the chair.

Dominion Government might intervene to
prevent the spread of the disease, but apart
from that, in any local sense, he could not see
that any duty devolved upon the Government
in regard to it. He would like to hear some
reason given for the creation of this Department. He was satisfied this was one of those
measures which would give a great deal of
dissatisfaction, not only to the people of Ontario but to the people of the Provinces. The
multiplication of Bureaus, Heads of Departments, and staffs of officers, all tended to
increase the expenses of the Dominion Government and give a great deal of dissatisfaction. It may be said this large number of
Departments is necessary in order that all
sections of the country may be represented in
the Government. This could be accomplished
by adopting the systen practiced in Nova
Scotia, where they have a number of members
of Government without office. This multiplication of Departments to make provision for
Privy Councillors has created a strong feeling
against Union, especially in the Maritime
Provinces. In Ontario they may have complained of the expense of the Government of
Canada in former times, but they were persuaded that more economy would be used
after the Union took place. The tendency of
this measure is to break up the harmonious
working of the Union; as it will add to the
expenses of the Dominion Government. All
that is included in this Bureau might come
under the departments of either the Minister
of Marine, the Board of Works, or the
Secretary of State, as any of those Heads of
Departments could discharge those duties
when so little is to be done. When Ministers
see the agitation that is going on both in the
East and in the West they must know that in
passing those measures there is a danger of
breaking up this Confederation, while if they
support measures of economy they will make
this Union lasting and prosperous. The Government were divided amongst themselves, as
one member of the Government often advocated one course and another member
another. That was the case when the report
on contingencies was brought in some time
ago, and we who supported the Government
did not know which side to support. On this
question members of the Senate had better
take their own course and not support the
policy of a Governinent which is so extravagant.

Hon. Mr. Reesor would like to hear a full
explanation from the Minister of Agriculture
why he designates the Department the Department of Agriculture, or whether the subject of Agriculture will absorb more of the
attention of this Departnent, than any other
subject of the several subjects included in this
Bureau. He could not see that the subject of
Agriculture was one of very great importance
in the Dominion departments, as separated
from the departments of Agriculture in the
different Provinces. In Ontario they have a
Bureau on Agriculture, which dispenses a
large sum of money annually for the encouragement of Agriculture. This money was expended in every conceivable way in which
Agriculture could be encouraged. He did not
know that anything could be done in this
Hon. Mr. Chapais wished to say in answer
Department of Agriculture, except once in a to the hon. member's observations who had
great while, as for instance, when a cattle just addressed the House, that it was well
disease prevailed in a foreign country the understood at the formation of the Dominion
99267-15

SENATE DEBATES
Government that there should be 13 Ministers
and as many Departments. His Department
was a new one not a sinecure as the present
bill shows. He had the Departments of
Agriculture; Immigration and Emigration;
Public Health and Quarantine; the Census,
Statisties and the Registration of Statistics;
Patents of Invention; Copyright of Industrial
Designs and Trade Marks. This was not the
time to discuss the bill, which should have
been done at its first reading. The name of the
Department seems the great objection. Hon.
members must see that an opposition to this
bill, as part of the Government policy, is a
vote of want of confidence. The Bill speaks for
itself.
Hon. Mr. Leteflier de St. Jus£, with every
desire to support the Governnent, still
thought the President of Council might act as
the Chief of this Department, and that several
other Departments might be united and so
economize the public money. As the paltry
economy of dismissing employees and reducing their salaries seems to point to retrenchment, he would prefer beginning with the
Ministers and their staffs, and reducing the
number by 4, making 9 Departments in place
of 13, and so commence at the root of the evil.
Hon. Mr. McCuIIy said this was the first
occasion that he had an opportunity of speaking on this question of the public Departments, though he believed a bill constituting a
Department was passed last Session after he
left. He did not rise from any hostility to the
bill, as he was just as favourable to this Department as to any of the others; but he
wished to speak in regard to the number of
Departments. The Minister of Agriculture is
quite right in saying that as a general rule the
principle of the bill should not be spoken
against in committee. He did not intend to
oppose this bill, or to say whether it was a
supernumerary bill more than any of those
constituting the other Departments. He would
speak of the number of the Departments, and
the manner in which the public business of
the Dominion is conducted, or about to be
conducted. This shall receive a fair and just
criticism, which no Government has a right to
complain of; and every public man has a right
to indulge in. He did not believe the Government had taken the wisest means of conducting the public business of the country in
creating such a multiplicity of public Departments. It will be diffleult to consolidate
these Departments when once organized, or to
reduce their number. His reasons he would
state briefly and succinctly. He spoke from a
standpoint different from that of the members

April 24, 1868

from Canada proper. He resided at a long
distance from the centre of the Dominion, He
felt very sensibly that the system which has
been adopted is not working as well as he
could desire. The people were dissatisfied with
the policy of creating 12 or 13 public Departments, and filling them with persons who
are required here only during the Session. An
important Bureau should not be made a kind
of convenience for a member coming to the
Legislature during the session, and afterwards
retiring to bis own home to spend the interim
in other pursuits for bis own benefit or convenience. The public have a right to expect
that when a gentleman accepts a Bureau, he
should give as much of his time to his public
duties as his health will allow, and the circumstances of the case require. His presence
must, of necessity, be required somewhere in
the vicinity of bis office, and that must be
where all the public records are kept. The
consequence of that is that all the Ministers
are of necessity here, and the people of the
country are not able to communicate with
them. He thought it would be wiser and better
if the Government of Canada, instead of
creating 13 Bureaus, had created but 7, and in
addition had called in three or four gentlemen
without Bureaus to assist them with their advice, as was done in Nova Scotia. He thought
this system would work better, because these
gentlemen's presence would not have been
required here, and they could have gone home
during the interim. Public opinion would then
operate upon them day by day. (Hear, hear.)
Then when difficulties occur it would be some
satisfaction for a man to talk to a Minister,
even if he is without a Bureau. Another advantage would be, that a Minister residing in
the community would be able to ascertain the
minds and wishes of the people, and bring
that state of public opinion to bear upon his
colleagues in a way that no stranger could
possibly do. He is equally as responsible for
the acts of the Government as any Minister
who has a Bureau. He, Mr. McCully, spoke in
the hearing of hon. gentlemen who had seen
the working of this system in Nova Scotia and
New Brunswick. Those Provinces had been
governed by that system for twenty-five or
thirty years. When a responsible Government
was first introduced into Nova Scotia, they
had nine Executive Councillors, four of whom
were without bureaus. The members of the
Government without Bureaus were the best
men of their party. They came in with the
Government and went out with the Government, and were responsible for all their acts,

April 24. 1868

SENATE DEBATES

although in some of the duties devolving upon
the Government they could not be consulted.
They held seats in one Branch or other of the
Legislature, and were able to give their advice
and assistance during the Session, and were
sent for during vacation as often as the necessity of the case required. They came fresh
from the people with instructions from their
friends which enabled them to bring a legitimate influence to bear upon the Government,
and to keep them advised of the state of
opinion in their respective localities.
Hon. Mr. Tessier asked whether those members of the Government received any remuneration for travelling expenses?
Hon. Mr. McCully said they did not at
first, but afterwards it was considered that
this was a burden they ought not to bear, so
they were allowed $400 for travelling expenses, but they gave their time, and were willing
to make any sacrifice for the benefit of their
country. That lis the state of things in Nova
Scotia and in New Brunswick, and it served
the purpose admirably. It kept the Government well informed of the state of public opinion, and gave the Government an opportunity of dispensing their patronage in the
most satisfactory manner, because the right
man was always put in the right place. He
made these remarks because the people of
the Maritime Provinces feel that they are at a
great distance from Ottawa, that difficulties
are occurring, and circumstances requiring
explanation on the spot, but the members being at such a distance from them, that it was
almost an impossibility to get the required
explanations; hence a growing feeling of dissatisfaction and discontent on the part of the
people of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick.
He did not say this with any hostile feeling,
but that in the incipiency of this Confederation we should bring our suggestions and submit them to public discussion, so that public
men may pass their opinions upon them. The
establishment of 13 Bureaus for the Privy
Council is an anomalous state of things. The
Privy Council of England is not the council
that holds bureaus. The Cabinet Council of
England is the nearest approach to the Privy
Council of Canada. In England it was an exceptional state of things though it sometimes
occurred that members of the Cabinet were
without office; in 1854 Lord Russell and
Lord Landsdowne were both members without
office and the Right Hon. Mr. Walpole was
now a member without office. He believed it
was best, were it possible, not to have so
many Bureaus in the Government, because
99267-151

then gentlemen representing different interests
could make their influence better felt at the
Council Board, and give more satisfaction to
the country at large than the present system.
He did not stand here to condemn the present
system. Upon the whole he was proud to think
that the men who fil these bureaus are the
best men the country can produce. He was not
here to complain of any of the Departments as
being more expensive than they ought to be,
though he did think that the expense was
very large. In many respects he felt disposed
to give the Government credit for economy
and retrenchment, yet it seemed to him, in
taking up the estimates and adding up the entire amount required to keep these Heads of
the Departments in existence, that they were
very expensive. He believed the amount of
money required to pay the expenses of legislation and the administration of the Government was upwards of one million of dollars,
and that was only as regards the office immediately connected -with the public Departments. He did not know as the salaries were
too high, he would only say that the gentlemen
who are able to do credit to their position
would obtain equal salaries in other positions
in life; but what he objected to was the creation of these Bureaus, involving a large
amount of expense in returns and officers that
are absolutely necessary in connection with
them. It might be asked which of these Bureaus would you dispense with? He was not
prepared to say, but looking at the number
of Departments, he thought two or three of
them could be consolidated in one. He
thought the Ministers themselves, almost
without an effort, would be able to point to
two or three public Departments which are in
many respects touching the same interests,
and which might be consolidated and discharge the duties with much less expense than
there would be under the present state of
things. We are a young country and he knew
the difficulty Ministers have to encounter. In a
country like England, where the clerks are
qualifled to act as heads of Departments,
Ministers must, to a large extent, be dependent upon the superior knowledge of the officers found in their Departments. This is an
adv'antage which Ministers at present have
not in this country, and it is a great disadvantage to therm. If by any possibility the number
of Bureaus could be limited to seven, the
other members of the Governiment, living in a
distant part of the country, would be familiar
with the wants of the people, and know the
wants and interests of those engaged in mercantile, mining and commercial pursuits. We

SENATE DEBATES
have every climate from the icy north to the
sunny south, and men living at one end of the
empire do not know the business and trade of
the other. This makes it a necessity that the
Govermnent should be familiar with the trade
and business of the whole empire. Having
made these remarks he would not further
trespass upon the time of the House. He
thanked the hon. gentlemen for the patience
with which they had listened to him. He felt
deeply on the subject, for no gentleman holding a seat in this House takes a deeper interest in the success of this Union than he did.
He had spent as much labour and given as
much time to it as any man in the House. In
ail his public life his heart's desire was to see
the difficulties and opposition to union
removed. As he sat in the gallery of the House
of Commons, and heard that statesman who
is gone, his heart warmed to him as it never
did before, when he said-"We will conquer
the people of Nova Scotia with kindness". He
felt that his heart was endowed with the principle that the heart of every lover of his
country ought to be endowed with. He was
then addressing gentlemen who took a deep
interest in the measure, but he came from a
country where the people with whom he was
familiar, were not so favourable to it. If he
was more earnest than other gentlemen, he
trusted he would be forgiven, for he should
have to associate with men opposed to this
machinery, and ready to find fault with everything, to whom he had in times past, and
should in the future, give his time to endeavour
to remove their prejudices against Union, and
urge them to give this scheme a fair trial, and
not to expect the fruit from the seed before
the showers and sun have warmed it.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said the debate had taken
a wide range in including al the Departments,
but of them all he thought this one was the
least necessary, because there was nothing in
this bill to give occupation to a Department.
It seemed strange to him that the Department
of Finance should require four branches, and
at the same time require so nuch larger staff
than was necessary. He was surprised that
gentlemen like his hon. friend (Mr. McCuly)
who had been instrumental in bringing about
this state of things, and putting men in power,
should not have sufficient confidence in them
that they would adopt a course which would
be for the interest of the country. It had been

April 24, 1868

remarked that the discussion here was a want
of confidence in the Ministry. It was, because
we are discussing whether those Ministers of
the Crown have the interest of the country at
heart in the creation of all these Departments,
after having received intimations from all
quarters that there should be economy used in
the disposition of the public funds, as it is felt
that our revenues will not meet our expenses.
He did not see why the bringing in of two
small Provinces should be the ground for the
expenditure of so large an amount beyond our
income for these Departments than we expended previously. It never entered the minds
of those who advocated the project that this
would be so, because they thought that certain
resources would be developed after Union
took place, which would increase our revenue
to meet our expenditure. Therefore there is a
feeling of disappointinent, that rests like a
nightmare on the members on the other side,
and the Ministry to-day have to look to those
who opposed them to support them, instead of
those who placed them in their present positions and who ought to be the last to be their
accusers. If there is a lavish departmental
expenditure before a remedy can be applied,
we have to make inquiry whether there is or
is not a necessity for the creation of those
Departments with such a large staff of officers. To do this shows a want of confidence in
those who organised those Departments, because they tell us they cannot carry on the
business of the country without them. If we
look east or west we see much dissatisfaction
in the country, and we feel that there is a
necessity for us to restrict our expenditure as
much as possible. We know that we have been
getting into debt; we know, however illusory
our financial report may be made to appear, it
comes home to every candid mind that our
expenses are exceeding our resources.
Whether it was necessary or not to increase
the burthens which must come upon us, he
was not prepared to say, and he did not think
any person could say, without a thorough
investigation of those Departments, which no
one could make except those who have them
under their care. This duty is thrown upon
the Ministry of the day and we must hold
them to that responsibility, they will be
turned out of office at no very long time from
this, if it is found that they have failed to
meet the wishes of the people. His hon. friend

April 24,/1868

SENATE DEBATES

(Mr. McCully) had made an extraordinary
speech and recommended a system which he
did not think at all practicable. He cites
England as an example that the Privy
Councillors there are without the responsibility of Departmental action. He thought men
chosen as Privy Councillors would be the men
least likely to travel, be the organs of public
opinion and know the necessities of the country. He did not think a ministry could be
formed, half of the members being without
salary, and if he was to be called to the
Government, he would be more likely to accept office with, than without salary. Then
what sort of Goverrment would this be, the
members passing from one end of the country
to the other? Could news be more easily
transmitted to the seat of Government by a
Minister's residing in Halifax than at present?
The only conceivable way in which that system of Government could be practically carried out would be the construction of the
Intercolonial Railway, and then these circulating Ministers might be passed from the centre
to the extreme point, and be a kind of carriers
of news from the centre to the circumference
of the Dominion, He scarcely thought any
person who had been of any great value to the
country would be likely to accept a situation
of this kind, and work for the country without
any salary, only having his travelling expenses paid. If this system was carried out,
those travelling expenses would amount to
nearly as much as the salaries of the Heads of
Departments. He counselled those who had
supported this Union to have as much patience as those who had opposed it. Having
entered this Union, he had cast behind him all
that had been said or done before this
Confederation took place. He had an honest
desire to make this Dominion Government a
success, and we cannot expect, that when
changes are continually being made-and
which must necessarily be made-in making
the laws of the different Provinces harmonize-that mistakes will not necessarily be
connected with them. He was not going to say
there had been too much carelessness, but he
thought they would properly discharge their
duty in bringing to bear the public sentiments
of their localities in order that a remedy may
be applied to this difficulty. While considering
these things, we should have a degree of patience about the working of this new system,

and see whether it would stand before so far
listening to popular feeling as to make
changes showing that we are so fickle that we
cannot remain in one condition for any length
of time.
Hon. Mr. Wark said he should endeavour to
confine himself to the discussion of the bill
before them, and whether they had thirteen
Departments or seven Departments, the great
interests of the agriculture of the Dominion
deserved one. He thought, whatever might be
said about the Government in regard to the
departments, they were perfectly right in the
measure now before us. It is true a large
share of encouraging the agricultural interests
of the Dominion devolve upon the Local Legislatures, but there are duties which more
particularly devolve upon the General Government of Canada, and which alone can be
discharged by this Governiment. It was the
late lamented Prince Consort who first originated the idea of international exhibitions of
the agricultural and industrial resources of
the different nations of the world. These exhibitions have been tested over and over again
and the more they are tested the more popular they become: that held in Paris last season
being the greatest success. It is very necessary
in developing the resources of the country,
that these exhibitions should take place very
frequently in the different Provinces, but he
thought that perhaps there was no measure
that tended more to advance the interests of
the country than annual exhibitions of the
agricultural resources of the whole Dominion.
It is of great advantage to have a full display
of all the Dominion industry that is carried
on. He regretted to say that those living in one
part of the Dominion knew very little of the
industrial products of the other. They should
bring these together-samples from the gold
mines and fisheries of Nova Scotia, the
agricultural wealth of the Western portion of
the Dominion, and models of ships from New
Brunswick as well as specimens of their
agricultural products, which would surprise
you even in this agricultural region. These
periodical exhibitions of the industry, wealth
and resources of the whole Dominion, will
bring about very rapidly a commercial intercourse between the different Provinces of the
Dominion, which could not exist when we
were separate Provinces with hostile tariffs.

SENATE DEBATES
Another important duty which ought to devolve upon this Bureau, is the importance of
collecting important agricultural statistics;
they are necessary to prevent persons engaged
in agriculture from being victims of the
speculator. Scarcely any individual engaged in
agriculture but reads the reports in the papers
in regard to the growing crops. These papers
scarcely ever state correctly when there is a
surplus or when the crops are short, because
it is the object of the speculators to impress
upon the minds of the people that the crops
are more abundant than they really are, in
order that agriculturists may accept a lower
price for their produce. A bureau could do a
great deal to protect agriculturists, by having
a person constantly employed during the
whole season, as they do in Washington, collecting the most reliable information in regard
to the state of crops, in order to prevent
agriculturists from being imposed upon. We
are an exporting country, and if we have
certain information with regard to the state of
the crops, and in regard to the markets of
those countries who purchase our corn, it
would be of great benefit to us. A department
of this kind, intended to serve the interests of
agriculture, ought to have means at its disposal to collect this information. These statistics, if put in circulation, will be of the same
advantage as a merchant advertising his
goods. The country which has a surplus to be
disposed of will undoubtedly draw the earliest
orders from the country that has to import.
There would be this double advantage, farmers would be in possession of Information in
regard to what the state of the crops would
be: if the crops were either abundant or short,
they would know what price they might expect for them; then countries looking for supplies would be put in possession of facts as to
the amount of surplus grain the country
would be able to afford, and we would receive
earlier orders for our grain, than countries
from which they had not obtained this information. These are some of the important duties which ought to devolve upon this Department. He could allude to many others, but
he would merely call attention to one thing.
We passed a very important resolution in the
earlier part of the Session, asking Her
Majesty to transfer to us the Northwest territory; this being the case, the Government acted very wisely in adding immigration to that

April 24, 1868

of agriculture. The first object of the Government should be to introduce immigration into
that territory, which contains forty million
acres of prairie land, and which is destined at
no very distant day to become the granary of
British North America. These were some of
the reasons in his estimation, so far as
the agricultural interests of the country are
concerned, why we should establish this department. The hon. gentleman then took his
seat amid great applause.
Hon. Mr. Chapais assured the House that
accurate reports of the crops, and returns
from patents and inventions, would be published, and that the revenues from the latter
source would be large and be a great source of
profit to his Department.
Hon. Mr. Reesor argued at length on the
necessity of reducing the number of Departments. The whole system wanted to be
changed, or we would throw the country irretrievably into debt. Pass the bills and Ministers will then throw the responsibility on the
Parliament. As an instance he knew an account against the Government of $14,800.00
reduced to two thousand by the committee of
the House on public accounts. There are too
many Ministers and too many Departments
for a young and poor country like this. If the
Government would only earnestly set to work
to retrench, we would see a different state of
things. We remember when the printing of the
Parliament of the late Province of Canada
alone would cost yearly $180,000, now it is as
well, if not better, performed for $32,000, or
about one-flfth. The committee as soon as
named went to work and found the remedy.
He was opposing the extravagance of the present Ministry, though he had no desire for a
change, but thought the House had a duty to
perform and should speak out plainly.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de Si. Just would hold
the whole Government responsible to the people for any of the appointments made under
this, or any other bill, to the staff. The Minister of each Department only named his officers, and the Government sanctioned them.
Consequently the whole Ministry were responsible to the Parlioment and people of this
Dominion for al the appointments made.
The Bill was then reported as agreed to,
read a third time, and passed.

April 24. 1868

SENATE: DEBATES

215

Hon. Mr. Miller was satisfied that some
such summary powers were required in Nova
The House went into Committee of the Scotia to meet the wants of that part of the
Whole on the Bill intituled "an Act respecting Dominion, and cited instances where any less
the Department of the Secretary of State."
stringent laws would be ineffectual.
DEPARTMENT OF SECRETARY OF STATE

(Hon. Mr. Ryan in the chair,)
Hon. Mr. Archibald supported the bill, and
thought the powers given under the bill were
nothing more than just and reasonable, and
what the country required, as he could state
from his own experience.

Hon. Mr. Wark begged the Government
would be careful to have the lines well established, before issuing the proclamation, and
proceeding to eject the squatters. He was satisfied with due care and precautions, no hardship would result from the passing of this bill.

The Bill was then reported as agreed to,
Hon. Mr. McCully wished to withdraw his read a third time and passed.
amendment, as he could not now well test the
The House then adjourned until Monday at
question, the House being so thin.
three o'clock, p.m.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE

The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
Monday, April 27, 1868.
After routine,
Hon. Mr. Tessier moved that an humble
Address be presented to His Excellency the
Governor-General, praying that his Excellency will be pleased to cause to be laid before
this House copies of all petitions and letters
addressed to His Excellency by Boards of
Trade in Canada, containing or relating to
requests for encouragement to the building of
vessels of wood and iron, known as composite
vessels, or the establishment of special schools
of navigation and naval architecture, and of
all answers thereto and reports thereon.

April 27, 1868

for ships of a small tonnage for they can be
built here for one-fourth less than they can be
built in the United States. Then again we
laboured under a disadvantage in Canada, in
having no schools where the art of navigation
was taught, to enable our young men to command or navigate ships. At one time there
were no less than fifty or sixty vessels
annually built at Quebec at an average of
from eight hundred to fifteen hundred tons,
and it was difficult to find seamen to man, or
qualified captains to command them. Even
when seamen were obtained, the rate of
wages was so high in Great Britain and the
United States, that it induced them to desert,
and great loss was sustained in consequence.
A school for navigation existed in England,
and he could see no reason why they should
not have one in Canada. This subject was
brought under the consideration of the
Canadian Legislature in 1854, and a Naval
School was established in Quebec, which was
kept one year, and then abandoned, for what
reason he could not say, although it was mentioned in the public prints that the education
taught there was too theoretical, and not practical enough, as those engaged in that particular branch of study did not have that
preliminary education which was necessary.
He believed that if that school had been kept
up from year to year and encouraged by the
Government, it would have had a beneficial
effect. We have had military schools for our
young men, many of whom had served in the
army of the United States, when the war was
raging in that country, but if they had given
the same encouragement to the navy by establishing schools for the instruction of seamen
to serve in ships, it would have been of much
more advantage to the country as a means of
defence. Vessels could be used as schools of
navigation, and be employed in the service at
the same time. He had no desire to throw any
blame upon the Government, but he merely
wished to draw their attention to this subject.

Hon. Mr. Tessier then read an extract from
a report of the Board of Trade of Quebec,
stating that though as a general principle they
disapproved of bounties being given for the
support of any particular branch of industry,
yet they thought some grant should be made
for the building of two or three ships on the
composite principle, as a means of introducing
that species of shipbuilding in the Province.
This principle he (Mr. Tessier) agreed with;
since wooden vessels had failed in England
and could not be built at present prices. Some
encouragement must be given to this branch
of industry to prevent the large amount of
emigration which is e o n s t a n t 1 y leaving
Canada for the United States. The history of
the world has always shown that there is a
natural tendency for the people of northern
countries to emigrate southward, and this was
more particularly the case in Canada, where
in consequence of the climate there was not
much employment for the people during a
large portion of the year. This scarcity of
employment would account for the misery
which existed in some parts of Nova Scotia
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said his hon. friend had
and Lower Canada, and which might be in made a motion for an address to which the
some degree alleviated by the opening up of Government had no possible objection and
this branch of industry. He would also call the they would afford him every opportunity of
attention of the Government to the advantage getting such information on the
subject as he
of obtaining the registration of our vessels in
the United States, and the privilege of the desired. His hon. friend had spoken upon
coasting trade in case a reciprocity treaty three subjects which, though very distinct,
takes place between Canada and the United were very important as connected with the
States. He hoped the Government would insist navigation of the country. The first is in reupon reciprocity in ships, as that would be the gard to giving bounties for the construction of
best means of encouraging shipbuilding in a certain class of ships, known as composite
Canada, and giving employment to our people, ships, for which the "boards of trade" in some
as the United States would be our best market of the leading cities of the Dominion have

April 27, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

asked the Government to make provision for
their construction at the port of Quebec. He
has put before the House some of the obstructions to trade under which Quebec labours, but
these are applicable not only to the port of
Quebec, but to all the Atlantic ports of the
Dominion. He has put forth some ideas in
which he (Mr. Mitchell) entirely concurred.
He agreed with him when he said that it was
most desirable that the shipbuilding of the
country should be encouraged, and when he
said shipbuilding had fallen off, he had stated
the fact, but when he attempts to show that
the construction of composite vessels should
be encouraged by the giving of bounties, he
(Mr. Mitchell> could not agree with him. He
says, wooden ships have failed in England,
therefore we should give bounties for the construction of ships that find more favour with
purchasers. It was true iron ships have driven
our ships out of the market, and it is because
ships of the same tonnage made of iron, measuring the sane, will carry a larger cargo than
those built of wood, another reason was, there
were less accidents happened to them and
they lasted longer. This was an important
consideration, as from the high rate of charges
in the maritime ports of the world, for repairing and renovating ships, they cost more in
the long run than the iron ships which may
cost double as much at first. This durability of
the iron ships made them more favoured in
England than wooden ships of our part of the
country. His hon. friend (Mr. Tessier) thought
the granting of bounties out of the Treasury
of the Dominion would introduce the construction of that class of vessels in our country; if he (Mr. Mitchell) thought any moderate
sum would have that effect, he would be willing that it should be granted, but supposing
there was a grant made for the building of
two or three ships at Quebec; the people of
Montreal would want a grant for building two
or three there; if this is to be given why not
give the same to every shipbuilder in the
Dominion who commences the construction of
these ships? The sum of money necessary for
this purpose would be very large, and he (Mr.
Mitchell) held that it was wrong to grant
money for any such purpose. Public opinion
not only in England but throughout Europe is
in favour of free competition and the removal
of all obstructions to the principles of free
trade, and the obliteration of all protection.
He thought the establishment of the principle
of granting bounties for any special service
would require an enormous amount of money
without giving any beneficial results. The establishment of any system of this kind would
99267-16

work detrimental to the interests of the country, as it would make a large addition to our
taxation. If the prosecution of this branch of
business can be made profitable, men of capital in the Maritime ports will introduce the
system and continue to construct ships of a
composite character without bounties, but if it
is not a profitable business, no reasonable
amount of bounties will remunerate the builders for their construction. He regretted that
this stagnation of trade existed, but he
thought it would only aggravate the evil by
taking from the industrial resources of the
people for the purpose of bolstering up a trade
which cannot of itself be sustained. He regretted to have to disagree with his hon. friend on
this point, but he would say the Government
were ready to develop that trade in every
legitimate way, and he held that they had
done it. The Government of the late Province
of Canada did it by allowing a drawback on
articles entering largely into the production of
ships, while the recent tariff showed that the
Government were trying to perpetuate that
system by admitting those articles duty free.
Then his hon. friend had opened up a very
important subject when he spoke of establishing special schools for navigation, and he
thinks it desirable that the General Government of the country should vote a certain sum
of money for the purpose of establishing Naval
Schools with a view of instructing young men
in the art of navigation. He (Mr. Mitchell)
agreed with his hon. friend that if any reasonable sum of money could accomplish this object it would be well to expend it. If it was
the policy of the Government to establish
military schools with a view te the defence of
the country, there could be no reason why
they should not give some instruction to the
naval element of the country; but the evils
which his hon. friend complained of would
not be remedied by the establishment of naval
schools, because though these schools might
supply the number of seamen which were
required, the real difficulty was the geographical position of the country in relation ta
the United States. That country was a field for
the absorption of a much larger number of
people than go there, and the character of
their employments being so productive and
remunerative they attract the people from our
shores. One reason for the scarcity of seamen
at Quebec is because they build a large number of vessels there every season which
are chiefly for sale, and it required a great
many men every year to man them. Another
point of great imiportance to which his hon.

SENATE DEBATES
friend had alluded was in reference to the late
Reciprocity Treaty: he stated that if hereafter
a treaty should be made, it should contain as
one of its provisions the principle of reciprocity in ships. He (Mr. Mitchell) said that this
provision should be made in any new Reciprocity Treaty; he had thought at the time the
old treaty was repealed, it would have the
effect of destroying the prosperity of the
country, but now upon looking back, he found
its effects were not so detrimental to the people of Canada as to the United States. We may
hope that before long such a change in public
opinion will be brought about, as will again
lead to international free trade, and then
reciprocity in ships and the coasting trade
should be insisted on.
Hon. Mr. Dickey said he fully agreed with
the suggestion that any new Reciprocity
Treaty with the United States should embrace
reciprocity in shipbuilding, and was glad to
find that was the intention, and he was satisfied it would be the interest of the Americans themselves to get their ships built in this
country. The common schools of Nova Scotia
trained young men to go into the forest, fell
the timber, hew it, build the ships, and then
sail them around the world. Such was the
race of men that enriched this Dominion.
Hon. Mr. Price was in favour of a bounty for
the first ten composite ships built in the Dominion, of, say $4 per ton, as an encouragement to start, afterwards the trade would be
entered into as a speculation, and a profitable one he was convinced. He also desired to
see the pilots trained and educated as captains, when a sufficient number of experienced, skilful captains would be easily found.
which now was a great trouble and inconvenience. Labour was high in the busy
months of shipping in spring and down to
autumn, but during the dull seasons of the
year was very easily procured at low rates.

April 27, 1868

this side of the Atlantic had been profitably
engaged and were yielding a good return for
the capital invested in them. The vessels averaging from 300 to 600 tons go home with oil
and grain, and get freights from the old country direct. A good many go into the coal
business, and go to the West Indies. If the
shipbuilders of Quebec would turn their attention to the building of smaller vessels, as
they did in Yarmouth, they would find it a
more profitable business. In regard to naval
schools he did not think it required much
scholastic education to enable a man to take
charge of a ship, as any man could be
qualified in the ordinary grammar schools of
the country. They allowed no ship to go to sea
if they could help it without the Captain being
part owner: his interest was then identified
with the interest of the vessel, and as a rule
the voyages were always successful. The
young men who were being educated for captains received the practical part of their education before the mast, and they were promoted very rapidly, but it seemed a humiliating
fact, that these young men should have to go
to the other side of the Atlantic to pass their
examination to get certificates of capacity,
when they could just as well be granted here.
In the civil service examination in this country, they might have some provision for the
examination of our young men, in order that
they might take charge of their own ships.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said steps had been taken
with a view of obtaining a recognition of said
classification to be made in the Dominion.
Hon. Mr. Benson said with regard to the
number of men leaving Quebec for want of
employment, a great many of them might
have found profitable employment in Ontario
in that branch of business as they had always
found a difficulty in getting a sufficient number of men. The shipping trade had not received that attention which it should have
received, and it laboured under a great disadvantage. In the event of a new Reciprocity
Treaty being negotiated with the United
States, its provisions might be profitably extended on both sides, and in that case he
hoped the Government would not loose sight
of the shipping interest which was of so great
importance to Canada.

Hon. Mr. McCully said the course pursued
in Quebec of building ships for sale, had been
pursued in Nova Scotia, until within the last
thirty years, and it was found to be very
unprofitable. Then the system began to change
and it was found much more profitable to
build ships to sail, the captain generally being
part owner of the vessel. This matter of shipHon. Mr. Mitchell asked whether the shipbuilding is not confined to the mechanic, but
ping interest laboured under any disadvantage
the ships are owned by lawyers, farmers and
could now
tradesmen who invest their capital in them. which Legislature? be remedied by any action
of the
He had been a shipowner himself for some
years, and had no reason to complain in reHon. Mr. Benson said it laboured under
gard to the profits, indeed all their ships on many disadvantages which might be removed,

April 27, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

not so much by any legislation now, as when The system adopted in Nova Scotia had
worked admirably, and the same system pret
the Reciprocity Treaty came up.
vailed from the State of Maine to Rhode IsHon. Mr. Ryan would say one word in re- land, along the coast, and such a system
gard to some statements which, if not correct- should prevail in Quebec. He did not believe
ed, might produce a false impression in regard it was right to give bounties to encourage shipto the ship-owning interests of Quebec being shipbuilding in a time of depression. What
in a depressed condition. He believed the would be thought of the farmers if they had
shipbuilding interests were in a far from pros- asked for bounties upon wheat, horses and
perous condition, owing to the building of so sheep, because there was a failure in the crops
many wooden ships all over the world; but to some extent, or because prices were very
ship owners were carrying on a profitable low in Europe? If these bounties were given,
business, and accumulating money. One great the Government would soon have nothing to
cause of this depression in shipbuilding, which pay with, and besides this the system would
had been overlooked by his hon. friend (Mr. have a tendency to destroy the enterprise of
Tessier), was the unwillingness of the working the people. Shipbuilding had always been enpeople to submit to less wages when the state couraged in past times, and the Dominion
of trade is depressed. There had been a strike Government now encouraged it by allowing
among the labourers employed in shipbuilding the principal articles used in shipbuilding to
at Quebec causing the shipyards, in many come in duty free. This is an advantage they
instances, to be closed. While they talk of do not have in other countries, and nothing
schools for the education of the army and more should be asked for that branch of innavy, they should educate the working dustry in this country.
classes, and show them those combinations are
an injury to themselves and a destruction to
Hon. Mr. Wilmo said that shipbuilding betrade. We have been told that farmers, law- ing in a depressed condition in Quebec, was
yers, and artisans of every description were no exceptional case, for precisely the same
owners of ships in Nova Scotia; and that the state of things existed in Ireland and on the
Captains generally, had a share in the vessels Thames, where a great number of ships which
they commanded. He thought it was an admi- cost twenty pounds sterling a ton, have been
rable system and was carried out to some offered for twelve pounds, which was less
extent in Quebec, but he would like to see the than the cost of construction. He hoped
custom more extensively adopted. He might bounties would not be given to bolster up the
mention that the greater part of those steam shipbuilding interests of Quebec, as he
packets called the Allan Line, was owned in thought there was very little profit to be made
Montreal. The Minister of Marine had ex- froam shipbuilding in British North America.
pressed his willingness to lay all the papers Shipbuilding in St. John had never prospered
before the House which would give them all until they had adopted the principle which
the information they required, at the same was carried out in Nova Scotia, of having
time he did not see how he could give every man from the captain down to the cook
bounties to one class of ships built in a partic- interested in the success of the vessel; in that
ular way, and not give them to all. He (Mr. way shipbuilding had been built up, and
Ryan) agreed with the views expressed by the money made out of it. Getting their ships
Minister of Marine, and he thought it would registered in the United States was a matter
not be wise for them to give a preference to a of much less importance than having the adparticular class of vessels, as that matter vantage of the coasting trade. That should be
should be left to the choice of the shipbuilders one of the first objects in negotiating a Reciprocity Treaty. He was not prepared to give
themselves.
privileges on one side unless they were given
Hon. Mr. Reesor thought that from the fact on the other. He was opposed to giving bounthat the schools of the Dominion were entirely ties for shipbuilding, and thought the policy of
under the control of the Local Governments, taking off the duties on articles used in shipthose localities which were interested in hav- building, and putting them upon other
ing naval schools, should encourage them. If branches of industry, was not showing fair
there were no schools in Quebec or any other play. He did not see why the ship owners
of the ports of that Province, where young who had accumulated more wealth than any
men could be educated to take command of a other class of people in New Brunswick,
ship, it was time they made some change in should be relieved, and those burthens put
their common and grammar school education. upon other people.
99267-16J

SENATE DEBATES

April 27, 1868

Hon. Mr. Mitchell-Should we tax every the people of Nova Scotia were engaged in the
article that enters into the construction of fisheries, by which they became superior seavessels, as well as refuse to give bounties?
men, and in this respect they were a valuable
addition to the Union, as they would supply
Hon. Mr. Wilmot said to entirely relieve mariners for the Dominion. He hoped they
from all imposition of duties those who had would see that it was for their interest to rerealized more capital than had been realized main in the Union, as they would be beneby any other branch of industry in the fited by it as well as the rest of the Dominion.
Maritime Provinces, in order to put those duties upon other classes was a policy to which i Hon. Mr. Tessier said he did not ask that
he was not prepared to submit.
this system of giving bounties should be permanent, or that it should be limited to QueHon. Mr. Botsford said the policy of the bec. He had not expressed any opinion in
British Government had already conceded to regard to the principle of giving bounties. He
the United States, the privileges which we admitted it was wrong, except it was done to
desire from them, without stipulating for any give encouragement to a new branch of trade.
reciprocity on their part. This increased the The building of composite ships would require
difficulty in negotiating a treaty for reciproci- expensive machinery, and they would have to
ty. He thought it was better to have no reci- get skilful workmen from Europe in order to
procity at all than not to have included in it introduce that kind of shipbuilding. It was in
the privilege of the coasting trade, and the order to remunerate the first man who should
registration of colonial ships in the United introduce this system, by which all men in the
States market.
end would profit, that these bounties were
Hon. Mr. Wark said the hon. mover of the asked. His hon. friend (Mr. Price) had stated
resolution did not ask for bounties to bolster the matter very clearly when he said "Let the
up some particular interest in order that capi- Dominion of Canada grant four dollars per
tal might be directed into some unproductive ton for the first ten composite ships built in
channel; but he asked for assistance to try an the Dominion of Canada, whether in St. John,
experiment. It is right and proper to extend Quebec or anywhere else, and let no other
assistance to any branch of industry if the bounties be given." His hon. friend, (Mr.
Government are satisfled that it is likely to be Reesor) had said why not as well give bounproductive hereafter. His hon. friend, (Mr. ties on wheat? The old Government of
Reesor), had spoken about bounties on wheat Canada had always given an annual grant of
and other agricultural produce. Would there £50,000, for the encouragement of agriculture,
be any impropriety in giving a bounty on flax, as prizes to the producers of the best wheat,
or anything else, the first introduction of cheese, &c., and the £25,000 given to the
which might be attended with loss, but which steamers plying between Montreal and Liverin time might be a source of wealth to the pool was a bounty which was also very
country. The Chamber of Commerce of favourable to the trade of the country, and it
Quebec do not think it is advisable to try this :was given upon the same principle as the
experiment upon a large scale; they wish to bounties now asked for.
build but five or six ships, and while the work
Hon. Mr. Reesor said this money was paid
is proceeding, hundreds of persons might take for carrying the mails, which was an especial
advantage of the experiment and turn it to service.
account. In this country we have an unlimited
supply of timber, and a large amount of
Hon. Mr. Tessier said the service could be
unemployed labour, to carry on the business done without giving such an amount, as they
properly. Under these circumstances, it was could send their mails through the British
well worthy the consideration of the Gov- Packet Line, yet he thought this annual grant
ernment, whether one or two experiments was rightly given by the Government, and it
might not be made from the public chest with was for the interests of the country that it
a view of the whole country being benefited should continue so long as necessary. He had
by it to the extent of the money expended. In not made an especial motion in regard to the
regard to the superiority of the sailors of subject before the House, as his object was
Nova Scotia, it was the natural result of the only to call the attention of the Government
position of their country, as they had open to the depressed state of shipbuilding in the
water around their coast at all seasons, Dominion, and to the large emigration to the
whereas it was closed at Quebec for six United States which was taking place, and he
months of the year. Then a large portion of would leave the subject in the hands of the

April 27, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

gentlemen on the Treasury benches, whom resume his duties and sail for England in the
he thought competent to deal with the matter. next week. The assassin was arrested, avowed
In conclusion he referred to what had been himself a Fenian, and is under trial.
said in regard to the prosperous state of shipDuke of Buckingham,
ping in Nova Scotia, which he said was prosLondon.
pering under Confederation.
Government House,
Hon. Mr. Locke said it was prospering in
Ottawa, April 27, 1868.
spite of Confederation.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said this announcement
After some remarks made by Hon. Messrs. would arouse the feelings of every member of
Ryan and Tessier of the nature of personal the House, following so closely as it did after
explanations, which we did not report, the the disaster that had happened to the late lamotion was put and carried.
mented Mr. McGee, and no effort should be
A message was brought from the House of spared to bring about such an expression of
Commons by their clerk with a Bill intituled: public opinion as would stamp out that band
An Act to enable Her Majesty to provide for of conspirators who, not satisfied with atthe widow and children of the late Hon. tempting to subvert the institutions of the
Thomas D'Arcy McGee," to which they asked country, are now attacking the lives of inthe concurrence of this House. The said bill dividuals, even attempting to assassinate one of
the sons of our Most Gracious Queen. He felt
was read a first time.
as a British subject, as a loyal member of
The Hon. Mr. Mitchell, seconded by the the Government in this Legislature, occupyHon. Mr. Chapais, moved that the said bill be ing a prominent position under the British
Crown, it was his duty to ask this House to
read a second time tomorrow.
join with him in giving expression to the
The Hon. Mr. Mitchell acquainted the House feeling of the Legislature at the base attempt
that he had received a message from His Ex- made upon the life of His Royal Highness. A
cellency the Governor-General, under his motion for a joint address would be made in
sign manual, which His Excellency had com- the other House, and sent to this, when hon.
members will have an opportunity of expressmanded him to deliver to this House.
ing their sympathy with Her Majesty, and
The same was then read by the Clerk as their detestation of the crime.
follows:
Hon. Mr. Dickey gave notice of enquiry
MONCK.
fromi the Government, for to-morrow, if the
The Governor-General desires to communi- route of the Intercolonial Railway through
cate to the Senate the following telegram, Nova Scotia had been chosen, also, whether
which reached him on the morning of Satur- the report of the engineer employed had been
day, April 25th, from the Secretary of State received?
for the Colonies.
Hon. Mr. Simpson brought up a report from
the Printing Committee, which was read by
Lord Monck,
the Clerk, the adoption of which was deferred
Ottawa, Canada.
until to-morrow, at the request of several
An unsuccessful attempt was made at Syd- members.
ney to shoot the Duke of Edinburgh, by one
The House then adjourned until 3 o'clock in
O'Farrell. His Royal Highness was wounded,
but is going on well, and hoped shortly to the afternoon, to-morrow.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Tuesday,

April 28,

1868.

The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
After routine.
Hon. Mr. Dickey inquired whether the
Government have decided upon the route of
the Intercolonial Railway, or upon the portion
thereof to run through Nova Scotia, and if
not, when it is expected that such decision
shal be made?
Hon. Mr. Campbell replied that the Government had not decided upon the route of
that portion of the line which was through
Nova Scotia, but three or four parties of surveyors had been sent down to obtain information for the Government. The earliest action
in the matter would be taken by the Government consistent with the necessity for obtaining the necessary information.
The following Address to Her Majesty was
received by message from the House of
Commons, with a request for the concurrence
of the Senate thereto:
To the Queens' Most Excellent Majesty:
Most Gracious Sovereign:
We Your Majesty's dutiful subjects, the
Commons of Canada, in Parliament assembled, desire to approach Your Majesty with
the expression of our horror and indignation
at the recent atrocious attempt to assassinate
His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh,
and to convey our deep sympathy with Your
Majesty in the distress and anxiety which the
endeavour to take the life of one so justly
dear to You, at such a distant part of Your
Empire, must have occasioned.
In uniting with Your Majesty in thanksgiving to Almighty God, that it has pleased Him
to save the life of Ris Royal Highness, so
recklessly and wickedly assailed,-and in fervent prayer that it may please God to restore
him speedily to health and strength,-we beg
to assure Your Majesty that the high personal
esteem with which His Royal Highness is regarded throughout this Dominion-from a
lively recollection of his gracious demeanour
amongst us during his visit to this country in
the year 1861, has if possible heightened our
abhorrence of this detestable act. We take this
opportunity of renewing to Your Majesty our
assurance of our devotion and attachment to
Your Majesty's Throne and Person.
James Cockburn,
Speaker, House of Commons.

April 28, 1868

Hon. Mr. Mitchell said it had been announced yesterday that an attempt had been
made on the life of a member of the Royal
Family, by a member of a society we have
reason to fear has made too much headway on
this continent. He was sure that when the
announcement was made he had only stated
what had been re-echoed and responded to by
every person present; and throughout every
loyal colony of the Crown, this act would be
considered as one of the most atrocious charracter and deserving of the condemnation of
every peace loving man. He had announced
that a message would be received from the
other branch of the Legislature, and when
that message arrived, this House would be
called upon to participate in an Address to
Her Most Gracious Majesty the Queen, expressing sympathy with her on the occasion of
this most foul attempt to deprive Her Majesty
of a member of Her family. There was an
opportunity now for giving expression not
only to loyal feeling but to those feelings of
sympathy which would be called forth from
each one of us on an occasion like this, and
the motion lie was about to make would be
responded to by every gentleman around the
House, giving expression to loyalty and devotion to the Throne which has upheld the institutions we enjoy and given so much security
to life and property. He would now move that
the blank in the address be filled up by the
words "Senate and".
Hon. Mr. Le±ellier de Si. Just said he thoroughly approved of the Address and heartily
responded to its sentiments. He was satisfied
this address of condolence and sympathy
would find a re-echo in the breast of every
good man in the Dominion, and in none more
so than in the hearts of his fellow-countrymen, and if the question could be tested by a
petition it would be universally signed
without exception throughout the British Empire. Our Gracious Sovereign was justly esteemed as Queen, mother and widow throughout the wide extent of the New Dominion and
all the world over, except a few vile miscreants, perhaps, who have no hearts to feel
any generous impulse.
On motion of the Hon. Mr. Mitchell, seconded by the Hon. Mr. Campbell, it was unanimously
Resolved, To agree with the House of
Commons to the said address, by filling up the
blank with the words "Senate and."
Ordered, That the Honourable the Speaker
do sign the said Address on the part of this
Hnuse.

April 28, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Ordered, That one of the Masters in
Chancery do go down to the House of Commons and acquaint that House that the Senate
have agreed to the said address by filling up
the blank with "Senate and."

Hon. Mr. Campbell moved an amendment
giving the Governor-General power to set
offenders at liberty and discharge them when
there was no reason why they should be
delivered over to the United States authorities.

The Hon. Mr. Mitchell moved, seconded by
Hon. Mr. McCully called attention to a case
the Hon. Mr. CampbelL
That an humble address be presented to His which came under the Extradition Laws-A
Excellency the Governor-General in the fol- man had comnitted an offence in the United
States, of that class of offences by which the
lowing words:
person was entitled to be extradited and a
To His Excellency the Right Honorable communication came from New York to
Charles Stanley, Viscount Monck, Baron Halifax by telegraph for his apprehension, as
Monck of Ballytrammon, in the County of he was on board of one of the steamers of that
Wexford, in the Peerage of Ireland, and line which usually call at Halifax. He was
Baron Monck of Ballytrammon, in the County accordingly arrested, and as it happened that
of Wexford, in the Peerage of the United the Supreme Court was in session at the time,
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, the party who had been arrested under this
Governor-General of Canada &, &, &,
telegraphic communication made application
for a writ of Habeas Corpus. which the Court
May it please Your Excellencygranted, and he was brought up at once and
We, Her Majesty's dutiful and loyal sub- discharged on the ground thatthere was not
jects, the Senate of Canada, in Parliament sufficient grounds to hold him because the
assembled, beg leave to approach Your Ex- affidavit was only by telegraph. If the bill did
eellency with our respectful request that Your not provide a remedy for this evil one of the
Excellency will be pleased to transmit our objects of the bill would be frustrated.
joint address to Her Most Gracious Majesty,
Hon. Mr. Campbell said there was no way
expressive of our abhorrence and indignation of reaching such a case, for in no country was
on being informed of the recent attempt to communications by telegraph considered a
assassinate His Royal Highness the Duke of means of action in courts of justice, although
Edinburgh, and assuring Her Majesty of our he thought at some future time when they
deep sympathy with Her Majesty upon this became more familiarized with telegraphic
occasion, in such a way as to Your Excellency practice such communications may be made a
may seem meet, in order that it may be laid at ground for action. Several sections of the bill
the foot of the Throne.
were then passed, when progress was reported
The question of concurrence being put and leave asked to sit again.
thereon, the same was unanimously resolved
PARLIAMENTARY PUBLISHERS
in the affirmative, and it was
PROTECTION
Ordered, That the Hon. Mr. Speaker do sign
the last mentioned address on the part of this
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the second readHouse.
ing of the Bill defining the privilege, immuniOrdered, That one of the Masters in ties and powers of the Senate and House of
Chancery do go down to the House of Com- Commons, and to give summary protection to
mons and acquaint that House that the Senate persons employed in the publication of parliahave passed this address, to which they desire mentary papers, and explained its provisions,
their concurrence.
saying that it was necessary to introduce a
bill of this kind in order to carry out the
OFFENDERS APPREHENSION AND SUR- Constitutional Act. It did not seek to define
RENDER
these privileges in detail and in consequence
The House went into Committee of the when any question arose they would have the
Whole on a Bill from the Commons entitled: advantage of rèferring to the decisions given
"An Act respecting the Treaty between Her in England.
Majesty and the United States of America for
The bill was then read a second time and
the apprehension and sirender of certain on motion of the Hon. Mr. Campbell it was
offenders,"
ordered to be committed to a Committee of
the whole House to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. Flint in the chair.

SENATE DEBATES
The House then resolved itself into Committee of the Whole on the Bill entitled "An
Act to provide for oaths to witnesses being
administered in certain cases, for the purposes
of either House of Parliament, (Hon. Mr. Bill
in the chair) providing generally that the
chairman, or any member of the Committee,
have the power to administer the oaths to
witnesses. The Committee rose and reported
the bill as amended, which amendments were
concurred in and the said Bill was ordered to
be read a third time to-morrow.
The House went into Committee on the Bill
respecting the Department of Justice.
Hon. Mr. Reesor in the chair.
Hon. Mr. McCully wished to know if the
Attorneys-General and Solicitors-General of
the various Local Governments, where they
could be retained, would have the Crown business in criminal cases, or if such powers
would be limited to the Minister of Justice, or
his deputies, and who would have the power
to enter noue prosequi for the Crown? Have
these Attorneys and Solicitors-General the
same powers as those functionaries in England? It was important to know their respective powers and duties, so as to avoid conflicting of authority, as for instance in prosecutions against defaulters in the collection of the
public revenue due the Dominion Government.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said by the "Confederation Act" the Administration of Justice
was confided to the Local Governments, and
they were empowered to do all required in the
various cases cited, and therefore no confliet
of authority could be apprehended.
Hon. Mr. McCully doubted much if the
Local Governments would have jurisdiction in
the cases for infraction of the revenue laws
and the collection of revenues which exclusively belong to the Dominion Government.
He could not see how the Local Governments
could have authority, and assume the
responsibility of acting for the General
Government.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said there would be
uniformity of criminal procedure throughout
the Dominion, and the Local Governments
clearly had the right of administering the
laws; though the General Government had the
power to enact these laws.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said the Union Act was
conclusive to his mind on this point, for the
procedure alone was confided to the Dominion

April 28, 1866

Government, the administration of these laws
was referred to the Local Governments only.
The office of Attorney and Solicitor-General
of Ontario and Quebec has ceased, and the
bill gives power to the Minister of Justice to
continue all suits brought by them. So it was
plain that there could be no conflicting powers
of jurisdiction.
Hon. Mr. McCully suggested that a Deputy
Minister of Justice should be named in each
Province.
Hon. Mr. Campbell thought it better not to
confound titles, as their duties and powers
were distinct, but the general name of
"officers" was more suitable.
There were different forms in the Provinces
of Ontario and Quebec from the Lower
Provinces in civil cases; but the criminal laws
are the same all over the Dominion.
The said Bill was then reported with
amendment, which amendment was concurred
in and ordered to be read a third time to-morrow.
A message was received from the Clerk of
the Commons, with a Bill intituled, "An Act
to authorize the carrying of gas pipes across
the river Niagara, in order to facilitate the
lighting of the Town of Clifton with gas." The
said Bill was read a third time, and on motion
of
Hon. Mr. Benson, seconded by Hon. Mr.
Bureau, ordered to be read a second time
to-morrow.
Also, a message was brought from the
House of Commons, by their Clerk, with a Bill
intituled, "An Act to incorporate the Clifton
Suspension Bridge Company, which was read
a first time, and ordered to be read a second
time to-morrow, on motion of Hon. Mr.
Ross, seconded by Hon. Mr. Campbell.
PENSION TO MRS. T. D. McGEE
AND FAMILY.
The Bill intituled "An Act to enable Her
Majesty to provide for the widow and children of the late Hon. T. D. McGee" was read
a second time.
Hon. Mr. Ryan-If the sum granted by this
bill to the widow and orphans of the late Hon.
T. D. McGee were to be taken as the measure
of his great ability, or of the loss we have
sustained by his death, or of the gratitude we
owe for the services he rendered to this country, it would doubtless be considered by every

SENATE DEBATES

April 28, 1868

member as very inadequate, but independent
of this merely pecuniary offering to the memory of the deceased, made with a view to the
suitable maintenance and comfort of his widow and family, this grant will be recorded in
the annals of Parliament, which will transmit
to posterity our estimation of the man who
has been taken from amongst us by the hand
of a ruthless assassin. He was sure his bonoured family would regard in this light the
measure now about to pass. When the subject
was before the House the other day, he had
abstained from saying a word upon the matter, because Mr. McGee's praises were spoken
so much more ably than be could do it, by
others, who were unconnected with the
deceased, either by fies of nation or religion.
He thought it was more becoming, as it was
certainly more flattering to Mr. McGee's
friends, that his praises should be set forth by
gentlemen frori distant parts of the Dominion, as Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and
Ontario, and that nothing should be said by
gentlemen from bis own section of the country, more especially from Montreal, the city
which Mr. McGee had so long and ably represented; for these reasons, be (Mr. Ryan) abstained from speaking on that occasion, but
there was one point not touched upon in the
discussion which then took place, one which
be thought it most important to refer to, one
which be was sure, if Mr. McGee were living
and present in this Chamber, he would call
attention to, and which recent events (events
which have occurred since his lamented
death) rendered it necessary for every member of this Senate to pronounce their decided
opinion on: that is upon the magnitude and
turpitude of this conspiracy and its ramifications to which be bas fallen a victim. (Hear,
hear.) If bon. gentlemen hesitate to come forward and denounce this conspiracy, and those
who sympathize with it, it may become very
fatal to the prosperity of this country. (Hear,
hear.) The announcement we had yesterday,
and the address we voted to-day to Her
Majesty the Queen, upon the deplorable attack made upon ber young and amiable sailor
son, following so soon

after

Mr. McGee's

death, tends to the conclusion that both deeds
were done by a member of the same organization, and coupling these with the recent attempts to destroy buildings, and to set fire
even to the palace of Her Majesty, should be
sufficient to convince us that a systematic plan
of assassination bas been adopted by the
Fenian conspirators to work out what they
have failed to achieve manfully in the field

(hear, hear). And now shrinking from the observation of all good men, unable openly to
succeed in any direction, they have resorted to
a system of assassination, taking us back to
the barbarous revenge of barbarous times
(hear, hear), and striving to introduce a system of Eastern Thuggism in civilized lands, so
that they may be well called the Thugs of
Christendom, and as such he hoped they
would be crushed out of existence (hear,
hear). Twelve months since, when in England,
he obtained clear and distinct evidence of the
adoption of this system. He saw evidence clear
and sufficient to assure him that the subject of
assassination had been discussed by their
leading men, those who concoct their plans in
secret, and send forth their poor and ignorant
tools to execute their behests (hear, hear).
This subject had been before their council,
and they had determined to resort to it, but it
was only now that it had begun to show its
fruit. He hoped the Government here would
act as promptly and determinately in putting
down this conspiracy, as the Government at
Sydney, where be was happy to say, immediate justice would follow the attack upon a son
of our most Gracious Queen. He hoped the
Government would search out and discover
all the ramifications of this conspiracy. On the
part of this society, a plea has been put forward that Ireland has been aggrieved, and
that ber grievances should be redressed. He
fully believed that the wrongs of Ireland
should be considered and redressed, and he
believed there was every disposition in England to redress them; but he would ask, was
the course this Fenian organization was now
pursuing calculated to do service to Ireland?
He would ask them whether the attempted
assassination of Prince Alfred, or the murder
of Mr. McGee, would cause England to take a
calmer view of the circumstances of Ireland?
Would it facilitate the satisfactory settlement
of the question concerning the relations between landlord and tenant, or the question of
education; or will it not rather arouse a spirit
which will be prejudicial to the adjustment of
those important questions, if these self-elected
champions of Ireland hold up their country to
the contempt and detestation of every
Christian man, and every civilized nation in
the world. Again, these men, if he might call
them so, (cries of no, no,) or rather these
assassins, have put it forward in Canada, exposed as it is to their attempts, that they are
the avengers of the evils of Ireland, and that
it is to better Ireland and Irishmen in every
part of the world that they have conceived

SENATE DEBATES
and carried out their wicked plans. He would
tell the Irishmen of this country that the
course which that society has adopted here
has done much to injure the character of the
Irish in this land. The people who have contributed their small earnings to the Fenian
organization will learn to their great loss, that
the deeds of these men have thrown suspicion
and doubt upon all who are supposed, whether rightfully or wrongfully, to sympathize
with them. He found the interests of Irishmen
in Canada had thus been seriously compromised. He believed that Mr. McGee, in denouncing this system, had brought down upon
him the vengeance of this secret society, but
in doing so he had covered himself with bonour, and his name would be remembered long
after the assassin had sunk into his grave with
shame and obloquy. If his enemies had sought
for a mode to immortalize Mr. McGee they
could not have found a better. He fell when
his faculties were in their prime, when he was
devoting himself to the service of Canada, and
by his communications with the Imperial
Government exerting himself for the good also of his native country. (Hear, hear.) Mr.
Ryan further said they should one and ail
come forward undeterred by the revolver of
the assassin and fearlessly denounce this organization. (Hear, hear.) In doing so they
would honour the principles and follow the
example of the late lamented Mr. McGee.
(Hear, hear.) He would conclude by saying he
warmly appreciated the handsome manner in
which the House had proceeded with this bill,
and read it a second and third time the same
day, and Mr. McGee's family would, be was
sure, take it as another honour to the memory
of the departed statesman.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell remarked that what had
been said by his hon. friend (Mr. Ryan) was
concurred in by every member of the House,
and he (Mr. Mitchell) felt that to do justice to
the memory of Mr. McGee, would only be
occupying the time of the House in repeating
what had already been said in the public press
and elsewhere. He had distinguished himself
in literature, and was a lover of peace and a
promoter of it. He had rendered many services to the country during his life, and
though by his death the country had been
deprived of a great and noble man, it had
received a benefit in filling the minds of every
honest man with a hatred for that association,
which would bring down the power of the law
upon the individuals who compose it. His hon.
friend had referred to the provision for the

April 28, 1868

widow and family of the late Mr. McGee,
which the Government had felt it their duty
to ask Parliament to grant. He could only say
that though it was not as much as some of the
late bon. gentleman's most ardent friends
might think it ought to be, the Government
felt it was their duty to give Mr. McGee's
family a competency which was all they
desired, and be believed this would be supplemented by a grateful public who feel they
have lost much in the loss of Mr. McGee.
Then again be entirely agreed with his hon.
friend, that if the Government failed to use
every legitimate means, if they failed to expend every dollar necessary to bring the assassin to justice, they would be open to censure. He might say that from the hour that the
crime was committed, the Government had
used every means in their power to bring the
criminal to justice, and that a train of evidence surrounds the man who was first
thought to be the assassin, and that gradual
developments are being made in the Fenian
organization in ail its ramifications. He felt
the evidence was so strong that the guilt of
the criminal would be brought home to him,
and he was satisfied the Government would
not be deficient in that duty which they owed
not only to the departed but to the living. He
was glad to find one of the foremost Irishmen
of the country come forward and avow his
sentiments, no matter what risks were to be
run. He was bold to say he heartily endorsed
the utterances of his hon. friend, and no matter whether the bullet of the assassin was
aimed at them or not, they should endeavour to
stamp out that vile association which has been
gradually creeping within our borders. The
country has been deprived of a citizen who
was an honour to it, and the public feel that
every effort should be made to drag to justice
the perpetrator of such a vile act. He thought
the bill should now receive two or three readings, which would convey to the public another evidence of how high the Legislature of
this country esteems the services Mr. McGee
had rendered, and his family would receive it
as an additional testimony to the merits of the
late departed.
Hon. Mr. Dever rose and said-Hon. gentlemen, being a lately appointed member of
this Senate, I had partly made up my mind to
say very little during this Session, but to be
watchful and careful in voting on all measures brought before us, and to acquire a good
knowledge of the routine business of this
Chamber. But, hon, gentlemen, owing to the
unexpected and calamitous misfortune that
has befallen us ýin the assassination of my

April 28,.1868

SENATE DEBATES

great friend, the late Honourable Thomas
D'Arcy McGee, I feel compelled, as being the
only Irish Catholic in this Senate, from the
Province of New Brunswick, which I have the
honour to represent, as a Senator of this new
Dominion he loved so well, and did so much
to create and consolidate, in the minds of our
people, as being a Christian too, worshipping
at the same altar he worshipped at, to set
forth my humble share of grief for the great
loss we have sustained in his sudden and cruel
death. Just, too, hon. gentlemen, at a time
when his rare gifts were being appreciated,
and required to bring into harmony the many
conflicting parties, and I may add, races, who
constitute the people of this new but vast
country. Hon. gentlemen, Mr. McGee was my
personal friend, and there I will leave him.
But it is as a great Irishman and a reasoning
Catholic, he was, and is, most dear to me. As
an Irishman, hon. gentlemen, a mere boy, he
left his native land he loved so tenderly, to
seek a home and position in a foreign country,
and well, hon. gentlemen, he did it, against
many obstacles and vicissitudes, until at last,
and even early in life, he attained the enviable position of scholar, statesman, poet, orator.
But, alas, hon. gentlemen, could not all those
great qualities acknowledged in him, stay the
hand of the assassin, and who I fear by recent
developments, and to make the fearful act
seem if possible blacker, is some vile miscreant of his own race and country. Some
Cain, actuated, and driven on by the devil to
stop for ever that rare and shining intellect,
when just at the zenith of its power, to do
good for Ireland-for his race-and for the
world-for, hon. gentlemen, Mr. McGee was
admitted a great moral philosopher, a reasoning christian; no narrow minded man, and
hence was valuable to Ireland, to his race, and
to the world, as having the qualities of a great
peacemaker and statesman. But, hon. gentlemen, as an Irish Catholie possessing such talent he was doubly dear to me, and on him I
looked with delight, and at this, perchance,
you will not wonder, seeing how few of us are
in the Legislative Chambers of this new
Dominion, and now out of that few, we
have lost our brightest ornament, is it any
wonder I should mourn? No, hon. gentlemen,
for I feel his equal as an Irish leader, and
political architect, I never shall see again, and
I will tell you why it is because he was, in my
opinion, no cold hearted demagogue, wishing
at the expense of his warn hearted countrymen-to keep up a foreign element in this
free country-hostile to our Government and

their own true interests-that he might ride to
power, without merit, and leave them as an
inheritance naught but emnity for their trouble. No, hon. gentlemen, his was the doctrine
of loyalty, nationality, and education, which is
the only doctrine I hold will ever place my
countrymen on the pinnacle of political equality with all other men, seeing now, that
knowledge is power; that the penal laws and
religious obstructions of past ages are no
more; that all office doors, in this country, are
wide open to receive all men who possess the
fitting talent and ability to entitle them to
consideration. I would say then to my countrymen, be loyal citizens, possess the land, posintelligence,
and possess
sess wealth,
and the country and Government are
yours, and you will cease to be on the weak
side, on the side of the minority. As an
Irish Catholic he was dear to me, because
his liberal thoughts so well expressed,
have shown to this Dominion, so largely
Protestant, that Catholics, when educated
and happy, are equal to any other class,
in loyalty, and devotion to this country. And
now, hon. gentlemen, I hope, indeed, I see
already this country will recognize my late
friend's intellectual wealth of poetry, literature, speech, and song, and will transmit it
down to our generations, that it may take a
fitting place along side the intellectual wealth
of other great Catholics, whose memory we all
like to cherish, and amongst whom I would
mention here, the poet, philosopher, and translator of Homer into our language, I mean the
great Alexander Pope, and that other Catholic, too, hon. gentlemen, the immortal Arne,
the composer of Britain's national song and
chorus, who does not know it? "Rule, rule,
Britannia, Britannia rules the main." But hon.
gentlemen, I am detaining you too long, and
now seeing you are all actuated by as warm
feelings of regard for the late Mr. McGee, as I
am, I will conclude by saying I leave the
orphans and widow in your national care,
feeling from your sentiments and acts, they
will be well done for as the adopted children
of this our Government and country.
On motion of the Hon. Mr. Mitchell the
forty-second rule of the House was dispensed
with so far as it related to this Bill. It was
then read a third tine and passed without
amendment.
The House then adjourned until 3 o'clock
to-morrow.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE

April 29, 1868

(Hon. Mr. Flint in the chair)

Hon. Mr. Campbell said progress had been
reported on this Bill yesterday, in order to
Wednesday, April 29, 1868
enable him to consult the members the Government, but more particularly the Minister
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock. of Justice, in regard to whether it would be an
advantage to add a provision to the bill,
After routine,
which would enable copies of indictments to
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the following be admitted as part of the evidence to commit
resolution, seconded by Hon. Mr. Le±ellier de prisoners under this bill. He thinks it is more
Si. Just,
desirable that action should be based upon,
Resolved, that the Hon. Mr. Speaker, on not the final result of evidence, as that evibehalf of this House, do acknowledge the re- dence has been arrived at in another country,
ceipt from the President of the Legislative but based upon the evidence itself.
Council of Prince Edward Island, of copies of
After a few remarks made by the Hon. Mr.
the resolutions passed by that body on the Hazen, the bill and amendments were reportoccasion of the assassination of the late Hon. ed as agreed to, and ordered to be read a third
Thomas D'Arcy McGee, expressing their hor- time to-morrow.
ror at the crime which deprived the people of
Canada of an able and patriotic statesman,
PARLIAMENT PUBLISHERS
and their sympathy with the Parliament and
PROTECTION
people of the country, as well as with the
The House in Committee of the Whole.
widow and children of the deceased; and to
convey the thanks of this House to the Leg(Hon. Mr. Bourinot in the chair.)
islative Council of Prince Edward Island for
this manifestation of their good will, and their
Hon. Mr. Campbell said they got no powers
sympathy with the people of this Dominion in by virtue of the clause, which was not consistthe national loss which has been inflicted ent with the Constitutional Act of 1867. There
upon it by the atrocious crime of which that was no uncertainty in the clause as it stood: if
body so justly expresses its detestation.
they took the powers of the House of ComAfter a few appropriate remarks were made mons, they only took them so far as was
by the mover and seconder of the resolution it consistent with that Act. He did not see how
he could use language to make it more clear.
was adopted unanimously.
In reference to the other point, he thought it
Hon. Mr. Tessier enquired whether John would be better to use the language which
Page, Esq., engineer of the Department of had been used, instead of mentioning those
Public Works, has made a report or reports on privileges in detail, because by taking them in
the work of deepening Lake St. Peter, since general, we will have the advantage of any
the passing of the order in Council to that just and liberal interpretation that may be
given, therefore, he thought it was desirable
effect, about the month of July, 1862.
to adhere to the language used in the bill.
Hon. Mr. Campbell replied that he had been
Hon. Mr. McCully argued that the word
told that there had been several reports made
on the work of deepening Lake St. Peter since "may" should be used in the bill in the place
the passing of the order in Council, but no of the word "shall," as he considered it
general or final report had been made.
equivalent to the latter word, and much more
The Bill intituled, "An Act to provide for suitable in a bill of this kind. He agreed with
the oaths to witnesses being administered in the Postmaster-General, that it would be dancertain cases for the purpose of either House gerous to specify particular powers, as they
of Parliament," was then read a third time could not anticipate what difficulties might
arise, but by adopting this bill, they would
and passed.
have the practice of the House of Commons to
Also, "An Act respecting the Department of
Justice" was read a third time and passed. The refer to.
House then resolved itself into a Committee
Hon. Mr. Hazen contended that the word
of the Whole, on the Bill from the Commons, "shall" was the proper word in such bills,
relating to the apprehension and surrender instancing where it was employed in the
of offenders.
Union Act to prove his assertion.

April 29, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

The bill was then reported as agreed to,
with an amendment, and the third reading
was ordered for to-morrow.
The following resolution was received from
the House of Commons:
Resolved, "That a message be sent to the
Senate, to inform their Honors that this House
hath agreed to the Address of the Senate to
His Excellency the Governor-General, praying
that His Excellency will be pleased to transmit the Joint Address of both Houses to Her
Most Gracious Majesty, expressive of their
abhorrence and indignation upon being informed of the recent attempt to assassinate
His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh,
and conveying to Her Majesty the assurance of
their sympathy with Her Majesty upon this
occasion:-in such manner as His Excellency
may see fit, in order that the same may be
laid at the foot of the Throne;-by filling up
the blank with the words: 'and Commons.'"
When on motion of Hon. Mr. Mitchell it
was,
Ordered, That the Joint Address to Her
Majesty, and also the Joint Address to His
Excellency the Governor-General be presented to His Excellency on the part of this House
by such members of this House as are members of the Privy Council.

Hon. Mr. Campbell said the first clause of
the bill gave power to this Company to join
with any other company to build a bridge. He
thought it was not desirable to give them this
power, as it would give them a monopoly, let
them build the bridge upon their own
responsibility and then other bridges could be
built if necessary. Then in the 9th clause, he
would suggest that the clause should read " If
any toll collector shall unreasonably and without cause delay or hinder any passengers,
&c." He simply drew attention to these points
in order that the Committee on Private Bills
might take them into consideration when the
bill came before them.

Hon. Mr. Mitchell presented to the House a
return respecting Harbour Charges.
A message was brought from the House of
Commons by their Clerk, with a Bill intituled:
"An Act respecting accessories and abettors of
indictable offences," to which they desire the
concurrence of this House.
The Bill was read a first time and the second reading ordered for to-morrow.

Hon. Mr. Campbell wished to defer the
adoption of the report for a few days until the
other Branch of the Legislature had adopted
this joint report of the Printing Committees
of the two Houses. He objected to the creation
of a new department, which would remove
the control of the printing entirely from the
Speakers of both Houses. The report had
passed the House of Commons, but it was now
found it was in ignorance of its contents, and
was doubtful whether such action would be
finally confirmed. Then the report recommended an increase of salary to a clerk, which
was at least an invidious distinction between
him and other officers. At a time when reductions had just been made in other salaries, it
was inopportune to be increasing this case. On
both these grounds the adoption of the report
ought to be delayed. He was quite sensible of
the laudable and useful efforts of this committee, but he hoped the hon. chairman (Mr.
Simpson) would postpone the adoption of the
report for a few days, until we see what
action the Commons branch may take.

On motion of the Hon. Mr. Benson, the
Clifton Gas Bill was read a second time and
referred to the Standing Committee on Private Bills.
The Clifton Suspension Bridge Company Bill
was then read a second time.

Hon. Mr. Ross said the more bridges there
were built there the better, but if one person
or two persons, could not of themselves raise
the necessary capital to build the bridge, there
could be no harm in getting any other public
body to become shareholders.
The bill was then referred to the Committee
on Private Bills.
REPORT OF THE PRINTING
COMMITTEE
The House went into consideration of the
13th report of the Joint Committee on Printing.

Hon. Mr. Ross said this bill proposed to
incorporate persons who shall become shareholders of the Company, as a body corporate
and politic under the name of the "Clifton
Suspension Bridge Company", with power to
unite with any other person or Company, to
construct a suspension bridge over the
Niagara river below the falls. He would now
Hon. Mr. Simpson said as objection had
move that it be referred to the Committee on been taken by the Postmaster-General to the
Private Bills.
adoption of the report, he would briefly state

SENATE DEBATES
what had been done by the Printing Committee in years past. In 1858 he had introduced a report recommending such changes as
he thought from the facts before him, gathered after three months' hard labour, would
save to the country a great deal of money.
Through the labour brought to bear by that
report, and from the cordial assistance given
by the Government, he had no hesitation in
saying we have saved to the country over one
million dollars. We recommended that the
printing be managed by a joint committee of
both Houses, and this committee has been in
existence from that time. We ask now nothing
new about the matter, we only ask that these
affairs shall be managed by four persons instead of fifteen. We do not ask that one single
officer shall be appointed, or one single salary
created, but we ask that the work which the
committee order under the authority of this
House shall be managed by these four persons, and they shall be held responsible for it.
He did not agree with the Postmaster-General
that they were trying to create a new department, they simply asked to have the work
performed in a way which would secure its
being efficiently done, and place greater
checks upon it than now, thus preventing
documents from going astray, and having to
be reprinted, as had been formerly. We
recommend two messengers specially employed to carry all copy, proofs and messages
thus avoiding the liability of their being
delivered at wrong offices, as is often the case
when so many are employed. We recommend
a slight increase in the salary of Mr. Hartney
as he has to reside here during the year, all his
duties in connection with this work being
very heavy. He (Mr. Simpson) then went on to
speak of the efficiency of that officer and the
satisfactory manner in which his duties were
performed, and of his salary in connection
with these duties having formerly been reduced from $350 to $200, but now it should be
raised to $300, as his duties were much greater than they were formerly. The Committee
had agreed to recommend this increase without any application on his part. The reason
his salary had been reduced was this: when
the Committee first undertook the supervision
of the printing, they found the expenses connected with the printing for the Legislature to
be $191,000 a year, and this they had gradually reduced from year to year until they reduced it to $31,000, when having the books all
arranged they thought there would not be so
much duty for him to perform and they cut
down his salary accordingly. He then alluded

April 29, 1868

to his having been chairman of this Committee since its formation, with the exception
of two years, when they had another chairman who had obtained a large sum of money
for his services in connection with those duties. But he (Mr. Simpson) had never received
anything for his services, and had never asked
for anything. He spoke at some length about
the prices paid for paper, envelopes and printing under the old system, and the economy
which had been used by the Comrnittee, and
concluded by saying he was perfectly willing
at the request of the Postmaster-General to
drop the report altogether.
Hon. Mr. Seymour regretted to see the
Postmaster-General opposing the adoption of
the report. He argued that there would be no
additional expenses incurred by its adoption.
As to the responsibility spoken of by his hon.
friend, surely the Committee was controlled
by the House, and what more responsiblty
could they ask for? Was it necessary that this
department should be under the control of the
Government? He could see no reason for it,
the Joint Committee on Printing had always
managed the department admirably, and there
had been no complaint. He then eulogized Mr.
Hartney as being an efficient officer, and
recommended the increase of his salary.
Hon. Mr. Dickey said this report was a
move in the right direction, but the subject of
its adoption was not before them at present,
because this was a joint report and it requires
united action on the part of both Houses; the
question before them was whether they
should defer its consideration. After explaining the question in regard to the salary of the
Clerk of the committee he said he agreed with
the Postmaster-General that it was not desirable to be legislating upon that report until it
had been considered in the other House,
therefore he hoped they would allow it to
stand for a few days.
Hon. Mr. Bureau (in French) fully approved
of the report, and said he thought the Heads
of the Departments in this House or under the
Government should be well paid, for they had
all the responsibility of directing the members
of Parliament and the Ministers on any difficult matters. He entirely approved of the increase in Mr. Hartney's salary who was a
most efficient officer. He would wish to see
established a Parliamentary and Departmental office to supply stationery and printing
which would effect a considerable retrenchment in expenses.

April 29, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Steeves thought the arrangement
proposed by the Printing Committee would
not assume such an important shape as would
entitle it to be denominated a new department. There was a certain amount of labour to
be performed in connection with the printing
of various documents of this Parliament, and
their transmission from one place to another
until delivered to the proper officers. The
committee found it was very difficult to control and manage the different officers who
performed this duty, and they thought it best
that a certain number of the employees of this
House should be set apart for this particular
service, in order that the work might be more
under the control of this Committee. It was
also necessary that one of the rooms in this
building should be set apart for the reception
and distribution of these documents. He did
not see how this would be establishing a new
department, or incurring any additional expense, as the report says the above officers are
to be named from the present staff. It was
true, the Committee recommended a slight
advance in the salary of one of these officers,
and that he thought was the only question
which could be raised on this report. There
might be a difference of opinion in regard to
allowing that officer $100 additional to his
salary, but he did not for a moment suppose
there could be any objection to arranging the
labour to be performed. It was taking no power
out of the hands of Parliament, because they
had still the right to say whether the Committee were doing right or wrong, and of
approving or disapproving of their reports as
they came in. He had no hesitation in saying
he found a disposition on the part of thé
members of that Committee to serve the public interest to the utmost of their power, instead of their being disposed to increase the
expense. They could not only desire to serve
the public interest, but their experience enables them to do it with a great amount of
efficiency. It is not every one who understands
the number of accounts which corne before
Parliament, and there was a difficulty in ascertaining whether they are correctly charged,
or whether they are overcharged. Printers
have a manner of making up their accounts,
which makes it necessary for a man to be
educated in the terms made use of and in the

mode and manner of measuring printing, to
understand them. From what experience he
had in New Brunswick on a Committee of this
kind, he could say the members of this
Committee have a large experience in this
business, and were fully educated in the class
of work which came before them. He, as one
member of the Committee, had no objection to
allow this question to stand over for a day or
two, but he doubted very much the propriety
of waiting to see whether this report would be
sustained or rejected in the other branch of
the Legislature.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn thought it unfair to object to this report. This Joint Committee report from time to time to the House and so be
entirely under the control of the House. Regarding the objection taken to Mr. Hartney's
increased salary for the extra work that this
report would entail on him-besides the 12j
per cent. reduction would leave his salary at
the same sum as he had originally, even with
the proposed increase-but he besides the
House would receive full value for the salary
named by the personal attention of such an
efficient and able officer as Mr. Hartney. This
Committee has effected real substantial retrenchment and should be seconded in their
efforts. He could see no good reason why this
House should await the decision of the other
House, and he, therefore, hoped the House
would decide at once to adopt the report.
Hon. Mr. Anderson entirely agreed with the
remarks of the hon. member, who has last
addressed the House, (Mr. Sanborn) and
thought this Committee had effected a very
large saving in the expenses according to his
calculations about $1,800 would be gained in
the expenses of this House alone.
Hon. Mr. Simpson moved that the report be
taken into consideration to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said in reference to
such a large sum having been paid for envelopes in excess of what they were worth,
that this was the first time it had come under
his notice and as somebody must be responsible for the error, he would take especial
pains to enquire how it happened. The motion
was then adopted and the House adjourned
until three o'clock to-morrow.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Thursday, April 30, 1868
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
After routine,
Hon. Mr. McCully moved,
To resolve that in the opinion of this House
it is desirable that the law on the subject of
interest should be made uniform throughout
the Dominion during the present Session.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said it was the intention
of the Government to bring in a bill on that
subject during the present Session, therefore,
there was no necessity for passing this resolution.
Hon. Mr. McCully said he wished the law of
interest to be made unifori throughout the
Dominion. In Nova Scotia they had the old
English law concerning the rate of interest
and as the natural sequence of things, money
was being sent away from that Province and
invested in other Provinces where it commanded a higher rate of interest. As the
Postmaster-General had promised to bring in
a bill in reference to this matter, he would
accede to his request and now drop the subject.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said that possibly the
bill might not meet the views of his hon.
friend, therefore, he would only ask him to
postpone it until he saw the bill.
Hon. Mr. McCully said he would allow it to
stand over until Tuesday next.
The Bill entitled "An Act respecting the
Treaty between Her Majesty and the United
States of America for the apprehension and
surrender of certain offenders," was read a
third time and passed.
Also, "An Act to define the privileges, immunities and powers of the Senate and House
of Commons, and to give summary protection
to persons employed in the publication of parliamentary papers."
A message was brought from the House of
Commons, with a Bill intituled "An Act constituting the department of Inland Revenue."-Read a first time.
Also, "An Act to regulate and restrict the
contingent charges of the departments of
Public Service, and to establish a Stationery
Office."-Read a first time.

April 30, 1868

Also, "An Act to enable Banks in any part
of Canada to use notes of the Dominion instead of issuing notes of their own."-Read a
first time and second reading ordered for
Tuesday next.
Also, "An Act respecting the Currency."
Received a first reading, and ordered to be
read a second time to-morrow.
WHITEAVES RELIEF BILL
SECOND READING
Hon. Mr. Ferrier said as the Union Act
defined the powers of this Senate to be the
same as were enjoyed at that date by the
House of Commons, therefore, he intended
moving that this bill be referred to a committee to comply with the rules of the House of
Commons, where those bills are referred to
Special Committees of the members, and the
evidence comes to them from the House of
Lords, who are the court qualified to receive
it. The Senate not being able to exercise that
power under the Constitutional Act, he asked
them to appoint a committee for the purpose
of laying the evidence before them which was
taken before the Superior Court; that evidence being of the same character as that
taken before the House of Lords. Persons will
be summoned before that committee, and the
committee will have an opportunity of examining witnesses to see whether their testimony
corresponds with the evidence taken before
the court. This was a case of great hardship,
and if this case was postponed until another
year, the witnesses who still remain in the
country, may leave, and the evidence not be
available, therefore, he desired this committee
to include gentlemen of high standing in the
legal profession, and they can report to the
House whether the evidence is sufficient or
insufficient to proceed further with the case.
He would do all he could to enable the petitioner to obtain what he asks for, therefore,
he hoped, though some of the hon. members
might feel it their duty always to oppose this
class of bills, that they would reserve their
opposition until they saw what action that
committee would take. He would now move
that the bill be read a second time.
Hon. Mr. McCully in seconding the motion
said that he was not quite satisfied that this
Senate had any power in the matter. He had
seconded this bill pro forma, because he was
anxious if the Senate has this power to give
him every assistance he could. If the Senate
had not this power, there ought to be a power
vested in some organisation to give the relief
sought by this bill. He was afraid his hon.

April 30, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

friend had fallen into the error of thinking
that this Senate possessed the power the late
Legislative Council of Canada had before the
Union. He considered that this Senate as constituted under an Act of the Imperial Parliament did not possess powers as a court to
discharge these functions. If this was nothing
more than an Act of Parliament, then they are
right in proceeding.
Hon. Mr. Campbell -Nothing

more.

criminal desires, by the Legislature legalizing
future marriages, and consequently he would
oppose the second reading of the bill.
Hon. Mr. Ferrier did not think the opponents of the bill would be in any worse position on account of this Committee being appointed, which will be composed of gentlemen
of the highest qualifications, and he was perfectly satisfied justice would be done.

Hon. Mr. Chapais (in French) did not call in
question the right of the Senate to deal with
the question of divorce, but denied the wisdom, propriety or moral right of exercising
Hon. Mr. Ferrier said he had stated that, that power. He opposed the second reading
and therefore he wished it referred to a com- from a sense of duty, not as Minister, but as a
member of the great Christian family. Men of
mittee of the legal profession.
various religious opinions had looked on diHon. Mr. Ross said this bill was to be vorce as a wrong, and he would always do all
referred to a Special Committee, with power he could to prevent the spread of what he
to examine under oath the same as in the Par- must say, he considered as dangerous princiliament of England. It is based upon the ples, and ruinous to the whole social fabric.
precedent of the House of Lords. In the LegHon. Mr. McCully said the difficulty in this
islative Council of the two Canadas witnesses
Dominion was that they had no other court
were sworn and examined under oath the
same as in the House of Lords, and under the for these cases. He would like to see this
Constitutional Act of 1867, we have the same subject entirely withdrawn from Parliament,
powers as the Legislative Council of the two because, in this large Dominion, these quesCanadas had. They assumed this authority, tions would be constantly coming up, and this
but the bills were reserved for the assent of Parliament would be frequently called upon
to deal with individual cases. In England they
the Crown.
have laws which enables them to deal with
Hon. Mr. Bureau did not object so much to this question without its coming before Parthe mere separation of a man and wife, as to liament at all. The British Parliament have
allowing the parties afterwards to marry, and conferred the power to act in these cases, and
he cited the United States to prove the ruin- if this bill is thrown out without a second
ous evils such acts have on the morals, well- reading, the case is prejudged before we get
being, and the entire social interests of com- the evidence, and no other person can succeed
munities. He had collected some statisties in future.
which proved, to him at least, conclusively,
Hon. Mr. Miller admitted this was the corthat in that country where the laws of divorce
obtain there were about ten cases daily, or rect mode to adopt, but regretted that any
3,000 yearly, thereby depriving about 9,000 question should be brought before Parliament
children of the fostering care of one of their which necessarily brought up distinctions benatural protectors at least. Hence see the re- tween creeds and religious bellefs of hon.
members of this House. He was sure the
sults.
majority of this House would support this
Hon. Mr. Ferrier said he had named the measure, but thought it preferable that a speCommittee from gentlemen of the legal cial court be appointed to try such cases, although decidedly opposed to the law of diprofession.
vorce.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just opposed the
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Jusi did not oppose
divorce, particularly when power is granted
the parties to remarry, as in many cases, hold- the bill for the mere sake of opposition, but
ing out inducements to infidelity to ma- wished the minority to put their opinions on
trimonial vows.
records, and that they should have an opporof doing their duty.
Hon. Mr. Miller opposed the divorce as ruin- tunity
ous to the best interests of society, and holdHon. Mr. Kenny did not object to separating
ing out facilities in many cases to gratify a bad wife or a bad husband from their lawful
Hon. Mr. McCully-The next point is this:
the Senate has no power to examine witnesses
under oath.

SENATE DEBATES

April 30, 1868

partner,but according to the doctrines of his Cormier, Dever, Dumouchel, Flint, Guévchurch he objected to the parties being al- remont, Kenny, Lacoste, Letellier de St. Just,
lowed to marry again.
Malhiot, Miller, Olivier, Tessier-17.
The bill was then read a second time; when,
Hon. Mr. Tessier would have preferred that
the motion in opposition had been put out at
Hon. Mr. Ferrier moved, seconded by the
once, so as to make it unnecessary to argue Hon. Mr. McCully,
again the objections at the subsequent stages.
That the seventy-ninth Rule of this House
Of course he was opposed decidedly to dibe dispensed with in so far as it relates to the
vorce, and must, in duty, oppose the measure.
said bill intituled: "An Act for the relief of
Hon. Mr. Chapais wished to repeat in Joseph Frederick Whiteaves," and that the
English what he had said in French, and said Bill be referred to a Select Committee
would prefer that the actions for divorce, if composed of the Hon. Messrs, Allan, Campsuch there must be, should be tried by this bell, Dickey, Hazen, McCrea, McCully, Ross,
House rather than committed to a Court of Sanborn, and the mover, to report thereon
with all convenient speed, with power to send
Justice.
for persons, papers and records, and that the
Hon. Mr. Bureau moved in amendment, sec- exemplification of the proceedings to final
onded by the Hon. Mr. Dumouchel. to insert judgment of the Superior Court,
Montreal,
"not" after the word "be," and after "time" to
presented to the Senate on the reading of the
insert the following. "but that it be resolved, petition of the said Joseph Frederick
that in the opinion of this House the divorce a Whiteaves, be referred to the said Committee.
vinculo matrimonii destroys in marriage those
The motion was carried on the same divitwo characters of unity and indissolubility
sion.
which Christian communities have always
deemed to be essential safeguards of moral
The Bill intituled "An Act respecting accesand family ties."
sories and abettors of indictable offences,"
was read a second time, and ordered to be
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just took excep- committed to a Committee of the whole House
tion to the wording of the motion.
to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. Bureau in answer to the hon.
REPORT ON PRINTING
member (Mr. Letellier de St. Just) said that
his motion was properly worded, owing to the
Pursuant to the order of the day, the House
distinction between a divorce a mensa et
thoro, and a divorce a vinculo matrimonii. The went into the consideration of the thirteenth
former is not to dissolve the marriage bond, report of the Joint Committee on Printing.
but simply to authorize the separation of the
Hon. Mr. Simpson observed that there had
parties and of their property (separation de been so much said about this report, that he
corps et de biens) while the latter declares would not detain the House with any lengthy
null and void, rescinds the marriage con- remarks upon the subject. He had had some
tract and allows one or both of the parties conversation with the Postmaster General and
to rnarry again.
other members of the Government upon this
The amendment was then put and lost on a matter, and they were perfectly well satisfied
that the report was right in the main, and
division.
The question being put on the main motion, therefore, he did not understand why so much
the House divided, and the names being called fuss had been made over it. In regard to the
salary of the Clerk, he would repeat once more
for they were taken down as follows:
that they were only giving him one hundred
Contents-The Honorable Messieurs Aikins, dollars beyond what he had formerly. The late
Allan, Benson, Bill, Blake, Botsford, Burn- Province of Canada at one time gave him $350,
ham, Campbell, Dickey, Dickson, Ferguson, and it was afterwards reduced to $200; but
Ferrier, Glazier, Hamilton (Inkerman), Ham- now they had become a large Dominion, keepilton (Kingston) Hazen, Leonard, Leslie, ing more books, and spending more money,
McCrea, McCully, McMaster, Macpherson, the Committee thought they would not be
Mitchell, Odell, Reesor, Ross, Sanborn, Sey- very far wrong in asking this House to grant
mour, Shaw, Simpson, Skead, Stevens, Wark, an additional $50, the other $50 to be granted
Wilnot-34.
by the other House. Mr. Hartney was an asNon-Contents-The Honorable Messieurs sistant clerk in the other House, and received
Armand, Bourinot, Bureau, Cauchon, Chapais, $2,000 a year, and we have induced hin to

April 30, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

give us his services for the amount named,
but as he, in attending to these duties, has to
remain here for a considerable time after the
adjournment of the House, we thought this
increase should be made. He had no hesitation
in saying that if we had to employ a competent clerk to do this work, we should not get
him for less than $2,000 a year. The Government were willing the report should be adopted with the exception of this increase of salary. He (Mr. Simpson) did not concur with
them in this view of the matter, therefore; he
would leave it to the House to determine, and
he would now move the adoption of the report.
Hon. Mr. Campbell had acknowledged the
advantageous results which attended the labours of that committee, but there were two
points in which he could not agree with this
report. The first change he wished to make
was in that section which provided that unexpended balances should be carried over from
one session to another. That would be attended with some inconvenience, as had been said
by the gentleman who has charge of the
finances of the Dominion, and it was desirable
that no unappropriated balances should be
carried over, but that when money is wanted
a new vote should be given. It was under the
impression that he had obtained the concurrence of his hon. friend (Mr. Simpson) in this
change, that he had satisfied him that the
Government had given their consent to the
passing of the report. The next change he
desired to make was in regard to the salary of
the Clerk. He had said yesterday that he
thouight Mr. Hartney was an officer who was
entitled to this increase in his salary, but he
thought the moment inopportune to augment
his salary when other officers who performed
services just as valuable had been obliged to
suffer their salaries to be diminished. It
seemed invidious to increase his salary, and
more so, as he was an officer of the other
House, and they had pronounced upon his
salary as they had pronounced upon the others. It was not respectful to them after they
had reduced his salary for us to make up the
amount to him in this way.
Hon. Mr. Anderson-Have the House of
Commons adopted the report in which this
additional $100 is added to the Clerk's salary?
Hon. Mr. Campbell said the principle had
been adopted, although the report of the subcommittee, in which the salary that was mentioned was not adopted. This increase was a

small amount, but objections were taken to it
by members of the other House, particularly
by the members of the Contingent Committee,
who had taken upon themselves the disagreeable task of reducing the salaries.
Hon. Mr. Reesor said that when an appropriation was made for printing, it was impossible to tell the amount of work to be done, or
the precise sum of money which would be
required for the work, therefore, if there was
any deficiency the printers would either have
to wait until the next meeting of Parliament,
or take less than was agreed upon for their
work, but if there was a surplus and no law
that this surplus was to be carried over until
the next year, what was to be done with it?
Was it to be divided among the printers, or
among the members of the committee? Surplus money is too often disposed of in a
careless manner. If this report was adopted
the House would know what was done with
every cent of the money appropriated for
printing. He would read the clause: "That
there be a distinct appropriation for the printing of Parliament, sessionally, to be lodged in
the hands of the Accountant of the House of
Commons, in such sums as may be required;
and be disbursed by him.under the certificate
of the Clerk of the Committee; and accounted
for in the Annual Balance Sheet, which shall
include all expenses of management, so as to
show the whole cost of the printing services,
directly and indirectly," and now comes what
the Postmaster-General would strike out,
"And should any balance of the appropriation
remain unexpended, it shall be carried to the
credit of printing for the succeeding Session,
or in case of deficiency to be likewise shown.
He (Mr. Reesor) thought that clause should
remain as it was, in order that the House
might know whether there was any deficiency
or balance remaining. In regard to the salary
of the clerk he took the ground that every
officer in either House should be paid according to the value of his services as regards
ability, responsibility, and the value of his
labour to the House. They should take into
consideration the services of Mr. Hartney in
connection with the Printing Committee, and
he (Mr. Reesor) knew what these labours were,
for he had been several years upon the committee, and several years in connection with
the publication of a newspaper, and they
should consider that the committee, in conjunction with Mr. Hartney, had been the
means of saving to the country something like
one million dollars. The mere addition of $100
to his salary was but a trifle compared to the
gain that may accrue from his services. He

SENATE DEBATES
(Mr. Reesor) believed in disposing of every
case upon its own merits; though he had supported the general report of the Contingent
Committee in regard to reducing salaries and
dismissing officers, who were not required in
the House, he did it because we were commencing under a new constitution, some of
the officers not being required, and the labours
of some others being of a trifling character,
but they were not bound to keep those salaries down where an officer merited an increase
of salary. He hoped the chairman of the committee would not consent to have the report
amended, but would insist upon a vote being
taken upon the report as it is.
Hon. Mr. Simpson said he had told the
Postmaster-General that he did not wish him
to press the amendment in reference to the
salary of Mr. Hartney, therefore he should not
be accused of acting treacherously in not
agreeing to have the report amended. Mr.
Hartney had never asked for one penny's increase to his salary, but he (Mr. Simpson)
thought this increase was due to him, because
this work for the joint committee was outside
of his regular duty, and kept him here for
months after the close of the Session. In regard to the other objection concerning unexpended balances, they could not know perhaps
until the first of August the exact sum which
would be required, and we only say we will
charge ourselves with any balance which
there may be, and it will be put to our credit
for the succeeding Session.

April 30, 1868

of Parliament. It was a great improvement
upon the old system of allowing these balances to remain over, which was the cause of
great irregularities, and to remedy which the
principle had been adopted which was now
opposed by his hon. friend. He would now
move to strike out of the report this paragraph "and should any balance of the appropriation remain unexpended, it should be carried to the credit of printing for the succeeding Session; or in case of deficiency to be
likewise shown."
Hon. Mr. McCully thought as this was a
joint report of both Houses, if they amended
it, there would be a necessity for its going
before the House of Commons where it might
be thrown out. They were advocating economy, and he did not wish that object to be
frustrated, therefore he thought it was better
for the Postmaster-General to adopt this exceptional case than to run the risk of losing
the report in the other Branch.
Hon. Mr. Campbell-There is no risk of
losing it.

Hon. Mr. McCully said his hon. friend exercised a very wholesome influence in this
House, but he was afraid if the report went
back to the other House his influence would
not prevent its being lost. He thought it was a
very valuable report, and it came from a
committee who had practiced a system of
economy which had saved the country a large
amount of money. He agreed with the PostHon. Mr. Campbell said his hon. friend was master-General that the appropriations to this
advocating a principle which would not ena- committee should be voted annually, but if
ble Parliament to have control of its expendi- the amendment proposed would endanger the
ture from year to year, and which was op- report he would vote against it.
posed to the principle which had always been
Hon. Mr. Steeves said the Postmasteradopted in this country. Suppose Parliament General had enquired into the matter, and the
appropriates sixty thousand dollars for print- result of that enquiry was that these slight
ing one Session, and of that money there re- changes in the report would be consented to.
mained ten thousand dollars unexpended, and He agreed with his hon. friend that these
this same calculation would go on from year unpaid balances should not be allowed to
to year, it would give the Printing Committee stand over, and he would suggest to the hon.
a power which they should not have; or sup- mover to make the proposition himself for
pose they appropriate to the Department of this change.
Public Works the sum of five hundred thouHon. Mr. Anderson expressed himself in fasand dollars this Session, and a balance remains on hand, this will have passed out of vour of the report as it stood, but if the chairthe minds of the members when they come to man of the Committee accedes to the amendmake another appropriation, and consequently ments made by the Government, he would
they will lose control of the public money. submit.
This would be acting upon a wrong principle,
Hon. Mr. Simpson seconded the amendment
it is in the interest of Parliament that the made by the Postmaster-General, although he
Government ask that this report shall be thought he would have no difficulty in meetamended, and its object is to keep this expen- ing his arguments.
diture constantly in the minds of the members
The amendment was then carried.

April 30, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Campbell then moved, seconded
by Hon. Mr. Simpson, "that the figure $300,
in the scale of salaries, attached to the position of the Clerk, be struck out, and $200 inserted in lieu thereof."

Hon. Mr. Mitchell said there would be no
difficulty, as the mover proposed to strike out
the increase of salary and leave the report as
it stood.
After some further enquiries were made by
Hon. Mr. Tessier asked what would be the Hon. Mr. Tessier, and explanations given by
effect of the adoption of this report, so far as Hon. Mr. Campbell, the amendment was carthese salaries are concerned, if the report was ried and the report adopted.
not to be adopted in the other House? Would
The House then adjourned until to-morrow
not these salaries have to be paid by this
House?
at three o'clock.

SENATE DEBATES

May 1, 1868

Hon. Mr. Campbell said the discussion
would take place when the bill was before the
committee, but if the House desired it he
would postpone the second reading until
Monday, although he did not think there was
anything in the bill to call for any lengthy
remarks.

was before the committee. He was decidedly
of opinion that the Government had more
departments than was necessary, and he
would suggest that the number of departments be reduced if it was found that there
were too many. They might be excused for
commencing with a large number of departments, until they ascertained that the machinery could be managed with less, but after
this no excuse could be given for retaining
them. In connection with the Revenue Department, there were the four Departments of
Finance, Customs, Receiver-General's, and
Inland Revenue Departments. This arrangement was based upon principles adapted to
govern a country with much more extensive
resources than we have. This large number of
Departments can, and ought to, be reduced,
but if the Government have decided upon
retaining them, they can carry these bills
through Parliament, but upon them will rest
the responsibility. If the Government are desirous of making this Union a success, and of
satisfying the public mind that the administration of the Government will be carried on
in the best possible way, it will be their duty
to economize, and reduce the number of Departments, if it can be done without being
detrimental to the public interests. There may
be reason for the Privy Council to consist of
thirteen members; because we cannot have
less than two in each of the Lower Provinces,
on account of the various interests to be
represented; in proportion to this, Quebec
would be entitled to four and Ontario five;
but it is not necessary that all these
Public
Privy
Councillors should have
Departments. Suppose there were nine heads
of departments in the Government, this would
leave one member of the Government for
each Province who would not be compelled to
reside at the Seat of Government, and these
coming each from his Province to attend the
meetings of the Council would bring valuable
information with them in regard to the state
of the public mind in their respective Provinces. These men should be paid a reasonable
amount for their labour and attendance at the
meetings of the Council. He hoped the Government would look at the matter in this light
and endeavour to reduce the number of Departments; he was not opposing this particular one, but he felt it to be his duty to
make these remarks, inasmuch as the question
was now before the House.

Hon. Mr. Steeves desired to express his
opinion upon the bill, either now or when it

Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just said from the
delay we had to endure in this House in

THE SENATE
Friday, May 1, 1868
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
After routine,
Hon. Mr. Allan from the committee on
Standing Orders and Private Bills, reported
that they had agreed to the Bill intituled, "An
Act to authorize the carrying of gas pipes
across the River Niagara, in order to facilitate
the lighting of the town of Clifton with gas,"
without amendment.
The bill was then read a third time and
passed.
Also, "An Act to incorporate the Clifton
Suspension Bridge Company," to which they
had made several amendments.
The bill as amended was then agreed to by
the House and passed.
Hon. Mr. Allan from the Select Committee
to whom was referred the Bill entitled, "An
Act for the relief of Joseph Frederick Whiteaves," reported the said bill without amendment.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Allan it was ordered
that the bill be read a third time on Monday
next.
The Bill intituled. "An Act to continue the
charter of La Banque Nationale &c.," was on
motion of Hon. Mr. Tessier postponed until
this day eight days.
INLAND REVENUE DEPARTMENT BILL.
Hon. Mr. Reesor did not rise to make any
objection to the bill, because it may be necessary to pass it, but he desired to say that the
Bill had just been distributed, and they had
not yet had a great deal of time to judge of its
merits, in order to know whether it should be
passed or not. The Postmaster General was
pressing the matter too rapidly; bills should
be printed at least one day before the second
reading, so that members would be prepared
to discuss them.

SENATE DEBATES

May 1, 1868

getting the long promised bills from Ministers, it would appear there ought to be two
Ministers for each Department in place of one.
He advocated the reduction of Ministers and
Departments, and could see no reason why the
Speaker of this House should not be a member of the Government, and so endeavour to
reduce the expenses of the Government,
which are entirely exorbitant and disproportioned to the wants and requirements of this
country. He said it sounded strangely for
Ministers to be practicing economy on a few
poor miserably paid employees whilst they
winked at the great evil of our present system.
The large number of Ministers and their numerous staff and departments, were arousing
public feeling and alarm from one end to the
other of this Dominion. Though he did not
expect that any remedy would be adopted
now, he thought the day was not far distant
when the public voice would make itself
heard in no mistakeable terms.
On motion of the Hon. Mr. Campbell, the
bill was read a second time and ordered to be
referred to a Committee of the whole House
on Tuesday next.
STATIONERY

OFFICE ESTABLISHMENT
BILL
SECOND READING

Hon. Mr. Campbell said this bill would enable the Government to exercise more control
over the contingencies of the various departments, and prevent extravagance in reference
to that item of public expenditure, which it
had always been difficult to check, as no uniform system has been pursued. In reference to
the charges for those items, there had been a
laxity in the old Province of Canada, and to
some extent in the Dominion, since the passing of the Constitutional Act. The Chairman
of the Contingent Committee mentioned a
case of overcharge for stamping envelopes; he
had made enquiries but could not ascertain
the office it occurred in. Some better check
should be provided against overcharges than
bas been heretofore. The responsibility by this
bill will be on the Head of the Department,
who will be required to examine every account and certify it. The matter will not even
rest here, but wifl have to go before the
Committee on Contingencies, who will examine it, when it will ultimately be paid under
the Finance Department. This will result in a
proper supervision being kept over these
items of expenditure. He could see no reason
why the economy which had been the result
of the course pursued by the Joint Committee

on Printing should not be general and exist in
all the Public Departments. (Hear, hear). He
could speak for the Department with which
he was connected, that a due course of economy had always been pursued.
The bill was then read a second time and
ordered to be referred to a Committee of the
whole House on Monday.
CURRENCY BILL.
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved, seconded by
Hon. Mr. Kenny, that the Bill intituled "An
Act respecting the Currency," be now read a
second time.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said this measure had
been much changed since the bill was first
printed under the auspices of the other branch
of the Legislature. At that time it was
proposed that this bill should be a double
system; one part of the bill to go in force in
case the United States did not establish their
currency on the basis of the report of the
International Monetary Conference, held at
Paris, and the other to be put in force in case
they did establish their currency in accordance with the basis there agreed upon. It had
been considered that this double system would
be attended with a great deal of inconvenience, therefore it was thought best to submit
the measure to the House, which was based
upon the report of the Conference; if the
United States adopt that system it will be
common to the United States, Great Britain,
France, and one or two other powers who
were represented at the Conference held at
Paris. It fortunately happens that the currency of Nova Scotia will not be seriously affected by the new system, while it will be a
convenience to ail the inhabitants of the
Dominion.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot said this bill should have
been so prepared that it would have established one uniforn currency for the Dominion, instead of continuing two systems: one in
Nova Scotia and the other in the rest of the
Dominion. According to his judgment and experience the system in use in Nova Scotia was
by far the most simple, and as to fixing the
price of gold that was an arbitrary enactnent.
It would be far more sensible to have the
value of the sovereign fixed at $5 than at
$4.861, because when fixed at $5 ail the aliquot parts were in decimals, whereas if fixed
at $4.861 it commenced with fractions and carried it out through an its aliquot parts. The
sovereign at the former value was bills of
exchange at a premium of 12j per cent, while

SENATE DEBATES
at the latter value it was bills of exchange at
9j per cent, trade regulating itself so far as
the rate of exchange was concerned. In Nova
Scotia they found no difficulty in trading with
Great Britain, United States, or any other
country, and suffered no loss in consequence
of thus fixing the basis of the circulation. In
New Brunswick the notes of Nova Scotia are
actually circulating 2 per cent discount,
while the rate of exchange is nearly 3 per
cent; so Nova Scotia really gains by that.
Hon. Mr. Ross stated that Nova Scotia really lost 3 per cent, by fixing the value of the
sovereign at $5.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot said he differed with his
bon. friend, and could assure him they did not
require to be taught by persons from any part
of the Dominion, even from Ontario itself,
with regard to the practice or principles of
trade, for they had a keen eye to their own
interests. He (Mr. Wilmot) thought that the
fact that the Government had left their currency as it was, showed they had been convinced by the arguments of the gentlemen
from Nova Scotia. When Sir Robert Peel attempted to apply his currency measures to
Scotland, the people rose in their might and
refused to abandon a banking system that had
done so much for the country. As to unsettling
all accounts this very bill bas provided that
liabilities or debts existing before the new
system comes into operation shall be paid in
the currency now existing. It would be a great
inconvenience to have to re-coin all the sovereigns in the Dominion to carry out this new
system. Their value is altogether arbitrary,
therefore it would be better to fix the value
of the sovereign at $5, according to the
Nova Scotia system, which comes so near to
the value fixed by the Conference at Paris,
and which was the most reasonable and advantageous way, and leave trade with other
countries to regulate itself, which currency
regulations in this Dominion could not affect.
Hon. Mr. McCully said that when the
Government introduced this measure it was
with another connection, which was to authorize the Governor-General, by acclamation,
to establish a uniform system of currency in
the Dominion, and then it stated that in case
the monetary arrangement made by the
Conference in Paris, should be adopted in
England, and also in the United States, the
second part of the bill should come into operation. As the bill had been changed, he
thought it might not be amiss to say be had
felt it to be his duty to urge the undesirability

May 1, 1868

of making any change in the monetary matters of Nova Scotia, particularly at the present
time. Nothing would so irritate them at this
time as to have the whole system of their
money changed and altered. In making this
change, they would only be changing the
name and not the value of money; and be held
the principle that a debt should always be
discharged in the currency in which it was
contracted. If the currency was changed old
debts must be paid in old currency. The sovereign passes in Nova Scotia for five dollars,
and the consequence of this is, the English
shilling passes for a quarter of a dollar, and
twenty of these make a sovereign. If it had
been the policy of the Government to change
this currency, every merchant in Nova Scotia
would have had to re-mark all his goods; the
article marked at five dollars would have to
be taken down and marked in the new currency. Every quarter of a dollar goes there for
twenty-five cents, but under that Bill it would
have had to be put down to twenty-four, and
the impression would have gone abroad that
the people had lost the difference between the
old value of the money and the new. The
Government have taken that view of it, and
acted very wisely in not passing that part of
the Bill. He referred to the facility with which
calculations could be made with the Nova
Scotia currency: by adding one fourth, sterling money was brought into currency and by
subtracting one-fifth, currency was reduced
to sterling money, but if the sovereign was
valued at $4.86§, it required pencil and paper
to make calculations. It would not have been
seemly for him to have asked that the currency of the Dominion should be assimilated to
that of Nova Scotia, unless that was the policy
of a neighboring country or perhaps of the
empire, but all be had asked was that their
currency should remain in the meantime,
without change. In travelling in Belgium,
France, and he believed in Italy, he found the
money was counted precisely as it was counted in Nova Scotia. The currency of Nova
Scotia is the most convenient that can be
introduced, although there was some inconvenience attending the use of the English sixpence which was 124 cents, and the English
half crown, which was 62j cents, but when
those two were put together, there was no
difficulty at all. He was not surprised to find
that the bankers of Nova Scotia had sent up a
remonstrance against changing their currency,
and expressing a desire to have the currency
of the Dominion made identical with that of
Nova Scotia if changed at all.

May 1, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Ross said it was very gratifying to
know that some of the powerful nations of the
world were determined to arrange their currency according to a uniform standard. He
then referred to the loss sustained by the
merchants of Nova Scotia in consequence of
having to take sovereigns at a higher rate of
value than they were worth elsewhere.
Hon. Mr. Anderson argued in favour of the
Nova Scotia currency. He said though they
managed their transactions with a sum of
money nominally greater than its value in
other countries, yet they sustained no loss in
their mercantile transactions with those countries in consequence.
Hon. Mr. Reesor said every one must know
that the value of money depended upon the
intrinsie value of gold, as this was the standard of value in every civilized country. A man
in Nova Scotia sends fish or lumber to the
West Indies, or to England, and he gets paid
in British sovereigns, or in gold, which is the
measure of value in the commercial world;
then whether the sovereign is called four dollars or five dollars is a mere matter of convenience in his own country, and makes no
difference in the amount he can buy with it. It
is very desirable for every country to regulate
their currency so as to correspond with the
currency of other countries, and with this
view a Conference met at Paris to decide
upon some basis of a decimal character for the
currency, as that was the most convenient
currency in keeping accounts. Everyone must
recollect the time when books were kept in
the old style of pounds, shillings and pence,
causing a great deal more labour in counting
money than now. The difference between the
two systems might be compared to the difference between single rules in arithmetic and
compound rules. He quite agreed with his hon.

99267-17

friend from Nova Scotia (Mr. McCully) that
there were some very good features in this
measure, but he thought the members should
have more time to look over these bills, in
order to discuss them properly, and ascertain
whether the changes made will be for the
benefit of the country. He then referred to the
Bill relating to the contingent expenses of the
Government, and said they had to take it for
granted that it was a good bill, as the Government had promised that an important reform would be effected by it. He had no
hesitation in saying to the Government that if
they did not effect a reform, public opinion
would call them to account. He then referred
to the vast increase in the expenses of the
Civil Government since the organisation of
the Dominion Parliament, and unless by some
new arrangement, for which the Government
will be held responsible, a large reduction is
made in the expenses there will be a great
deal of dissatisfaction created throughout the
country.
Hon. Mr. Dickey said he had some reason to
thank the Government for the course they
had taken in this matter, and he hoped it
would only be an earnest of other legislation
which would have similar effects.
The bill was then read a second time and
ordered to be committed to a Committee of
the whole House on Monday next.
The House then went into Committee (Hon.
Mr. Olivier in the chair) on the Bill intituled
"An Act respecting accessories and abettors
of indictable offense," which they agreed to
without amendment.
The bill was then read a third time and
passed.
The House then adjourned until Monday at
three o'clock.

SENATE DEDATES

THE SENATE

May 4, 1868

that he had received a design of a medal that
was now being cast at a cost of £500, to
commemorate Confederation.

Monday, May 4, 1868.
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
After routine,
The Speaker reported that the period for
receiving petitions for Private Bills had expired to-day.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell, seconded
by Hon. Mr. Hamilton, the period for receiving petitions for Private Bills was extended to
the llth inst.
Hon. Mr. Reesor enquired,
Whether it is the intention of the Government to adopt any particular route for the
Intercolonial Railway, without first submitting the same for the approval of Parliament?
Whether it is the intention of the Government to let the contract for building the said
railway without first submitting such contract
to Parliament for its approval, or whether it is
the intention of the Government to grant a
subsidy to aid a responsible company in building said road, and, if so, upon what conditions
the subsidy will be granted?
Hon. Mr. Reesor said that he might state in
connection with this enquiry, that a bill was
passed during the first part of the Session
giving the Government power to adopt any
particular line of railway which they might
find upon due enquiry to be the most suitable.
He had noticed in the newspapers that a canvass had been going on as to the proper line to
be adopted, and he had also learned that some
time was likely to elapse before the surveys
now being made were likely to be completed,
therefore he made the inquiry in order to
obtain information as to what course would
be adopted by the Government.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said nothing had occurred since the passing of the Act in the first
part of the Session to induce any change in
the intentions of the Government. It was the
intention of the Government to adopt a route
having first submitted the same for the approval of the Imperial Government. He would
state in reference to the latter part of the
inquiry that it was the intention to let the
work by contract in pursuance of the Act of
Parliament, and therefore it was not the intention of Government to grant any subsidy to
aid a company in building this railroad.
In answer to an enquiry by Hon. Mr.
Steeves, it was stated by Hon. Mr. Campbell,

WHITEAVES' RELIEF BILL-THIRD
READING
Hon. Mr. Bureau said the bill came before
this House in an irregular way. No witnesses
were produced before this House, nor the parties themselves to convince them that all was
right, or that no collusion or deception was
attempted to be practised on this Branch of
the Legislature. It was their duty to be jealous
of the rights and prerogatives of this House,
and also to guard carefully against the possibility of doing any wrong. A reconciliation
may have been effected between the parties.
The courts could grant him (the husband) a
judgment of séparation de corps et de biens,
but divorces were dangerous modes of
redress. The more facilities are given for procuring them, the more frequent will be the
demand on this House. This case will be invoked as a precedent, and a dangerous one it
will be. He would ask the hon. mover to delay
a few days until further information might be
offered, and so justify, in some measure, the
undue haste with which the majority of this
House hurried on this measure. This was the
province of a Superior Court of Justice, which
this House was arrogating to itself, and he yet
hoped they would delay the final passage of
the bill for a few days for these reasons, and
so avoid the great danger of hasty legislation
in a case of this complicated and delicate
character. The following are the authorities
cited by Hon. Mr. Bureau, in support of his
proposition:
"The law of divorce and marriage in the
Divorce Court, and in the House of Lords-By
Macqueen."
lst. Page 46-47, "With reference to these
eleven bars, a heavy responsibility is created
by sections 29, 30 and 31 of the Divorce Act,
1857, for the full court is "to satisfy itself," so
far as it reasonably can, not only as to the
facts alleged by the complainant, but also
whether or no he or she is subject to any of
the bars. Suppose a suit is undefended-it is
certain, generally, that in such case, both parties are willing-nay, anxious, that the
remedy should be granted. The Legislature
intended that ex parte suits be inspected with
a jealous eye. The court, therefore, is not to
decide simply on the evidence adduced. The
Act requires the Judges to sift the proofs, and
call for more, until they are satisfied, not only

May 4, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

that the respondent's delinquency is established, but also that the petitioner is shown to
be meritorious. This the House of Lords always did".
"Why? Because marriage was an holy
estate, emblematical of the mystical union
of Christ with his church; because, to use the
language of a Judge distinguished in this
branch of learning, 'the genius and tendency
of the law is in favour of the permanence
of marriage; it encourages the duration of
marriage union, and discourages the dissolution of it. In certain circumstances the dissolution of the marriage contracts is, indeed,
permitted, but the law of divorce is barely
permissive, not imperative. It tolerates what it
neither commands nor approves. The remedy
of divorce, is, in truth, but a mournful
remedy, and it is one which the law dispenses
with an unwilling hand. This is manifest from
the principle which runs through the whole
proceedings. Hence, every obstacle that presents itself, is eagerly laid hold of, to support
the marriage and prevent its dissolution, as
condonation, collusion, connivance, and all
other personal bars."
Hon. Mr. Allan said he would be one of the
last to agree to increasing the facilities for
annulling the matrimonial bond, in order
to enable married persons more easily to obtain a divorce, but in this present case the
principal objection of his hon. friend (Mr.
Bureau) would have been done away with if
the matter had come before the House, in the
same manner as those cases had formerly
been taken before the Legislature of Canada.
This evidence has been taken before the
courts of Lower Canada, and he had no hesitation in saying that they needed no stronger
proof than they had elicited from the witnesses; to induce them to recommend the
House to grant the petition. If they deferred
this matter until power was given to the
House to examine witnesses under oath, it was
more than probable that some of these witnesses who were now here would not then be
in the country. In regard to any arrangement
taking place between the parties, there was
not the slightest grounds to suppose any such
reconciliation would take place. Under these
circumstances, he could not see that anything
would be gained by postponing this matter for
three days, as had been suggested. If his hon.
friend would show any advantage to be
gained by postponing it he (Mr. Allan) would
consent to it.

Bureau), who had taken such an active part
against this measure, and he (Mr. McCully)
agreed with him that there was nothing more
undesirable than to have these matters
brought before this Senate. He hoped the action of this Senate in taking the functions of
a court of law in relation to divorce would
never be repeated in this Legislature, as there
could be no tribunal so unfitted to enquire
into those delicate subjects relating to husband and wife, especially where the appeal
for divorce is on the ground of adultery. He
hoped the Government would take the matter
into consideration, and bring in a bill to establish a court to deal with those cases. He
would feel that the House was degraded if
they were obliged to listen to such testimony
as was sometimes brought forward in these
cases. As a general rule the evidence that is
required in order to justify the court to deal
with cases of this character is of such a nature
that no tribunal like this ought to hear it. He
was not speaking of this case, because it was
not of that revolting character that many
cases are, but he hoped this would be the last
application of this kind, and that the Government would provide as in other countries,
a tribunal to hear these indelicate matters,
which must of necessity be investigated
before a tribunal of justice. The testimony in
this case was not taken under oath, as we had
not the power to administer an oath, but as
the Union Act had conferred upon this Legislature the power to deal with these subjects, and it having been referred to a committee we dealt with it as best we could, and
we came unanimously to the conclusion that
the evidence was ample to justify the proceedings that have been taken. If there had
been seen any sign of collusion or condonation
between the parties to justify us in withholding our approval of this bill, he (Mr. McCully)
would have been one of the first to have
resisted it.

Hon. Mr. Letellier de Si. Jusi expressed
himself decidedly opposed to this hurried
mode of dealing with the question. If it must
be passed into law, why do so with so much
haste before hon. members have time to read
over the evidence taken before another tribunal. He thought the parties and their witnesses ought to have been properly produced
before this House, so that we would feel in
conscience we were doing our duty, and not
hold out such unheard of facilities to all others to come before this Dominion Parliament
Hon. Mr. McCully said he had listened with and accomplish their purposes with little or
much interest to the hon. gentleman (Mr. no trouble. This House was bound in honour
99267-17j

SENATE DEBATES
and duty to protect the interests of society,
and he felt satisfied that this was only the
commencement of many other similar applications and this case would be cited as precedent.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said the evidence in the
case went to show that the husband and wife
had had no personal intercourse whatever
since the wife had left her husband's house,
and it had been shown that from the time the
evidence was taken up to the time the Committee were sitting she was absent from him,
and the letter she had written to to him had
been unanswered. There had been no intercourse between them, either personal or by
correspondence,in any way, from the time the
wife had left her husband's house. The evidence of guilt had been produced before the
Committee in the most clear and distinct way
in which it could be taken until this Senate
has the power to examine witnesses under
oath. The House indicated its wish not to have
this matter brought before them, and they
deputed their power to a committee, who having heard the evidence which had been taken
under oath, and having heard the witnesses,
they have intimated there was no collusion
between the parties, and report in favour of
the bill. He did not quite agree with his hon.
friend, (Mr. McCully) that they should create
a court to deal with cases of marriage and
divorce, because he thought the establishment
of such a court would create too great a facility for the dissolution of the matrimonial bond,
and would tend to increase the number of
applications for divorce, while the present
course tended to check these applications.
These were the opinions he had formed for
the moment on the subject. The bill now
before the Legislature, so far as he had
formed an opinion, had been established by
such evidence as he thought justified the
House in adopting the report of the Committee and passing the bill.
Hon. Mr. Locke gave notice of enquiry for
Wednesday next, relating to filling up the
vacancy caused by the death of the late
Senator Wier.
The first report of the Joint Committee on
the Library was read and accepted.
The House then resolved itself into Committee of the Whole on the Bill from the
House of Commons, intituled: "Stationery
office establishment Bill,"
Hon. Mr. Dickson in the Chair,
The said bill was reported without an
amendment.

May 4, 1868

CURRENCY BILL
The House went into Committee of the
Whole on the Bill intituled "An Act respecting
the Currency,"
Hon. Mr. McCrea in the chair.
Hon. Mr. S±eeves said the provisions of the
bill did not carry out its object, as stated in
the preamble, that there should be a uniform
currency throughout the Dominion.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said that to prevent
making changes in the currency too often it
was thought desirable to submit to present
evils, and wait until they ascertained whether
the monetary arrangement agreed to by the
Conference at Paris would be adopted by the
United States.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot said if the recommendation of the Conference at Paris was not adopted, we should adopt the Nova Scotia system,
and one advantage to be derived from it
would be, it would relieve the silver nuisance
by reducing its value compared with the sovereign.
Hon. Mr. Tessier said legal tender notes
were legal tender in Nova Scotia, as well as in
other parts of the Dominion, therefore a person in Montreal with £1,000 in gold could get
one thousand pounds in legal tender notes for
it at the rate of 21, but if he went to Halifax
he cold buy up legal tender notes with his
gold and reap a profit. It this was carried on
to any extent the Province of Nova Scotia
would certainly lose by it.
Hon. Mr. McCully said there would be no
advantage gained in that way as the notes
would not be of the same value in Montreal as
in Halifax.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said this bill would provide a remedy for this difference of currency,
in case Congress agrees with the recommendation of the Conference held at
Paris, because then the bill would introduce a
uniform currency with the United States and
some of the principal powers of Europe, but in
case Congress does not accede to that recommendation, then some other bill will have to
be presented for the consideration of Parliament, having for its object the assimilation of
the currency of the Dominion alone. In the
prospect of Congress adopting that bill it was
thought best not to make any change in the
meantime. Correspondence has been going on
between the chairmnan of the Committee having that subject under consideration in Con-

May 4, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

gress, and the gentleman who is at the head of
the Finance Department here, and there is
every reason to think that Congress will adopt
that measure, and we will have a uniform
currency which will be the same all over the
Continent and in the United States. In reference to the objection made by his hon. friend
(Mr. Tessier) he did not think anything would
occur to interfere with the value of Dominion
notes; those notes so far as issued in the
Lower Provinces were marked redeemable
there, and those issued here are redeemed
here. They did not purpose to take sovereigns
for more than they were worth.
His Hon. The Speaker said they were mixing
up the question of currency with the question
of gold. If they took gold as the standard they
might divide it into seven parts in one place,
and into four parts in another, and call these
four parts as good as the seven, but still the
gold would always remain of one value. The
sovereign at $5 in Nova Scotia was worth no
more than $4.86§ here, and the same rule
would apply to the legal tenders which were
as good as gold.
Hon. Mr. Reesor said though duties on customs had to be paid in gold, it was not so in
regard to duties paid as internal revenue; this

was an advantage in favour of Nova Scotia
which, taken in connection with other concessions to that Province, would, he was afraid,
stir up something like dissatisfaction in the
far west.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell explained that the question of the value of the sovereign and bank
notes had been worked out in business connections for years past. The bank notes of St.
John had always commanded a premium in
Nova Scotia equal to the difference between
$5 and $4.86§.
Hon. Mr. Wilmo said his experience in regard to the conference held at Paris was, that
they should establish a coin to pay the balances between nation and nation; bills of exchange were often sold in St. John, and in
Quebec, at four or five per cent. less than the
value of the sovereign; then the gold went out
and the banks lessened their accommodation.
This measure recommended by the conference
was not so much for the internal trade of
these countries as the external trade.
The bill was then agreed to, read a third
time, and passed.
The House then adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Tuesday, May 5, 1868.
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
After routine,
Hon. Mr. McCully said he had received an
assurance from the Government that they intended to bring in a bill on the subject of
interest; therefore he would allow his motion
in reference to uniformity of interest to drop
for the present.
Hon. Mr. Reesor moved,
That an humble address be presented to His
Excellency the Governor-General, praying
that His Excellency will be pleased to cause to
be laid before this House copies of agreements, contracts or Orders in Council relating
to mail or coasting service on the inland waters of the Dominion, or on the coasts of
Quebec, New Brunswick or Nova Scotia, entered into or made since the first of July last.
Hon. Mr. Reesor said he would state in
connection with this motion, that if any objection could be raised on account of the amount
of work which would be necessary to get
those returns, he would be satisfied to have
the returns of the amounts paid for each contract, and the service each was required to
perform. He did so not with a view of finding
any fault with what has been done, but because parties who were interested in the matter have represented that certain mail routes
received pretty large pay for mail service that
was unnecessary, and that other lines of
steamers had done the service for a less sum.
One gentleman had declared that there should
not have been any large sum for this service
upon Lake Superior. How much truth there
might be in the truth of these reports, he did
not know, but he was inclined to think that
the Government had made the best terms
which they could under the circumstances. He
thought by having the papers brought down,
the public would have a better knowledge of
the matter, and, perhaps, it might enable the
Government to make better terms next year.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said the production of
those papers would not involve any considerable labour as the contracts were very few.
The motion was then carried.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said he would have to be
under the necessity of pressing the question

May 5, 1868

which he had the honour to ask the Government some three weeks since, with reference
to the law relating to patents for inventions.
Hon. Mr. Chapais submitted an Act relating
to Patents for Inventions, which was read a
first time, and the second reading fixed for
this day week.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said this question ought
not to be put off so long as this day week, as
that would bring it near the time Parliament
would be prorogued. It had been announced
by some of the members of the Government
in another place that Parliament would be
prorogued about the fifteenth or twentieth of
this month, therefore he thought a bill of such
importance should not be delayed to so late a
period in the Session. The bill was now printed in English, and there would be no difficulty
in having it translated and before them in a
few days. If it did not come up until this day
week, it would be almost impossible to get a
consideration for it, and he feared it would be
lost. Then again a great many of the members
would be leaving before that time, therefore
he hoped his hon. friend would fix an earlier
day for the consideration of the bill.
Hon. Mr. Chapais said he would move the
second reading for Friday, but if the bill was
not then ready, he would move to postpone
the second reading until Tuesday. He would
try to have it ready so that the members could
have the bill before them for at least one day
before it was read. The second reading was
then ordered for Friday.
Hon. Mr. Allan presented the second report
from the Joint Library Committee, which report was ordered on the motion of Hon. Mr.
Allan, seconded by Hon. Letellier de St. Jus±,
to be taken into consideration to-morrow.
ORDERS OF THE DAY.
The second reading of the Bill from the
House of Commons, the Dominion Bank Notes
Substitution Bill, was postponed until to-morrow.
INLAND REVENUE DEPARTMENT BILL.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said in reference to this
order of the day, that he desired to incorporate in the bill the management of a branch
of the public service which properly falls
within this Department. They had in Canada
a Culling Timber Department which involves
some expenditure; this ought to be attached to

May 5, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

one of the public departments, and as it would
properly come within the category of internal
revenue, it should be managed by that Department. He would therefore move that the
order of the day be discharged, to enable him.
to insert a clause in the bill with that object,
and the Bill be referred to a Committee of the
whole House to-morrow.
The motion was then carried.

Also, the Bill entitled, "Publication of
Parliamentary Papers Bill," which was agreed
to, with amendment in the French version
only.
The 14th report of Joint Committee on
Printing was then taken into consideration,
which upon motion of the Hon. Mr. Burnham,
seconded by the Hon. Mr. Skead, was adopted.
Hon. Mr. Ryan gave notice for Thursday
next of an address to the Governor-General,
The Speaker then announced the return on the subject of immigration for the year
from the Commons, of "Clifton Suspension 1868.
Bridge Bill," that the amendments of the
The House then adjourned until 3 o'clock
Senate to said bill had been agreed to.
p.m., to-morrow.

SENATE DEBATES

May 6,.1868

give satisfaction in the future, no more than
in the past; whereas if the House selected
their Speaker the matter would be fully
debated, and the best choice possible made,
Wednesday, May 6, 1868.
which would necessarily give entire satisfacThe Speaker took the chair at three o'clock. tion. Whereas by the present system it did
appear as if this House was the only one
After routine,
under our system of Government that had
Hon. Mr. Campbell brought in a Bill in- neither the sense or the judgment to choose
tituled "Evidence in Civil and Commercial their own Speaker to preside over the deliberMatters Bill," read a first and second time.
ations of the Senate Chamber. He for one
would raise his voice against the perpetuation
Hon. Mr. Tessier gave notice of Contingent of such an evil, and was satisfied the day was
Committee Report for Friday next.
not far distant when this House would make
its voice heard in no unmistakable tones. He
RESOLUTION FOR ELECTIVE SPEAKER would now move the resolution of which he
OF SENATE
had given notice, seconded by the Hon. Mr.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just moved his Sanborn.
resolution, seconded by Hon. Mr. Sanborn,
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said that in seconding,
"That it is desirable that the Senate should this motion, he had only a few words to say
have the selection of its own Speaker at the upon the subject, as he had already exopening of each Parliament, and whenever a pressed his views upon this point on a former
vacancy shall occur." In support of his resolu- occasion. The only objection which could be
tion the hon. gentleman said, he wished to see made to the Senate having the power to
the good old practices of the good old times select its own Speaker was, that it did not
observed, when the Legislative Council of conform to the course pursued in the House of
Canada had the power of selecting gentlemen Lords. In regard to this objection, he said this
as Speakers of this House, remarkable for Senate was constituted under a particular
their polite demeanour, familiarity with its
practices and customs and their high dignified statute, and there exists very little similarity
social position. Such as the late Sir Allan N. in many respects between the House of Lords
McNab, the present Hon. Postmaster-General, and our mode of procedure. This dissimilarity
and many others, whose election by the House was intended by those who framed our
always gave universal satisfaction. His pres- Confederation Act: which specified that we
ent resolution was not aimed at the present should be guided by those parliamentary
occupant of the Speaker's Chair, or in any way rules, and have attributed to us those priviintended to give offence; but he thought the leges which attach to the House of Commons
Constitution would not prevent this House and not the House of Lords. The analogy fails
from exercising the rights claimed by the also in the matter of the presiding
officer of
smallest deliberative bodies in the land, viz.,
the right to choose the presiding officer over the House of Lords and the presiding officers
their deliberations, and he felt assured this of this House. The reason why the Speaker of
House would sooner or later assert its right to the House of Lords is a nominee of the Crown
elect their Speaker, and that at a very early is from the peculiarities of the British Constidate. Their self-respect and dignity as an tution, which has grown up little by little in
independent Branch of the Legislature was at the course of ages, and circumstances have
stake. He could not avoid alluding to the way created an officer, who by custom, has been
in which also the present selection was made made Speaker of the House of Lords, although
by the Government of a gentleman outside of he may, or may not be a Peer of the Realm.
the present Senate, until the appointment was
decided on. When the selection had to be His right of addressing the House of Lords demade the Government might have selected a pends upon the fact as to whether or not he is
gentleman well acquainted from his long ex- a Peer, but that would not apply in this Senperience with the forms and routine of this ate. He (Mr. Sanborn) thought that every
House-possessing all the advantages of the deliberative body possessed the inherent right
present incumbent. He did not wish to say to select a person to preside over them. That
more on this branch of the subject, though he was a natural right, and would commend
might enlarge on it to a considerable extent. itself to the good sense of every one. It was a
He was satisfied the present systen would not right which was exercised throughout every

THESENATE

May 6, 1888

SENATE DEBATES

grade of society, from the highest to the lowest. There could not be found a debating club
organised among a number of school boys
without their having the privilege of electing
their chairman, and this same principle is
carried out in every organised society, whether political or otherwise, and in no case do we
see a power beyond themselves putting a person over them to direct, govern, and restrain
their deliberations. It is a very singular
anomaly, and one which would never arise in
the natural order of things, that the highest
deliberative body of a political character in
any land, having power such as this Senate
possesses, should be dependent upon another
independent power for the choice of their
presiding officer. This appeared to him to be
an anomaly which could not exist for any
length of time, and whatever may be the
decision upon this motion, before many years
this Senate will be convinced of the propriety of their selecting their own Speaker. Then
again, according to the Union Act, the choice
of Speaker is not given in an unlimited
manner to the Government, the power is given to appoint a Senator only, and no other
person. In this respect the appointment is not
analogous to the appointment of Speaker for
the House of Lords. There the Speaker has
peculiar privileges, or rather the absence of
privileges, which he (Mr. Sanborn) considered
would be found necessary in the course of
practice, to be given to the presiding officer of
the Senate, that is the power given to the
Speaker of the House of Commons for preserving order, which was given also to the
Speaker of this Senate, but was not conferred
upon the Speaker of the House of Lords. This
then was another failure in the analogy between the presiding officers of those two
Houses. Then why should not this appointment be made by the Senate? Does not every
Senator feel that it is casting a reproach upon
him, after having been called by Her Majesty
to a seat in the highest deliberative body in
the country, to say that this body cannot, in
the exercise of its deliberative capacity choose
its own presiding officer, but he must be chosen by the Ministers of the Crown who, for the
time being, are entrusted with the administration of the affairs of the country? Was it right
that twelve or thirteen men should deliberate
together and advise the Governor-General to
select this or that man to be the presiding
officer of the Senate, instead of having him
elected by the seventy-two members of this
Senate, who were chosen from all parts of the
country, and who, from their long experience
99267-18

in public life, high character, and well known
ability and integrity, were well qualified to
make that selection? Does not every member
of this House feel that an imputation is cast
upon this body, when the principle which is
recognised in all other organisations of electing their own presiding officer, does not apply
to the highest legislative body in the country.
Under these circumstances he cheerfully
availed himself of the opportunity of seconding this motion. If this power of appointing a
Speaker is left in the hands of the Government for the time being, it may be made use
of for party purposes. In consequence of the
exigencies of party a man may be placed in
the position of Speaker of this House that
would not be acceptable to this body. He
would first have to be appointed as a Senator
before he could be appointed as Speaker, and
this would create a feeling which would be
disseminated over the country, that this Senate was made a convenience to the Government of the day for the purpose of obtaining a party advantage. This is calculated to
lower the position of the Senate, and place us
in a position which we ought not voluntarily
to accept. It is only giving a fair and manly
expression to our feelings when we say that it
is desirable that this Senate should choose its
own presiding officer.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said it was impossible to
find fault with the manner in which this resolution was brought before the House, or with
the strong reasons given by the mover and
seconder, why we should select our on presiding officer. He could only express his regret
that his hon. friend had brought the subject
under the consideration of the House at this
period of the Session. It involved a very grave
and important point, and it was one upon
which every member of the Senate would
desire to express an opinion, and they ought
to have this opportunity, both of expressing
their opinions and voting upon this question.
Many of the members not being present, his
hon. friend would see that the moment was
not opportune for discussing so important a
motion. It was also to be regretted that this
motion was put forward now when we had for
so short a time enjoyed the present Constitution. This Constitution has been framed after
a great deal of deliberation. Gentlemen of experience from all parts of the Dominion had
held consultations in regard to this Union,
which consultations were repeated at Charlottetown and subsequently at Quebec and
London, where the views of the members
representing the different Provinces were can-

SENATE DEBATES
vassed, and no doubt, modified, and the result
of this modification was our present Constitution. He said it was impossible yet to form any
sound opinion in regard to its merits or demerits, and he regretted that such a measure
as this was put forward, particularly on account of the effect it would have, if carried,
upon gentlemen in England, for what would
be thought by those members of Parliament
who gave their assistance to give us this Constitution, if they see in a few months after,
such a want of stability on our part, and what
we desired one month we do not desire the
next. Every means had been exerted for the
purpose of procuring an authoritative expression of opinion from all parts of the country,
and the Constitution given us was framed
upon that opinion. The British Government
did not form this Constitution upon any theories of their own, but they gave us the very
things which we asked for, and what would be
thought of our stability, and of our legislation
for the government of our country, if we now
asked a change to be made before having an
opportunity of forming a sound opinion upon
it. Then it was not to be expected that the
legislation which has taken place in Great
Britain at the instance of the whole Dominion
would be altered at the instance of this particular Branch of the Legislature. If there is to
be a change, it must be a change sought for by
the House of Commons, as well as this House,
and he thought the House of Commons would
not concur in the resolution, unless it went
further and altered the right by which hon.
members of this House held their seats. They
would couple to it a resolution that this House
ought to be elective, and this he thought
would not be very desirable after the experience they had had with an elective Legislative
Council. The present form was adopted after
consulting with gentlemen from the different
Provinces, who were able to judge of the
comparative merits of the two systems; it received the sanction of the various Legislatures, and in New Brunswick it was sanctioned by the direct vote of the people. After
such efforts as have been made to procure an
expression of opinion, and after this Constitution had been concurred in by the Legislatures of the several Provinces, it was impossible to believe that a change should take place,
except for very grave and serious reasons. He
did not apprehend that those grave and serious reasons had been adduced here, or that a
great necessity for this change had been
shown. He did not know of any practical evils
arising from it, as the House had accom-

May 6, 1868

plished all it was formed for the purpose of
accomplishing. If his hon. friend thought that
some other course might have been pursued in
reference to the choice of a Speaker, it was no
reason why he should seek for a change in the
Constitution. His hon. friend (Mr. Sanborn)
said it was an insult put upon the House that
a gentleman was not chosen as Speaker from
the members of the Senate; he forgets that the
Speaker was made a member of the House not
by any extraordinary means, but in the ordinary course of proceedings, by means provided by the Constitution. He was appointed to
take the place of one of those gentlemen who
was named in the proclamation, and he was
selected to fill the position of Speaker in the
same manner that any other hon. member
would have been selected. There was another
reason why this motion should not have been
brought forward at this time. Many of the
members were of opinion that the number of
Departments should be reduced, and he apprehended that the Speaker could occupy the
position of head of a Department and presiding officer of this House at the same time,
which could not be done if the Speaker was
elected by the Senate. When the Speakers of
the Legislative Council of the Province of
Canada were appointed by the Crown, they
were always members of the Government,
and sometimes were charged with carrying on
the affairs of the Government in the Upper
House, and that course might be adopted
again with advantage, but the change now
contemplated would deprive us of this opportunity. If a change of this kind should ultimately be desired, when the time for discussing the measure came he would not think it
wise to hurry a conclusion upon it as was
sought by this resolution, but it should receive
such consideration as the importance of the
subject demanded. A measure of this kind
should not be adopted until after we have had
some experience to see whether the present
system will work well or not, and whether the
present Constitution is not best suited to the
wants, habits, and wages of the country,
otherwise we certainly shall be arriving at a
hasty conclusion, which will afford evidence
of a want of stability on our part which will
not redound to our credit as statesmen, either
at home or abroad. This matter having been
brought before the House and the hon. mover
and seconder having had an opportunity of
expressing their views, he hoped they would
not press the question to a division, but would
allow the matter to remain in its present
shape until hon. members have more experience in the present working of the Constitution.

May 6, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Chapais (in French) wished to
oppose the motion, with all his force and
energy, as premature and uncalled for at the
present time, without even giving the present
arrangement time to develop itself. Surely
hon. members were suffering no grievous
wrong at this time, that we must at the end of
the first Session under the new Union Act,
raise such a discussion with these thin benches. Even under the elective system the
Government had the nominating power and
the system worked well. Ours was as nearly
as circumstances would permit a transcript of
the British Constitution, so that this House
might be styled the House of Lords of Canada.
He could not agree with the remarks of the
hon. member (Mr. Sanborn) that all deliberative bodies, from the highest to the lowest,
claimed and exercised the right of selecting
their own Speaker. We see that the Mayors
of Montreal and other large cities are not
selected by the members of their councils,
but by another power, so that the purity of
reasoning does not hold good in municipal
affairs. He considered it much better to give
our new Constitution a fair trial, and not be
seeking to alter one of its leading features
before it was one year in existence. It would
be more creditable to us as a people in the
eyes of the British nation, and much safer for
our own monarchical form of Government,
(which form we all revere and have affirmed
as the best, time and again, in this House and
elsewhere). Besides it was possible in the
course of events that the office of Speaker
might at some future day be united with some
other department under the Government, and
thus carry out the ideas of economy for which
this House contends on all occasions.

Speaker was only to be the presiding officer of
the Senate it was very difficult to see why he
should have been appointed, and why this
body should not have the privilege of electing
their own presiding officer, as almost every
other deliberative body in the country does.
The Hon. Minister of Agriculture had alluded
to municipalities that did not elect their presiding officers. He (Mr. Macpherson) did not
think those cases were in point. The VicePresident of the United States was elected as
Vice-President, and was ex-ofcio President
of the Senate, but if his office becomes vacant,
the Senate elect their own presiding officer.
He (Mr. Macpherson) thought the discussion
would do good, but he hoped the hon. mover
would not press his motion to a division, as
the discussion upon it was all that was required at present. He thought it impossible for
the present system to continue, unless there
was some stronger reason given in the future
why the presiding officer of this House should
be appointed by the Crown; and when they
asked to be allowed to elect their own
Speaker, he was quite certain the British
Parliament would not refuse to grant their
request, but he thought they should not so
soon ask them to amend the Constitutional
Act, after its being passed with so much deliberation.

Hon. Mr. Ferrier quite agreed with what
had been said by his hon. friend (Mr. Macpherson). He thought that if the Speaker was
appointed a member of the Government there
was a danger of his exercising too much control over this House. It would show a want of
stability and sober thought to pass this motion, because there ought to be some very
good and sufficient reasons before the Senate
Hon. Mr. Macpherson said the resolution should recommend any change in the Conwas premature, and the fact of its coming so stitution. There was no doubt but this Union
soon after we have assembled under our new Act, like everything else, was defective, but
Constitution was as strong an argument as they should try for the next five years to work
could be advanced against it. He agreed with it out in the best possible manner. He thought
the hon. mover who said that if the resolu- this discussion would have a good effect, but
tions of the Quebec Conference had not been he trusted that no alterations would take
considered in the light of a treaty, there probuntil they had
ably would be a very strong vote for amend- place in the old Constitution,
ing the resolution providing for the Speaker had three or four years experience with it.
of this House being appointed by the GovHon. Mr. Allan also expressed a hope that
ernment. He thought that when the Legisla- the motion would not he pressed to a division.
tive Council of Canada were deliberating
upon this subject that they believed the sys- He agreed with the principle of the motion,
tem would be continued of the Speaker's oc- but he thought the House should not assent to
cupying the position of a Minister of the it at the present time. He wished it to be
Crown, without a Department, which might distinctly understood that we were discussing
be desirable under the new system where this question without any reference to the
there would not be a necessity for as many gentleman who presides over the Senate. This
Departments as under the old one. If the House should have the right to elect its
99267-18J

SENATE DEBATES
Speaker, and by asserting this now, we cannot
be charged with showing any want of stability, or that we had not properly made up our
minds before, because when the Act of last
Session was before us, we were obliged to
accept it as a whole. He thought at some
future day this change should be made, and
then those who had served in the House for a
length of time would have a right to look
forward to fill that position, but at the present
time it would be unwise after so short an
experience of the working of the Constitution
to ask for changes to be made.
Hon. Mr. Benson said that after hearing the
arguments which had been advanced, he felt
very much inclined to meet the views of those
who wish the matter deferred until a future
period. He was in favour of the principle of the
motion, but under the circumstances would
rather see it deferred. They should wait until
they saw what changes were required in the
Act, and then they could all be made at the
same time.
Hon. Mr. Armand (in French) was inaudible, but was understood to say that this resolution was ill-advised and uncalled-for at this
time, when we should give the present system
a fair trial, particularly as it is possible that
the office of Speaker may be united with that
of some other Department of the Government
soon.
Hon. Mr. Holmes said the motion was contrary to his views. He found it stated in the
24th section of the Union Act, that "the
Governor-General shall, from time to time, in
the Queen's name, summon qualified persons
to the Senate, and subject to the provisions of
this Act. Every person so summoned shall
become and be a member of the Senate and a
Senator." Therefore this House being chosen
by the representative of the Queen, did not
come under the same rule as the House of
Commons, or corporations who had a right to
choose their own chairman. He hoped the
resolution would be withdrawn as he should
be sorry to see it put to a vote.
He had served in the Legislative Council for
as long a period as any gentleman present,
and he had always endeavoured to support the
powers that be so long as they were right.
Hon. Mr. Botsford said this was a subject of
deep interest, and one upon which every
member of the Senate should express an opinion, but this could not now be had in the
absence of so many members of the House;
therefore the measure should not be pressed
to a division. It seemed to him that there was

May 6, 1868

nothing constitutionally wrong in the Senate
seeking to have a change made in the Constitution, by which we will be able to secure
the most competent member of the Senate,
having the best knowledge of the usages of
Parliament, to preside over our deliberations.
In looking at the present mode of appointment, we must consider, that it is not the
Queen that makes the appointment, and
strictly speaking it is not even the members of
the Government, because the Government
only exists by having a majority of the representatives of the people to support them.
Therefore if we come to analyze the appointment, it is the people, through their representatives, who make it, and it is objectionable
from that point of view. He took it for granted
that it was quite right for this Senate by
petition to bring the matter before the Imperial Parliament, and he would suggest to
the hon. mover that the selection of a presiding officer should not take place at the commencement of each Parliament, but that his
appointment should be for a certain period,
because it might be inconvenient for this
Senate at every dissolution of Parliament, to
be called upon to elect their presiding officer.
Hon. Mr. McCully said he had taken an
active part in framing this Constitution, and
he was not now afraid of discussing the merits
of this particular point. When this Constitution was framed, he was one of those who
advocated the principle that the Speaker of
the Senate should be appointed by the Government of the day, and he had not since
changed his mind upon the subject. He believed then, and he believed still, that this
mode of appointment was more in uniformity
with the principles of that body to which we
are to some extent assimilated, than it would
be to have the Speaker elected by this House.
He had listened with a great deal of attention
to the remarks of his hon. friend, (Mr. Sanborn), but they had failed to convince him
that the analogy he mentioned should apply to
this House. He was not aware of any instance
of a constitutional legislative body which was
appointed by Her Majesty, or Her Majesty's
representative, having conferred upon them
the power to elect their own Speaker. Some
hon. gentlemen have stated that this House,
being appointed by the Queen, the analogy
between this Senate and the House of Lords
did not hold good, but that like the House of
Commons we should elect our Speaker. He
contended that this body, not having been
elected by the people, the Speaker, like the
Lord Chancellor, should be a nominee of the

May 6, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Crown. He was disappointed in the way in respective Branches of the Colonial Legislawhich the Government have exercised that tures, of expressing their views in regard to
power. When the Union Act was framed it this Constitution, had they felt disposed to do
was expected that the Speaker of this House so. Whatever our individual opinion may be in
should hold the same relation to the House respect to having the Speaker appointed by
that the Lord Chancellor does in the House of the House or Government, every one apLords in England, that is, he should be a peared to admit that it would be premature to
member of the Administration, and should go get up an agitation to change the Constitution
out with the retiring Administration, and before we have had time to test it. He did not
come in with the new. It is said that the think it would be proper for a deliberate body
Speaker now being an officer of the Govern- like this to add their weight and influence to
ment, the incoming Government would have the movement going on in Nova Scotia, by
the power to remove him. That may be done, deciding here, before the close of this Session
but he not being an officer of the Cabinet it of Parliament, that we are dissatisfied with
would not be desirable for them to exercise the present state of things, and want a change.
that power, but if he was a member of the Therefore, he thought it would be exceedingly
Cabinet he would be obliged to retire.
imprudent for this House to adopt this motion
at the present time, and he hoped that the
Hon. Mr. Ferrier thought the Speaker of the hon. mover would take the suggestions that
Senate should be a member of the Adminis- had been made by so many members of the
tration, and in that way we would save the House and withdraw the motion. It has been
salary of one of the heads of Departments. As said that if the Speaker of the House was a
they were now discussing this matter, he was member of the Government, it would give the
prepared to express his opinion before the Government an undue influence in the Senate.
House and country. He thought it was unfor- He did not think so, for it had frequently been
tunate that the Governor-General should have the custom for the chairman to take part in
selected a member of a Local Legislature to the debate, and the Lord Chancellor of Engpreside over the debates and proceedings of land even introduces Bills into the House of
this House, which was one of the most dig- Lords. This gave the Speaker an influence in
nified bodies in this Dominion. It requires a the House, but not in any way to affect his
gentleman of large experience to preside over decision upon any subject. He thought that it
this Senate, and it could hardly be expected might be more economical for the Speaker to
that a gentleman coming from a Local Leg- be a member of the Government. His hon.
islature would be as familiar with the order friend (Mr. MeCully) was mistaken when he
of this branch of the Legislature as those who said these were all Crown appointments; the
for a long period have held seats in this Legislative Council of New Brunswick had the
House. He thought a change should be made right to elect their President, and they exerin the mode of appointing their Speaker, but
it was exceedingly undesirable that this Do- cised that right. We obtained that privilege,
minion should seek for a change in their not by an appeal to the Imperial Parliament,
Constitution so soon after its organization. but through an address, and the power was
The House, therefore, should well consider acceded to us by a despatch from the Colonial
before approaching the Throne with an ap- Office, but in this case the change could be
plication founded upon this resolution. He was made only by the Imperial Parliament amendnot surprised that his hon. friend had made ing our Act of Union, which it is not desirable
this motion, nor did he much regret it, for to change so soon after its coming into operamany reasons, but still unless it was carried tion.
by a very large majority he could hardly
Hon. Mr. Locke supported the resolution,
expect to found an address upon it that would
and would oppose its withdrawal. The argube expected to prevail at any very early day
ment in favour of Nova Scotia's discontent
elsewhere.
with the actual state of things was strengthHon. Mr. Wark said this was not the first ened by the introduction of such a resolutime the members of the House had had an tion as this one. He had no fault to find with
opportunity of expressing their views upon the present Speaker, who always treated him
this subject, for there was scarcely a member with the most gentlemanly urbanity, and the
around these benches but had an opportunity, politeness which was characteristic of his
either when this matter was discussed in the countrymen; but it was with the exercise of
Mother Country, or when it was before the this nominating power that he was dissatisfied,

SENATE DEBATES
and he thought this House should assert its
own dignity and prerogatives, and take the
election of its own Speaker in their own hands.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell regretted that the hon.
mover had introduced this motion, and had
followed it up by the speech which he made.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just-I had a bad
example.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell did not know what his
hon. friend meant by a bad example; he had
not heard a word from him (Mr. Mitchell), as
he had been wonderfully reticent upon the
matter, but it was not because he did not feel
any interest in the question. The House must
not conceive, that because the Government
have not thought it necessary to go into the
matter at any length in answer to the charges
brought against them in the appointment of
the Speaker, either in the manner of the selection, or in the selection itself, that they are
not able to justify their action to the House
and country, but as the hon. mover had
agreed to withdraw the resolution for the
present, he would defer his reply to a future
period, when he would be prepared to defend
the action of the Government in this matter.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just would withdraw his resolution on the assurance given by
the hon. members of the Government and of
this House, that on some future occasion when
there would be a larger attendance of the
members in their seats, and more time, the
discussion could be taken up and proceeded
with until the sense of the House could be
taken. He was determined to do so, as he felt
strongly on the subject, and would do all in
his power to have the evil redressed. He was
not afraid of discussion on this or any other
subject. On the contrary he courted it. He
could not avoid saying before he sat down
that he was convinced that three-fourths of
the members of this House were dissatisfied
with the appointment, and the way it was
made, from the discussion we had before on
this subject, but as he would bring up the
matter again, he would say no more at present, but begged to withdraw the resolution.
The resolution was then withdrawn.
Hon. Mr. Locke enquired whether the
Government have taken any action in filling
the vacancy in the Senate caused by the death
of the late Hon. Mr. Wier, and, if not, is it
their intention to fill up said vacancy before
the close of this Session?
Hon. Mr. Kenny said it was the intention of
the Government to fill up that vacancy at as
early a date as possible.

May 6, 1868

SECOND REPORT OF THE JOINT
COMMITTEE ON THE LIBRARY.
Hon. Mr. Allan then moved the adoption of
the second Report of the Joint Library Committee. He complained of the various proposals made for managing the Parliamentary
Library by the Librarian and his Assistants,
who would be officers of this Branch of the
Legislature, as well as of the Commons House.
Hon. Mr. Steeves asked if the proposed increase of $400 a year to Mr. Todd as Librarian,
and of $300 to his Assistant Mr. Lajoie, and of
$150 to Mr. Lapierre yearly, was to be added
over and above the present salaries?
Hon. Mr. Allan said, yes; and went on to
defend the propriety and justice of the additional allowances to the present library staff.
Hon. Mr. McCully could not understand
why this Joint Committee should make a
separate report in which the action of the
other House was not referred to at all. Now
was the time when this Joint Committee of
the Library have taken this subject up, that
we should understand distinctly what our
rights and relations to the library are. If the
library was a joint library for the House of
Commons and Senate, he could not understand how this House could give up any portion of its privileges of paying, or of assisting
in the payment of the Librarian. According to
the report Mr. Todd was Librarian for the
House of Commons, and we to get his services
must pay him $400 as he is not our officer. He
did not believe that was a right principle. He
had no objection to an increase in Mr. Todd's
salary, for he was a man well versed in constitutional history, and had published a work
which was a great credit to himself as well as
to Canada. He was a gentleman of high standing, and should be paid for his services, but at
the same time he (Mr. McCully) was not prepared to admit that this House should not
have a right to the patronage and the payment of half that gentleman's salary, and he
should be equally at the command of members of the Senate as well as the House of
Commons. He had been chairman of a Joint
Committee appointed by the Legislature of
Nova Scotia and that committee had prepared a joint report at each session, the
Librarian there being appointed by the
Government
was
Librarian
for
both
Houses, and he was paid out of the revenues
of the country according to the recommendation of that committee. It would be best to

May 6, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

have this matter settled upon a proper foundation, in order to know whether the members of this Senate have a right to go into the
library and ask the services of the Librarian
the same as members of the other Branch of
the Legislature, whose officer this report declares him to be.
Hon. Mr. Boisford said he had suggested to
the chairman of the Committee that it was
desirable that the Joint Committee should
meet and make a joint report in regard to this
matter, and submit it for the approval of the
Senate and House of Commons.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said he quite agreed
with the members of the Comnittee that the
services of Mr. Todd were of the most valuable character, and it was desirable that some
additional consideration should be given him
for information which he has given to the
members of the Legislature, and for the additional duties which have been imposed upon

him. He would suggest that the matter had
better be referred back again to the Committee, and let them determine upon a salary to
be adopted conjointly by both Houses of Parliament.
Hon. Mr. Allan, after making a few remarks, said he had no objection to withdrawing the report, so that the suggestion of the
Postmaster-General could be carried out.
The report was then withdrawn and referred to the Joint Committee for further consideration.
A message was brought from the House of
Commons with a Bill intituled: An Act to
confirn the amalgamation of the Commercial
Bank of Canada, and the Merchants' Bank,
and to amend and consolidate the Acts of
incorporation of the said Banks," read a first
time and ordered for Friday next.
The House then adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Thursday, May 7, 1868.
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
After routine,
Hon. Mr. Tessier moved, seconded by Hon.
Mr. Bourinot, that an humble address be presented to His Excellency the GovernorGeneral, praying that His Excellency will be
pleased to cause to be laid before this House
copies of the reports made by John Page, Esq.,
Engineer of the Public Works Department, on
the subject of the deepening of Lake St. Peter,
in virtue of an order in Council, made about
the lst of July, 1862?
Hon. Mr. Campbell said his bon. friend
would remember that he (Mr. Campbell) had
said the other day that though reports had
been made the Government had received no
final report.
Hon. Mr. Chapais said the report required
was not completed, though considerable
progress had been made with it. The engineer
in charge, from a professional sense of duty^to
the public service, and to his own reputation,
wished time to verify the soundings which
had been made last fall. Still it is possible new
soundings might discover some changes after
the winter season. Hence the bon. mover
would see that it was impossible under the
circumstances to bring down the report asked
for just now, but he assured the House no
time would be lost, as they felt its importance
for the shipping of the country.
Hon. Mr. Tessier regretted that the required
information could not be furnished until after
this Session, as the public are anxious to hear
what progress bas been made with this work.
The motion was then carried.
IMMIGRATION-ADDRESS.
Hon. Mr. Ryan moved, seconded by Hon. Mr.
Ross, that an humble address be presented to
His Excellency the Governor-General, praying
that His Excellency will be pleased to cause to
be laid before this House, copies of all correspondence which bas taken place from the lst
of January last, to the present date, between
the Hon. the Minister of Agriculture and the
Immigrant Agents at Hamilton, Toronto,
Kingston, Ottawa, Montreal, Sherbrooke,
Quebec, St. John, N.B., Halifax, and
any port or ports in Europe, having reference
to the probable extent and character of the

May 7,.188

immigration of 1868, as well as to the arrangements made and means provided or to be
provided in aid and encouragement of such
immigration.
Hon. Mr. Ryan said the subject of immigration was one which had always occupied a
great deal of attention, not alone of the Legislature but of the country generally, and as
this question was subject to new regulations,
we should know how immigration to this
country is affected by those regulations, and
by the new system under which the Government of the country is administered. As he
wished the House to obtain the fullest information in regard to immigration, and how it is
to be fostered in this country, he would add to
the resolution just read: "Also copies of any
correspondence which has taken place between the Government of the Dominion and
any of the Local Governments upon the same
subject." He had mentioned the other day that
the great attraction to induce immigrants to
settle in the country, was that of having land
to give them. The Dominion Government having no land, can make them no grants of land,
that being in the possession of the Local
Governments. Therefore it was important for
us to know what steps the Dominion Government have taken in this matter, and to
know whether the Local Governments are
willing to co-operate with them in order to
settle the country. He would suggest that as
soon as the arrangements are completed for
building the Intercolonial Railway-and we
all presume that it will be built very shortly-inducements should be held out to immigrants to induce them to settle along that line.
There is very good land along that line of
railway, which will be at the disposal of the
Local Governments, and they should make a
provision that those who work for a certain
term to the satisfaction of their employers,
should be allowed to settle upon those lands
upon very easy terms, in order to encourage
immigration to the country. His object in
making this motion was to learn whether any
arrangements had been made with the Local
Governments in regard to inducements being
held out to promote immigration, and also to
induce those who come from Europe, to remain and settle in Canada, instead of passing
through to the United States. A great deal of
the money granted in past years for the encouragement of immigration, had been unprofitably laid out in Quebec and other ports,
instead of being distributed in such a way as
would induce immigrants to settle in the
country.

May 7, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Chapais-The Government would
grant the required correspondence most willingly, as the subject was one in which the
whole country takes a deep interest. The
Government wished to encourage a good class
of immigrants to this country, and also to the
Maritime Provinces. But the abuse by agents
at the ports of Europe of the name of the
Canadian Government was much to be deplored-poor immigrants would land at the
port of Quebec with letters on them from
agents telling them that the Goverment
would send them on to their destination free
of expense, thus deceiving these poor people,
and in many instances inflicting great hardships on them. This evil should be guarded
against in future as much as possible. The
number of immigrants landing on our shores
last season was greater by 7,000 than the
previous year. But as the great bulk of them
only passed through the country to join their
friends in the west, this country derived little
or no benefit from them. Wages were good in
Canada, and all the necessaries of life much
cheaper than in the United States; but there
the public works always going on induced the
flood of European immigration to run to that
country. We here should use all our energies
and exertions to attract foreign immigration
and to prevent the emigration of les enfants
du sol, who are daily leaving this country in
crowds to find employment elsewhere. The
Local Governments should bestir themselves
also, and see to encourage the establishment
of manufacture and the opening and development of the industrial resources of this great
country. Grants of land along the line of the
proposed Intercolonial railroad will tend
much to attract population when these works
commence this season. This Government will
do all in its power to forward the object of
immigration and settlement of our vast expanse of country, but much more onerous
obligations rest with the Local Governments,
who are the proper parties to carry out the
proposed facilities for settling the public
domaine of this Canada.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson said it was very true
that their efforts to induce immigration had
failed, but he thought those efforts were not
well directed as they consisted mainly of an
establishment at Quebec, and most of the inmigrants who arrived there went on to the
United States. In his opinion, the money spent
upon that and similar establishments, and for
paying the passage of immigrants, was not
wisely spent. Instead of devoting this money
to that purpose, they should have given those

immigrants lands to settle upon, and then we
would have had a large immigration which
would have added largely to the population of
the country. While we set a high price upon
our lands, and were making no efforts in
Europe to get immigrants to come to our
shores, the United States by national agents,
and agents sent out by private enterprise,
were making prodigious efforts for this purpose, and they were successful.
Hon. Mr. Chapais said that free lands were
given to the settler, and work on the roads in
Canada.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson said that was quite
true, but those lands were of inferior quality,
being in a rocky part of the country where the
land was not suitable for agricultural purposes. The immigrant would not reside upon
such land when he could get 150 acres of
prairie land in the United States free. There
was nothing attractive in the land given to the
settler in Canada, and so soon as the road was
constructed his wages ceased, and he left for
the United States. That is not the policy which
should be pursued by the Government; they
should open up roads through the best lands
of the country to induce immigrants to settle
on them. Some years ago he (Mr. Macpherson)
was on the continent of Europe, and he took
some pains to look into the manner in which
emigration was conducted there. He found at
all the leading ports both consuls and shipping
agents very busy in inducing men to ernigrate
to the United States. Numerous placards were
posted up, offering free lands in the most
attractive part of the United States to those
who would emigrate, and the consuls were
acting as emigration agents, as all should do.
It was a great mistake made by this country
in not having qualified emigration agents in
Europe; if we had sent such agents there as
were sent by the United States, the Minister
of Immigration would not have had to make
the mortifying statement which he has had to
make to-day. The tide of immigration is now
setting strongly towards the Western States,
and it would be very difficult to change it. He
agreed with the Minister of Agriculture, that
they ought not to contribute largely, or at all,
to pay the passage of people out of the country, for it would be far better to pay their
passage into the country on condition of their
remaining here. The Dominion Government
had very little power to attract immigrants
into the country since the management of the
public land has passed into the hands of the
Local Governments. All they can do now is to
co-operate with the Local Governments in this

SENATE DEBATES
matter, and this they should do. He expressed
his regret that the Minister of Agriculture had
not seen fit to put himself into communication
with those Governments and induce them to
offer attractions to immigrants. If he had done
so those Local Legislatures might have passed
more liberal measures which would have
brought immigrants into the country. We
should do all we can to show that there is a
real value in our wooded lands-that we have
a salubrious climate-and that for the immigrant after the lapse of a reasonable time, it is
a more desirable country than that which at
first sight appears more attractive. If these
advantages were put before the immigrants
who arrive in this country, and they were
informed that our taxation was so much lighter than the taxation in the United States, it
might induce a great many of them to settle in
this country.
Hon. Mr. Skead said it was to be regretted
that so many people had emigrated from
Canada to the United States, and he believed
this was caused by the high rate of wages
which were given, and the extensive public
works which were carried on there. He was
happy to inform the House that a reaction had
taken place, and thousands of those young
men who had gone to the United States, have
been coming back for the past three months
faster than they went away. He thought the
Government, instead of delaying the construction of the Intercolonial Railway, should commence it as soon as possible, in order to give
employment to the people and induce immigrants to settle in the country. It was the
employment given in constructing this Canal
to Kingston that settled this section of the
country, and the same results would attend
the construction of public works in other sections of the country. He then referred to the
advantages to be derived from opening up the
far west in regard to fostering trade, settling
the country and developing its resources. He
said they had extensive prairie lands, but he
thought a mistake had been made by the
framers of the Confederation Act in putting
those lands in the hands of the Local Governments. He thought the Government should
use their best efforts to induce agricultural
labourers to settle in the country, as they
were wanted more than mechanics, who would
find their own way here. He said the wages of
an agricultural labourer would average five
pounds a month, or fifty pounds a year and
found, yet notwithstanding the high rate of
wages immigrants are induced by United
States agents at Quebec to go on to that country. They sent these immigrants to the far

May 7, 1868

west at our expense, and then took them
across to the United States. We should do
all we can to keep them in this country, and
constant public works to give them employment. After working a few years they will
become settlers and if we give them land
for nothing it will be the best investment the
Government can make in the country.
Hon. Mr. Wilmo said it was beyond anything he knew in his experience for farm
labourers to get £50 a year and found, as had
been said by his hon. friend. He thought farmers who paid that sum must manage their
affairs with a great deal of economy if they
could keep out of debt. It unfortunately happened that our mechanics in New Brunswick
were going to the United States in order to get
better wages. What the Hon. Minister of
Agriculture had said was certainly true, that
we had better try to keep our young men in
the country before we try to get them from
abroad. He doubted whether it was for the
interest of this country to expend a large
amount of borrowed money to carry on unproductive public works. So far as his experience in New Brunswick went they did not get
the workmen on railways to settle the country. They had constructed a railway upwards
of one hundred miles in length, but they
scarcely got one of those labourers to settle
along the line. The construction of public
works would cause a very large permanent
debt on which we would have to pay a large
amount of interest, therefore they should exercise some caution in running the country in
debt in order to induce immigration to the
country.
Hon. Mr. Bureau said that one of the great
reasons for the tide of immigration setting in
for the United States was the fact that they
had always a number of public works on
hand, and even the excitement consequent on
the late war attracted immigrants to their
shores. We should take advantage of our
proposed public works, and encourage settlers
to commence on our wild lands along the lines
of these works. Also every facility should be
given for manufacturing in a climate like
ours, when agricultural operations were suspended about half of the year. Consequently
people were unable to earn their livelihood at
outdoor employment. We should turn our
attention also to the opening up of new markets for our manufactories. It was lamentable to see the exodus of the youth of Canada leaving daily in droves for the States.
Many of the immigrants arriving in this

May 7, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

country were unsuited for the branch of
labour on which they entered, and then failed
and got discouraged themselves and disheartened others. In the agricultural pursuits
the long, severe winter here made a change in
the system of farming necessary, and before
they became acquainted with the country and
its climate they wished to go farther west,
and start anew in the neighbouring Republic.
He hoped the Government would devote their
best energies to retaining the population we
have got in the country, and hold out inducements to the best class of immigrants to
settle amongst us.
Hon. Mr. Reesor thought the whole system
of immigration as conducted for a number of
years by the Bureau of Agriculture, in conneetion with the old Canadian Government, was
wrong. They should not have taken the matter
in hand, as they could not possibly so well
understand it, as people who were interested
in bringing immigrants into the country. They
could not expend money in bringing immigrants in, as well as individuals could, but
they having taken the matter up everything
was left under their management. The result
has been that in many instances parties were
induced to come to the country, and after
their arrival they could not find employment.
The effect of this was worse than if they had
never been induced to come out at all, because
they used ail their influence to prevent their
friends coming to this country. Those parties remained out of employment for a time
here, and then went to the United States, and
in writing home to their friends they would
naturally write everything that was discouraging in regard to Canada, and everything in favour of the United States. Those
lands which were given to settlers were totally unfit for settlement, or for a man to make a
living upon. They were situated one hundred
miles from a market, and two thirds of the
land was so stony that it was unfit for cultivation in the ordinary way. Immigration should
follow its natural channels, and if it is connected with the aff airs of the country as it
ought to be, and proper encouragement given
to agriculture, manufactories, and to the trade
of the country, we would find immigration
flowing in as rapidly as we would find employment, or a good field for them to invest
their capital or labour. That would be better
than to spend $50,000 a year to encourage
immigrants to come into the country. The
Minister of Agriculture says this year the estimate for that purpose is only $36,000, but he
(Mr. Reesor) thought it was like throwing so

much money away. If there was any money to
be spent, let it be spent by the Local Governments, who can more directly control the
work, and point out the best way this
capital can be invested. Even then very little
money need be expended, if proper inducements are held out for the settlement of lands
and proper encouragement given to manufactures. There were some unnecessary changes
made in the tariff this present Session, which
must have the effect of inducing some who
have been employed in this country to seek
employment elsewhere. He had seen several
letters this present week from parties who
said they would have to close their woollen
manufactories in consequence of the duty
which was placed upon fine wool. Our farmers
find it more profitable to produce long wool,
which is greatly in demand for manufacturing
purposes in the United States. While the
American farmer does not produce the kind of
crops that would produce this long wool, he
cultivates the kind of crops that will maintain
fine wool, therefore placing a duty upon it,
prevents its being manufactured in this country. We cannot have a large population unless
we have something for our people to do, for it
would be far better to do without them than
not to have labor for them. It is only so fast as
we can have railroads opened up into the
interior of the country, and manufactories to
afford employment, that we need desire their
immigrants to come into the country. He
certainly thought that the expenditure of
this money to induce immigrants to corne in
iwas a waste of it, particularly as those who
had the management of it did not understand
what class of immigrants we require. We do
not find the United States Government voting
an immense sum of money yearly to draw immigrants to that country. They simply manage
their affairs to encourage productive industry, whether in manufactories, railways,
canals, or the cultivation of the soil, and this
furnishes an inducement for people of other
countries to settle amongst them.
Hon. Mr. Ferrier hoped the Government
would soon see their way to commence operations on the different public works of the
Dominion, and that they would give free
grants of land along the line of the Intercolonial Railway, which would necessarily attract a large class of the best description of
immigrants into the country. Our Governinent
should take measures to prevent so many
young French Canadians, of great promise
and usefulness, leaving the Province of
Quebec daily, as we now see on all the public

SENATE DEBATES
outlets of the country, and settling down in
the United States. These young men can work
well on railroads, or on new lands. The projected railroad works and the fortifications
should be put under contract at once, and
stem this tide of emigration to the States, and
encourage and promote immigration from the
countries of Europe to our shores. There was
no time to lose, as the evil was gaining ground
rapidly. When we once lose this class of settlers we can never again induce them to return-hence the urgency of some immediate
active measures being adopted to remedy this
deplorable state of affairs.
Hon. Mr. Wark said, as a great part of the
Intercolonial railway would be built through
New Brunswick, he would state that their
Local Legislature had passed a bill authorizing the Government to grant land to settlers
for one shilling an acre. No one could ask
for land cheaper than to get one hundred
acres for $20.
Hon. Mr. McCully said his hon. friend (Mr.
Ferrier) spoke as if the Intercolonial railway
was not to be under contract at all, but that
the policy of the Govermnent was to have this
road built by day work. He (Mr. McCully) had
never understood that that was the intention
of the Government; if it was it would create a
very great sensation.
Hon. Mr. Campbell-No, it is not the intention.
Hon. Mr. McCully remarked his hon. friend
had said "the Govermnent were going to build
the road under Commissioners," and also remarked, that heretofore large contracts had
been let, as though it was not the intention to
let the present road by contract. He (Mr.
McCully) knew of a very wealthy company
from New York, who were waiting to make
their tenders for contracts on that line.
Hon. Mr. Ferrier said he did not intimate
that the road would not be built by contract,
but he spoke of each of the four or five
Commissioners taking a separate portion of
the road to superintend, and this is what they
should do.

May 7, 1868

there being good land in the region of Lake
Huron, but he went up to the head of Lake
Huron last year and remained there a week,
but he did not see this good land, and he
would like to be put in possession of information as to where it was. He had there met
Indians from the Red River settlement, and
from all the information he could get, he
could not find a spot yet where he could
recommend a son of his, or even a servant, to
go and make a home. He had been trying for
several years to find a suitable place where
immigrants could be asked to go and settle,
but he had been unsuccessful. He had been in
localities where companies owned whole
townships, where the settlers had left, because
they could not live there, the soil not being
anything but rock. We have very fine lands in
Upper Canada; we have the Western Peninsula which contains very valuable land, but it
is all taken up, and you will now have to pay
speculators $15 per acre for land that cost
them only $1.50 per acre. Our farmers were
leaving Canada and going to the West because
no encouragement is given to the industrial
resources of the country, and while we encourage one immigrant to come in we allow
ten of our intelligent young men to leave and
find a home in the United States.
Hon. Mr. Skead remarked that his hon.
friend had told them that he had been to the
head of Lake Superior to look for good land.
He (Mr. Skead) would recommend him when
looking for good land not to follow the lake
shores, but to go back in the interior of the
country. He then went on to mention tracts of
land which were of superior quality to any
land in the United States.
The motion was then adopted.
A message was received from the House of
Commons with a Bill intituled: "An Act to
amend an Act respecting the Statutes of
Canada." Read a first time, and second reading ordered for to-morrow.

Hon. Mr. Benson wished to call the attention of the House to a report of the dredging
of the old channel through Lake St. Clair by
the American Government, and proposed to
ask to-morrow whether the Dominion GovHon. Mr. Simpson would like to get infor- ernment had taken, or intended to take, any
mation from some of the hon. members, where measures to secure the use of that channel for
this valuable Government land was to be Canadian vessels.
found. When he was young he had tried for
SUBSTITUTION OF DOMINION
several years to fnd a good tract of land to
NOTES FOR BANK NOTES
settle upon, and when at last he did purchase
a tract, he found he had a hard bargain, for it
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the second readwas all rock. His hon. friend had spoken of ing of the Bill to enable Banks in any part of

May 7, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Canada to use notes of the Dominion, instead sold to provide specie, but he (Mr. M.) need
of using their own.
not tell the House that in times of panie
Government securities, like all other securiHon. Mr. Macpherson said the object of the ties, become depreciated, and unsaleable. This
bill appeared to be two-fold, first to arrange was true even of British Consols. Another
with the banks to surrender their power to objection to a Government Bank was the abissue notes, and secondly to provide for the sence of that power of expansion, which was
circulation of Dominion notes throughout the so indispensable in carrying on the trade of
Dominion. Under the present system part of this country, and particularly that of Ontario.
the circulation of the country is in Dominion To prove this, he would read statements
notes, and part in notes of the banks. It is which he had had prepared of the circulation.
impossible for this two-fold system to contin- He would begin with that of 1865, the last
ue, and the Government must either adopt year before the issue of Provincial notes. For
this Dominion bank note system, or retrace the first eight months of that year the circulatheir steps and leave the entire circulation of tion varied very little. It ranged from $8,the country to the banks. He (Mr. Macpher- 761,239 to $8,066,202. In August it stood at
son) hoped the latter course would be their $8,445,068. In September it increased to $11,policy, but he feared from their introducing 347,890, an increase of very nearly $3,000,000.
this bill that it was not. He would infer that it In October it ran up to $14,158,313, a further
was the desire of the Government to introduce increase of nearly $3,000,000. It then began to
the Dominion note system, until it absorbed decline, and in November fell to $13,338,598,
the entire circulation of the country. The in- and in December to $12,128,772. He would
terests of the country forbid the introduction now read an estimate for the same year, of
of a system which authorizes the Government the circulation of Ontario and Quebec sepato issue notes and redeem them on presenta- rately. In preparing this, he assumed that
tion. He believed the system was unsuited to two-thirds of the circulation of the Bank of
the requirements of the country, and it was Montreal and the Bank of British North
undesirable and unwise to place the whole America, was in the Province of Ontario. With
banking system of the country in the hands of respect to other banks he assumed that their
the Government, as it would lead to unfortu- circulation was all in the Province where
nate results. He felt as strongly as any one their head offices were situated, although he
could do that it was the duty of the Govern- knew this was not strictly correct, for he was
ment to provide a secure currency, but he aware that a large proportion of the notes of
thought that might be done without taking the the City Bank of Montreal, and the Quebec
circulation into its own hands. If the Gov- Bank circulated in Ontario, and he also beernment undertook the issue and redemption lieved a larger proportion of the circulation of
of the currency, it would be uniting the the Banks of Montreal and British North
finances and politics of the country, which he America, than he had assumed. He was perthought would be very objectionable, and suaded that in his estimate he had largely
would, he feared, lead to disaster. It would be understated the circulation of Ontario, but it
a system of centralization, opposed to the hab- could not be ascertained precisely, and he
its and opinions of the country, destroying preferred to err on that side. According to
that individual enterprise and resource so that estimate the circulation in the Province
valuable, in guarding against danger. It would of Quebec from January to August, inclusive,
cause all to lean upon the Government in time varied from two millions and a third to a little
of panic, when it would be made to appear exceeding two millions and a-half. In Septhat the easy and only remedy would be a tember it increased to $3,642,760. In Novemsuspension of specie payments. Political influ- ber it fell to $3,365,260, and in December to
ence would be brought to bear, which he $3,097,221. In the Province of Ontario for the
feared the Government would not be able to first eight months of that year the circulation
resist. Its position would make it only too varied from five millions and three quarters
ready to issue the proclamation of suspen- to six millions and a quarter, standing on the
sion-for it must be understood, that the diffi- 31st of August at $6,074,692. In the following
culties of the Government might be very great month, September, it increased to $8,341,822,
in providing specie, to redeem the Dominion being an increase of nearly two millions and a
notes. It is quite time that this bill provides third. In October it increased to $10,515,553,
for debentures being held by the Receiver- being a further increase of upwards of two
General for an amount equal to the Dominion millions, an increase of nearly four millions
notes in circulation for the purpose of being and a half during the two months when the

SENATE DEBATES
chief portion of the harvest of Ontario is being removed to market. In November it declined to $9,973,338, and in December to $9,031,551. He would leave hon. gentlemen to
imagine what the consequences would have
been in Ontario had our system of currency
not admitted of expansion. He would now
read a statement of the circulation of last
year, 1867, after provincial notes had very
nearly taken the place of the circulation of the
Bank of Montreal. In this year the circulation
was lower during the months in which expansion usually took place, than in 1865.
Hon. Mr. Ryan-What amount?
Hon. Mr. Macpherson-It was larger in the
early months of the year. In January it was
$13,148,478; in February, $13,298,958; in
March, $12,813,694; in April, $12,254,924; in
May, June, July, and August, about $11,500,000; in September, $12,357,663; in October,
$13,678,762; then a decline in November to
$12,620,023, and in December to $12,087,515.
At no time did it reach the circulation of
October 1865, when it exceeded $14,000,000.
This was, no doubt, due to the crisis that
followed the suspension of the Commercial
Bank; and he believed that hon. gentlemen
from Ontario would agree with him that the
contraction of the currency, that then took
place, bore very heavily and prejudicially
upon the interests of that Province. He had
prepared, and held in his hand, an estimate
for 1867, of the circulation of Ontario and
Quebec separately-made in the same manner
as the similar estimate for 1865; and assuming
that Provincial Notes payable at Montreal, were circulating in Ontario, and that
those payable at Toronto were circulating in
the Province of Quebec, but he would not
trouble the House by reading the details. It
had varied less than in 1865 ranging in the
Province of Quebec from about $3,000,000 to
$3,600,000, and in the Province of Ontario
from a little over $8,000,000 to about $10,250,000. (Some conversation here took place
between the Hon. Mr. Macpherson and the
Hon. Mr. Ryan. which was inaudible in the
gallery.) The Hon. Mr. Macpherson then went
on to say that the cost of money would be
increased by the withdrawal of the circulation
of the banks, that in the past the people of
Canada had on the whole obtained money at a
cheap rate. The profits of the banks had been

May 7, 1868

moderate, perhaps under 7 per cent. on the
average. A large proportion of that profit was
obtained from circulation; and if that source
were dried up it would have to come out of
the borrower direct. In this country, and he
supposed in all countries the great majority of
the people are borrowers, and are interested
in seeing that the price of money is not needlessly enhanced. The lender will take care that
he is remunerated in one way or other. He
(Mr. Macpherson) would now call the attention of the House to the inducements offered
to banks to come under the operation of this
bill. They are offered at the rate of 5 per cent.
per annum upon their circulation as it stood
on 30th April, 1866, from the time they may
come in, until the expiration of their charters
in 1870. It was well known that the circulation of some of the banks had materially decreased, especially in the Province of Quebec.
In the Province of Ontario, the circulation of
all the banks, except two, had increased. It
was known to the House, that by their charters the banks were required to hold 10 per
cent of their capital in public securities. By
coming under this Act they would be relieved
of this burden, and entitled to receive Dominion notes for the amount of the securities
they so held. The hon. gentleman then said
that as the hour of adjournment was so near,
he would not detain the House any longer, but
might have something more to say when the
bill was under consideration in Committee of
the Whole, when he would move that the
clause and schedule of which he now gave
notice be added to this bill.
The following is the clause and schedule
referred to, viz.:Instead of the statement of its liabilities and
assets, which any bank is now required by its
charter, or by law to make up, the statements
specified and defined in the schedule to this
Act are hereby substituted, and every such
bank now by law required to make such statement, shall in place and instead thereof, cause
to be made up to the last day of each month,
in every year, not being a Sunday or holiday,
and to be published in the Canada Gazette, a
statement of the liabilities and assets of such
Bank, in the form and containing the particulars shewn in the schedule of this Act, and
such statement shal be verified by the declaration of some one of the Directors, or by the
cashier or some like officer of the bank, having a knowledge of the truth of the contents
of such statement.

SENATE DEBATES

May 7, 1868

BANK RETURN.-RETURN TO BE MADE
TO GOVERNMENT.
Capital Authortzed, $-Capital Subscribed,
$-Capital paid up, $Liabilities
1.
2.
3..
4.
5.
6.
7.

Hon. Mr. Campbell said they could discuss
the Bill just as fairly in Committee, if it was
understood that we were not now committed
to the principle of the bill.
Hon. Mr. Reesor thought they either ought
to sanction the principle of the bill now, or
discuss it with the Speaker in the Chair.

Circulation.
Government deposits, payable on demand.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot thought it was much betOther deposits, payable on demand.
ter to discuss it in Committee.
Government deposits, payable after notice.
Hon. Mr. Bureau said as the bill involved a
Other deposits, payable after notice.
matter of very great importance, it should be
Due to other banks in Canada.
discussed with the Speaker in the Chair.
Due to other banks in Canada.
Hon. Mr. Campbell remarked that it could
be discussed with the Speaker in the Chair,
Assets
upon the motion to go into Conmittee.
1. Specie.
Hon. Mr. Bureau thought they should deal
2. Provincial notes.
with questions of such importance in the ordi3. Notes of other banks.
nary course.
4. Balances due from other banks in Canada.
Hon. Mr. McCully said if there was any
5. Balances due from other banks not in
intention to move that the bill be postponed
Canada.
for three months, it should be diseussed with
6. Government debentures or stock.
the Speaker in the Chair.
7. Notes and bills discounted for individuals,
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said the bill was deservand current.
ing of much consideration before it was read a
8. Notes and bills discounted for individuals,
second time. The speeches made when the
and overdue.
Speaker was in the Chair, would be more at
9. Loans and advances on current account, length, more formal, and more instructive,
or discounts to the Government.
than if the House was in Conimittee, because
10. Loans, discounts or advances on current then the House would get more disorganized,
account to Corporations.
and the debates would be more of a conversa11. Loans, discounts or advances on current tional character.
account to directors, or firnis of which
Hon. Mr. Campbell said that in deference to
directors are members.
the views of hon. members he would now
12. Overdue debts secured by mortgage or move that the debate be adjourned, and stand
other deed of real estate.
for the first order of the day tomorrow.
13. Real estate, the property of the bank,
The motion was then adopted.
other than bank premises.
The Bill intituled "An Act constituting the
14. Bank premises.
Department of Inland Revenue," was then
With columns indicating the proportions of read a second time, and ordered to be comliabilities and assets in the respective Prov- mitted to a Committee of the whole House
inces.
tomorrow.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said, as it was near their
The following Bills were received by mestime for adjourning, they had better have the sage from the House of Commons, and read a
bill read a second tirne and resume the discus- first time:
sion, when they went into Committee on the
"An Act respecting the Geological Survey of
bill.
Canada."
Hon. Mr. Reesor remarked that if they
"An Act to impose a duty on foreign repassed the second reading of the bill, they prints of British copyright works."
affirmed the principle; it would be better to
The House then adjourned.
postpone the debate.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Friday. May 8. 1868.
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
After routine,
DOMINION NOTES-RESUMED DEBATE.
Hon. Mr. Campbell would say a few words
in reply to the remarks which had been so
ably made by the hon. member who took
objection to the second reading of the bill. He
did not know that he was right in saying his
hon. friend took objection to the second reading, but he desired to lay before the House
views which differed from those to which the
bill gave expression. The arguments which he
used may have a great effect upon the minds
of many of the hon. members, but he (Mr.
Campbell) thought that his hon. friend appeared to confine his attention not so much to
what was for the interest of the public, or for
the interest to the bill-holders, but to the
stand point upon which bankers look upon the
proposition. The bill was not of a compulsory
nature for it did not make it imperative upon
bankers to give up their circulation, and take
notes of the Dominion, but it only gives them
permission to do so. He apprehended great
confidence would be felt in this Dominion
currency by the public, and though it might
not meet the views of some bankers it would
meet the views of others. It will afford great
safety to the public, which will more than
counterbalance any inconvenience which
might be supposed by some to result from its
operation. It gives the banks of Nova Scotia
and New Brunswick an opportunity of availing themselves of the same privileges which
have been given to Canada proper, and of
which one bank in Canada has availed itself.
The objection made by his hon. friend (Mr.
Macpherson) to the fact that there are two
distinct kinds of bills in circulation, was almost answered by another part of his argument. He objected to having the whole circulation of the country in the shape of Government notes, and when he (Mr. Campbell>
said there was strength in union, he replied,
"Perhaps not; it was better to have several
arrows in the quiver, as one perhaps would be
sure if the others failed." The very same view
would induce one to believe there was safety
in having several kinds of circulation. The
Government circulation was certainly safe,
and his hon. friend was satisfied the circulation of the banks was safe. His hon. friend

May 8, 1868

intimated that when the bill went into
Committee of the Whole, he would move that
certain changes should be made in the forn of
return which banks are required to give. He
would not now discuss that matter, as he
would have an opportunity of doing it more
fully when the bill went before the Committee. He would deprecate any change being
made. He said the House knew that the
charters of all the banks expired in 1870, and
that legislation to affect the whole Dominion
must take place upon that subject during the
next Session of Parliament. A series of questions have been framed, and sent not only to
bankers, but to others engaged in trade, having for their object to elicit the fullest possible
information in connection with banking, in
order that the Government and Legislature
may be in a position to deal with this subject,
which required great care and delicacy, and
for which the House and country naturally
hold the Government responsible. When we
know that legislation of this kind is pending
to affect the whole Dominion, and which
measure is to be introduced upon the
responsibility of the Government, having for
its precursor the investigation that is now
going on, would it be desirable or proper at
the suggestion of a private member, that a
change should be made in the character of the
returns, which cannot possibly affect banks
for more than a few months, and might affect
some of them very injuriously during that
time. Therefore, he trusted that his hon.
friend (Mr. Macpherson), for whose knowledge he had the highest esteem, would not
press the suggestion of which he had given
notice, to adopt another form of returns for
the form now in use. He hoped he would
allow the bill to be read without further
pressing his objections to it, as the Legislature would soon have to deal with the subject
in all its parts, including the form of returns
to be made by the banks.
Hon. Mr. Bureau (in French) said the subject of banking is one that interests very particularly the Dominion of Canada, and there is
no subject that merits a greater degree of
attention, particularly on the eve of the date
when their charters expire in 1870. The failure of two of the old banks has awakened the
public attention, and we naturally enquire if
the present system affords sufficient guarantees for the public generally. What is the
system prevailinlg in this Dominion? In 1850
we introduced a new system-it was the free
banking system. The Government, through

May 8, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

the Inspector-General, granted to certain individuals who complied with the Act 13, 14
Vict., Chap. 21, notes-paper money-for circulation to an amount equal in value to the
bonds or debentures purchased from the Government, which became the principal guarantee for the redemption of this paper money
in gold, in case that the holders demanded it.
This Act was subsequently amended in 1851
and 1856; these notes could not be offered as
legal tenders, which was the reason the free
banking system did not succeed as the Government of the day expected. The ancient
system that prevailed throughout the Dominion of Canada, is based on the following
principles:-Each bank has the right to issue
paper money, redeemable at the office where
they are issued, in the following proportions:lst. To the amount of paid up capital.
2nd. To the amount of gold on hand.
3rd. To the amount of value of Government
bonds.
The directors and stockholders of these banks
were responsible as follows:-The Directors
are jointly and severally responsible for
breach of trust or bad management towards
the creditors and stockholders. The stockholders are only responsible for double the number of shares held in the bank. The banks in
general were bound to buy Government
securities for 1-10th of the paid up capital.
The success of this system cannot be denied,
and thanks to the wisdom and good administration of our moneyed institutions, it has
almost without exception succeeded perfectly.
The Government has commenced a new principle, the issue of paper money, granted by
the Dominion of Canada, and this paper
money, notwithstanding that it is redeemable
in gold on demand, can be offered as a legal
tender for paynent of ail debts contracted in
the country. This is a step in the right direction, and a principle which will generally give
the best possible guarantee. It is to be desired
that a uniform system would be adopted
which would be calculated to answer all public and private interests. When the State
grants the right which exclusively belongs to
it, that of issuing money, to establish conventional value for the convenience of commercial exchange, it is only just and reasonable
that the State would grant such privileges
only on the best guarantees. And the State
ought, as a principle resulting from such a
transfer of its rights, guarantee the public,
and hold themselves responsible for the redemption of this currency for commercial ex-

change, such as the paper money thrown on
the market by parties invested with such
powers. What then is the system which would
best attain this end? Undoubtedly that which
prevails in the Great Republic of the United
States, and adopted on the 3rd of June 1864,
that is to say, the Act intituled, "An Act to
provide a national currency secured by a
pledge of United States bonds, and to provide
for the circulation and redemption thereof."
By this Act the capital of the circulation is
limited to $300,000,000, the circulation of the
paper money of these banks had reached in
1863 $403,357,346. This paper money is received in payment of al debts, except for
customs duties on importations, and in redemption of the national currency. The State
guarantees these notes and bears on their face
this guarantee, moreover the Banking Association who bind themselves besides to redeem these notes in gold if required. All is
administered by one "comptroller of the currency under the direction of the Secretary and
Treasurer." He is appointed by the President
as are ail the other important nominations.
His salary is $5,000 and his deputy $2,500.
This "Comptroller," should only issue 90 per
cent of these State bonds, bearing at least 5
per cent, and if these bonds become depreciated in value the Comptroller ought to exact
other securities not depreciated, or the difference in other bonds. It is to be regretted that
in the Bill now under consideration the distribution and examination of these Provincial
notes are not placed under the direction and
immediate responsibility of a Public Department of the Dominion of Canada. There
are thirteen Departments for our small population, which are more than we require. Then
why create a useless and expensive patronage
in naming useless Commissioners-three for
the Province of Quebec, two for Nova Scotia
and New Brunswick. The system which prevails in the United States, is preferable for
uniformity and for good administrative facilities. There is only one point to consider, is it
in the public interest to limit the rate of
interest when the Government will corne
down with a general measure? Yes; in the
United States the Act of Congress already
cited fixed the rate of interest at 7 per cent,
when it is not already fixed in the State of the
Confederation (for each State has the right to
regulate the rate of interest.) The following is
the rate of interest in the different States: 6
per cent. in Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont,
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut,
New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia,
North Carolina,
South

SENATE DEBATES
Carolina, Arkansas, Florida, Illinois, Iowa,
Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri, Ohio, and
Tennessee; in New York, Georgia, Michigan
and Wisconsin, 7 per cent.; in Alabama
and Texas, 8 per cent.; and in California,
10 per cent. On railway bonds and special
contracts, some variations are made from
these rates in some of the States. It is true
that in England the rate of interest is free,
and that country can be cited as an example
to follow, but since when? The rate of interest
had fluctuated frequently when in 1837 and
1839 the power was granted with certain retrictions, again in 1854, only all these restricstrictions were abolished; but can our position
admit of comparison with a kingdom which
has acquired for ages the highest degree of
riches and national prosperity? In France
after having abolished all the restrictions on
money loans, it has been again deemed wise
in the interest of society to fix the maximum
rate of interest. In England, up to the present,
there is no reason to complain of this power,
for the immense capital of the English people
is a guarantee that the rate of interest will be
always reasonable, by reason of the supply
that there will be in the money market. We
have the proof in examining the discount
charged by the Bank of England from 1st
January 1844, to 1864: In 1844, the rate of
interest was 4 per cent. for 249 days, and 2j,
for 406 days in 1845; in 1845 from 3 to 3,
1846, 3, 1847 (financial crisis) from 3 to 8; at
this last rate 28 days, at 5, 119 days, etc.; in
1848 from 3 to 4; in 1849 2j 399 days, 1852
from 2 to 2j, 1853 from 2j to 5, 1854 5 to 5,
1855 from 3j to 5, 1856 from 5 to 6, 1857
(another crisis) from 6 to 10,-10, 45 days, 8, 31
days,-1858 3j to 6, 1858 from 3j to 6, 1859
from 2ý to 4½, 1860 from 3 to 6, 1861 from 3 to
7ý, 1862 from 2j to 3, 1863 from 3 to 7j, 1864
from 6 to 9. England is at this day making the
experiment of a new system, and if it does
succeed, it will certainly be there where capital abounds. In Canada, on the contrary, we
have not the necessary capital for developing
the immense national riches which we possess,
and prosecuting the different branches of industry, and in a country where capital is so
limited, the loans of money must be limited
also. It is to be hoped that the Government
will be ready to offer a measure as soon as
possible, relative to our financial institutions,
based on the best guarantees. It is of the
greatest importance that on a measure such as
this we make our views and opinions known,
as well as through the press, He flnished a
long, able speech by saying he would support

May 8, 1868

the present Bill, as it gives to the paper
money that guarantee which the public has a
right to expect from the Government of this
country.
Hon. Mr. Chapais said in answer to the
remarks of the hon. member who last addressed the House (Mr. Bureau) that this very
day the Government would give notice of
resolutions in the other House, to fix the legal
rate of interest. Our own legal tender notes
resembled very nearly the American system
of currency, and he agreed with other hon.
members that the currency of the United
States was in many, if not every, respect, the
best suited to the wants of this country. The
Government were considering a general system of banking, and would be prepared to
bring it forward next Session, and he would
assure the hon. members that the guarantees
for the security of the public would occupy
the best attention of the Government, as one
of the most important and desirable provisions that could be introduced into such a
measure.
Hon. Mr. Wilmo, referring to a statement
he made when the Currency Bill was before
the House a few days since, in speaking of the
course of trade, and inadvertently said, that
when the rate of exchange was below 9j per
cent, at which the sovereign by law was fixed,
that gold left the country: the reverse was the
fact. He intended to have said, that when the
premium on bills was above that rate, sufficiently high to pay the charges and a commission, gold was exported from the country,
causing the banks to restrict their discounts,
and withdraw their circulation, rendering
money scarce, and throwing labor out of employment, which created wealth. In regard to
the bill now before the House he had much
pleasure in supporting it, as he considered it a
movement in the right direction, and he believed it would have a beneficial effect if
carried out on the trade of the whole Dominion. Hitherto he had to regret, that the
measures relating to trade, &c., brought in by
the Government, had not met his approval,
and what was of much more importance for
the well working of the Union, had not met
the approval of the great majority of the
people of the Province from which he came.
He considered that the issue of Government
legal tender notes would give security to the
public, and at the same time the banks would
be indemnified by receiving interest upon
their issue at the rate of five per cent, besides
a commission of one per cent annually in

May 8, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

managing them. This subject of banking and
currency had long engaged the attention of
the Parliament of Great Britain. He (Mr.
Wilmot) happened to be in England in 1856,
when Hon. Mr. Watkin brought forward a
motion asking for a commission to investigate
the causes of the panic which had just occurred, and the Government promised to take
the matter into consideration and investigate
it. We see also in the United States an extraordinary revolution of their whole system
of currency and finance. It is a question more
important in his opinion than any other which
can be brought before this Parliament. He
knew it was a dry subject to talk about, although the question of economy was one
which entered into the consideration of every
family, and affected every individual. Rev.
Sidney Smith had said "that broaching the
currency question was the end of all argument, for the subject was so deep, he thought
the bottom had dropped out." We should endeavour, however, to get at the bottom of the
subject, instead of going off on side issues.
Money after all is but the representation of
commodities produced by labour, and the supply of it should be governed by the same
natural law of supply and demand, that regulates barter. Upon that principle he was a free
trader, but if a monopoly is given to the
holders of money, while the system of free
trade was applied to the holders of all other
property, then he was rather a protectionist
than a free trader. In adopting a banking and
financial policy for this new Dominion, we
should not only look to Great Britain for an
example, but also to the United States, and
other countries, and take that which was best
from all, and most suitable to our circumstances. The issue of notes on public securities
is not confined to the United States (£15,000,000) fifteen millions of pounds of the notes
of the Bank of England, are issued upon that
amount of the national debt. The issue now
proposed will be legal tender, received for
duties and taxes, and secured by the Dominion. We have had experience that banks
have failed in Canada and in New Brunswick.
Hon. Mr. McCully-What about the banks
of Nova Scotia?
Hon. Mr. Wilmof was coming to that directly. It was a fact that Treasury or Government
notes had been in circulation in Nova Scotia
ever since he (Mr. Wilmot) could recollect.
The banks in that Province, like those in
England, have been Iimited to five pound
notes, all the circulation below that is in provincial notes, and the result has been, that

with an authorized issue of notes to the extent
of $800,000, they have been able to put up
most of their public buildings, without paying
one penny interest for them, while no bank
has failed, and as large dividends have been
made as by banks in any other part of the
Dominion, therefore, so far as the banks are
concerned, no injury is likely to arise to affect
them in consequence of carrying out this bill.
The amount asked for is $8,000,000; he (Mr.
Wilmot) would rather have seen it $13,000,000; if $8,000,000, it would be no larger an
amount per head for the Dominion than now
exists in Nova Scotia. If this system has
worked well in Nova Scotia, and been a great
advantage to the public, while it has inflicted
no injury upon the banks, what harm can
arise from extending it to the whole Dominion? Money is that which the law makes a
legal tender. Currency may be of different
kinds; money extinguishes debt like barter;
bank notes transfer debt. If he (Mr. Wilmot)
owed $4,000, and had bank notes, while he
held them the bank that issued them would be
his debtor, but after paying the debt, the
party receiving them would be the creditor of
the bank. These notes being issued by the
State, and the whole property of the country
being taxable for them, are better security
than notes issued by a joint stock company,
with a limited liability. One of the cleverest
financiers of the day, Mr. Gladstone, lays
down the proposition that all money, whether
metallic or paper, should be issued by the
State, and the public should be thoroughly
secured, and a portion of the benefits accruing
from the circulation should go to the revenue.
Sir Robert Peel introduced a currency measure to take from the banks the power of
issuing notes, and to place it in the issue
department of the Bank of England. This was
known as the Bank Act of 1844, which according to the bullionist theory was to make
the Bank of England notes convertible into
gold on demand at all times. The first trial of
this Act was in the crisis of 1847, when the
Government was compelled to authorize the
bank to issue notes beyond what the law
provided. This was repealed again in 1857,
and in the late crisis of 1866 the joint stock
banks in London held a larger amount in
deposit of the Bank of England than the
whole amount of gold in both the banking and
issue departments, and they threatened to
withdraw it unless the Government authorized the bank again to break the law. Had
they demanded and received their deposits in
gold, all other depositors and note holders

SENATE DEBATES
would have been deprived of their legal
rights, and the Bank of England note would
have been inconvertible, not that the Government were to have the right to issue notes
to any extent they pleased, but that a portion
of the annual taxation should be a basis for
that issue, and in banking purposes the extent
of that issue should depend upon certain
specified securities, to be deposited in a public
department. In reply to Mr. McCully he said
he did not argue against the proposition that
there should be some mode by which the
Government should give security, but at the
same time he held that the State had an
inherent right in case of absolute necessity to
issue notes simply upon their credit, as had
been done in the United States.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson-What security will
those legal tenders rest upon?
Hon. Mr. Wilmo said there was a limit to
the amount to be issued; the Government
have the power by the action of Parliament to
tax the Dominion of Canada to the extent of
$14,000,000 therefore to that extent there can
be no great loss, if power to issue those notes
be given to the Government, as they must get
money in some shape from the people. It was
shown by statistical returns that there were
$1,400,000,000 invested capital in Canada, and
a portion of this was invested in public works,
while the whole amount of our banking circulation, according to his hon. friend's (Mr.
Macpherson) statement was about $12,000,000
for Ontario and Quebec, to which must be
added about $2,000,000 for the Lower Provinces. This would make about $3 per head in
the shape of bank circulation, or one per cent
on $1,400,000,000 invested capital. Now, we
know all that money is required for is to
exchange the surplus products of industry,
and have we circulating medium enough to
meet the requirements of the country? We
find by the statistical returns given in the
"Year Book," 1868, that the amount of raw
material alone produced in Canada is valued
at $210,500,000, without taking into account
the value of manufactured goods. In the
United States it has been their policy, caused
by their necessities, to have a very extensive
currency, amounting to $925,755,000, or $30
per head, while we have only $3 per head.
This extensive circulation has entirely revolutionized the preconceived ideas of political
economists, for the general idea was that by
issuing paper, coin was driven out of the
country, and the fact now appears that they
have $183,000,000 more gold than prior to the
war. By issuing these notes we will create an

May 8, 1868

additional amount of legal tender money to
carry on trade, as it cannot be carried on with
gold alone, on account of the amount we have
being so infinitessimal compared with the
requirements of trade. The internal trade of a
country can be carried on with properly
secured paper, and all that gold is wanted for,
is to pay the balances between the imports
and exports. He then referred to the late bank
failures in Canada being caused by a panic,
which would not have occurred if these notes
had been in circulation, as they would have
been guaranteed by the Dominion, and there
would be no running for gold. He said the
circulation of a country in the first place,
belongs to the State, and if the Government
have parted with it, they have parted with a
public right. He had expressed no opinion in
favor of a larger amount of Government circulation than they could tax the people for,
and for banking purposes, based upon public
securities. He hoped to see the day when there
would be in the Dominion of Canada, a circulation sufficient to represent the surplus products of the country, so that they would not
be subject to those panics which had inflicted
so much injury and ruin upon the commercial
community. He then referred to the panic
which took place in England in 1825, when
seventy of the banks failed, but afterwards
nearly all paid twenty shillings in the pound.
This panic, he said, was not caused by the
want of realized wealth, but by the want of a
sufficient representative in circulating medium. Our ships then which had sold for £13 a
ton in 1825, went down to £2 l0s in 1827. He
had had a great deal of experience in business
and legislation, and had studied this subject
well, and he had now endeavored to give some
of his reasons why he should support the Bill.
He also referred to the various panics and
suspension of specie payments in the United
States in 1837 and 1857.
Hon. Mr. Reesor said the hon. member who
had just sat down, had made a most extraordinary speech, having taken the ground that
the bill before the House ought to be passed,
and at the same time he takes the ground that
we want more currency in the country. If the
bill before the House is carried, and goes into
operation, the banks being brought under its
influence, as shewn yesterday, the effect must
be to lessen the amount of currency circulating in the country to the extent of $6,000,000.
That is the opinion of bankers and business
men throughout the country. Under their
charters banks are allowed to discount bills to
three times the amount of gold and provincial

May 8, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

bonds they have in hand-three times the
amount of these available securities which are
held in reserve under this bill. If the banks
come under its operation they must withdraw
all their circulation, and give the Government
whatever they may have in reserve, and get
in return legal tender notes to the amount of
that reserve. Then we have only the legal
tender notes to work on, and that is the reason why the circulation of the country will be
reduced, which is a fact no one will dispute.
There is not a merchant in the country but
takes that view of the question. The Government only hope that by some means or
other, people will manage to draw money
from other sources to supply this want. The
Government say they want to take from the
people this currency, which is doing the business of the country, and which has been
made available since the establishment of the
banks. Take for example a manufacturing
firm, it may be for working iron, (and there
was such an establishment in the county
which he had the honour to represent), take a
firm like that, enjoying bank accommodation
to the extent of $500,000, withdraw one-third
of that accommodation, and the result would
be that they must turn away one-third of
their hands. Thus there would be a loss of
one-third in the means of productive industry,
one-third less consumption of imported goods
and so much less ability to pay taxes: this will
affect the whole revenue of the country.
Apply this to the whole manufacturing industry of the country and it will ruin some, and
by their failure it will bring down others, and
lead to the most disastrous results. A certain
writer on political economy has said that
money to the trade of a country, is like tools
to an artisan. You take away the tools of a
mechanic and the value of his art is gone. In
like manner if you take away from the business part of the community the currency,
the tools of trade, you deprive it to that extent
of employing labour. In referring to the
banking system of England he said this was
a young country, and we wanted capital to
develop its resources. In England the people
were not only able to lend to their own
Government, but they were able to invest in
the bonds of the United States, Canada, and
many other countries. The investments of
English capitalists were not limited to national securities, but through agents it was
extended to mortgages on real estate, and a
large amount was so invested in Canada. The
payment of interest caused a great drain of
gold out of this country; therefore we are not

in a position to do away with the advantages
of banking capital. Even in Great Britain,
where there is such a vast accumulation of
wealth, they sustain a joint stock banking
system, and not Government legal tender currency, such as is being introduced in Canada.
If the Government must have more money let
them increase the taxes, or borrow elsewhere,
and not take from us the means of employing
labour by which the resources of the country
may be developed and the population increased. Let the Government borrow the
money direct from other countries, as they
can do it on terms better than individuals can.
They can borrow it at 6 per cent., while single
individuals would have to pay nine or ten per
cent. Some of the hon. members who support
this measure imagine that we are relieving
ourselves of any difficulty that might arise
from a failure of the banks to pay specie; he
would remind them that nearly every country
in the commercial world, within the last two
hundred years, had tried a national banking
system and found it a failure. It was tried in
Russia, Austria and France, and proved unsatisfactory. When there was a demand for
gold they had to stop specie payments, and
their notes were sold at a discount. The same
results had attended the system in the United
States, but there it had been adopted as a
matter of necessity, and they were involved in
debt, a large part of which had grown out of
the depreciation of their national currency.
Their credit became so poor, owing to a disastrous war, that their gold at one time was at a
premium of 295 per cent., so that in incurring
a debt of $3, they in reality only received
what was worth little more than one dollar in
gold. The worst is yet to come with that
country, because so long as it was running
into debt, and while it continued to issue
notes, so long it was prosperous in trade, but
since these debts are being paid, and while
the amount of circulation is being contracted
they must suffer in proportion to that contraction. Whatever arguments may be urged on
behalf of the American system, because they
adopted it to carry on a war, they do not
apply in favor of this bill. This bill is not
founded upon the American basis, because
their plan was to increase instead of decreasing the circulation. By this means their commercial enterprises have been for a time extended. The Government of England has never ventured to take from the banks their circulation but have on the other hand protected
the banks as they have the commerce of
the country; neither have they interfered with

SENATE DEBATES
the banks of Scotland. There is not a commercial country in Europe that has in operation
the system proposed to be adopted here. It is
extraordinary that we seem to have so much
more wisdom in the financial departments of
our Government than they claim in any other
country in the world, that we should introduce ail at once, the principles involved in
which have been discarded for years by the
statesmen of Europe. What do the supporters
of the bill say in order to urge upon us the
necessity of passing it? They say banks have
failed in Canada. Very few have failed. The
Bank of Upper Canada was established fortyfive years ago, and a Provincial currency
would have depreciated in passing through
what that bank had to pass through. In 1837
we had a rebellion in Canada and the Bank of
Upper Canada in consequence of the derangement of business during that period suffered
great losses. Where Governments issue large
sums in paper currency, the experience of the
world is, that sooner or later it depreciates in
value, and as soon as depreciation is apprehended, demand is made for gold, and the
usual results follow-suspension of specie
payment. Are these defects in our present
banking system? Then we should endeavor to
remove these defects. You would not think a
man wise if, when he found a slight leak in
his dwelling he should at once destroy it,
instead of repairing the defect. Our banks
have worked well, and done an immense
amount of good in the country, having contributed largely to its wealth. In times of
hardship and severe trial, they have been
identified with the enterprise and industry of
the country. He considered they were running
a great risk in accepting any extension of the
principles involved in this Bill, because there
was no provision for that degree of elasticity
in the supply of currency, that the trade of the
country required, and until the Government
were able to point out how that deficiency
could be provided, it was most unwise to force
it upon the country.

May 8, 1868

and he felt it to be his duty, as well as the
duty of every member of this House, to state
their views regarding that principle. It is evidently the intention of the Government to
carry out, if possible, the system of banking
inaugurated a year or two ago, notwithstanding the expression of opinion so unanimously
given by the country, and the almost unanimous opinion of all persons connected with
banking. In reply to the question on the subject by the Committee appointed by this
House, it was stated that these were the opinions and views of those who represented the
interests of the Banks. He would ask who
were so competent to give correct opinions as
those engaged in this business, who were capable of judging correctly of the wants and
requirements of the commerce of the country.
The interests of Banks were the interests of
the country, they represented the interests of
all classes who had invested their money in
these institutions, and these comprise very
generally the people of the country. From his
own knowledge of the business of Western
Canada, extending over a period of thirty-five
years, he had no hesitation in saying that the
present system of banking is the best adapted
to its wants and requirements, and that now
contemplated by this bill, as well as what we
may expect to follow it, is not adapted to our
requirements, and if persisted in by the
Government, cannot fail to bring with it great
embarrassment and stringency in ail banking
operations in the future. It must necessarily
reduce the circulation of the Banks to a point
wholly inadequate to the wants of trade, and
prevent that expansion of the circulation
necessary at seasons of the year when it is so
much required for moving large quantities of
grain and lumber, particularly that of grain
and fiour; it is well known this is generally
done in the short period after harvest to the
close of navigation. It has not been asserted
that the present circulation of our Banks has
ever been too much for these purposes, and
what will be the result when this circulation
Hon. Mr. Benson said-The Postmaster is reduced at least one-third, if not one-half;
General in resuming the debate upon this bill, and the general result upon the trade of the
has very fairly explained its provisions; it was country cannot be otherwise than injurious.
a permission only in its enactment, extending When money becomes scarce it increases the
to all Banks in the Dominion the option of rate of interest, while at the same time it reissuing legal tender notes of the Government duces the value of every description of propinstead of their own circulation. No reasona- erty and produce. It has been stated that a
ble objection can be made to the bill, nor is it safer circulation is required than that now in
the intention, I believe, to offer any, on the use, and the failure of two institutions is given
contrary, he would give it his support under in proof. What are the facts? In a period of
existing circumstances; but there was a prin- forty years one Bank has failed and another
ciple involved in it to which he was opposed, suspended payment for a few months, and then

May 8, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

entered into an arrangement with another institution whereby it secured one-third of its
capital to its shareholders, and the payment of
its indebtedness in full. The Bank of Upper
Canada has not been able to do so, and a loss
has fallen upon the shareholders and the public. What is the extent of this loss to the
public? It is net te be named in comparison te
the advantages the public have derived from
that institution. He remembered in the early
period of that institution, and no doubt some
whom he now addressed can go back with
him to this period, and bear testimony to the
liberal mode of business adopted by that
Bank-its discounts were not demanded in
three months. The generous system adopted to
meet the wants and circumstances of our
young and rising country was the payment of
only 20 per cent. every three months, giving
the period of fifteen months for the payment
of its discounts. Nor was this all, the invariable consideration that was given to all who
had transactions with it, the leniency which it
extended to its customers, should not be forgotten by the public, and to no institution is
this country more indebted for the building
up and sustaining its commerce than to the
Bank of Upper Canada, and he said the benefits derived from that bank far outweighed
all the loss that has been sustained by it; then,
gentlemen, does the system proposed secure
the public against panic, or does it give
security under all circumstances. Is it not
possible circumstances may arise, sufficient in
the minds of the Government, to suspend payment of specie for its notes, or may not a
pressure be brought to bear in times of
depression by public opinion, which may for a
time, at least, reduce their value in public
estimation, and bring them to a rate below
their par value, although it may not be so
great as it would be by the failure of the
bank. He was an advocate for safety, but we
must take care that we do not pay too much
for it, and he was fully satisfied that we
should be doing so if we adopt the legal tender system. Let us be content with what we
have found hitherto so well adapted to our
wants, and by adopting the mode or form of
return as that suggested by the hon. member
from Toronto, (Mr. Macpherson), we will obtain all the security we require. He was of
opinion had this been the return required
heretofore from the banks, neither the Bank
of Upper Canada or the Commercial Bank
would have ceased to be numbered among the
useful institutions of the country. An hon.
member has stated that the wants of the

Government require the introduction of this
system, and that it was the opinion of celebrated writers in England upon banking and
currency that al circulation should be issued
and secured by the Government of a country.
He had every respect for the opinion of these
writers, and had no doubt these opinions have
been formed from the circumstances of their
own country, but he contended they are not
applicable to ours, or at ail adapted to the
peculiar trade necessary to be fostered in a
new country like ours. He much preferred the
opinions of those brought up in our own
midst, and acquainted with our commerce and
its requirements. As to the necessities of the
Government, they are the only reasons for the
introduction of this new system entitled to
consideration, but there are other methods
which are now under consideration of the
Government for the supply of these wants. Let
them wait and see how far they may be enabled to supply their wants from these, although far from being unobjectionable, as interfering with the resources upon which the
banks depended for the extension of their circulation. They are perhaps less so than the one
that is now proposed, which gives the control
of the circulation to the Government. He trusted the Government will be influenced in the
course it may adopt by the information which
has already been received, and will be received in answer to the qunestions of those
gentlemen representing Committeees appointed by both Houses of the Legislature,
and that they will, at an early part of the
next session of Parliament, bring in a measure
upon this subject that will meet the wants
and wishes of the whole country.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson, in reply to the
Postmaster-General, said he had not spoken
exclusively from the banker's point of view,
but from a point of view which embraced the
general interests of the country. He had
shown that in certain cases under this bill
banks might be benefitted at the expense of
the general interests of the country. The hon.
gentleman then recapitulated his chief objections to the currency of the country being
taken by the Government, and remarked that
so long as the Government remained unconnected with the currency, and not responsible
for its redemption, they would stand as they
ought to do, over the banks, and hold them to
a fulfilment of the conditions of their charters,
in respect to redeeming their notes in specie
when required. But if the Government itself
were responsible for the redemption of the
currency, it might, and in times of panic

SENATE DEBATES
would, be interested in the suspension of specie payments. He said that the discussion had
taken a wide range, extending to the question
of the rate of interest. He (Mr. Macpherson)
thought there should be free trade in money,
and that any restriction imposed upon the rate
of interest was calculated to enhance the price
of money to the borrower. His hon. friend
(Mr. Bureau) had spoken of the rate of interest in New York being limited to 7 per
cent. Suppose it were limited to 7 per cent,
here, and the right to circulate notes withdrawn from our banks, how could they, at
that rate, cover the expenses of management
and losses, and pay their shareholders a remunerative dividend? Those who know how business is carried on in New York know that
the law there against usury is a dead letter, as
it had been here. His hon. friend expressed an
opinion in favour of the National Bank system
of the United States. He (Mr. Macpherson)
thought that if the Government insisted on
changing the present system, he would much
prefer something like that, to the Dominion
note system, because it would make money
less costly to the borrower; as the capital
would be invested in public securities bearing
interest at the rate of 6 per cent. He (Mr.
Macpherson) had no intention of opposing the
second reading of the bill, for he had given
notice yesterday that when the House went
into committee upon it, he would move that
an additional clause and an improved form of
bank return be added to the bill. His hon.
friend (Mr. Campbell) had asked him to withdraw these. He would like to oblige him, but
he could not in this case. He attached much
importance to the proposed form of return. It
had been prepared with the assistance of gentlemen of experience connected with banks,
and he hoped the House would adopt it.

May 8, 1888

be introduced in connection with this matter.
Several of the banks enjoy individual charters, and those continue in force until 1870. In
those charters the form is specified, and is as
much a part of the charter as any other part
of it, therefore no change should be made
except with reference to each particular bank,
after due notice had been given, and an opportunity afforded for discussing the proposed
change, each on its own behalf. As a matter of
right this amendment ought not to pass, therefore he hoped his hon. friend would oblige
him by withdrawing it.
Hon. Mr. Ferrier said he could not see or
comprehend the cause for the alarm that the
hon. member who proposed this amendment
(Mr. Macpherson) seemed to entertain. He
thought it quite uncalled for, and a violation
of the Bank charters, and hoped the hon.
mover would consent to its withdrawal, and
not divide the House on it.
Hon. Mr. Anderson thought this form of
bank return would be a great improvement,
as it would enable the public to know the
position of the banks, and the manner in
which their capital was invested.
Hon. Mr. McMaster said as he was connected with a bank, he had not expressed an
opinion in connection with this measure, nor
did he now intend to say anything in reference to the bill itself; but in regard to the
amendment, he thought its provisions were
wise and desirable. The Postmaster General
had said that the whole question will be taken
up next Session, but at the same time he
knows that the charters of some of the banks
remain in existence until 1871. In view of this
fact this amendment ought to be adopted, because its provisions will contribute very materially to the safety of the public.

Hon. Mr. Campbell then moved that the bill
Hon. Mr. Macpherson did not wish to press
be read a second time, which motion was
anything that was unfair; if the Hon. Postcarried on a division.
master-General would show that this amendOn motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell the House ment was unfair to the banks, he would be the
went into Committee of the Whole on the bill, last one to object to withdrawing it. One hon.
member (Mr. McMaster) who is a bank direcHon. Mr. Dever in the chair.
tor, is In favour of the amendment, and another
After several clauses of the bill were adopt- bank director (Mr. Ferrier) from Montreal,
ed,
opposes it only on the ground of its being
Hon. Mr. Macpherson moved an amendment unnecessary, and he seems to be under the
to add a clause to the bill with form of bank impression that he (Mr. Macpherson) proposed
return to be made to the Government month- it from some feeling of alarn. He had no
feeling of alarm, but he believed it to be
ly, and published in the Royal Gazette (vide
necessary to ensure the better management of
yesterday's debate.)
the banks; at all events it would give the
Hon. Mr. Campbell thought the amendment public and shareholders such information as
was not in order, and ought not in fairness to would enable them to judge how the bank

May 8, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

was managed. How can this form be called
unnecessary when, had it been in operation
during past years, it would have given such
information as would have prevented the failure of the only two banks which have failed
in Canada? If the returns with respect to the
amount due by corporations had been required, the Commercial Bank would not have
made the advance which led to its ruin.
Hon. Mr. Ferrier-I was not one of the
stockholders, but I knew perfectly well the
large amount they loaned to this railway.
Their legitimate business was to attend to the
commercial interests of the country, and not
to loan their capital to railways.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson said his hon. friend
may have had that information before the
shareholders had it. At the annual meetings
there are but few shareholders present, and
very little information obtained, but by this
return information will be brought before the
shareholders every month, then if they do not
know the state of the bank it will be their
own fault, as they have an opportunity of
knowing when anything is going wrong, and
checking it before it becomes disastrous.
Hon. Mr. McMaster remarked that his hon.
friend (Mr. Ferrier) had said, that though he
was not a shareholder in the Commercial
Bank, he was aware of the amount they
loaned the railway company. He (Mr.
McMaster) did not think any one was aware
of it until it became a matter of litigation. He
again expressed his approval of the amendment, as he thought every security should be
afforded to the public.
Hon. Mr. Aikins said this schedule was in
the interest of the public, and not in the
interest of the banks. He felt satisfied that if
we had known the assets of the bank of Upper
Canada, a different course would have been
pursued in relation to the stockholders of that
bank. The stockholders should have the information which this return will give them.

jected. The public have a right to know everything in regard to the solvency of a bank, but
they have no right to demand any further
information. His hon. friend's "return" went
beyond that and provided that banks shall
give a statement of their discounts and assets
in every Province in the Dominion. The public
are interested not in the solvency of the banks
in each particular Province of the Dominion,
but in their solvency as a whole. It is no
advantage to the public to have this statement
for each Province, as they frequently have a
large amount of deposits in one Province, and
very few discounts. It was a well known fact
that a large portion of the lumber and grain
of Ontario is moved by institutions having
their headquarters in the Province of Quebec,
therefore no correct conclusions can be drawn
from a return being made for each Province.
In that respect he thought the scheme of his
hon. friend was defective, and ought not to
pass, but his main objection to it was because
it was seeking to alter, at the instance of a
private member of Parliament, a forn of
'return' which was general throughout these
banks existing under a general charter. The
Government have expressed an intention to
assume the responsibility of legislating upon
the subject during the next Session of Parliament, therefore he trusted the Committee
would not adopt this amendment.
Hon. Mr. Simpson supported the amendment, and thought the statements required by
the amendment only reasonable and just for
the public; and the bank with which he was
connedted (Ontario Bank) would willingly furnish it or any other details that may be
desired for the satisfaction of the public generally. He dissented from the statement of the
Hon. Postmaster-General, viz.: "That the
banks whose head offices were in the Province
of Quebec, furnished more capital for the
lumber and grain trades than those in Ontario." He felt quite certain that the banks of
Toronto and Ontario supplied more funds for
these objects than any of the other banks
according to their capital, though all the
banks did as much as possible in that way,
according to their capital and the wants of
their customers. He concluded by saying he
thought the proposed forn would be willingly followed by all the banks, as far as he
knew, and could see no obejetion to it, but a
great deal of good, and hoped it would pass.

Hon. Mr. Campbell said he had hoped his
hon. friend would withdraw his amendment
and saved this discussion. The Government
cannot accept this amendment to the bill,
because there is to be legislation upon this
subject during the next Session of Parliament.
He did not object to the proposed form of
return in many respects, and he apprehended
Hon. Mr. McMaster said it was important
that when legislation took place upon this
subject, many of his hon. friend's suggestions that this schedule should be adopted, as these
would be adopted, but to some provisions of returns would enable the Legislature to know
his proposed scheme he (Mr. Campbell) ob- the position in which the banks stood before
99267-19

SENATE DEBATES

May 8, 1868

legislating upon the subject. It would also
Hon. Mr. Macpherson then said that rather
enable the public to know whether the than have his amendment thrown out on a
amount of bank accommodation granted to point of order, he would withdraw it, and
any of the Provinces was based upon the introduce it in the form of a bill.
amount of capital deposited there.
It being six o'clock the House separated.
Hon. Mr. Ross regretted that his hon. friend
pressed his amendment. He believed it was
AFTER RECESS.
out of order, and would be so ruled when the
Hon. Mr. Dever reported that the ComHouse resumed, and the Speaker took the
Chair. He hoped, his hon. friend would with- mittee had agreed to the bill without amendment; it was then read a third time and
draw it.
passed.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell entirely endorsed the
The Bill intituled "An Act respecting the
views expressed by the last speaker, that this Department of Justice," was received from
return was admirably adapted to guard the the House of Commons with several amendpublic interest, but the question was not ments, which were read a third time and
whether it was desirable to give this informa- agreed to.
tion, but whether this is the proper time to
The Bill intituled "An Act respecting
introduce this amendment, which if the mover
and
pressed to a division might result in the defeat Penitentiaries and the directors thereof,
of what a large majority of the House desires for other purposes," was received from the
to adopt. The Postmaster-General had stated House of Commons, and read a first time.
that it was the intention of the Government to
Hon. Mr. Mitchell presented to the House a
be prepared to deal with the subject of bank- return to an address, relating to corresponding at the next Session of Parliament, there- ence concerning the building of vessels of
fore he would ask his hon. friend not to press wood and iron, &c.
the amendment to a division.
The Bill intituled "An Act to confirm the
Hon. Mr. Benson considered the proposed amalgamation of the Commercial Bank of
return a great improvement on that now in Canada, and the Merchants' Bank, and to
use, but thought its introduction now would amend and consolidate the Acts of Incorpobe untimely, and for that reason he had ration of the said banks," was read a second
refused to second the amendment when asked time.
The bill was then referred to the Comto do so by the hon. mover. He hoped his hon.
mittee on Banking, Commerce, and Railways.
friend would withdraw it.
The Bill intituled "An Act to amend an Act
Hon. Mr. McCully said if they passed this
amendment, it might be decided when the intituled an Act respecting the Statutes of
Speaker took the chair, that it was one that Canada," was read a second time.
The House in Committee agreed to a Bill
affected private persons or a company, and of
which they ought to have had notice, there- intituled "An Act constituting the Department
of Inland Revenue."
fore it could not be put from the chair.
The Bill intituled "An Act respecting the
Hon. Mr. Tessier believed the proposed rebe a great improvement, but Geological Survey of Canada," was read a
turn would
feared it was not in order, and that even if second time.
Also, The Bill intituled "An Act to impose
carried in Committee, it would be ruled out
and lost when the Speaker took the Chair. He a duty on foreign reprints of British copyright
therefore saw no use in dividing the Com- works."
mittee. He would suggest to his hon. friend to
The House then adjourned until Monday at
withdraw the amendment; and if he saw fit,
three o'clock.
embody it in a separate bill.

SENATE DEBATES

May 11, 1868

of Canada,'" was read a third time and
passed.
Ordered, that the Clerk inform the House of
Commons that the Senate have passed this
Monday, May 11, 1868.
bill without any amendment,
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
Also the Bill intituled: "An Act constituting
the Department of Inland Revenue," was, as
After routine,
amended, read a third time.
The Speaker reported to the House that the
Ordered, that the Clerk go down to the
period for receiving petitions for private Bills;
also for presenting private Bills to Senate, and House of Commons and acquaint that House
for receiving reports of Standing or Select that the Senate have passed this bill with
Committee on private Bills expires this day. several amendments, to which they desire
their concurrence.
On motion of the Hon. Mr. Mitchell, seconded by the Hon. Mr. Hamilion (Kingston),
AN ACT RESPECTING PATENTS
it was: Ordered, that the time limited for
FOR INVENTIONS
receiving petitions for private Bills, also for
Hon. Mr. Chapais explained the different
presenting private Bills and also for receiving
reports of any Standing or Select Committee clauses of this bill at length. The main object
on private Bills be extended to Tuesday of of the bill was to assimilate the laws of
all the Provinces of the Dominion in one
next week.
comprehensive measure. He explained the
Hon. Mr. Ross presented a petition of E. L. different clauses of the bill, which, he said,
Montizambert, praying to be permitted to had been prepared with great care, and he
withdraw from the service of the Senate at thought the bill would give general satisfacthe close of the present Session, on the same tion.
conditions accorded to the other employees of
Hon. Mr. Boisford said the propriety of
the House, who have been in the service of granting exclusive rights for a long period to
the Legislative Council of Canada for more inventors, was a subject of much discussion in
than twenty years. Referred to Select Com- the present day, and the feeling was rather
mittee on Contingent Accounts for the present hostile to it. He did not rise to oppose the
Session.
principle of the bill, but for the purpose of
Hon. Mr. Hamilton (Kingston), from the asking the Minister of Agriculture whether it
Committee on Banking, Commerce and is intended that the patents now in force in
Railways, to whom was referred the Bill in- the several Colonies shall come under the
tituled, "An Act to confirm the amalgama- provisions of this bill, and whether they shall
tion of the Commercial Bank of Canada and have to apply every five years for an exten31st section says,
the Merchants Bank, and to amend and con- sion of their patents; as the any Act of the
"All patents issued under
solidate the Act of incorporation of the said Legislature of the late Province of Canada or
Bank." Reported the same to the House of Nova Scotia, or of New Brunswick, and all
without amendment.
patents issued for the Provinces of Ontario
Ordered that the said bill be read a third and Quebec, under the Act of the late Province of Canada to the date of the coming into
tirne to-morrow.
operation of the present Act, shall remain in
Hon. Mr. Chapais introduced "An Act relat- force for the same term, and for the same
ing to Quarantine and Public Health." Read a extent of territory, as if the Act under which
first time.
they were issued had not been repealed, but
Ordered, that the said bill be read a second subject to the provisions of this Act in so far
as applicable to them."
time on Wednesday next.
Hon. Mr. Chapais said the bill did not alHon. Mr. Macpherson presented to the
lude to any extension of territory; the patenHouse a Bill intituled, "An Act respecting tee in any of the different Provinces cannot
Bank Statements." Read a first time.
under this law obtain patents in the Dominion
Ordered, that the said bill be read a second for their respective patents, but they remain
in force in their respective Province.
time on Wednesday next.

THE SENATE

The Bill intituled: "An Act to amend the
Act intituled, 'An Act respecting the Statutes
99267-19j

Hon. Mr. Botsford said the clause he had
read provided that those patents should be

SENATE DEBATES

May 11, 1868

subject to the provisions of this Act. Did that is generally some other person who avails
clause apply to patents now in existence the himself of the labour, skill, and ingenuity of
provision that they should expire in five the inventor; and makes a fortune out of those
years?
who use the invention.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said it did not apply; the
bill gave those patents neither any extension
of time or territory.
Hon. Mr. McCully said his hon. friend (Mr.
Botsford) was quite right in saying that the
spirit of the age is rather hostile to the extension of privileges to patentees. A great deal
might be said in regard to whether a man who
has taxed his ingenuity in devising some labour-saving machinery is not as much entitled
to protection as a professional man in his
profession. The difficulty is in regard to assigning patent privileges to a third person. A
man cannot convey his mind as he can convey
his patent, and this makes the difference between the two classes of subjects. He, in connection with others, had taken a very active
part in endeavouring to limit the number of
patents granted to foreigners in Nova Scotia,
and in consequence the privilege of taking out
patents had been so confined to the people
living in that Province, that we have been
able to avail ourselves of all the improvements that have been discovered in any foreign country, or in British territory. In our
mines-and especially in our gold mines-we
have the advantage of adopting the best machinery for working them, which we could not
have had without paying a large amount for
patent rights, if we had granted patents to
foreigners. When our ingenious young men
see new machinery abroad, they can avail
themselves of their knowledge in constructing similar machinery without costing
them such a large amount of capital as it
would do if subject to patent laws. He (Mr.
McCully) had not read the bill very carefully,
as it was not going before the House to-day,
but if it was what he believed it to be, nothing
would give him more pleasure than assisting
to pass it. While he was not disposed to prevent ingenious men from having the advantage
of their ingenuity and labour, he thought a
young country like this was not in a condition
to compete with the world in regard to patents, therefore we should not allow strangers
to come in and obtain patent rights the same
as our own people. These patent rights cause a
great amount of litigation in a country, as
parties often make some slight alteration in
an invention, and make a fortune from it.
Very few inventors have been known to improve their fortunes by their ingenuity, for it

Hon. Mr. Sanborn said if his hon. friend
(Mr. McCully), had not viewed both sides of
the question, he had certainly argued in both
sides of it. The first position he takes is, that a
person who has by ingenuity and thought invented something not in use before, is entitled
to that as a matter of property, then he says it
becomes a different thing when he wants to
transfer it, for he cannot transfer his mind.
There is no necessity for him to transfer his
mind, but only the product of his mind; it is
his property he transfers, and not his mind. It
has been recognised as a fact not only in
America but in Europe, that the granting of
patents to the individuals of any country
induces activity in business. What does a
man desire to invest if it is not for the purpose of obtaining a profit? This should be
secured to him by patent rights, otherwise
there will be nothing to stimulate men to
invent new improvements. There is no country where inventions have gone on so extensively as in the United States, and in no
country have such practical results attended
them. He then referred to his endeavours to
get a patent law passed, which he had introduced into the Legislative Council of Canada
twelve years ago, when some of the members
who, at first, were interested in the measure,
suddenly changed their minds under the conviction that they were violating the principles
of free trade. He said they should look at the
results of patent laws, instead of treating
them as tending to produce monopolies. In
countries where inventors were encouraged,
enterprise was excited, and new discoveries
were made in every branch of industry. He
thought the objection to granting patents to
foreigners could be obviated by stipulating in
the Bill that foreign inventors who take out
patents for their inventions should establish a
manufactory for them within our own borders, then it would be impossible for them to
take out patents here for the purpose of selling them. If our patent laws are liberal the
trade will regulate itself, and instead of one
having inferior articles of machinery manufactured here we shall be able to get better
articles at cheaper prices. With regard to the
present bill it appeared to be far in advance
of the one which hitherto existed in the
Province of Canada. He could not see what
propriety there was in requiring foreigners to
reside in the Province one year before getting

May

Il. 1868

SENATE DEBATES

a patent; if they wanted to establish a manufactory they had better establish it at once,
instead of having to wait a year, because it
might prevent them from establishing it at all.
In the Congress of the United States about
twelve or thirteen years ago, there was a
patent .committee appointed who recommended that country to issue patents to the subjects
of those foreign coutries on the same terms
that such coutries permitted the citizens of the
United States to obtain patents under their
laws. Congress then passed a law founded
upon that recommendation. If we permit an
American to take out a patent here for $30
we have the same privilege in the United
States, but at the present time we would be
required to pay $500. He would like to see
this principle of reciprocity adopted in this
bill but as it was he would accept it as an
improvement upon our present law. He then
referred to the sixth clause where it is provided
"that no patent shall issue for an invention
having an illicit object in view, nor for any
mere scientific principle or abstract theorem."
He said a great many cases had occurred and,
no doubt, would be continually occurring,
where it would be difficult to determine
whether the principle was abstract or practical. There was an application made for a
patent not long since, for making paper boxes
from pulp, but not according to any particular mode. If you are making an application
for a patent for machinery, you can show
how it is done by a model or design, but in
the case of the pulp, it is very nearly like
granting a patent for an abstract principle,
and in such cases it would be difficult to
decide whether a patent ought or ought not
to be granted. Then in regard to the patents
already granted in the different Provinces,
he thought the bill should provide to extend
those patents to the whole Dominion when
they were renewed.
Hon. Mr. McCully said suppose a man had a
patent for an invention for the Provinces of
Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, and he sold
his patent right for New Brunswick; if that
patent was extended over both Provinces,
who would have the benefit of it?
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said, in framing the bill,
the Minister of Agriculture had overlooked
one principle which had been agreed upon,
which was that the privilege of extending
patents was not to apply to existing inventions. He was glad the bill was receiving so
much attention, and was being discussed
with so much calmness and deliberation, be-

cause it was a measure which required much
thought and reflection. He was not prepared
to say that the adoption of free trade in patents would not be of more advantage than the
present system. It would be like establishing
the principle of free ports. He thought that if
three-quarters of a century ago the port of St.
John had been made a free port, and the
means to sustain the expenses of the country
had been levied by direct taxation, or derived
from some other sources, that little town today might have been classed as one of the
great cities of the continent. The same principle might have some weight as applicable to
the Patent Law, and it is one which has engaged the attention of many scientific men. He
believed that if the people of this country
were sufficiently educated for the position, it
would be well worthy the consideration of the
House, whether in the present state of the
country, looking at its proximity to a great
people alongside of us, they should not adopt
this principle. The hon. member who had last
spoken expressed himself in favour of the bill,
because it was a step in advance of the previous law on that subject in Canada. He has put
forward the idea that people's ingenuity
should receive attention and protection. He
(Mr. Mitchell) said, that as an abstract principle, morally, such a proposition was right,
whether it related to patents, copyright, or
any other abstract principle. The question the
Legislature had to consider was not only the
moral effect of the legislation, but the effect it
would have upon the sentiments of the country, and upon the industry of the country, in
utilizing its resources. This law gives us
an opportunity of taking the inventions of
other nations and utilizing them. His hon.
friend (Mr. Sanborn) had referred to the
United States as a country in which great
progress had been made on account of their
patent laws. He (Mr. Mitchell) agreed with
him that the United States had advanced very
rapidly during the last three quarters of a
century, but it was not because they have
adopted a good system of patent laws, but it is
in spite of them. It is because the county is
possessed of great internal wealth that it has
prospered, as that wealth has been developed,
and notwithstanding they have had a disastrous war, it still continues to prosper. We
might as well say that the prosperity of the
United States was caused by that war as to
say it was caused by the number of patents
that had been taken out. His hon. friend (Mr.
McCully) had stated that in Nova Scotia there
were but few patents given to foreigners. In

SENATE DEBATES
New Brunswick the case was the reverse of
this, for there any one could get a patent for
$10, and it had the effect of checking the
industry of the country. He referred to a shoe
factory, which had been established some
years ago, the proprietors of which had to pay
ten cents per pair for every pair of shoes they
rnade, because they made use of some machinery invented in the United States, and for
which they had taken out a patent in the
Province.

May 1L, 1868

for reciprocity in patents to come into operation in this country, he must say that from
what he could see of the policy of American
statesmen, they take good care to be extremely liberal in any principle of reciprocity that
brings advantage to their own people, and
were he (Mr. Mitchell) an American citizen,
having something to say in regard to the law
for the extension of reciprocity in the patent
laws to Canada, he would agree with the
provisions contained in their bill. He would
ask his hon. friend why they had not adopted
the same principle in reference to copyrights?

Hon. Mr. Sanborn asked how the patentee
could ascertain the amount he was entitled to
receive from the manufacturer, and whether a
Hon. Mr. Sanborn thought they were wrong
superior article of shoes was not produced by in that respect.
the encouragement given by that patent.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said the Americans were
Hon. Mr. Mitchell was not prepared to say quite willing to be liberal when it suited their
how they ascertained the total amount, but it own interest, but they had refused for the last
might be by affidavit; neither was he prepared half a century to enter into a treaty whereby
to say the shoes were better. It afforded better the genius and talent of European authors
facilities for making them, so that they could could have had that protection which his hon.
be made cheaper. The effect of the extreme friend was so desirous American inventors
liberality of the patent laws of New Brun- should have. He then referred to the unfortuswick, allowing every one to come in and take nate position in which the Canadian publisher
out patents, was to compel the leading manu- was placed in regard to reprints of British
factories of the country to pay toll to foreign copyright works, in consequence of the policy
inventors, or perhaps to some person who adopted in the British Parliament, thus compicked up the invention in some foreign coun- pelling us to give the preference to the
try, and take out a patent for it in ours. He American publisher over our own. While he
could mention many cases where those patent was prepared to favour the principle of free
laws have borne hard upon our manufac- trade in every way in which it could be extories. He held, as an abstract principle, that tended, he was not prepared to allow
in a young country like this, where the popula- American citizens to come into our country
tion were sparse, where the intelligence of the and take out patents for inventions which
people has not been directed into the channel they may have picked up in foreign countries,
of invention, and situated as we are along side and make our people pay for the application
of a country the very reverse of this, it is our of those patents, as they did under the old
interest as a people to throw as many restric- Canadian law. Such restriction should be intions about monopolies as possible, but were troduced into our patent law as would allow
we in a different position, and the sentiments our people the utmost liberty in utilizing evof the people in favour of doing away with ery invention existing in a foreign country.
existing restrictions, we could fairly say, that
Hon. Mr. Sanborn hoped his hon. friend was
it might be for the interest of the country to
adopt a system to allow free trade in patents not going to oppose the bill; he had advocated
as in everything else, and the effect would be everything that was not in the bill, and opthat every invention discovered in the United posed what was in it.
States would be open to be adopted in our
Hon. Mr. Mitchell denied that he was adtrade. Then as protection had been given to vocating every ground that was not in the
manufactories both here and in the United
States they would spring up here in many bill. His hon. friend (Mr. Sanborn) was going
parts of the country where they do not now to support the bill, because it was one step in
exists. In the present state of public sentiment advance of the old Canadian Bill, while he
he thought that policy could not be adopted, (Mr. Mitchell) was supporting it, because it
therefore they should throw as many restric- was one step the other way. They both suptions against the obtaining of patents as possi- ported it, but it was from two different points
ble. In regard to the suggestion of his hon. of view. He supported the bill, not because he
friend (Mr. Sanborn) to introduce a section believed a system of patents was an advaninto the bill to enable the American provision tage to a country, but because public opinion

May 11, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

demands that a patent law should exist, and other similar Offences," to which they desire
if they must have such a law, they should the concurrence of this House. Read a first
have it open to as few objections as possible.
and ordered to be read a second time tomorrow.
Hon. Mr. Chapais explained that existing
The petition of the Northern Railway was
patents would not be affected, or come under
then received and read, for construction of
the provisions of the bill.
elevator and other works connected with said
The bill was then read a second time.
railroad.)
Hon. Mr. Chapais moved that the bill be
Hon. Mr. Mitchell thought he had stated the
referred to a Committee of the whole House
case already, that he was in favour of free
to-morrow.
trade on patents if public opinion was educatHon. Mr. Sanborn said the bill would place ed for it, but if they must have a patent law it
inventors in the separate Provinces in a worse should be such a one as was contemplated by
position than they were now, but he hoped the this bill. He again referred to the manufachon. mover would consent to amend the bill tories of St. John, and said many of them had
in committee, as he thought that a wrong to pay toll to the casual traveller or inventor,
principle altogether. The privileges should be who took out a patent for an improvement on
extended to the whole Dominion. He said that some machinery used in their establishments.
it was in a great measure due to the wise and The nail trade had been monopolized by the
judicious legislation of the United States on United States until the time of the war, but
this subject, and everything that fostered during that time the manufactories of St.
their own manufacture and enterprise, that John had nearly driven them out of the trade
caused that country to make such rapid with the West Indies. At the close of the war
strides in wealth and colonization during the labour became cheaper, and they adopted a
first half century of their career. If not, to new mode of turning the heads of the nails,
what else could their great prosperity be at- for which they took out a patent, by which
tributed? The patent laws are an absolute they have been able to secure that trade to
necessity to foster the infant manufactories of themselves. What we want is to give our peoa young and rising country like Canada, when ple an opportunity of using foreign articles to
free trade might suit old communities. He was enable us to compete in the markets of the
relieved when he found the Hon. Minister of world with the more advanced manufactories
Marine and Fisheries was about to support of the United States. His hon. friend (Mr.
this bill of his hon. colleague, though he spoke Sanborn) had spoken of the great advances
against its clauses almost throughout. But the the United States had made in wealth and
hon. member seems now to have arrived at civilization during the first half century of
the conclusion to save the bill from defeat by their career, and had asked to what it could
the "rule of contraries," to his great credit and be attributed. He (Mr. Mitchell) would tell
grasp of mind be it said. He also thought there him it was the markets derived from their
were many good provisions in the bill, and extensive country which had been the cause
would support it as a move in the right direc- of their prosperity, their manufactories having had a monopoly to supply the whole
tion.
(A message was brought from the House of Southern people. That was what had built
Commons to the Clerk, returning "An Act to them up, and the same facilities for trade
amend the Acts relating to the Niagara Dis- would build us up, while free patent laws
trict Bank," and that they had passed the would give to our people the advantage of the
ingenuity of the people on the other side of
same without amendment.
the border, and we would have greater reAlso a message returning the Bill intituled sources than we now have to compete with
"An Act respecting Aliens and Naturalization," and that they had passed the same with them in the foreign markets of the world.
several amendments, to which they desire the
Hon. Mr. Reesor said that in the 11th clause
concurrence of this Hon. House, which said there is a provision that any one may act as
amendments being read were concurred and a agent in obtaining patents for inventions, but
message ordered to be sent to the Commons in that application the applicant is not obliged
that the Senate doth agree to said amend- to declare, under oath, that the inventor has
ments without any amendment.
been a resident of Canada for one year, as is
Also a message from the Commons with a specified by the bill. That provision should be
Bill intituled, "An Act respecting Larceny and made more clear.

280

SENATE DEBATES

May 11 1868

Hon. Mr. Mitchell said that could be done registry of ships in the United States, he said
when the bill was in Committee.
he did not like reciprocity when it was all on
one side.
Hon. Mr. McCully related a circumstance of
The motion was then carried.
a Captain of a coasting vessel who had a
"gaff" on his vessel for a number of years, the
A Bill entitled "An Act to conflrm a certain
whole fitting up of which did not cost over $3. by-law, passed by the Directors of the Lake
This Captain went to Portland with his vessel, Memphremagog Navigation Company, and for
when a man came on board and said, "You other purposes," and
have my patent gaff, and you must pay ten
A Bill entitled "An Act respecting larceny
dollars for it." The Captain at first refused, and other similar offences," were received
but after consulting with the gentleman to from the House of Commons and read a first
whom the vessel was consigned, he came to time.
the conclusion that he had better pay it, and
The petition of the Northern Railway Co. of
he did so. He then referred to the number of Canada, "for the passing of an Act to enable
patents granted in the United States, there the said Company to raise capital for the
being scarcely a stove manufactured there but construction of elevators, the extension of
was patented; and he thought if that principle railway stock, and other equipments, and the
was adopted in Nova Scotia, it would destroy construction of such new and additional
their manufactories altogether. Looking at works as are or may be necessary for the
this question on broad principles, he quite operation and extension of the traffic, and for
other purposes," was received and read.
agreed with the Minister of Marine, that they
should have free trade, but in allusion to the
The House then adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES

May 12, 1868

THE SENATE
Tuesday, May 12, 1868
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.

Scotia and the Dominion Government, because there were certain services to which
there might be some doubt as to whether they
ought to be charged to the Dominion or to the
Provinces, therefore, he thought it desirable
that, at the earliest date, the Government
should provide a disinterested tribunal to give
satisfaction, so that the weaker Province
would not seem to be overborne by Dominion
institutions.

After routine,
His hon. the Speaker reported to the House
that he had received a communication from
the President of the Legislative Council of
Hon. Mr. Campbell replied that there was
Newfoundland. The said communication expressed the feeling of the Legislative Council no dispute between the Dominion Governrelative to the assassination of the Hon. T. ment and the Governments of Nova Scotia
D'Arcy McGee and their profound sympathy and New Brunswick as to these items. In
with his bereaved widow and family. Having reference to a great many of these items, the
been read by the Clerk, a resolution was Local Governments have assented, but to
passed acknowledging the receipt of the same some they have not yet come to a decision. In
and directing the Speaker to make a suitable regard to the other part of the question, no
arrangement has been made, because any arreply.
A number of petitions were then presented rangement for settling disputes must come
before the Local as well as the General
and laid on the table.
Government, and be mutually agreed upon.
ENQUIRY RESPECTING DEBTS OF THE
MARITIME PROVINCES.
Hon. Mr. McCully said there was some
misapprehension existing in the Maritime
Provinces in reference to the state of the
accounts existing between those Provinces
and the Dominion Government. It was due to
the Dominion Government, and also to the
Local Governments, that there should be some
authenticated statement made in regard to
this matter, in order to disabuse the minds of
many who would be willing to do justice to
the Dominion Government if they were not
misled by interested parties. He thought those
statements were entirely erroneous, yet for
the reasons named, he would enquire:
"Whether any dispute exists between the
Dominion Government and the Provinces of
Nova Scotia or New Brunswick, or either, and
which of them, as to the amount of their
respective debts on the lst day of July last,
assumed by the Dominion? Also whether any
dispute exists as to such amounts at any
subsequent dates? Also whether any method
of settling disputes, if any exist or should
arise, as to amounts of money charged or
chargeable by the Dominion against the respective Provinces or vice-versa is to be provided by Government?
In the British North America Act, a provision was made for the settlement of any disputes that might arise between the Provinces
of Ontario and Quebec. There was also ample
room for disputes to arise between Nova
99267-20

Hon. Mr. McCully moved "that an humble
address be presented to His Excellency the
Governor-General, praying that His Excellency wil be pleased to cause to be laid before
this House a statement, showing the debts of
the Provinces of Nova Scotia and New
Brunswick, to the Dominion, at the most recent date to which they have been adjusted."
Hon. Mr. Campbell said he had no objection
to the address, but he would suggest to his
hon. friend, to omit the words "to which they
have been adjusted," because they have not
been adjusted.
Hon. Mr. McCully said he had no objection
to omitting those words.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot said, so far as New
Brunswick was concerned, before the first of
July warrants were issued to cover ahnost
every service upon the local treasury, and
$250,000 were paid over to the Dominion
Treasury on the first of July. He had been
surprised to hear a statement made that a
large amount had been paid on account of
New Brunswick, therefore it was very desirable that a statement should be made.
The motion was then adopted.
Hon. Mr. Benson moved, that an humble
Address be presented to His Excellency the
Governor-General, praying that His Excellency will be pleased to cause to be laid before
this House, all correspondence connected with
the navigation of the Saint Clair Flats, or of
the improvement thereof, and a statement of

SENATE DEBATES
all money paid for that object." He said he
made this motion because he had received
from a person interested in the trade of the
country a copy of a report made by an officer
of the Amerian Government upon the position
of the navigation of the St. Clair Flats, from
which it appeared that that Government has
decided to abandon the old channel which was
made, and to which the Canadian Government
contributed $20,000, and have now contracted
for a new ship canal in a more accessible
position, more easy of navigation and less
expensive. This canal is said to be on
American territory, is only one and a half
miles long, 300 feet wide and 13 feet deep at
lowest water, with embankments on each side,
50 feet wide, and it will be completed in 1869.
This canal will save the large expenditure
necessary heretofore in crossing those flats
which amounted in 1865 to the sum of $494,369, while the new canal will only cost $428,754. It is not necessary to discuss the importance of this subject to Canadian interests, or
the extent of the navigation which must
necessarily pass through this channel. It may
be sufficient to say that in the season of navigation in 1866 the number of crafts of all
description that passed through the old channel was 22,274, and 90 rafts, being an average
of 86 vessels daily. The proportion of
Canadian vessels is not given, but sufficient is
now given to show the importance of the
subject, and the necessity of securing for our
shipping interests all the advantages possible
to be obtained, and it was for this object he
asked this address.
The motion was then put and carried.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell it was
ordered that on to-morrow, and on every sitting thereafter, there be two distinct sittings
of the House, one from three to six o'clock
p.m., unless the House sooner adjourns, and
another at half-past seven p.m.
The Bill intituled "An Act to confirm the
amalgamation of the Commercial Bank of
Canada, and the Merchants' Bank, and to
amend and consolidate the Acts of incorporation of the said Banks," was read a third time
and passed.
COMMITTEE

REPORT.

Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the adoption of
the report of the Select Committee on the
subject of alterations in the form of proceedings in the Senate, and said he trusted that
the report now before the House would be
regarded by the hon. members as very desirable. The object of those who prepared the

May 12, 1888

report was to give more time for the discussion of subjects which came before the House,
and it suggests a more perfect mode than we
have had for attaining that object.
The report was then adopted.
AN ACT RESPECTING PENITENTIARIES.
Hon. Mr. Campbell, in explaining the provi-

sions of this Act, said that changes had been
made in the law formerly in force in regard to
penitentiaries, with a view of introducing a
system which had been found practical in
Great Britain, and which had been attended
with beneficial results. One change consisted
in enabling the Governor in Council to legalize
penitentiaries in different parts of the Dominion; for instance if public works were
carried on, those public works might be constituted legal penitentiaries where convicts
might be employed under the surveillance of
their keepers. This would not only promote
their own health and improvement, but it
would be an advantage to the public to have
those works carried on in this manner. In the
penitentiary system of Ireland they have intermediate penitentiaries for convicts who
have spent a portion of their tern in more
severe labour, and, perhaps, in complete silence; but having served that portion of his
time a man is allowed, as it were, for good
behaviour, to be removed to another intermediate prison, where the work is not so severe,
and he is allowed some privileges. It would be
impossible in the state of finances of this
country to have intermediate prisons, therefore it is considered advisable to constitute
penitentiaries and make them intermediate
prisons, where convicts after serving a portion
of their time and by their conduct, entitle
themselves to be considered in the way of
improvement, can be sent where the work will
be less and some privileges will be granted to
them. There was another provision in the bill
to which he desired to call the attention of the
House. It is proposed in one of the clauses of
the bill to have penal cells, because it is found
by experience, and from the reports of those
who have studied this question, that the true
way to reform the conduct of a convict is to
teach him in the first place the hardship of the
sentence he is undergoing. Having been so
punished if he shows a desire to conform
himself to the rules of the prison, and faithfully perform his work, a certain degree of
relaxation might be permitted. This would
hold out to the convict a ray of hope, and it
would remove what has been considered a
great obstacle in the way of the successful

May 12,.1868

SENATE DEBATES

working of our penitentiaries, in as much as a
Hon. Mr. McCully doubted very much
convict cannot hope for any change in his
sentence on account of his conduct. That hope whether this Legislature had the power to
is held out by the section of the bill which pass such a law, and feared that serious, if not
authorises the remission of the time of the dangerous, consequences will follow its passentence in accordance with his good conduct, sage if carried into effect. Such, at all events,
to extent of five days for each month. These were his apprehensions, but he would not
are the principal changes made in the bill as press his objections now.
The bill was then read a second time, and
compared with what has hitherto been the
law in Canada proper. He could not speak of on motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell was ordered
the laws on this subject in the Lower Prov- to be referred to a Connittee of the whole
inces, but he believed they were the same as House to-morrow.
in Canada, and have been administered with
more or less success in the reformation of
GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.
convicts. He would now move the second
The House went into Committee of the
reading of the bill.
The motion was then adopted, and it was Whole on the Bill intituled "An Act respecting
ordered that the Bill be referred to a Com- the Geological Survey of Canada,"
mittee of the whole House to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. Dumouchel in the chair.
Hon. Mr. McCully alluded to the provision
of the bill, allowing balances to be held over,
The order of the day being read for the and said it was not consistent with the princisecond reading of the Bill intituled, "An Act ple adopted by the Governinent in relation to
to provide for the taking of evidence in the Departments of the Civil Service, and late
Canada, in relation to civil and commercial discussions would show how strongly the
matters pending before courts of justice in Government felt on this subject. If the objecany of Her Majesty's Dominions, or before tions were good and valid then, so they must
foreign tribunals."
be considered now, and he was at a loss to see
how the Government can change their public
Hon. Mr. Campbell said that both in Great policy on one measure of this kind, after the
Britain and the United States, they had a law high grounds taken by them lately in this
by which evidence could be taken in these House.
countries for suits pending in a foreign country, and they can compel the attendance of
Hon. Mr. Campbell said it was found by
witnesses, and compel them to give evidence past experience that continuity of this service
after they have attended. This bill will exer- was necessary to secure its value, and therecise the same powers as if the suit was pend- fore they had voted for this service in terms
ing in our own courts. He would now move of four or five years. This service had been of
the second reading of the bill.
great benefit to the country. He had known
individuals who had discovered minerals upon
Hon. Mr. Tessier wished to know how evi- their farms, and not knowing the value of
dence taken in foreign countries was to be them, had referred to the
geological report,
legalized and binding in the Province of and found information given by the best
Quebec, there being such dissimilarity exist- scientific men upon these minerals which
ing now in the laws of evidence obtaining showed them that they were very valuable.
there from those of the other Provinces of the This bill proposes to extend this service to
Dominion, and other countries of the world.
the Maritime Provinces.
Hon. Mr. Campbell-The objection raised
Hon. Mr. Flint wished to ask if there was
by the hon. member (Mr. Tessier) had not any provision in the bill for the establishment
escaped the attention of the Governinent, but of schools for miners, in which they could be
until one court could be established for the trained to assay those minerals, instead of our
whole Dominion, the Government felt it having to be dependent upon persons coming
necessary to pass such a law as this, and if it from the United States. It is highly important
should be found necessary, the Province of that something of this kind should be done for
Quebec would doubtless avail itself of the the purpose of developing the mineral readvantages of this bill, and copy from it. All sources of the country. He did not agree with
these details will adjust themselves in a short the Postinaster-General that a great benefit
time after some trial of the present legislation. had been derived from this survey. If every
TAKING EVIDENCE IN CANADA.

99267-201

SENATE DEBATES

one who has tried to get geological information from those conducting that survey had
been treated as he (Mr. Flint) had been, they
would get very little information indeed. He
had sent ores to them from his part of the
country since 1865, but he had never yet been
able to obtain the least information from that
staff. He did not think the geological survey
was worth the money that was bestowed upon
it. He hoped the Governnent would take this
matter into consideration, and see that some
portion of this money was expanded in giving
information to persons, to enable them to give
us proper information, otherwise we might as
well save the money as to expend it in the
way we do.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Jusi stated as a
well known fact that the chemical department
of the geological survey had not met the genral expectations of the people of this Dominion. From one cause or another there was a
general dissatisfaction with the late and present working of this important branch of the
public service. It was much to be regretted
that such was the case, as he considered it one
of the greatest desideratums for this young
country, abounding in mineral wealth, that
the most competent and painstaking scientific
men should be employed in making known its
varied sources of hidden wealth to the world.

May 12, 1868

Chemists and most learned Geologists in
Europe, had agreed with Mr. Hunt that the
particular ores to which reference has been
made as having been referred to Mr. Hunt,
were incapable of fusion. Mr. Hunt had not
the required materials to make the assays or
experiments desired, which is a complete justification, as far as he is concerned, if any were
wanting; but the later experience has disproved that mistake, but no reproaches can be
made to our staff when other eminent men,
with all the appliances, were in error also.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said, in reference to the
question put by his hon. friend (Mr. Flint),
that the Government were quite alive to the
importance of having a school for miners.
There was no provision for taking any steps at
present in this matter, but the importance of
the subject would receive the attention of the
Governnent. The remarks made in reference
to the errors committed by the staff of Sir
William Logan would exercise a useful and
wholesome influence. The remarks which had
fallen from the hon. members of the House
would have great weight and secure others
from falling into similar errors. Those very
sands to which allusion has been made, were
sent to Europe by the officers of the Hudson's
Bay Company, and were pronounced valueless
by scientific men. It is impossible to prevent
those errors from occurring, and we must set
against them the valuable result which will be
derived from the salt works which have been
brought into notice by Sir William Logan, and
which did fair to rival the salt works in the
State of New York. He might specify numerous instances where the results of this geological survey have been most valuable to the
country. He believed the arrangements of Sir
William Logan would include on his staff the
name of one of those persons referred to by
his hon. friend (Mr. McCully), he being one of
the first to bring forward men of promise
from all parts of the Dominion.
The Speaker said when he was in Europe,
in France, last year, he found men of the first
scientific attainments, who all agreed in pronouncing Mr. Hunt one of the ablest chemists
of the age, without exception.
The bill was then adopted, read a third
time and passed.

Hon. Mr. McCully spoke in high terms of
the persons who were conducting this survey.
He had supposed that when the Government
brought down this measure they would have
had some opportunity of knowing what the
arrangements were, but it appeared the arrangements were to be made by the Governor
in Council. In Nova Scotia they were anxious
to know what amount of money was to be
spent in that Province for this purpose. He
trusted that when the staff was organized, and
the survey was extended to Nova Scotia, they
would not forget those persons of very creditable attainments in that Province who had
made this science their study for many years,
but that their services would be made available for the purpose of giving the Dominion the
most creditable information which can be obtained in regard to its geological value. 'He did
not wish to be understood as opposing the
measure, as he approved of it, and intended to
support it.
FOREIGN REPRINTS OF BRITISH COPYRIGHT WORKS.
Hon. Mr. Chapais said that this was one
instance to show how the most scientific men
The House went into Committee of the
of the universe may be deceived for a time Whole on a Bill intituled, "An Act to impose a
regarding any new discovery. He knew for a duty on Foreign Reprints of British copyright
fact that for a length of time the best works."

-May 12, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

(Hon. Mr. Guévremont in the chair.)
Hon. Mr. Ryan would make a few remarks
in reference to the first clause. It was in
reference to this clause that he had suggested
to the Postmaster-General the adoption of an
amendment. The object of the amendment
was to give to the printers and publishers of
Canada an opportunity of doing what this bill
will give to the printers and publishers of the
United States. At present he believed that all
copies of English copyright works printed in
the United States were prohibited from coming into Canada. This bill will allow them to
come in by paying 20 per cent. ad valorem,
which 20 per cent goes to the author or whoever possesses the copyright in England. It
appears very natural that we should be put on
the same footing as we are allowed by an Act
of the Imperial Government to put the printers and publishers of the United States. This
would be a benefit to us, as we would then
employ our operatives doing the work which
is now done in the United States, and which
we admit into Canada on paying 20 per cent
to go to the author. His object was to allow
our operatives to have the same privileges as
those of the United States in regard to this
matter. He had thought that this might be
easily accomplished, but upon looking into the
subject and consulting some of the legal members of the Government, he found there is a
legal difficulty unfortunately in the way. The
hon. gentleman then read several extracts
from the law upon this point to show that this
legal difficulty existed, and went on to show
that these reprints of British copyright books
could be more cheaply printed here than in
the United States under their system of taxation. He had been told by practical printers
that in Montreal if they had permission, they
could publish a great number of those works
not only for Canada but to compete with the
United States in the United States market.
This would be an advantage not only to our
operatives but to the authors of those works,
because they now get nothing on the numerous copies published in the United States, but
only 20 per cent on those imported into
Canada; if they are printed here the printer
would not only have to pay this percentage
upon those sold in Canada, but also upon
those sold in the United States. It appeared
but reasonable and right that we should by
some means obtain the power of making such
regulations as would confer these benefits. It
was his intention to give a notice of motion
to-morrow for an address to Her Majesty,
praying that through the action of the Imperial Parliament we should have this power.

Hon. Mr. Sanborn did not see any necessity
for an address to Her Majesty in reference to
this subject; they should deal with the question themselves.
Hon. Mr. Ryan said if they could act upon
it by legislation, it was well to do so, but he
had consulted the law officers of the Crown,
who say it is incompatible with the Copyright
Acts of the British Government.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn did not so understand it;
we have a perfect right to legislate upon patents, and this subject would involve the same
principle. It was a matter of justice to the
author that we should legislate upon it, and
grant him the same privileges we do to the
inventor, although it was merely a moral obligation. We are laying aside that principle of
self-interest which usually influences the
legislation of countries, and magnanimously
conceding to the authors of those copyright
works a right to have an interest in them. If
we yield that principle we ought to give them
a right to take out their copyright here. That
would meet the objection raised, and our publishers would have privileges under the Copyright Act. The point made by his bon.
friend was, that our publishers in Canada
want to have the same privilege in regard to
those copyrights as they have in the United
States.
Hon. Mr. Ryan-There is now a penalty
imposed, the right of every author being extended to all the Provinces. That copyright is
pirated in the United States, and it is found
difficult to prevent those publications from
coming into Canada, therefore to obviate this,
there is to be a duty imposed of 20 per cent,
for the benefit of the author. Anyone publishing a British copyright work in Canada is
liable to an action.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said the Imperial Act on
this subject was of no greater force than any
other Imperial Act; if this was recognized our
local legislation does away with it, because
under the Union Act power is given us to
legislate upon the subject. He then referred to
the bill being in the interest of the authors
and not in the interest of the public, and he
could not see how those who advocated the
interests of the public, in regard to patents for
inventions, could now support this bill.
Hon. Mr. McCully thought that though
copyright was something for the benefit of
the author, yet, no man produced a good
book without its being a benefit to the public. It was a benefit to the man who read the

SENATE DEBATES
book as well as to the man who wrote it.
There was no reason why other people should
take the benefit of the ability and long services of the author, and undersell the book
which he has produced.

May 12, 1888

legislature did not possess very extensive
powers, still he could not help thinking that it
was not the intention of the Imperial Parliament to confer upon us any greater power
than we possessed before.

Hon. Mr. Sanborn said the object of the Bill
Hon. Mr. Sanborn understood the Imperial
was to put this duty of 20 per cent upon the Parliament to have conceded to us by the
large number of British copyrights now in Union Act everything which they did not reexistence, whereas now we have them free.
serve. The opinion has been entertained by
the highest legal authorities that patents
Hon. Mr. Ryan said if his hon. friend would granted by the British Government, when
look at the "Acts" upon this subject, he would tested by Statute Law, would be of no validity
see that these reprints of British copyright in these Provinces, Are we to minimise our
works are prohibited from coming in at all, powers into a mere municipality having only
therefore he was under a mistake in saying the powers delegated to us by the strict ternis
they come in free. It is because this prohibi- of the Union Act, or are we to be considered
tion has been evaded, that they are now to be as something almost approaching to a nation,
allowed to come in by paying a duty. He did having power to legislate upon whatever
not think it possible that they could pass an would benefit our people if not adverse to the
Act to interfere with the Imperial Act, and sovereignty of Great Britain. We have the
therefore he was obliged to go in this round right to legislate adversely to the interests of
about way to ask the Governor General to Great Britain in our tariffs, and if these
lorward an address to the Imperial Govern- copyrights are prohibited by what law are
ment to induce them to take such legislation they prohibited? It is by our own law and
as will allow us to print those works in for the interest of the public, and now we
Canada.
should consider whether we are legislating
Hon. Mr. Tessier contended that the Union for the benefit of authors solely, or for the
Act (91st Sec.) distinctly gave us the power to public in imposing this duty. We have full
legislate in respect of the rights of authors; powers given us in the 9lst Section of the
but otherwise doubted whether the Imperial Union Act to legislate upon this subject, direct
Act was in force in Canada. The Bill gave and specific, but we have approached It
rights to foreigners which we cannot give ac- from a wrong stand point.
cording to these pretensions to our own pubHon. Mr. Campbell said this was a question
lishers. He thought it would be better to put a upon which great doubt existed as to our right
high rate of duty on American reprints of to legislate upon it, therefore, the course purBritish copyrights.
sued by his hon. friend (Mr. Ryan) was the
Hon. Mr. McCully was inclined to think that only safe one to be adopted. Legal men in
there was no intention on the part of the England would hold stronger views upon this
Imperial Parliament to confer new powers point than legal men in this country. As an
upon the Dominion by the British North instance of this he would mention that Judges
America Act. It was but a reasonable con- of the Court of Queen's Bench in England had
struction of that Act to say it gave the Do- assumed to exercise a judiciary power over a
minion power to legislate upon the subject of power which was under the jurisdiction of the
'copyright, and it may be fairly presumed they Courts of Upper Canada, and it was only after
have that right. The intention of the Act was application was made, and an Act of the
to give to the Dominion any rights which the Imperial Parliament passed, that this power
separate Provinces had before those rights was abandoned. Where we find that the lmwere taken away by the passing of the Union perial Parliament have enacted in express
Act. The power we now possess is no greater terms particular provisions extending to all
than exercised before Confederation in the colonies; it is held that each colony notCanada, proper, so far as their jurisdiction withstanding that it may have a Legislature of
extended. If that be the true construction of its own, is bound by the Imperial Act, as in
the North America Act, we have no more the case of the Merchants' Shipping Act. The
ýright to legislate against an Act of the Imperial Parliament than we had before. In that Bank of British North America held its power
view of the case his hon. friend (Mr. Ryan) under an English Charter in Canada for some
had taken a proper course in moving for an years, without any power being granted by
.address. He was not prepared to say that this the Local Legislature.

May 12, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. McCully-It has no other power in British copyrights by paying 20 per cent
Nova Scotia now.
which the Bill proposed to take from the
American publishers.
Hon. Mr. Campbell-It had additional power conferred upon it in Canada, but it was
Hon. Mr. Campbell hoped the hon. member
after it had existed here for some years under (Mr. Sanborn) would defer his amendment
its English charter. He doubted whether the until to-morrow, to enable him to consult the
rule which governed patents would govern Law Officers of the Crown on the point.
copyrights, because he thought that in EngHon. Mr. Ryan was happy at the new lights
land copyrights were issued under the
authority of the Crown. The best way of ap- that have been thrown on the subject, but like
proaching the subject was in the way suggest- all subjects where Lawyers interfere, there
ed by the hon. member for Montreal, (Mr. must be two sides for discussion; his object
Ryan), to move an address to the Governor- was to take the safest and shortest mode, and
General, desiring the attention of the English hoped hon. inembers would not object to the
Government to this law, with a view to hav- course proposed as the safest and, perhaps, in
ing it altered, so as to give us the right to the end, the most expeditious. He feared if the
avail ourselves of any opportunity for reprint- Lawyers had the collection of this proposed 20
ing English copyright books, reserving a per- per cent, on the reprints of British copyrights,
centage for the author. In the meantime we there would be very little left for the public
are all agreed that the provisions of this bill Treasury or the authors.
rose,
reported
Committee then
The
are just and right, and will redound to the
advantage of authors of British copyright progress, and asked leave to sit again to-morworks, as it will increase the area of the row.
publication of their books, to allow new reprints to be circulated where they were alPATENTS FOR INVENTION, BILL
together prohibited before. Formerly the auPursuant to order, the House then resolved
thors derived no benefit from the circulation
of their works, so far as Canada is concerned, itself into Committee of the Whole on the bill
but under this bill they will receive 20 per relating to Patents for Invention.
cent, therefore the bill is good so far as it
Hon. Mr. Shaw in the chair.
goes. It may be that although the right to
legislate upon copyright is given us it does not
Hon. Mr. Sanborn objected to the clause
include the right to legislate upon British requiring one year's residence in the Docopyrights. We have only the right in regard minion before being enabled to obtain a patto copyrights which are issued in this coun- ent for invention-placing Englishmen in an
try, and no right to legislate adversely to inferior position to a colonist in a British
those existing in the Mother Country.
colony. It was an anomaly and absurdity in
his opinion.
Hon. Mr. Wilmoi did not like this round
Hon. Mr. Chapais said that the main object
about way of coming at the question. He
thought where no injury was to be done to the of the bill was to assimilate the law in all the
authors we should try to benefit our own Provinces of the Dominion, and he could not
country. This referring to Royal Charters was consent to the amendment in the sense
a policy which had been worn out. In New proposed; he thought there should be no disBrunswick they had repeatedly altered Royal crimination. If the proposed change were
Charters. The Seamen's Act had been referred made, all the British subjects in the United
to, but that was a general policy the same as States and other countries would be flocking
the navigation law. If there was an Act passed in here to obtain patents. There was no injusmerely to benefit our own publishers without ti-ce to Englishmen, or any one else, as all
injuring British authors, it would be the best were to be placed on the same footing by this
bill.
way to try this question.
Hon. Mr. Tessier expressed his opinion that
the Dominion Government had a full right to
deal directly and in any way it judged proper
with this question now before them.

It being six o'clock the Speaker left the
chair.
AFTER RECESS.

Hon. Mr.- Sanborn proposed to move an
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said it would cost from
-amendment giving Canadian publishers the £500 to £800 in England, whilst the English
right of printing and selling the reprint of inventor can corne here and with one year's

SENATE DEBATES

May 12, 1868

residence can obtain a patent for a mere trifle. reported to the House, which amendment beWe should have no national discrimination. ing concurred in, the bill was fixed for a third
He thought the bill a reciprocity of free trade reading to-morrow.
in patent rights, and as such a move in the
right direction.
ACT RESPECTING LARCENY.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Jusi could see no
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the second readprinciple on this Bill, thought it very objec- ing of the Bill intitued, "An Act respecting
tionable in many of its leading features, and larceny and similar offences," and said it was
hoped it would be amended as proposed.
a bill introduced by the Minister of Justice,
Hon. Mr. Sanborn moved, seconded by Hon. for the purpose of consolidating al the laws of
the Dominion relating to larceny.
Mr. Aikins, that the following be added to the
31st clause of the bill: Any resident British
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said he did not intend to
subject, being the original inventor, holding a make any lengthy remarks, but as he had
patent for any invention or discovery, in any noticed that there were eleven bills of this
of the Provinces of the Dominion, when this description before Parliament, he thought the
Act comes into force, shall be entitled to have Government were deserving of censure in not
the same extended to the whole Dominion for having brought some of them before the Sethe expiration of the period the same was nate previous to this. It had been admitted by
granted for, upon the payment to the Com- high authority that these bills could not be
missioner of Patents of twenty dollars for five considered in the House of Commons, on acyears, and a sum proportioned thereto for any count of the press of business which they had
greater or less period such patent may have to before them. They have been framed by a
run, and in such case it shall be lawful for the power not behind the Throne, but behind the
Commissioner of Patents to issue under the Ministry, who have sent up a voluminous
seal of his office, a new patent to the person matter, and have made serious alterations in
applying for such extension, upon the produc- the criminal law. It seemed to be a dangerous
tion of his letters patent, and the deposit experiment; if not dangerous it was certainly
thereof in the office of the Commissioner of inexpedient, while we are extending the laws
Patents, granting him the exclusive right to of the Dominion to enact new laws, without
the use of his invention or discovery through- giving either of the two Branches of the Legout the Dominion for the remaining period un- islature time to understand them. These laws,
expired of his first patent, upon the terms and or amendments, ought to go before a legal
restrictions applicable to persons obtaining committee, and be carefully examined and
new patents under this Act, provided the pat- understood. He did not wish to disparage any
ent shall not prevent any persons manufactur- of the parties who had charge of those bills,
but he found they were very largely copied
ing, using or vending any art, machine, manu- from the English Act of 1861. There was this
facture of composition of matter, in any of the to be said, in justice to those who drafted
Provinces to which the original patent did not them, that though they were men of extenextend, who had prior thereto manufactured, sive information, none of them had much
used and vended such art, machine, manufac- practice in criminal law. Suggestions will occur to men who have had an extensive
ture or composition of matter therein.
practice, that will not occur to those who have
Hon. Mr. Aikins seconded the amendment not had that practice. He found a great many
as reasonable and just. Why should Canadians changes had been made in the old law in
be excluded, who have, through the faith of regard to larceny. There was one in reference
the Legislature and Government, taken out to stealing a tree of the value of twenty-five
patents for particular Provinces of this now cents; the penalty for the first offence is imunited Dominion, from the benefit of this bill? prisonment for a short time; and the second
Others can step in and use their inventions, offence makes it one of ordinary larceny.
Heretofore there was no penalty for taking a
and all the remedy will be a suit at law, tree, only a summary trial before a Judge for
always attended with expense and trouble, taking trees to the value of $4. Then, for
and often great uncertainty.
stealing fences and fixtures of varlous kinds,
After considerable discussion, the amend- there are clauses providing penalties which
ment was declared carried by a vote of 21 are not to be found in the original law. There
yeas to 17 nays-majority in favour of the are also clauses in reference to persons misapamendment, 4. The bil, as amended, was then propriating property, and trustees taking

May 12, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

property which they had in trust; this is declared to be larceny. Then there is a new
feature introduced into our law, although it is
retained in English law, that is, introducing
whipping as a punishment for offenders under
sixteen years of age. That is a thing that is
very repugnant to the feelings of the people of
the present day. He would much prefer to
have these bills lie over until another Session.
He saw no absolute necessity for passing them
now, as the criminal law was now in force
throughout the Dominion. The PostmasterGeneral must see that we have no time to
take up these laws and give them that consideration which they deserve.

criminal laws which existed in the several
Provinces of the Dominion, and even if we
now had more time to consider them we
would to a great extent have to take them
upon the faith of those who have examined
them more minutely than we could.
Hon. Mr. Tessier regretted that a bill of this
importance was brought in at the end of the
Session, when there is no time left for discussion. He also objected to the clause that enacts
the "whipping penalty" as repugnant to our
feelings, and only suited for military discipline.
The bill was then read a second time. To be
referred to a Committee of the whole House
on Friday next.
A message was brought from the House of
Commons to return the Bill intituled "An Act
respecting the Navigation of Canadian Waters," and to acquaint the House that they had
passed the said bill without amendment.
A Bill intituled "An Act respecting Malicious Injuries to Property," and also
A Bill intituled "An Act to incorporate the
Canada Shipping Company;" were brought
from the House of Commons, and read a first
time.

Hon. Mr. Campbell said there was nothing
novel in the clauses to which his hon. friend
had referred, except the last. There was great
force in his remarks, that we had no time to
give due consideration at this late period of
the Session. They had been drafted with great
care by the law officers of the other Branch of
the Legislature, and though they had no practical experience in criminal law, yet the reverse is the fact as regards the Minister of
Justice under whose supervision they were
drawn. These bills have been prepared without making any substantial change in the
Hon. Mr. Allan presented the eleventh recriminal laws of these Provinces of the Empire. To a great extent the House has to take port from the Committee on Standing Orders
and Private Bills.
these bills upon the faith of the officers who
have charge of them. They have embodied the
The House then adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Wednesday, May 13, 1868.
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
After routine,
PATENTS FOR INVENTION BILL.
Hon. Mr. Chapais rose and said (in French
and English) that in consequence of the
amendment proposed and carried into Committee of the Whole, the Government would
not take the responsibility of passing the bill
as it now stands. He would, therefore, move
that the order of the day for the third reading
of the bill be discharged, and so dropped the
bill.
CAUSES OF THE RECENT FINANCIAL
CRISIS.
Pursuant to the order of the day the House
went into Committee on the late financial
crises in Ontario.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson, in submitting this
report on the financial crisis, said he thought
the House would admit that the Committee
had been the means of submitting a large
amount of valuable information, both in regard to the crisis of last autumn, and on the
general subject of banking and currency. So
far as the crisis was concerned the report was
a mere summary of evidence, and here he
would state that he regretted very much that
an error took place in printing a portion of
that report. It was his intention, as well as the
intention of the Committee, not to express
any opinion in regard to the matter, but a
very valuable officer of the House, in revising
the proof, thought it was the intention of the
Conmittee to express an opinion, and had
prepared the report accordingly. When he
(Mr. Macpherson) saw the report he immediately wrote to that officer, calling his attention
to it and telling him that a correct report must
be printed and an explanation given. That
correct report has been printed and the explanation he had now given. The evidence given
in the first report was exceedingly valuable,
and it contained a large amount of information respecting banking and currency. The
gentlemen connected with banking in Upper
Canada are almost unanimous in opinion in
regard to the causes of the crisis. The only
exception was a gentleman connected with the
Bank of British North America, who held
views somewhat different from the others.
He had stated in moving for the appointment

May 13, 1868

of this committee, that it was no part of his
intention to reflect on any banking institution
in the country, and the committee had acted
upon this principle in conducting their enquiry, and in submitting their reports. It was
no part of the duty of the committee to enquire 1 nto the particular causes of the failure
of the Commercial Bank, though it seems to
be the common opinion that that was their
intention. It is not the duty of any bank, more
than it is the duty of any commercial firm, to
sustain any other bank when in a position of
embarrassment, unless it be for its own interest. He did not intend in any way to assail the
management of the Bank of Montreal, or to
hold either it or the Government blameable
for the failure of the Commercial Bank. His
object was to enquire into the cause of the
crisis in Ontario, which he held to have been
more wide spread in its consequences than
could be properly traceable to the suspension
of any bank. Though the Commercial Bank
did a large business, its suspension was not
sufficient to account for what succeeded it.
Every bank should be governed by its own
interest as to the course it should pursue, and
its success, like other institutions, depends
upon its management, and when that management is bad, it will certainly fail. He would
now, with the permission of the House, read
one or two extracts from the evidence. He
would first read what was said by the cashier
of the Bank of Toronto, who is obviously very
familiar with the subject upon which he has
given evidence. In answer to the question of
what legislation would be best adopted to
prevent a recurrence of similar crises he says:
"No legislation has hitherto been devised, and
in my opinion it would be impossible to devise
any by which the failure of banking establishments would be entirely prevented."
Then the manager of the Bank of British
North America, in Montreal, says: "No Government legislation can prevent the recurrence of such events as have unhappily
taken place within the past two years in
Canada, viz., the failure of the Bank of
Upper Canada and the Commercial Bank.
Such events can only be prevented by the
circumspect, cautious and intelligent management of those who have the direction
and charge of the banking institutions of
the country." Mr. King says: "I think it
is quite beyond the reach of legislation to
prevent the recurrence of monetary derangement, caused by imprudent management or
excessive competition in banking. The Legislature may mitigate the effects of such monetary derangement by an improvement in the

May 13, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

banking system, and by providing greater
security for the note issues permitted in the
country." He (Mr. Macpherson) agreed with
those gentlemen that nothing can be devised
here which would prevent the bad management of banking institutions, and if bad management does take place nothing that we can
do will prevent failure. He thought the evidence obtained fully justified him in asking
for a committee of enquiry on a subject of so
much importance, especially to the people of
Ontario. His object was to discover whether
any particular system was the cause of that
unfortunate crisis. The evidence is very distinct upon the subject and the gentlemen who
have given the evidence ascribe the crisis to
the effect of the Provincial Bank Note Act.
It was not his intention to censure those who
took a legitimate advantage of the system
which they found in existence, but if the system is defective we should remedy it. He
would now read some of the evidence. Mr.
Hague says: "In considering the subject of
banking and currency in Canada, it is to be
observed that the question cannot be considered simply in the light of an abstract proposition, and as if a system had to be inaugurated de novo. "We have in existence a number
of chartered institutions with whom are
inextricably associated all the financial interests of the country, the commerce both foreign
and domestic, the agricultural, the manufactures, the fisheries, the mining, the shipping,
the railways of the Dominion, all stand in such
intimate connection with our existing chartered banks that no measure can be taken
either to enlarge or restrict their functions,
either to jeopardize or benefit their interests,
but must tell through numerous channels
upon every department of business, and act at
once on the revenues of the Government itself. These considerations, while they should
not operate to prevent measures being taken
for the improvement and reformation in the
constitution and charters of our banking corporations, so as to give greater security to the
public, should undoubtedly lead to caution,
lest in endeavoring to remedy evils in one
direction others of a graver and more dangerous character are not brought to pass." The
hon. members would see that all the gentlemen who have given evidence here are opposed to the extension, or continuance of the
Dominion note system, and desire that the
Parliament should retrace its steps in regard
to that Act. They are in favour of the system
formerly in existence, and suggest additional
guarantees for the further security of the

noteholders. Mr. Hague goes on to say, "Approaching now the important subject of a circulating currency, I must again take the liberty of calling attention to the position in which
the country is placed. At present, nearly all
the banks of Canada circulate their own notes.
The only important exception is that of the
bank which receives the Government deposits,
and transacts the Government business, including the agency for issuing and redeeming
Provincial currency. This institution ceased to
issue its own notes about eighteen months ago,
and since then has been issuing only the notes
of the Government. I have already pointed
out the position in which this institution
stood with the Government enabling this
change to be carried out without disturbance
to its general business. It would, however, be
far different with the other Banks, which
have a large circulation. On this circulation, is
founded a large amount of the banking business of the Province of Ontario, and to destroy it, would necessitate so large a curtailment of business facilities, that the
repetition of the revulsion of 1857 would
be inevitable." This evidence, he said, went
to considerable length, but as it was in
the hands of members, he would not take
up the time of the House in reading it.
He said an overwhelming majority of the people of Ontario, and he believed a majority of
the people of the Dominion, desire that we
should return to the system, which existed
before those Dominion notes were issued. He
would call the attention of the House to the
amendments to that system, suggested by a
practical man, whose duty and business it is
to watch the currency and form an opinion as
to the best system for the country, including
the best means of securing its redemption.
The first suggestion, which he would not detain the House by reading, recommended that
those charged with the management of banking institutions should have an interest in
them to a sufficient amount to make them
take a deep interest in their prosperity. The
second suggestion was that a reserve should
accumulate until it reaches not less than 25
per cent. on the paid up capital. The third is
to prohibit the reduction of the capital of a
bank, under any circumstances. If the capital
has been impaired by losses a call should be
made upon the shareholders to pay up the
amount necessary to bring the capital up to its
original amount. In this connection he would
allude to the difficulty encountered in managing a bank with a small capital. Where the
capital is small the profit is necessarily small.
To secure good management high salaries

SENATE DEBATES
have to be paid, and this seriously impairs the
profits where the capital is small. It is simply
an impossibility that a bank with small capital
can command the management of men of the
ability and character necessary to give it
success, and no bank should be chartered with
a capital less than $1,000,000. Banks with
small capitals will generally run the risk of
inferior management, trusting that it may
turn out fortunately. The fourth suggestion
was in reference to the returns to be made by
the banks. The fifth suggestion is: "That the
privilege of circulation ought certainly to be
continued, but it might be an advantage to
restrict it to the amount of capital and Government securities." The sixth says: "The
banks should be required to hold 20 per cent.
of their demand liabilities in specie or legal
tenders, and so long as they do this to prevent
public interests suffering by any bank jealousies or hostilities, they should be bound to
receive all current notes on deposit provided
the same were daily redeemed." Seventh: "In
case of it becoming necessary to wind up the
affairs of a bank, the interests of creditors
should be paramount, and the stockholders to
be called on to make good any deficiency to
the extent of their ability without delay."
That was all he would detain the House by
reading upon the subject, and he would only
repeat that the other gentlemen who have
given evidence are in favour of a return to the
old system, and are especially opposed to the
Dominion note system, either in its extension
or continuance. In case the financial requirements of the Dominion should induce the
Government to desire the introduction of a
new system, the Committee recommend a system somewhat analogous to the national
banking system of the United States. That
system is one by which bank notes are issued
upon the credit of national security. Suppose a
company determines to establish a bank, they
take a certain amount of securities, one million dollars for instance, to the controller; the
Government upon that security issues to them
90 per cent. in bank notes. A margin of 10 per
cent. is reserved for security in case of depreciation in value of securities, and they are
required to redeem their notes in legal tenders, or as they are usually called greenbacks.
These securities, placed with the Government,
are held for the security of the noteholders. If
through any mismanagement the bank is unable to redeem its notes, and this is brought
under the notice of the Government, they
close the business and realise these securities
for the benefit of the noteholders, as the
Government is responsible for them; but they
retain a lien upon the assets of the bank for

May 13, 1868

vhatever the difference may be between the
liabilities of the bank to the noteholders and
the amount the securities may realise. That is
the national banking system of the United
States. The benefit to the bank is, it draws the
rate of interest, whatever it may be, upon the
amount of security it deposits with the Government. If $1,000,000, in securities is deposited it receives $900,000 in notes, and interest
upon the million. The distinction between that
and our Dominion note system is, that our
Dominion notes have to be paid for in gold.
The banks might just as well pay their gold
over their counters, unless the Government be
in debt to them. The National Bank Note
system is one which with certain improvements might possibly be made to answer the
purpose here, and give the Government as
large an amount of money as they would have
under the Dominion note system. Certain
changes would have to be made before adopting the system. It is all very well in the
United States where specie payments are suspended to pay a percentage for the whole
amount of security, but here it must be upon a
specie basis, as banks would be required to
redeem their notes on demand, therefore it
would be necessary for them to reserve a
certain amount of gold to meet the demands
for redemption. Probably 20 or 25 per cent,
would be sufficient for that purpose. If the
National Bank system should be entertained,
he would suggest that instead of the banks
purchasing securities with their gold, and
depositing these securities with the Government as a basis for their issues, they should
deposit the gold itself with the Government,
to remain as a gold deposit, at interest, at the
rate of 6 per cent. until required under the
provisions of the law. In his opinion, this
would be a great improvement; it would
secure the currency upon a basis that would
not be liable to depreciation, and therefore
render it perfectly safe. It would also protect
the banks from loss by the depreciation of
Government securities. This, in his opinion,
would be not more than just. If this mode
were adopted, there would be no reason for
withholding from the banks any portion of
their capital as a margin to cover possible
loss. They would be entitled to receive notes
for the full amount of their capital. If the
securities are not sufficient to pay the notes,
the Government pays them, but recovers the
deficiency from the Bank; but that would not
be required by the mode he suggested of depositing gold with the Government instead of
debentures.

May 13, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Ferrier enquired whether his hon. object. That was what he (Mr. Macpherson)
friend had made provision for the expansion had now been endeavouring to do, therefore,
of the currency?
he hoped the report would be adopted, and he
not fail
have a beneficial
Hon. Mr. Macpherson said the difficulty in thought it could country. to will show to
effect upon the
It
the
regard to expansion was a defect both in the other House that we are in favour of a return
Government note system, and in the National to our former system of banking and currenBank system. He thought that any system cy, with some additional guarantees
which he
which could not be made to expand, as the had endeavoured
to explain, but failing that,
wants of the country required, without any
particular connection with the Government of if the Government desire a system to give
the country, was one that was unsuited to the them a larger amount of the capital of the
requirements of Canada. If a regular and saf- country, then the opinion of the House would
er mode of expansion could be devised, it be in favour of something analogous to the
would remove one of the greatest objections National Banking system of the United States.
to a National Bank system, but if that cannot He then moved the adoption of the report.
be done then he had as great an objection to a
national banking system as he had to the RESUMED DEBATE ON THE FINANCIAL
CRISIS
Dominion note system.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot would like to enquire
Hon. Mr. Campbell hoped his hon. friend
whether his hon. friend intends that the gold would forgive him for expressing his surprise
shall be deposited with the Government, and at the course he had pursued, in presenting
they shall pay interest for it?
this matter before the House. He was sure his
Hon. Mr. Macpherson-Does not the hon. hon. friend, as a business man would naturalgentleman see that they would be paying in- ly desire to pursue a course which would
terest in any case? They pay interest on de- advance the object he has in view, in a pracbentures which are mere vouchers for the tical way. Instead of advancing his object in a
gold received for them. Why then not avoid practical way, he seeks, by the adoption of
the circumlocution of exchanging gold for de- this report, to commit the House, which is a
bentures and then depositing those debentures practical body, to a series of theories, based
with the Government? He, of course, did not upon the evidence of a few bankers, whose
expect that the Government would keep the testimony is taken and upheld by his own
gold in their vaults, but would sell securities, opinion. When he moved for the Committee to
be appointed, he had assured the House that
and buy gold when it was wanted.
he did not desire to reflect upon any banking
Hon. Mr. Wilmot-When the Government institution, or the Government, which assurissue debentures, they get money which they ance he (Mr. Campbell) had felt bound to
expend, but it is a different thing for the accept, but he must confess that his hon.
Government to hold this gold and pay inter- friend has been unfortunate in the course pursued, if such was his intention. The witnesses
est for it.
summoned, and the report made, does reflect
Hon. Mr. Macpherson did not suppose any upon the Government, and does reflect upon
Government would be justified in doing any- particular institutions. The first report was
thing so absurd as to hold a vault full of gold.
put forward in an irregular manner; it was
Hon. Mr. Wilmot-What would they do with reported in the newspapers before it was submitted to the House. That was a breach of
it?
Parliamentary privilege.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson-What do they do
Hon. Mr. Macpherson-I explained how
with the securities, which are equal to gold?
The hon. member concluded by saying he that occurred. I said an error was made by
hoped the Government would not oppose the an officer of the House.
adoption of the report, but he had strong fears
Hon. Mr. Campbell said he did not make
that the Government were inclined to extend any remark in regard to any error creeping
the Dominion note system, which he (Mr. Mac- into the report, but he did complain that the
pherson) believed was unsuited to the wants report did not make its appearance first on the
of the country. He did not suppose the GovTable of the House, before appearing in the
ernment had any desire but to serve the best
public newspapers of the day.
interests of the country, and it was the duty of
Hon. Mr. Macpherson-My conviction is
the members of the House to bring before
them what they believed would attain that that no copies of the report were distributed

SENATE DEBATES
before it was laid upon the Table of the
House. I saw a telegraphic report of it in the
newspapers, but that report was not obtained
from me. If my hon. friend means to say that
1, as chairman of that Committee, was a
party to that report getting into the papers,
I can assure him that he is in error.

May 13, 1868

City of Montreal, where four-fifths of the
business is done, only two bankers were examined? Was not an effort made to arrive at a
conclusion adverse to the action taken by the
Government and the Bank of Montreal?
Hon. Mr. Macpherson explained that other
witnesses were examined from Montreal, and
questions had been submitted to bankers in
Ontario and Quebec.

Hon. Mr. Campbell had supposed so, but
would now apologize for having formed that
opinion. It was unfortunate that a report of
Hon. Mr. Campbell-Why was it the questhis kind should have been placed in the
tion was submitted only to bankers? Did those
hands of the public in a garbled manner.
persons engaged in mercantile pursuits have
Hon. Mr. Macpherson-The correct report no knowledge of monetary affairs that they
was in the papers.
must be all left to a few bankers, coming
principally from Toronto? The most unfair
Hon. Mr. Campbell-It is a mistake to sup- course has been pursued; the Committee inpose that the newspaper report was correct, stead of giving the result of the investigation,
because it is asserted in that report that it was only give certain points as to what, should be
the opinion of the Committee that the pro- done in the future as the recommendation of
ceedings of the Bank of Montreal aggravated
Committee. What do they recommend in
the commercial crisis, whereas in the correct the
A general recommendation "that
report it is not expressed as the opinion of the the future?
your Committee recognize it as one of the first
Committee, but it is expressed as the opinion duties of Government, to provide a secure
of witnesses who gave evidence before the currency-one that will command the largest
Committee. A report went abroad through the measure of public confidence, and be convertiProvince creating the impression that the ble into coin on demand." The Government
Committee had formed and expressed an
now
opinion in a very direct manner in reference recognizes that as its duty and they have
to this particular point. He was anxious to a committee chosen with great care composed
draw attention to the irregularity of allowing of members from all parts of the Dominion.
a report to get into the newspapers before it This Committee have propounded a series of
questions in order to elicit evidence from all
was printed by the order of the House.
classes of the community to get the informaHon. Mr. Macpherson was no party to giv- tion necessary for legislating upon the subject.
ing an incorrect copy of the report at any time Instead of leaving the question open for the
House to consider, the chairman of the
to any newspaper.
Committee proposes that we should commit
Hon. Mr. Tessier did not communicate the ourselves by pronouncing upon a series of
report to any newspaper or any one else.
theorems in advance of practical measures.
Hon. Mr. Allan did not know that the report The report goes on to say. "That your
was incorrect until his attention had been Committee are of opinion that the extension
drawn to the fact. The Committee simply gave of the bank of issue system, now partially in
expression to the opinions of the gentlemen operation, would be unsuited to the requirewho furnished the evidence, but refrained ments of the country and injurious to its best
interests." When the hon. gentleman made his
from expressing any opinion themselves.
speech it was impossible to understand from it
Hon. Mr. Campbell was quite ready to ac- whether he was in favour of a return to the
cept the explanations. In regard to the wit- old system, or in favour of the American
nesses who were examined, they were all system. His mind was not made up.
bankers. Was it to be assumed that the whole
Hon. Mr. Macpherson-I am in favour of
monetary interests of the country are to be
decided upon simply by a committee of returning to the old system.
bankers? Why were there not persons sumHon. Mr. Campbell-His report does not say
moned before the Committee who were large- so. It says "that if the financial requirements
ly engaged in commerce? Why was it that of the Dominion should induce the Governonly those persons were summoned who were ment to desire the introduction of a new syslikely to have an opinion in one direction? tem, including the taking possession of the
Why were the witnesses mostly confined to currency of the country, then your Committee
bankers in Toronto? Why was it that in the would recommend that the issue of the paper

May 13, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

currency be based upon the deposit with the
Government of public securities of the Dominion, under a system somewhat analogous
to that of the National Bank system of the
United States." Thus it will be seen, that
before the hon. gentleman has been able to
make up his mind as to which of the two
systems is best, he asks this House to commit
itself, and say one of these courses is best,
instead of leaving the question to be considered in a practical way at the next Session
of Parliament. The report does not follow the
evidence; it recommends either a return to the
old system, or the adoption of a national
banking system, and asks us to pronounce
upon that mere question of theory. The report
only embodied those parts of the evidence
which would tell most against the action taken at that particular time, by the Government
of the day, and they recommend a choice
between two systems, whereas one witness
alone, Mr. Hague, has made nine or ten
recommendations.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson-He is generally in
favour of the old system, and suggests these
improvements.
Hon. Mr. Campbell-Why were they not put
in the report? He has confined himself to two
recommendations in the report, and these contrast unfairly with the witnesses he has quoted. Mr. Hague says in his evidence: "Let no
bank be chartered in the cities of Môntreal,
Quebec, Toronto, St. John, or Halifax, having
a smaller capital than one million dollars, and
let the maximum capital for any such bank, at
no time exceed five million dollars." Why
were these recommendations not put forward
in the report equally with the others? Then
again, Mr. Morton makes recommendations
involving eighteen or twenty heads, all of
great importance, and yet they are not taken
notice of in the report which has been made.
He (Mr. Campbell) then alluded to the opinions of some of the witnesses, as attaching no
importance to the fact that there were provincial bank notes at the time of the crisis; the
opinion seemed to be that those provincial
notes exercised no influence, as they had only
replaced Montreal bank notes. He (Mr.
Campbell) did not believe the general public
really realised that there was a crisis. There
was a distrust for two days in regard to bank
notes, and then the crisis was over. It had
attracted the attention of his hon. friend who
had suggested that this Committee should be
appointed for the purpose of enquiring into it,
and now we are asked to adopt a report, the
result of that enquiry. He would ask the

House to leave the matter to be dealt with
upon the responsibility of the Governiment, at
the next Session of Parliament, as according
to the principles of responsible Government,
the Government should not shirk the
responsibility of the measure. When the
Government, after having investigated the
subject, and prepared a measure, submits it to
Parliament, then the House, if they dislike it,
can reject it, and the Government suffer the
consequences of that rejection. But to tie
members down to theories, was a course he
never saw pursued before, therefore he trusted his hon. friend would withdraw his report,
and not divide the House upon it.
Hon. Mr. Allan said that he was at a loss to
conceive in what way the report now before
the House reflected so severely upon the policy of the Government, as to afford any good
ground for the very unusual degree of
warmth displayed by the Hon. the Postmaster-General in the remarks which he had just
made. Certainly there was nothing either in
the report itself, or the manner in which the
enquiry, on which the report was founded, had
been conducted, to justify the very severe
strictures of the hon. gentleman. Now he (Mr.
Allan) would desire in the first place, to
confirm what had been said by the bon. mover
of the report, as to the circumstances
which led to the formation of the committee,
and the spirit in which the enquiry into the
subject now before the House had been conducted by that Committee. A very strong feeling had existed throughout the whole of
Western Canada, during the financial troubles
in November last, and up to the time of the
meeting of Parliament, that causes far
deeper and wider than the failure of the
Commercial Bank, had contributed to bring
about the monetary crisis which produced
such unfortunate effects upon the trade and
prosperity of the country, and under those
circumstances, he (Mr. Allan) did not think
that those Who might be considered as more
particularly the representatives of Ontario in
this Senate, had done anything more than
their duty in endeavouring through the instrumentality of a Parliamentary enquiry, to
obtain such information in relation to these
important subjects as might throw additional
light upon the causes which led to the financial embarrassments of last autumn, and
might tend to prevent their recurrence in the
future. It is true that the Postmaster-General
had both upon this and upon a former occasion ridiculed the idea of there having been a
crisis in Ontario at all, but the mercantile and

SENATE DEBATES

farming community of Ontario knew too well
by hard experience, that by whatever name it
might be called, there had been a period of
financial pressure, embarrassment and distrust, which for the time had told most disastrously upon all the industrial operations of
the country. Assuming then, as he thought he
unquestionably might, that a financial crisis
had existed beyond all doubt in Ontario, the
Committee of which he was a member, had
endeavoured to obtain the best and most reliable information from those parties whom they
considered best qualified to give it, and had
applied in the first instance, not only to the
leading bankers in Ontario and Quebec, but
to leading merchants and others engaged in
trade and commerce generally. Unfortunately
the adjournment which took place, immediately after the formation of the Committee,
prevented their carrying out these enquiries
as extensively as had been originally intended, but the report, nevertheless, presented a
most valuable body of evidence, from many
able and intelligent men, thoroughly conversant with the trade and commerce of the
country, and well qualified to express an opinion on the subjects referred to them. The
Committee in conducting these enquiries had
done so in no partisan spirit. He (Mr. Allan),
for his own part, utterly disclaimed any such
feeling. They had endeavoured to obtain the
best and most reliable information, and had
endeavoured to lay before the House, a fair and
impartial summary of the evidence. The Hon.
Postmaster-General had alluded to an expression which had crept into the report (through
an error of one of the officials of the House in
correcting the proof), by which the Committee
were made to state as their own opinion, and
one, therefore, in which they wished the
House to concur-what in fact they had merely submitted to the House as the opinion of
the gentlemen whose evidence they had reported. His hon. friend had also commented
very strongly upon the report of the Committee having got into the public prints before it
had been submitted to the House. As to the
first, it had already been satisfactorily explained by the chairman of the Committee
that the one alluded to had been inadvertently
:ommitted by an official of the House in correcting the proof, and had been corrected immediately upon its being brought under the
chairman's notice. With regard to the latter
complaint, he could confirm what had been
said by the chairman, and for himself, individually, he could declare that he knew
nothing whatever about the matter, and if any

May 13, 1868

copy of the report had been improperly obtained, it was wholly without his knowledge
or consent. Throughout the whole of this enquiry, the Committee had not sought to find
fault with the management of any particular
institution, or to make a case against any
particular institution, but to lay before this
House such information as would enable hon.
members to judge of the real feeling which
existed among the businessmen of the country, in reference to the important subjects
referred to in the report. He believed that the
report would be found to contain a fair and
impartial summary of the evidence submitted,
as well as a guarded and careful expression of
opinion, not arrived at hastily, or without due
consideration, on the part of the Committee
itself, but carefully weighed and well considered before submitting them to the House. But
the Hon. Postmaster-General had objected
most strongly to the consideration or adoption
by this House of any of the views put forth in
this report, inasmuch as he says, that it is
asking this House to commit itself to mere
theoretical views and opinions on measures
not now before this House, and moreover that
these theories are opposed to the present policy of the Government, and if the report was
adopted now, ýit might seriously embarrass
hon. members, when the financial policy of
the Government on these subjects came
before the House for their consideration at a
future day. Now if the Government had any
definite policy at present on this subject, or
had any measure before the Parliament for
their consideration during the present Session,
he (Mr. Allan) could understand the objections which had been made by his hon. friend,
but there is now no such measure before either House, and moreover -if the Government
do come with such a measure before Parliament at a future Session, how will it in al
probability be brought before this Senate?
Just perhaps, as many other important measures have been-during the very last week of
the Session-when hon. members have neither time nor opportunity allowed them for
discussing its details, or considering them
with that care and deliberation which their
importance demanded. For this reason, then,
he thought that the Committee had done a
most important service in bringing this subject under the attention of the House at the
present moment. By so doing an opportunity
had been afforded for a calm and deliberate
expression of opinion on the part of members
of this House-opinions which this House
have undoubtedly a right to express, and

May 13, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

which are entitled to respect and consideration at the hands of the Go'vernment. After
the full explanations which had been given by
the hon. chairman of the Committee, and having regard to the fact that there were other
gentlemen in this House who were peculiarly
fitted by long training and experience to
speak with authority on such subject, he (Mr.
Allan) would not take up further time by any
observations of his own on the varlous points
alluded to in the report. The House were now
fully in possession both of the evidence and
the conclusions which the Committee have deduced from that evidence, and if these conclusions commend themselves to the judgment of
hon. members, it would be for them to say,
whether they would give effect to them so far
as an expression of opinion on the part of this
House could do so by voting for the adoption
of the report.
Hon. Mr. Wilmoi drew a different conclusion from the evidence given before the
Committee to that which was embodied in the
report before the House. He thought the subject of the crisis was well worthy of being
investigated, as at that time there was a general feeling of uneasiness, a great want of bank
accommodation and high charges. This was at
a time when agricultural produce was high
and a great demand abroad for it. It was then
if bank accommodation was required the people should have it in order to get their articles
to market. In looking over the evidence it
rather appeared that the banking system of
the country was not in the sound state that
some of the hon. gentlemen try to make us
believe. There must be something wrong, or
that state of things could not exist. He would
read one or two remarks from the evidence
given by some of those gentlemen. Mr. Paton
says: "Trade generally was satisfactory. Importations, especially of dry goods, were in
excess, and a serious fall in the prices of dry
goods had taken place. Speculators in breadstuffs had lost heavily, and the demand for
manufactured lumber from the United States
had almost ceased, leaving a large stock of
that article in the manufacturer's hands or
stored in the United States. The farmers were
on the whole prosperous, the high prices obtained by them for wheat and barley, compensating them for the shortcoming in the yield,
which was not an average one." Mr. Paton
gave that as one reason, why those difficulties occurred. There had been large importations and consequently a large demand for
foreign exchange, and this naturally had its
effect upon the banking circulation of the
country. He says: "The failure of the Com-

mercial Bank, the sudden withdrawal of
banking facilities from its numerous customers, and the disturbance of the financial arrangements of those having accounts with
that bank, or holding its notes were causes in
themselves sufficient to produce much depression in the business of the country, and great
monetary derangement." That is another
cause of the crisis. The Commercial Bank had
a large circulation, and furnished large facilities to its customers, therefore, the failure of
that bank must have had a very serious effect
upon business. Mr. Cassels says: "The chief
causes of the monetary derangement and
consequent depression in business, were the
suspension of the Commercial Bank of Canada, for which event the public were not prepared, and the very general feeling of distrust
occasioned thereby in the minds of the farmers in the other banking institutions in Ontario, and which led to a run on several of
them." He then refers to the timely and liberal
aid offered by the Bank of Montreal, but for
which the distrust would have extended and
produced the most serious consequences. This
evidence is directly contrary to the report of
the Committee. The hon. member then referred to Mr. Hague's evidence, in regard to
panics in England, and explained fully the
working of the banking system of Scotland,
since the time of the Darien scheme. He said
instead of paying gold, they settle their balances by a draft on London at twenty-one
days. This keeping a large supply of gold on
hand was one of the old barbaric ideas. In
England, as the gold goes out, it affects not
only the foreign trade, but every manufacturing establishment of every kind and description in the country. In the Bank of France, if
the gold goes out, they give a higher rate for
it, but in England they merely pay a higher
rate of interest. The intelligence of the age
should devise some other idea than that the
value is in gold. Its value is only as we can
turn it into exchange. If labour creates wealth,
money is the exchange for it. Money to the
body politic is like blood to the human body:
it carries on the circulation of the country. He
could not concur in this report of the Committee, and while he thought it most desirable
that this subject should be investigated, they
should not decide merely upon the opinions
expressed by gentlemen connected with
banks. The whole public at large were interested in the question, therefore it was of importance that it should not be decided by the
ex parte views of any of those men who have
given their evidence upon this subject. The

SENATE DEBATES

May 13, 1868

hon. gentleman then expatiated upon the na- state of things a great amount of contraction
tional Banking system of the United States as took place, while if the other banks had been
contributing to the successful prosecution of obliged to adopt the same system, the consetheir war, and in conclusion he alluded to the quences to Upper Canada would have been of
great want felt in the country of a safe and a disastrous character. Reference had been
secure circulating medium.
made to the United States banking system,
and he was free to admit that it contained
Hon. Mr. McMaster said it was not his in- some very wise provisions, at the same time,
tention to take any part in the discussion, and when that system was adopted by the
he only rose to express his surprise that the American Government, it was intended mainPostmaster-General had displayed so much ly as a means of carrying on the gigantic war
excitement when he replied to the hon. chair- which then raged in that country. The deficits
man of the Committee, (Mr. Macpherson.) His we have every year in our financial statedeparture from his usual dignified way of ments are large, and in view of the great
(Mr. expenses about to be authorized by this Legexpressing himself, satisfied him
McMaster) that he had a very weak cause. islature, which was very little short of thirty
The purport of the Postmaster-General's re- million dollars, our financial condition will not
marks was, that should the members of the be very prosperous. But still he did not think
House support this report it would tie down it was necessary for them to resort to the
their hands, so that they could not have a free desperate expedient the American Governdiscussion of it upon another occasion. He ment were obliged to adopt to carry on their
(Mr. McMaster) regarded the question in a war. In regard to our present banking system,
different light, and he felt surprised that the he was not prepared to say it was perfect, but
report did not come out in a more decided if they adopted the schedule prepared by the
manner in reference to the different points. hon. member for Toronto (Mr. Macpherson),
He thought the Committee deserved great and a necessary means by which the double
credit for the able manner in which they had liability of the stockholders could be collected,
discharged their duty, and they were especial- he thought the system then would furnish
ly indebted to the chairman for the attention security quite as good as Government security.
he gave to the preparation of the questions
which elicited this information, which was of
Hon. Mr. Reesor said as they were all exgreat importance at this present time. The pected to vote one way or the other on this
gentlemen who gave this information were report, they might venture to make some encompetent to give an opinion upon this ques- quiries if there was anything doubtful, in ortion, and their evidence is treated in a candid der to be able to understand it. He had lisand impartial manner in the report, although tened with a great deal of attention to the
he did not think the report expressed the remarks of the Postmaster-General, and he
views of the Committee to as great an extent thought that after he (Mr. Campbell) had
as it should have done. He would have been spoken with so much warmth, he would have
better pleased with the result of the labour of shown that in some particular at least this rethe Committee had they taken up the different port was really defective. But notwithstanding
systems, discussed them in an exhaustive the care which he (Mr. Reesor) had watched
manner and then recommended the one which the course of his remarks he found that all the
in their judgment would have been best statements he made in regard to the report
adapted to the wants of the country-the one simply resolved themselves into this: that the
most likely to promote their interests and ex- report does affirm a general principle, that the
tend the trade of this Dominion. True, they chairman of the Committee was undecided
have expressed themselves in rather a decided himself in regard to what he wished to demanner in reference to the legal tender sys- clare on behalf of the Committee, and if the
tem now in operation, but he thought they House adopt the report they will adopt somemight have gone a little further and demon- thing very indefinite. The chairman stated
strated the disastrous results which must very distinctly what his views were, that they
inevitably follow, should the amount of ac- were in favour of preserving our present bankcommodation now extended to the trade of ing system by recommending such amendthe country be withdrawn for the purpose of ments as would make it as perfect as possible.
purchasing legal tenders. He would say with- These views are also embodied in the report
out reflecting upon the bank that has charge in a clear and distinct manner, with no redunof the legal tender system, that when that dancy of language. The Committee there exbank commenced to prepare for the present press a hope that the Government would sus-

May 12, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

tain our present banking system with such tee, who have endeavoured to do a service to
reasonable amendments as might give satis- the people of this country? This report is not
faction. The Committee next refer in their for the purpose of condemning the Governreport to the American system, and it is quite ment, but to put them and the public on their
proper that they should report in favour of guard as to the dangers to be dreaded from
another system, in the event of the present the banking system. In the Province of Quesystem being taken away. In the meantime we bec we have had no failures of any account
have only to consider the value of the present for a long time, and in Ontario only two
system as compared with the Government banks. The Bank of Upper Canada was killed
note system, and it was perfectly legitimate by the Government account, and the Comfor the Committee to say which they pre- mercial Bank by lending money outside their
ferred. They have declared almost unani- legitimate business. It appears the printers got
mously that our present banking system is hold of some portions of the evidence and
better than that recommended by the Gov- report, and gave a resumé thereof as usual;
ernment. They go on further to say that if the what was the harm? He thought the banks
exigencies of the country require a change, ought to give more details for the information
they recommend the adoption of the Ameri- of the public and have them regularly pubcan system, with some modifications. The lished in the Official Gazette. He thought the
Postmaster-General went on to state that the report would be productive of much good, and
House was not competent to judge of a bank thought it ought to be received.
note system. Why then did he bring in a
Hon. Mr. Olivier (in French) said it was but
measure of that kind, which had never been
tried in any other country, and ask us to take seldom he addressed the House, but the quesit upon trust, while at the same time they say tion now before it was so important, he
it is devoid of that system of expansion so thought he could not give a silent vote. The
necessary in this country? Are we to throw hon. gentleman from Quebec, who represents
aside a system which we have tried for thirty the Gulf Division, (Hon. Mr. Tessier) seemed
or forty years and found to be good, so far as to overlook one of the most important concluany human scheme can be good? He says the sions of the report, in which it is expressed
bankers are not the parties to judge of the that the Committee hopes the Government
value of a banking scheme. Who are to be the will recommend Parliament to come back to
judges? Are the lawyers, medical men, or
farmers, more familiar with the currency of the old system of banking. Now, he was not
Ontario than the directors of banks, assisted ready to concur in that suggestion of the
by the whole basiness men of the country? Committee, although he had but very imperThen are not the members of this House, feet notions about banking systems, still, in
representing nearly every class of business in his own mind, it would appear desirable that
the country, the persons to judge of the dan- we should rather adopt the system. followed in
ger of introducing this Government scheme, other countries, not to allow banks to issue
and among them there is none more capable notes of a small amount, say for instance, not
than the chairman of the committee who has under five pounds. By this plan he thought we
brought up this report. The hon. member concluded by reading some extracts from the could, perhaps, meet the views of the contendwritings of Sir Robert Peel and other English ing parties. On the one hand, the small currency that passes daily in the hands of the
authorities in support of his views.
labouring classes, being in Dominion notes,
Hon. Mr. Tessier (in French) said he would be perfectly secured, while the expanthought it was very proper to have a report of sion in the currency that seemed to be wanted
a committee composed of such able men sub- by the trade would still exist, as the banks
mitted to the House on this important subject. could issue five pound notes and over, for
It was the only way to deal with such a their discounting business. He must confess he
subject. He regretted the House was not fuller expressed these views with great diffidence,
on the occasion of bringing up the considera- but the real question now before the House,
tion of this very important question of banks was not so much what would be the most
and banking. If this Branch of Legislature is perfect system; the question was rather if
not competent to deal with such subjects, they were to bind themselves to ail the conwhat is the use of it? Why did the Govern- clusions of the report. For himself, he was not
ment not issue a Commission themselves in- ready to do it, and he would vote against the
stead of opposing the action of this Commit- adoption of the report.

SENATE DEBATES

May 13, 1869

Hon. Mr. Macpherson. in reply to the
Postinaster-General, said that he would not
comment upon his loss of temper. He had
reported very distinctly for a return to the old
system of banking, and he advocated the same
system now. The report does not stop there,
but it goes on and makes a suggestion in case
it is decided not to return to the old system.
The Postmaster-General was scarcely as fair
as usual when he imputed to him the withholding of certain views and suggestions of
Mr. Hague's evidence. His evidence goes
strongly for a return to the old system, and
the suggestions he offers are ail in support of
that system. The Postmaster-General spoke as
if the suggestions were for a different system;
he ought not to have fallen into that error
with the evidence before him. Then a great
deal had been said about the evidence being
confined to the bankers of Ontario. Neither
the evidence, nor the enquiries, were confined
to Ontario. Questions were sent to gentlemen
in both Quebec and Ontario, but as the subject of enquiry pressed more fully upon Ontario, more answers were received from that
Province. The Postmaster-General complains
of the resolution to adopt the report, that it is
a violation of the principles of responsible
Government, as the Government were responsible for all the business before the country.
He (Mr. Macpherson) did not think it was the
duty of the members of this House, simply to
confine themselves to measures introduced by
the Government. If that was the case, responsible Government would differ but little from
a Governor in Council. It is our duty to inform the Government of the opinions of the
House and country. He did not think that the
House, by committing itself to this report,
would prevent, or render it impossible for
them, to consider whatever measure on this
subject may come up at some future Session
of Parliament. It would be merely an intimation to the Government es to the general
course of financial policy which should be
pursued, and if the Government bring up
some scheme which would commend itself
more to this House than that recommended in
the report, then this House would be at liberty
to adopt it.

at the same time looking at the question from
every point of view he was not willing to
adopt the report of the committee, because he
felt that as a consistent member of the Senate
he would be obliged to support a Bill founded
upon the principles embodied in that report.
He knew that the position of the Government
would be exceedingly embarrassed if that report be adopted, because they have framed
their whole financial policy upon the existing
state of things, and a'll their arrangements
must be founded upon the Currency Bill
passed this Session. While he looked upon that
measure of the Government with a good deal
of jealousy he could not help feeling a conviction that the community should look with
just as much jealousy upon banking institutions. He knew that at any moment it only
required a word to be passed round from one
bank to another to so limit or enlarge the
discount as to influence all the public affairs
of the country.

Hon. Mr. McCully thought there was a very
important principle involved in the adoption
of this report. There was no question which
had cost him more thought and anxiety than
this, and he found it very difficult to know
how he ought to give his vote. There had been
a great deal said on both sides of the question,
which had commended itself to his judgment,

AFTER RECESS

The debate was then postponed until the
next sitting of the House.
The following BilUs were brought from the
House of Commons and read a first time:"An Act to incorporate the Merchants'
Express Company of the Dominion of Canada."
"An Act to annex a portion of the Seigniory
of Belair to the County of Quebec, and another portion to the County of Port Neuf."
"An Act constituting the Department of
Customs."
"An Act for the better securing of the
Crown and of the Government."
"An Act respecting the manufacture or importation of Copper Coins, or Tokens."
"An Act respecting Persons in Custody
charged with High Treason or Felony."
"An Act respecting Riots or Riotous Assemblies."
"An Act to fix the salary of the Governor-General."
The House then adjourned until half-past
seven o'clock p. m.

FINANCIAL CRISIS-RESUMED DEBATE
Hon. Mr. McCully resumed-If the Govermnent were about to adopt a policy upon
the question of banking he could appreciate
the position and principles which the hon.
mover of the report had enunciated. He would

May 13, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

then feel less embarrassed than he now did. If
it was a new question he would be apt to take
the same view of it as those who had spoken
in its favour. The Session is now about closing,
and the Government have marked out its own
policy for the coming year, and their business
and undertakings are all based upon that policy. If this report is to mean anything, it is
intended to have a direct application to the
future, and must be considered, if adopted by
this House, as an instruction to the Government with regard to their future policy on the
subject of banking and finance. He thought at
this late period of the Session it was inopportune to give those instructions, and it would
be hardly fair to the Government to place
them in a position which would to some extent put them afloat from what they might
fairly have conceived would have been the
policy of this Legislature for the next twelve
months. What does the hon. mover expect will
be the practical effect of this report, if adopted by the House? It is in direct antagonism to
a bill already passed this present Session.
The committee who prepared this report, in
fairness to the country and to themselves,
should have had before them men of all
classes and of all interests in the community.
What would be thought of a report on the
subject of "strikes" if it was prepared only by
masters? You should take the opinions of men
on both sides of the question, and draw your
own deductions. Then there would be a substance and validity in the report which cannot
be in it if founded upon the opinions of a
single class in the community, and that class
interested in bringing about what that report
itself contains. That is fatal to the efficacy of
this report. What would be thought of a report
on banking if not a single banker sat upon the
committee, or had given evidence before
them? While a great deal of consideration
ought to be given to the opinions of these
eminent men, it was not fair that their opinions alone should be taken in a report upon
banking. He then referred to the bankers of
Nova Scotia, and their readiness to charge
seven per cent. before the time arrived when
they would be required to pay one per cent.
upon their circulation. He thought whoever
drafted the banking bill intended it only to
apply to incorporated banks, but there was a
class of private banks in Nova Scotia which
possessed no charters, yet they were receiving
seven per cent. for all the notes they discounted under this Act. He would not longer occupy the attention of the House, but would
merely say that he would not interfere with

the policy of the Government, or throw obstructions in their way. He diid not oppose the
report because he considered it advocated an
unsound principle, but because it was inapplicable to our present position. The hon. mover
deserved great credit for the interest which he
has taken in sending this report abroad, to be
read by every one who reads the newspapers,
but when he presses its adoption upon the
Government as a policy, he is going a step
further than he (Mr. McCully) can follow him.
Hon. Mr. Simpson said he could not give
his vote without saying a few words upon the
subject before the House, but the representations made by the Postmaster-General in reference to the bankers of Upper Canada, had
left him undecided whether he should speak
as a merchant or as a banker. If he spoke as a
merchant he did not know if his opinions
would carry as much weight, although it is
said a successful merchant makes the best
banker. He referred to his long residence in
Canada, and of the great benefit the country
had derived from the Bank of Upper Canada,
and for which it would only be an act of
justice for them to make some acknowledgment. He had never known any bank which
had been directed or controlled by Government that did not come to grief. He referred
to the disparaging way in which the opinions
of the bankers had been referred to by the
Postmaster-General, who looked upon them as
a class of men not fit to give an opinion upon
these matters; but notwithstanding this they
had helped to move twenty million dollars'
worth of the productive industry of the country. He is mistaken when he says this report
contains only the opinions of a few paltry
Upper Canadian bankers. These reports contain the opinions of gentlemen of learning,
education, and experience, from England,
Scotland, and Canada. The questions contained in those reports were submitted to
some of the leading merchants of Ontario and
Quebec. When the report was first drawn up
he had been shown a draft of it, andi he did
not agree with some portions of it, but upon
the whole he thought it gave a fair synopsis of
the answers given to those questions by bankers and others. He thought the information
given was in the right direction. We are told
we have no right to interfere with the policy
of the Government. What is the policy of the
Governinent? They say they are going to get
all the information they can upon the subject;
they have appointed a committee, who have
prepared a long string of questions, and when
they are answered they are going to deter-

SENATE DEBATES
mine upon those answers. The only policy
they seem to have is to get all the money they
can. The Postmaster-General seemed to have
an opinion that there had been no such thing
as a crisis in Ontario. If he (Mr. Simpson) had
before him the telegrams sent to all parts of
the country, and the correspondence sent to
Mr. King, of Montreal, he could show that Mr.
Galt held a different opinion from the Postmaster-General upon this subject. If he (Mr.
Campbell) had been a farmer driving into
Toronto with a load of wheat, and wanted to
get home before sundown, he would have
been convinced there was a crisis. He then
explained the cause of the late crisis, saying it
was principally due to the fact that almost
every bank in Ontario had expanded its circulation very largely, and in referring to the
character of the banks he said the banks of
Canada, in proportion to the business done,
had shown more loyalty in meeting their engagements, and in promoting the interests of
the country, than any banks in the world. He
spoke of the great loss the country would
sustain by the adoption of the Government
scheme in consequence of the contraction of
the currency; as for each legal tender it must
take so much gold to pay the Government for
it. He thought the Committee had done a good
work in preparing this report, which would,
no doubt, have its effect upon the country.
Hon. Mr. Ferrier said he agreed with the
Hon. Postmaster-General that the Boards of
Trade of the large cities ought to have been
consulted, as well as the business men of the
country, otherwise the information is not
complete. He must say he was also opposed to
changes in banking. The old system has
worked well for the last half century, and
under it the banks have grown with the wants
and requirements of the country. The Upper
Canada Bank and the Commercial Bank were
not conducted according to their charters, and
hence they had to succumb. The information
contained in this report is very valuable, but
there the commission should have stopped,
and not try to attach blame to any other
persons, either the Bank of Montreal or the
Government.
Hon. Mr. Bureau (in French) said it was
unusual to have such a long acrimonious discussion on the reception of a report of any
Comnittee named by this House, but the importance of the subject of banking was second
to no other question of the day, and hence the
interest taken in this matter was quite natural. Reports of Committees generally commend themselves to the House, but this is an

May 13, 1868

exceptional case, not only from its intrinsie
importance, as from the circumstances attending this enquiry. He thought the Government,
as a party interested, as it were put on their
trial, should have been represented, as well as
the Bank of Montreal also, to whose action the
report attributes the calamities that befel the
country in the suspension of payment of the
Commercial Bank, and the consequent danger
and alarm occasioned to all the other banks.
There were many good points and suggestions
in the report, but he for one could not endorse
all its recommendations or suggestions. If it
was now a question to establish a commercial
or banking system for the country, he would
be prepared to go into that question, but such
was not the purport or scope of that commission or report. He wished to judge of all
questions coming before this House on their
own merits, without regard to the interests of
political parties, or how they may affect any
Government. He was not, what was generally
understood by the term, a supporter of the
Government, but that was no reason for his
voting on this or any other question, contrary
to his convictions of right. Viewing it in this
light, he must vote against the reception of
this report.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn did not pretend to have
any particular wisdom in financial matters,
but he felt it to be his duty to explain his
reasons for the vote he should give upon this
report. This report seems to create surprise in
some minds and in others embarrassment. He
could not say that his mind was altogether
relieved from embarrassment. When the
chairman had moved for this Committee to be
appointed, we had been led to suppose that
the subject would be dealt with, and a report
made which would have been satisfactory and
instructive; but now when the report has been
brought forward, it creates an alarming sensation. He thought they were too much inclined
to take action in matters without coming to
any definite results; when they grappled with
questions of the first importance to the country they should come to a conclusion upon
them. It has been said by the PostmasterGeneral that the Committee in this case have
sought their information not from the best
sources, because it has not been obtained from
all sources, but only from the bankers. Not
only have they obtained information from
bankers and those engaged in banking
throughout Canada, but they have obtained it
directly and indirectly from merchants. If the
information had been given only by bankers,
where would you have found a class of men

May 13, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

better qualified to give this information. Aimost all of them have been extensively engaged in business before they became bankers. We have been told that the Government
have a policy upon this subject, and we are
disturbing that policy. If they have a policy
they have not propounded it; on the contrary, in the House of Commons the Minister of
Finance, who is at the head of this particular
department, stated that the Government were
undecided in their policy. (Hear, hear.) They
have struck a Committee for the purpose of
informing themselves upon this subject, They
will derive evidence of the same nature probably as this Committee. This Committee has
had the assistance of the Government (Hear,
hear.) The chairman of the Committee cannot
be accused of any desire to embarrass the
Government, and therefore he (Mr. Sanborn)
was wholly at a loss to know why this report
has been received by the Government as it
has. It has been intimated that if this committee had taken a proper course they would
have sent their questions to the physicians,
lawyers, and clergymen of the country to get
answered. If they had done so, and brought in
their report would not the PostmasterGeneral have said, "I am surprised that the
Committee, with the ability they possess, did
not send those questions to bankers who know
something about these matters, instead of to
professional men who know nothing about
them." He thought many of the hon. members
who have put forward their views on this
matter seemed to be positive in their theories
one way or the other, but the course adopted
by the Government does not satisfy any of
these theories, or the difficulty which has been
complained of, but has operated unfavourably
to the general banking interests of the country, and those interests are identified with its
commercial prosperity. He referred to the report of the Committee in which a synopsis of
the evidence is given, which he read, and said
both the Committee and the evidence recommended a return to the system heretofore
maintained, but if another policy is adopted
then they recommend another course should
be taken. The question now presented to us is,
are we prepared to adopt the conclusions at
which that Committee have arrived? To do so
cannot harm any one, even the Government.

its best interests." This is declaring that the
very bill this Senate has just passed is injurious to the best interests of the country.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said he knew his hon.
friend had his theory upon this subject, which
he demonstrated to his own satisfaction, and
he has come to the conclusion that that bill is
the first step towards arriving at the theory he
has propounded, but he (Mr. Sanborn) thought
if he starts upon this ground, he will never
arrive at the position he lays down as the
proper one to be adopted by the Government,
that is to make the circulation of the country
a paper currency based upon the property of
the country. He (Mr. Sanborn) was not prepared to say whether that system would be a
good one or not, but he maintained that the
modification of that system which was passed
to gratify the necessities of the Government at
the present Uie, and which interfered with
the banks of the country, was not a step in
that direction.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell-That bill was not
passed to gratify the necessities of the Government at the present time, but to extend
that system to the Lower Provinces.

Hon. Mr. Sanborn said his hon. friend had
been but a short time in the Government.
They had some experience of that kind of
legislation in Canada previously, and if it is a
blessing he has that blessing extended to the
Maritime Provinces. The principle was adopted
before, and we are now enquiring whether the
extension of that principle is desirable or not.
Our object is to have the principles of that
report adopted by the House, with a view of
determining the policy of the country hereafter, because the question must come up at no
distant day, and be decided one way or the
other. With regard to the opinion that this
Dominion note system did not arise from the
necessities of the Government, he must beg to
assure the Minister of Marine that he is
wrong if he lays the flattering unction to his
heart that there was no necessity for the
Government to have anything to do with the
proceedings taken upon issuing these notes
based upon the security of the Government.
In regard to this report he did not see that it
committed either the Government or the
House to any definite mode of procedure in
regard to their policy hereafter. It is but the
Hon. Mr. Wilmo-The report says: "That expression of the opinions of those best able
your Committee are of opinion that the exten- to form an opinion upon the subject, in order
sion of the Bank of Issue system, now par- to enlighten the House and country upon the
tially in operation, would be unsuited to the question. The Government ought not to be
requirements of the country, and injurious to beyond receiving light upon this matter more

SENATE DEBATES
than the rest of us. We should accept this
report as an effort worthy of our approval.
Whatever policy may hereafter be found
necessary for the Government to adopt, every
member who votes upon this question will be
free to support the policy of the Government
upon the evidence produced then. He could
not help sympathizing with his hon. friend
(Mr. McCully) in the embarrassment he feels,
which is occasioned by the struggle between
his feelings as to the propriety of voting for
the report and his desire not to vote agaInst
the Government. However, he felt satisfied in
giving his vote in favour of the report.
Hon. Mr. Wark said if he could agree with
the statement that a vote upon this question
would not commit the House in future, he
would feel less embarrassment in voting upon
it. He believed we would commit ourselves in
recommending this report, consequently he
hesitated to give his vote in favour of it. He
regretted on all occasions to have to differ
with a Committee on a subject of this kind,
which they had taken so much pains to investigate. But he did not wish to give bis vote to
bind himself down to vote for the legislation
which the report recommended. There was
no necessity for adopting the report, therefore he hoped his hon. friend would allow the
debate to close and withdraw his motion. He
felt that he might, by voting against the report, be approving of a policy which this report condemns. He did not want to be considered as voting against the report, as he was
not in favour of a Government currency. He
believed that capital and banking should contribute to the support of the Government, as
well as other taxable property in the Province; at the same time he was not disposed to
admit that the system proposed by the Government is the best that can be devised. He
thought it had been adopted as a temporary
measure in consequence of the then unsatisfactory position of the country in relation to
the United States, and the Fenian movement,
but he did not think it was a safe experiment
to adhere to. It was not an untried experiment
about which there could be doubt, as it had
been tested by different countries, and it was
generally found that the currency became depreciated. He thought it was quite possible to
harmonize the interests of the banks and the
country. He believed the Government had a
right to derive a revenue from the capital
employed now in the banks. This was not a
question between the Government and the
banking interest alone; the mercantile interest
was very largely interested in it. Every man

May 13, 1868

who holds a note ought to feel that it is as
good as gold. That is not the case under the
system of currency his hon. friend from St.
John (Mr. Wilmot) spoke so highly of. Under
that system there would be a degree of uncertainty that would render all business unsafe.
Hon. Mr. Wilmoi-I always went for a currency secured upon national security.
Hon. Mr. Wark-They must either have a
gold basis or a fluctuating paper currency like
the United States. He wished to see the House
remain uncommitted to any scheme at present. He did not think we should pledge ourselves to the sentiments contained in the report, therefore he would move in amendment,
seconded by Hon. Mr. McClelan, "That this
House declines to commit itself to the opinions
contained in said report, believing that before
Parliament proceeds to legislate upon the subject this House should be in possession of
more extensive information on the important
questions of Banking and Currency."
Hon. Mr. Macpherson said in reply to his
hon. friend (Mr. McCully) that he had listened
to him with a great deal of attention. He has
been long in Parliament and is one of the
Fathers of our Constitution. He looked upon
him as great authority, and he always would
feel it a matter of regret, when he (Mr.
McCully) differed with him on a subject
which fell to his lot to bring before the House.
He thought, however, that his hon. friend was
under misapprehension. He (Mr. Macpherson)
was not without hope that he would yet succeed in removing that misapprehension, and if
he did he would have the benefit of his support. He was under the apprehension that this
motion, if carried, would interfere with the
policy of the Government in regard to a bill
passed before. The Government said distinctly
that the bill did not embody their policy, but
merely empowered the Government to extend
the circulation of Dominion notes to the
Maritime Provinces, and when he had said it
looked like an inducement to other banks than
the Bank of Montreal to come under its operations, and was an indication of Government
policy, he had been told it was a mere temporary measure. The motion before us can have
no effect upon the measure, therefore he
hoped in that particular he had removed some
of the misapprehensions from the mind of his
hon. friend. The Government say they are in
search of a policy on this subject, and they
have invited a committee of the other House
to settle that policy for them. The Committee
of this House is entirely ignored upon this important question. He did not object to weight

May 13, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

being given to the opinions of the other
House, but he maintained that the opinions of
members of this House ought to be received
with some little consideration. The Government do not profess any intention of bringing
in their measure before next Session, and
nothing we can do in the meantime can affect
their policy. If it did it would not be a proper
motion. It would not only be imprudent, but
out of order, by a motion of this kind to set
aside a bill passed through the House a short
time ago. His hon. friend (Mr. McCully)
seemed to take advantage of the occasion to
administer a castigation to the bankers of
Nova Scotia for expecting such a high rate of
interest. He (Mr. Macpherson) was inclined to
think that if the Dominion note system be the
settled policy of the country, we would have
to have a higher rate of interest than seven
per cent. If the legal rate of interest is only
seven per cent., how the banks can pay the
cost of management, and all other expenses,
and pay a satisfactory dividend to the shareholders, was more than he could understand.
(A member-How did they do it when they
received but six per cent?). They then had a
circulation, but under the Dominion note system that is withdrawn, and their only return
would be the legal rate of seven per cent.
upon the bare amount of their capital.
Hon. Mr. Wark, at the request of several
members of the House, withdrew his amendment.
The question then being put on the original
motion, the House divided, and the names
being called for, they were taken down as
follows:Contents: The Hon. Messieurs Aikins, Allan,
Anderson, Benson, Blake, Bourinot, Christie,
Cormier, Dickson, Flint, Hamilton (Kingston),
McMaster, Macpherson, Reesor, Ross, Sanborn,
Seymour, Simpson, Tessier and Wilson.-20.
Non-Contents: The Hon. Messieurs Armand,
Bill, Botsford, Bureau, Campbell, Cauchon,
Chapais, Crawford, Dever, Duchesnay, E.H.J.,
Dumouchel, Ferrier, Guévremont, Hamilton
(Inkerman), Holmes, Kenny, Lacoste, Leslie,
McClelan, McCrea, McCully, Malhiot, Miller,
Mitchell, Olivier, Price, Ryan, Shaw, Skead,
Wark and Wilmot.-31.

BANK STATEMENTS
The second reading of the Bill intituled
"An Act respecting Bank Statements," being
called, Hon. Mr. Macpherson moved that the
same be discharged from the orders of the
day.
PENITENTIARIES AND DIRECTORS
THEREOF BILL
The house then resolved itself into Committee of the Whole (Hon. Mr. Bureau in the
chair) on the Bill intituled "An Act respecting
penitentiaries and the directors thereof, and
for other purposes," and reported the same
without amendment. The said bill was then
read a third time and passed accordingly.
EVIDENCE IN CANADA RELATIVE TO
CIVIL, AND CRIMINAL MATTERS PENDING IN HER MAJESTY'S DOMINIONS OR
ELSEWHERE
The House here went into Committee of the
Whole (Hon. Mr. Skead in the chair), on the
Bill intituled, "An Act to provide for the taking evidence in Canada in relation to Civil
and Criminal matters pending before Courts
of Justice in any of Her Majesty's Dominions
or elsewhere."
Hon. Mr. Tessier objected to the passing of
this bill, as there was no power in this Legislature to pass such a law for the Province
of Quebec, which has already its Code Civil.
The Local Legislature only could legislate on
the rules of evidence, right of imprisoning and
examining witnesses if in contempt of our
Courts of Law.
The bill was reported with several amendments.
The bill was then moved for a third reading
by Hon. Mr. Campbell, seconded by Hon. Mr.
Mitchell.
Hon. Mr. Tessier. seconded by Hon. Mr.
Bureau, moved in amendment to add "this
Act shall not have force in the Province of
Quebec."

Hon. Mr. Campbell objected to the amendment, saying that if the Local Government of
Quebec disapproved of this bill, they could
legislate on the subject; in the meantime the
QUARANTINE AND PUBLIC HEALTH BILL Act could effect no possible injury or harm to
The Bill entituled "An Act relating to Quar- that Province.
antine and Public Health," was read a second
The amendment was declared lost on a divitime and ordered to be referred to a Commit- sion. The bill was then read a third time and
tee of the whole House to-morrow.
passed.
99267-21

306

SENATE I )EBATES

May 13, 1868

FOREIGN REPRINTS OF BRITISH
COPYRIGHTS BILL

INCORPORATION OF CANADA SHIPPING
COMPANY

The House then went into Committee of the
Whole on the "Act to impose a duty on foreign reprints of British copyright works."
(Hon. Mr. Ryan in the chair.) Reported without amendment, read a third time and passed.

The Bill "to incorporate the Canada Shipping Company," was read a second time and
referred to the Committee on Banking,
Commerce and Railways.

LAKE MEMPHREMAGOG COMPANY

ANNEXATION OF THE SEIGNIORY OF
BELAIR

The "Act to confirm a certain By-Law
passed by the Lake Memphremagog Company,
and for other purposes," was read a second
time and ordered to be réferred to the Committee on Standing Orders and Private Bills.

The Bill "to annex a portion of the Seigniory of Belair to the County of Quebec, and
another portion thereof to the County of
Portneuf," was read a second time. Ordered
that the same be referred to the Committee on
Standing Orders and Private Bills.

MALICIOUS INJURIES TO PROPERTY
BILL

POLICE OF CANADA BILL

The Bill "respecting Police of Canada" was
The Bill "respecting malicious injuries to
property" was read a second time. Ordered to read a first time. Ordered to be read a second
be referred to a Committee of the whole time on Friday next.
House on Friday next.
The House then adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES

May 14, 1868

THESENATE
Thursday, May 14, 1868.
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
After routine
Hon. Mr. Campbell begged to state to the
House that lie found lie was in error in saying
that the report of the Committee on the Financial Crisis, as it first appeared in the public
press, was incorrect. He held in his hand a
copy laid upon the Table by the hon. chairman
and published on the morning after the report
was presented to this House. It had been telegraphed to that paper from the manuscript
copy laid upon the Table by the hon. chairman
of the committee, and was therefore correct.
He regretted very much that lie had fallen
into the error, and now took the earliest opportunity of removing it and doing justice to
the hon. chairman and the committee.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson was glad that the
Hon. Postmaster-General had made this explanation and, confirmed his (Mr. Macpherson's) statement, as he had previously stated
to the House, the error had been made unintentionally by an officer of the House. After
he (Mr. Macpherson) had examined the proof,
as soon as he (Mr. Macpherson) had discovered it, he ordered a correct issue to be struck
off, and copies sent to al to whom incorrect
copies had been distributed.
Hon. Mr. Tessier moved, seconded by Hon.
Mr. Bureau, the following prayer: "To resolve
that in the second report of the Committee on
contingent accounts, presented on the 11th
day of December last, the consideration of
which was afterwards postponed to the 4th
day of the second part of this Session, the
officers and servants being continued in their
respective capacities, and with their former
salaries, pending the final decision of the
Senate, which report was referred back to the
committee, and presented anew on the 20th of
March last, and finally adopted on the 26th of
March last, the sessional messengers thereby
dismissed, namely: R. Greer, A. Miller, and J.
Mondor were recommended as being entitled
to be paid for the present Session on being
dismissed at the commencement of the Session; but that they were continued and did
serve until the 26th of March last, when the
report was finally adopted, and that they are
therefore entitled to indemnity to the amount
of one-half of their sessional allowances for
99267-21J

one Session besides the present Session, and
that it be ordered that such indemnity be paid
to them on the same terms ani conditions as
the indemnity granted to others who were
dismissed under the said report of the Committee on Contingent Accounts."
Hon. Mr. Tessier-These persons had continued in the employ of the House up till last
Saturday, and he felt common justice required
that they should be paid. They remained because there was no person empowered to dismiss them. We all should do as we wish to be
done by, and surely nothing could be more
just than to pay these men for the time at
least they have been in our employ.
Hon. Messrs. Seymour, McCully and Miller
were opposed now to reconsidering the vote of
Committee on Contingencies. If reopened now,
there would be no end to the applications, and
it would have been a sham. However they
might regret the cases now brought forward,
they cannot do otherwise than vote against it.
So it was resolved in the negative.
A message was received from the Commons
with a Bill intituled "An Act respecting the
inspection of steamboats, and for the greater
safety of passengers by them."-Read a first
time, and ordered to be read a second time at
the next sitting of the House.
Also a message with a Bill intituled "An
Act respecting the Civil Service of Canada"-Read a first time, and second reading
fixed for the next sitting of the House.
The Divorce Bill was reported from the
Commons, as having passed the House without amendment.
Hon. Mr. Ryan moved that an humble address be presented to His Excellency the
Governor-General, praying His Excellency to
be caused to be laid before this House copies
of all correspondence between the Department
of Marine and Fisheries and the Trinity
Board, and the Harbour Trust of Montreal,
since the 14th December last.-Passed.
Ordered, that such members of the Executive Council as are members of this House,
do wait on His Excellency the GovernorGeneral, with the said address.
The second reading of the Bill intituled "An
Act ta incorporate the Merchants' Express
Company of the Dominion of Canada", being
called,
On motion of Hon. Mr. Benson, seconded by
the Hon. Mr. Ferrier, was read a second time,
and referred to the Committee on Standing
Orders.

SENATE DEBATES
PRIVATE BILLS.
An Act constituting the Department of
Customs was read a second time. The said bill
was then passed through a Committee of the
whole House,
Hon. Mr. Christie in the chair.
The same was then reported with an
amendment, concurred in, and ordered to be
read a third time at the next sitting of the
House.
An Act for the better security of the Crown
and of the Government, was read a second
time, committed to a Committee of the Whole,
reported without amendment, and ordered to
be read a third time at the next sitting.
An Act respecting the manufacture or importation of copper coins or tokens, was read
a second time.
The House then resolved itself into a
Committee of the Whole on said Bill, reported
progress, and asked leave to sit again on
Saturday next.
Hon. Messrs. Ferrier and Bureau said the
Government alone should have the power of
issuing money tokens.
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved, seconded by
Hon. Mr. Mitchell, that when the House adjourns on Friday, it do stand adjourned until
Saturday at 11 o'clock in the forenoon.Carried in the affirmative.
An Act respecting persons in custody
charged with High Treason and Felony, read a
second time-was referred to a Committee of
the whole House-(Hon. Mr. Hamilton (Kingston) in the chair). Reported the same without amendment. Ordered that it be read a
third time at next sitting of the House.
SALARY OF THE GOVERNOR GENERAL.
The next order of the day being called for
the second reading of the Bill intituled, "An
Act to fix the salary of the GovernorGeneral,"
Hon. Mr. Sanborn moved, seconded by Hon.
Mr. Armand, that the same be now read a
second time. He said the Union Act fixed the
salary at £10,000 until changed by the Legislature of the Dominion. This was only a
preliminary arrangement and the amount was
not then settled. He thought the general feeling of the country was that the sum was too
high for a country like this. This was said to
be an Imperial office and as such should be
gauged. That liberal hospitality had to be
provided and the amount to be some induce-

May 14, 1868

ment to great men to accept the position. As a
general rule representative governments curtail salaries. British India, with a population
of one hundred and ninety-two millions and
corresponding wealth, did not exceed the
proposed salary. The hon. gentleman enumerated salaries of the several Governors of the
British colonies, and concluded by saying that
our Governor-General, at the sum proposed,
was better paid than any other officer under
the Imperial Government, considering climate, position, and social advantages. The
personal responsibility was removed from the
Governor-General to his responsible advisers
-another
reason for less compensation. If
the honour of being a member of this Parliament was sufficient, as we are told, without
pay, but only an indemnity, surely the position of Governor-General of one of the most
important colonies under the Crown ought to
some extent to stand in lieu of pay. The
amount named in the bill is quite enough as
an indemnity. He could associate with a superior people socially and intellectually. We
are certainly not barbarians where an English
nobleman or statesman might consider himself as transported. It is a most desirable
country to reside in. We find after all that is
said about the great liberality of our governors and their hospitalities and ail the rest,
that none of them leave us poorer men than
they come amongst us; so all experience
teaches. Add all the perquisites of his office,
which amount to thousands and thousands of
dollars as the public accounts of former years
show, and they are every year increasing in a
fearful ratio. He felt strongly on this subject,
because he knew well the feeling of alarm in
the public mind at our extravagances, which
were yearly increasing and likely to do so,
unless we put an effectual check by commencing with the highest salaries and coming down
to the lowest and reducing them. The honourable gentleman concluded a very able and energetic appeal to the House (of which the foregoing is merely a sketch) not to disregard the
strong expression of opinion from the other
popular branch of the Legislature, who had
changed the Ministerial into an Opposition
majority on the question, clearly demonstrating that even party ties could not stifle the
strong determined hostility to such a scheme
of extravagance and waste in the affairs of
this new, but rising country. He hoped, therefore, this bill from the Commons, fixing the
Governor-General's salary at $32,000, would
commend itself to the wisdom of this House
without a dissenting voice.

May 14, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Benson said he, too, had strong
feelings on the subject. He had been looking
over the public accounts, and had come to the
conclusion that the country would be largely a
gainer by voting the whole amount of £10,000
as Governor-General's salary, but without any
of those contingencies that appear yearly
charged in provincial accounts. He would,
therefore, move a motion in amendment, if an
hon. member would second it.
Hon. Mr. Ryan would do so in order to have
the matter discussed by the House.
"That it be resolved that the sum of
£10,000 stg., named in the British North
America Act, 1867, as the salary of the Governor-General, was intended and should cover
all allowances of every kind and description
to that officer, except a furnished residence at
the seat of Government of the Dominion, and
that no further sum should be paid by the
Dominion for any incidental service or charge
connected with the personal establishment of
the Governor-General."
Hon Mr. McCully thought the motion out of
order. The House can only accept or reject the
bill.
Hon. Mr. Benson thought the motion quite
in order, and so argued the question very
ably.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said the House could
reject the bill. The salary was intended to
cover all charges and expenses. This was a
Declaratory, not a Money Bill, saying on and
after such a date the salary will be such an
amount. The House can express its intention
as to the Imperial Act.

reject this bill, which would increase the
taxes on the people which this House had no
power to do. Several members dissented fron
this view, but, he argued, reject this bill sent
to us from the Commons, fixing the salary at
$32,000, and the amount named in the Imperial Act, viz.:£10,000, will be the salary, and
thereby you increase the taxes on the people
to the extent of $18,000 yearly. Now, has this
House that power under our Constitution?
It being within a few minutes of six o'clock
the debate was adjourned until the next sitting of the House.
"An Act to incorporate the Bank of
Agriculture," was read a first time, and ordered to be read a second time to-morrow.
Also, "An Act respecting Indictable
Offences by forgery," was read a first time,
and ordered to be read a second time to-morrow.
Also "An Act respecting offences to the
coin," was read a first time, and the second
reading ordered for to-morrow.
It being six o'clock, the House adjourned
until half-past seven o'clock.
EVENING SESSION
Pursuant to the order of the day the House
resumed the adjourned debate of the amendment to the second reading of the Bill intituled "An Act to fix the salary of the Governor-General."

Hon. Mr. Bo±sford contended that it was a
Money Bill, and therefore they had no right
to amend it. It was out of order to move the
Hon. Mr. Ryan said the rejection of this
bill, would leave the salary as expressed in amendment.
the Union Act as a matter of course.
Hon. Mr. Benson said he would consent to
Hon. Mr. Chrisie said if this amendment be withdraw it.
carried, then the House will pledge itself to
Hon. Mr. Wilmo said the motion was made
reject the Supply Bill containing so many and seconded, therefore it was before the
items for extras in the Governor-General's
salary, as we will find, when the bill comes House, and could not be withdrawn without
before this House. Did the Ministry desire the consent of every member of the House.
this? Past experience teaches us the value of
Hon. Mr. Tessier remarked that this was not
these promises. The old system of contingen- an amendment to the bill, but an arnendment
cies will be continued unless we act with to the motion before the House, that the Bill
decision at once.
be read a second time, and was therefore
Hon. Mr. Ross expressed himself satisfied correct.
that the amendment was in order.
Hon. Mr. Wilmoi quite agreed with his
Hon Mr. Sanborn argued that it was not.
honourable friend that the amendment was in
Hon. Mr. Reesor quoted from May, doubting order. He thought the intention, when this
even if the House could, by a direct vote, salary was decided upon, was that it should

SENATE DEBATES
cover all the expenses of the GovernorGeneral. The contingencies might amount to
more than the salary.
The amendment was then by leave of the
House withdrawn.
Hon. Mr. McCully was glad his honourable
friend had withdrawn his amendment, as they
could now simply vote for or against the bill.
It might be expected that he, in addressing
the House, should define his position upon this
important question. This clause stands alone
in the British North America Act. "Unless
altered by the Parliament of Canada, the salary of the Governor-General shall be ten
thousand pounds sterling money of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, payable out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund of
Canada, and the same shall form the third
charge thereon." No other clause in the Act
contains the same provision for alteration by
the Parliament of Canada, therefore we may
assume that it was the policy of the Imperial
Parliament, and of the delegates, for it is not
to be supposed that this was passed without
their consent, that this sum should be the
maximum of the Governor-General's salary.
The clause invites the attention of Parliament
to reduce the amount, but not to enlarge it. It
is not in their power to give any more. (Cries
of oh, oh.) He did not mean to say we had not
the abstract power to enlarge it, but it would
have to be by the consent of the Imperial
Government. The principal point to which he
wished to direct attention was that the Imperial Parliament left it to the Parliament of
Canada to fix the amount of salary. Now he
would ask which House has the right to fix
the salary of any officer of the Dominion? That
is an important constitutional question. It is
the people who pay this amount, and it is the
people's representatives, according to the Constitution, who are the men to deal with money
questions. A Money Bill must arise with the
other House, but it is the pýrerogative of this
House to accept or reject it. We cannot add to
a salary or diminish it; we can only reject the
bill. If the House of Commons had sent up a
bill fixing the Governor-General's salary at
ten thousand pounds sterling, he would not
have said a word against it, because it is their
duty to deal with the amount. He would ask
the House are they prepared to defy the people, and tell them they are not permitted to
fax the amount of salaries which they have to
pay out of their earnings? That iS the point
we have to deal with (no, no). The people of
Canada, through their representatives, are

May 14, 1868

competent to fix the salaries of the Dominion.
If we vote against this bill we defy the House
of Comrons, and we say we are the judges;
we are above you, we are irresponsible, and
will fix the salaries, while you will have to
return and give an account of your actions to
the people. He (Mr. McCully) was not disposed
to assume that position. If this Senate interferes and prevents the action of the Commons
in this matter, it will produce disappointment
over a large portion of the Dominion. The
people of Nova Scotia have said over and over
again that the amount was too large. The
people's representatives have declared that
$32,000 are sufficient for the salary of the first
officer of the Dominion; if they find it is not,
they have the power to rectify such mistakes,
if it be a mistake, when they meet again. He
(Mr. McCully) would never thrust hiniself between the people and their right to dispose of
the public money.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just could not endorse the expressions of the previous speaker,
that this House should vote on this as on all
other questions as they pleased, in defiance of
the Commons, and without any regard to their
opinions. He objected to such a doctrine as
fraught with danger to the working out of our
system of Government, which he thought was
the best in the world for a free liberty-loving
people. He regretted also to be obliged to give
a vote which might be considered perhaps to
be opposed to the interests or feelings of the
present Governor-General, who has always
acted fairly with all political parties in this
country, since his appointment amongst us. He
did not allude to the question of the liberality
and extent of his hospitality, and he, for one,
never wished to allow such considerations to
influence his opinions in voting for this measure. He felt bound to vote for the bill as
containing an ample, liberal allowance for our
Governor-General without any other perquisites.
Hon. Mr. Wilmo said, as one of the delegates, he would be expected to give his opinion upon this subject. He took exception to the
views put forward, that because another
Branch of the Legislature, directly representing the people, pass a particular bill connected with the taxation of the country, we should
endorse that principle. We have no more right
to endorse the opinions of the other House,
than we have to endorse the acts of the
Government. We stand between the Crown

May 14, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

and the people, and we should act independently, whether we have a majority with us in
the House of Commons or not. (Hear, hear.) It
had been stated that the members of this
House who were members of a certain delegation, are bound to act upon what was agreed
upon by that delegation. Circumstances may
alter cases. If he (Mr. Wilmot) was prepared
twelve months since to support a proposition
to give the Governor-General a salary of
$50,000 and the circumstances of the country
were now such that retrenchment were required, he would be prepared to-day to vote
for reducing it. (Hear, hear.) That was the
principle which had governed him during a
long course of legislation. In reducing salaries,
he preferred that the reduction should be
made in the salaries of future incumbents,
instead of in the salaries of those officers who
had long been in the service of the public.
(Hear, hear.) The Senate came to a decision
the reverse of this principle.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell-The principle was laid
down when the question was discussed-that
there were no employees in the Senate except
the Clerk and the Usher of the Black Rod, and
their appointments were subject to the action
of the Senate.

saving than we will by all the economy adopted at that time. This Senate have adopted the
principle that economy was to be established,
(hear, hear) and the Government have endorsed the same principle, therefore he
thought it was their duty to vote for the bill.
Hon. Mr. Allan demurred to the proposition
of the hon. member, (Mr. McCully) that the
members of this House did not represent the
people of this country. It was because they did
represent the people in the Legislative
Council of Canada that they had the honour
now of seats in the House, though they might
be life members under our present constitution. He, therefore, was not afraid to take the
responsibility of the vote he was about to give
on this question. He would vote for the
amount named in the Union Act, and consequently against the present bill. He could not
avoid saying that when we consider the expenses that should be incurred by the Governor-General of a large and important colony
like this, in vice-regal hospitality, travelling
expenses from one end to the other of this
large Dominion, and public and private charities, which had to be dispensed with no miserly hand, the Governor-General would be compelled to expend his salary in the country, and
with that expectation, and for that purpose,
he felt constrained to support the vote of a
liberal salary.

Hon. Mr. Wilmo--If the principle is laid
down that in starting this new Dominion no
man's salary is fixed, and no public faith is
Hon. Mr. Macpherson said it was embarinvolved, it applies to every public officer
rassing to be called upon to vote upon this
from the Governor-General downwards.
measure without more information, with reHon. Mr. Mitchell-Where the Government spect to the understanding in England in reof the Dominion, since the first of July last, gard to it. Was it reasonable to suppose that
have entered into any engagement they are the clause regarding the Governor-General's
bound to carry it out, but we are not bound salary found its way into the Union Act,
by any engagement made by the old Province unless the matter was understood between the
of Canada.
British Government and our delegates? If it
Hon. Mr. Wilmoi-Having decided that all was understood that the salary named was to
engagements entered into before the first of be the salary of the Governor-General, then
July last, relative to Canada and the other the poorest constituency in the country would
Provinces, were at end, the question arises are say carry it out in good faith, for the country
we bound to pay this large salary to the is pledged, and whatever our Delegates agreed
know whether
Governor-General? The Union Act states to must be fulfilled. We should
that is so or not. Is it right for the Delegates
clearly that his salary is to be $50,000, until it
in
is altered by the Legislature of Canada; there- to say that what passed in England of, regard
and at
fore, having this power, and the finances of to this matter is not to be spoken found its
the same time speak against what
the country being such that our expenditure
exceeds our income, the first principle for us way into the Union Act, and speak in favour of
to adopt is retrenchment. He had been what is proposed here against it? If this salary
charged with extravagance, because he had was agreed upon merely by a majority of our
not voted for reducing the salaries of the Delegates there ought to be something to show
employees of the House. The whole amount it. This salary of £ 10,000 sterling may seem a
which will be saved by reducing all those large sum for the salary of the Governorsalaries will be less than $13,000, but by pass- General, but we must remember that it is the
ing this Bill we will make a much larger only Imperial salary paid by the people of

SENATE DEBATES
Canada. The people of the country desire that
the Governor-General-the only representative of Her Majesty in the country--should be
enabled to represent her fittingly. Some may
say that in our primitive capital the demands
of hospitality must be light, but these are not
the only duties involving expenditure the
Governor-General has to discharge. He should
make a periodical progress through the country, one year going east and another year
going west. The people should see Her
Majesty's representative, and he should be
able by coming in contact with the people to
give his Royal Mistress their sentiments. This
would be one great advantage. Another duty
devolving upon the Governor-General is in
regard to charities. If demands of this nature
bear heavily upon those occupying comparatively humble spheres, how much more heavily must they bear upon the GovernorGeneral? It might be questionable taste to
have everything of that kind done gazetted;
the true way in such matters is not to let the
left hand know what the right hand does. Her
Majesty's representative cannot neglect to discharge the duty which of all others will be
most pleasing to the kind heart of his Royal
Mistress, that of dispensing liberally in charity. His hon. friend (Mr. McCully) spoke of our
defying the House of Commons by rejecting
or refusing to assent to a bill coming up here.
We hold concurrent authority with the House
of Commons. It is our duty to amend bills
which come from the other House, when, in
our opinion, they require amendment, and if
we did not do so we would fail in our duty. It
is quite true that constitutionally we cannot
originate or amend a Money Bill, but he
speaks of our flying in the face of the taxing
power, as if we did not pay taxes, or as if we
were a great territorial body occupying a
higher sphere, not affected by the legislation
of the country, and exempt from its taxation.
We know this is perfectly absurd; we are of
the people, and probably contribute as largely,
man for man, as the members of the other
House, to the revenue. Therefore to say that
we are not to arrogate to ourselves the right
to express an opinion upon a question involving money is a principle he (Mr. Macpherson)
was not prepared to admit. We have a right to
know what the understanding was with the
British Government. If that understanding
was only an implied one, and the Colonial
Secretary was left with the impression that
£10,000 sterling would be paid to the Governor-General he (Mr. Macpherson) would
support it, and so would the majority of the

May 14, 1868

people of this Dominion. He could say without
exaggeration that when the Legislative
Council of Canada was elective, he had represented the most populous constituency in the
country, and he would not be afraid to go
before that constituency and ask whether we
should keep faith with the British Government in this matter. It was very well for the
hon. member from St. John to talk about
retrenchmentHon. Mr. Wilmoi--Are
trenchment?

you not for re-

Hon. Mr. Macpherson was in favour of proper retrenchment where this House had control- that is, to pay no more to our officers
than was adequate to the services performed;
but the Governor-General is not our officer,
and he (Mr. Macpherson) was not willing to
violate an understanding with the Home
Government. If there is any justification for
violating that agreement, the delegates ought
to tell us.
Hon. Mr. Wilmoi-The very Act explains
itself.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson-The GovernorGeneral is the only Imperial officer in the
Dominion whose salary is paid by Canada,
and to reduce his salary will appear to the
British Government and people, to our neighbours and our own people, as it appears to
him, (Mr. Macpherson,) an untimely, unworthy, and paltry measure. The British
Government is spending a large sum of money
in this country, and the only visible tie, connecting us with England, is the GovernorGeneral; in the face of this we are nibbling
away at his salary. Can we expect that a highminded man, holding a first class position in
England, will come out here if his salary is
made the subject of discussion every Session
of Parliament? This measure is unworthy of
the Parliament of this Dominion. The people
of Canada are willing that the Governor-General should be paid handsomely, to enable him
to represent the Queen suitably, but they expect his salary to be spent in the country. They
would no more expect that he would carry
any portion of it out of the country, than they
would desire that he should draw upon his
private fortune to defray any part of his expenditure as Governor-General. He (Mr. M.)
agreed with his hon. friend (Mr. Benson), that
£ 10,000 sterling should cover all the expenses
of the Governor-General. He doubted that he
could represent Her Majesty suitably, and expend a smaller sum than is named in the Act

May 14, 188

SENATE DEBATES

of Confederation. If he does his duty in hospitality, travelling, and charity, he will not
have much over at the end of the year. He
(Mr. Macpherson) knew that the delegates
were able and ready to express their opinions
on ail occasions. He knew them too well to
believe that they were silent when this subject was under discussion in the conference in
London, and we are entitled to know for our
guidance, what understanding was corne to,
with the British Government, on the question.
Hon. Mr. Wilmoit-The whole agreement
was embodied in the Act of Union, and the
clause regarding the Governor-General's salary was left to the Parliament of Canada to
alter or amend if the circumstances of the
country required it. We should not be charged
with acting in a paltry way in reducing this
salary, when we leave it $2,000 more than it
was before the Union. If the circumstances of
the country are such that there will be a
deficit in our revenue, it is our duty to keep
our expenditure within our income. When we
adopt the principle of reducing the salaries of
the employees of the House, we are equally
bound to carry out that economy in the expenditure of the country, wherever it can be
most fairly borne, and it bears just as fairly
upon the head of the Government, as it does
upon those who hold inferior positions.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson-I must call the hon.
gentleman to order; I asked him a question,
which he has answered, but be has no right to
make another speech.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell-Did not my bon. friend
make two speeches last evening upon one subject?
Hon. Mr. McDonald regretted that be felt
himself constrained to differ from many with
whom he usually concurred most cordially, in
regard to the provision to be made for His
Excellency the Governor-General. On the
general question of economy he desired as
earnestly as any one to give effect to the
views which undoubtedly actuate the great
majority of people. He did not always see an
open course to reduce expenses save at the
cost of considerations which sometime possess
more than a money value; but none are more
convinced than he, that both as a matter of
duty and interest, it is necessary to resist
everything tending to encourage extravagance
in the organization of the Government, and
the general administration of the affairs of the
Dominion. The Legislature of his own Province, in the arrangement of its affairs, has set
an example which he should be glad to see
99267-22

followed here. It has eut down expenses to the
lowest point compatible with efficiency; and
while neglecting nothing that is essential, has
cared most wisely for the wishes and welfare
of its own constituents. Our friends from Nova
Scotia and New Brunswick have come here
after having been educated in a similar school,
and their influence will undoubtedly tend to
check, if not to prevent, undue expenditures. Entertaining these opinions be shared
fully the feeling expressed in a proposition
submitted to the other House, that is the reorganization of the public service thoughout the
Dominion the strictest economy should be observed; that superfluous offices should be
abolished; and that salaries should be framed
with a proper regard for the services rendered. He was not prepared to sustain such a
proposition in a shape that implies want of
confidence in the Government; but nevertheless cherished the hope that the Government, in maturing its plans, will not ignore
these points, or disappoint the popular wifl
touching economy as a prime element in the
organization and conduct of the various branches of the public service. He would cut down
whatever admits of being so treated without
injustice to the present incumbents; and in
determining salaries and payments where existing interests are not concerned, be would
carry retrenchment as far as it can be carried
without impairing the efficiency, or lowering
the credit, of the Government. It was because,
in his judgment, economy involves something
more than the saving of money, that he should
deem it his duty to vote against the reduction
of His Excellency's salary. He did not forget
that, estimated according to the average
means and incomes of the people of this country, £10,000 sterling is a large salary. He
knew that it was large compared with the
salaries paid to Ministers themselves, to the
Judges, or to any other class of public men.
He knew that nothing would be more easy
than the gaining of credit for economy by
voting for the reduction of a salary so far in
advance of the incomes to which Canadians
generally are accustomed. And yet he was
prepared to take the responsibility of voting
for £10,000, not simply because be considered that salary one of the infornal elements
of the compact entered into by our Delegates
to London, but also because be held that it
was not in excess of the allowance which the
country may be fairly asked to provide for
one whose position must hereafter entail liberal hospitalities, and the maintenance of a
dignity becoming the delegated head of the
Empire on this Continent. We shall not be

SENATE DEBATES
satisfied with inferior rank or ordinary attainments. We require, and the interests of the
Dominion and of the Empire alike require, the
presence here, as the representative of Her
Majesty, of a statesman capable of promoting
the vast concerns which as yet we ourselves
hardly realize, and of maintaining the state
which in all communities has much to do with
the satistactory administration of public
affairs. For these reasons he was willing to
appropriate an annual sum commensurate
with the character and abilities which alone
are worthy of the position, and with the requirements of the office, political and social.
The question, as he saw it, was not whether
the salary was above the every-day standard,
but whether it was greater than may be properly paid for services and standing such as
those which will hereafter be associated with
the office of Governor-General. The true
standard of comparison in this case is Imperial, not Colonial; and thus considered he
was convinced that the sum originally fixed
cannot reasonably or justly be called extravagant.
Hon. Mr. Ferrier advocated the allowance
of £ 10,000, but no extras, which, looking over
the accounts lately published, seemed to
amount to a fearful sum yearly. The Governor
General was expected to subscribe liberally to
aH charitable and patriotie objects, instancing
the fire in Quebec, when the GovernorGeneral headed the list of subscriptions with
£500, and a large house then subscribed
£600, and so on; by this example a sum of
over £ 15,000 was obtained on the spot. He
should entertain liberally and bear his own
travelling expenses. The travelling expenses
from Quebec to Montreal and Ottawa, (before
the seat of Government got settled down
here,) ran up the travelling expenses to large
sums that seem to alarm us now, but we must
remember that was an exceptional state of
things, and not likely to occur again. He
would read from a paper he held in his hand,
the following despatch, bearing on the subject,
with the comments made thereon, which be
thought quite appropriate:
"The salaries of Governors of the British
Dominions are necessarily large, because it is
expected that they will expend much of the
money they receive in hospitality. The Legislature of Tasmania recently reduced by
statute the salary of its Governor, but it was
disallowed by the Queen, and the following

May 14, 1868

despatch gives the reasons of its disallowance:"Downing Street, July 10,1867.
"Sir,-I have the honour to acknowledge the
receipt of your despatch, No. 9, of the 9th of
February, forwarding a copy of an Act of the
Legislature of Tasmania to reduce the salary
and allowance of every future Governor of
the colony, which you have reserved for the
signification of Her Majesty's pleasure. I regret that I cannot advise Her Majesty to give
effect to this Act. It is a matter of the highest
importance to secure for the government of
the colony the services of men of proved judgment and ability, and that the means of
these officers should not be so cramped as
to preclude them from taking their proper
position in the colony the exercise of a wellregulated hospitality, by visiting when necessary different parts of the colony, and by
taking part in the charitable organizations
which are called for by the state of the colony or of society. After careful reflection and
inquiry, I am satisfied that the existing
emoluments of the Governor of Tasmania are
not too high for this purpose; that for the
proposed salary, Her Majesty's Government
would not readily, if at all, find a person
properly qualified and also willing to accept
the Government; and further, that any person
so appointed would find himself unable to
discharge the social and other duies of his
office in the manner which is required by the
interests of the colony. I regret greatly the
present pressure of the finances of the colony
which has led your advisers to propose this
measure. I trust, however, that the grounds of
my decision will satisfy your Ministers and
the members of the Legislature that such a
measure would not be likely to conduce to the
general advantage, and that the position of
the Governor should be maintained in its integrity.
"I have the honour to be, Sir, your most
obedient humble servant,
"BUcKINGHAM

AND CHANDOs"

Hon. Mr. Campbell desired to say a few
words upon the bill now before the House. In
the first place he desired to correct a mistake
made by some of the hon. members as to the
character of the bill. It was not a Money Bill
granting supply to Her Majesty, but a bill to
fix the salary of the Governor-General at
some future period. It was the right of the
House of Commons, preliminarily, to deal with
such a subject; but it not being a Supply
Bill-simply a resolution of the House of

May 14; 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Commons regarding the salary of a high officer of the Crown-the question is not only
open, but it is our duty to express an opinion
upon it, whether that opinion differs from that
expressed by the House of Commons or not.
In referring to the contingent expenses of the
Governor-General, he said they had been rendered necessary in consequence of his being
required to change his place of residence from
one part of the country to another, before the
Seat of Government was fixed at Ottawa, but
as a rule, the salary of the Governor-General
covered all the expenses it was proposed to
cover. It is more economical to have the salary cover all expenses, than to fix it at a low
sum and pay contingent accounts. As an example of a large nation being governed at
small expense, we have been told again and
again, that the President of the United States
received a salary of $25,000, and he (Mr.
Campbeil) had supposed that this salary covered all expenses. Did that represent the cost
of that officer to the people of the United
States? We find by referring to the public
accounts of that country, that the salary of the
President is a mere bagatelle to the whole
cost. We find the amount charged for gas
alone is between seventy and eighty thousand
dollars. The very hospitalities of his table is,
in many instances charged as a contingent
account. It is far better to fix a handsome sum
to cover all expenses, than to fix an inadequate sum to be pieced out by contingencies
allowed from time to time, which will cover
more than the whole salary. He did not think
they were perfectly free to deal with this
matter, because he believed that the salary
named would not have been inserted in the
Union Act without an accord between the
British Government and the representatives
of the North American Provinces. If there was
an understanding of that kind he thought it
was wrong in this early stage of the Constitution to make any change in that salary. We
must bear in mind that the responsibility of
selecting a Governor-General for this Dominion rests upon Her Majesty and her advisers. In the exercise of that responsibility they
have their opinion as to what amount ofsalary ought to be attached to that office in
order to get the kind of man that would in
their opinion fill that high office, and advance
the interests of the Dominion. Then the delegates having in accord with Her Majesty's
Government agreed upon such a sum as they
thought necessary for that purpose, we should
not alter that amount until Her Majesty's
Minsters have had an opportunity of expressing an opinion upon it. They may say, "The
99267-221

representatives of the British North American
Provinces agreed that $50,000 was the sum
they were to give as asalary to the Governor-General in order that we might procure
for them a man with such experience in public life as would most conduce to the interests
of that colony, and had they adhered to that
sum, we would have adhered to that responsibility, that the salary being changed, we cannot adequately carry out that duty." Having
in that way agreed to the salary, we ought not
to alter it until the British Government have
expressed their views upon it. There is another view of this matter which will be taken in
England, and it will tend to our disadvantage.
This is the only salary which we fix in connection with the public service in England,
and there will be a contrast drawn between
that and the immense sums of money which
they expend for the safety and welfare of this
country. There is now being expended by the
people of Great Britain one million two hundred thousand pounds sterling annually, exclusive of the naval service, permanent barracks, and hospitals, which he supposed would
make a total of one million and a half pounds
sterling expended for our security. This position of Governor-General is the only patronage of any kind which they exercise in this
country, and our representatives having fixed
the salary it does seem wrong for us in this
first Session of Parliament to change it without giving the British Government an opportunity to express their views upon it, or
without even knowing whether they can get a
suitable person to come here for that sum.
The present salary may seem a large sum, but
it is not when compared with the salaries
which men of experience are likely to get in
other colonies or in England. Men who are
asked to leave for a time their own political
life in the mother country to take a position as
Governor of a colony would have to do so in
many cases at a considerable sacrifice. Suppose a man who has a high position in the
Parliament of England leaves it for a time, he
loses all those chances which political life
gives, the wave of success passes over and he
is forgotten. It is very seldom that an opportunity for advancement happens to the Governor of this country, although it did in one
instance through the Confederation of these
colonies, but in an ordinary and nominal state
of things, he has to go home to regain the loss
that must invariably be inflicted upon his career as a public man by his absence. So far as
the Government were concerned in this question they would like to see the matter rest

SENATE DEBATES

May 14, 1888

where it is until they had a further opportun- any pledge that a change would be made in
ity of ascertaining whether the office could be regard to contingent expenses i the event of
filled by a suitable person for a less salary this bill being rejected. As they have had an
than is now given.
ample opportunity while the discussion was
going on in the other House, to propose that
Hon. Mr. Benson said he wished to be as- $50,000 should cover all expenses, it was but
sured by the Government that if we vote reasonable to infer that they did not desire to
£10,000, this sum would be in lieu of all other do so. Under these circumstances he felt
contingencies, and he was satisfied such an bound to support the bill.
arrangement would be the most satisfactory
one to all parties and that the country would
Hon. Mr. Campbell said it was the desire
gain by it. He did not wish to be niggardly, of the Government that the Governor's salary
but felt the country should not be saddled should cover all the charges, but he could not
with these large sums yearly for extras for speak positively in regard to travelling exthe Governor's establishment. He was not sat- penses.
isfied the way the question came up here; if
Hon. Mr. Mitchell felt that the question was
assured that the £10,000 would include everything he would willingly vote for it, but if the one on which the delegates should speak, parold system is to be continued in voting large ticularly the members of the Government.
sums every year for contingencies, which There was one point which he wished to give
amount to a great deal more than the salary, an explanation to the House, particularly as it
he sympathized with public opinion on this had been called for so repeatedly by his hon.
matter strongly, and unless strong assurances friend from Toronto (Mr. Macpherson.) He
were given that no extras will be charged in said he thought it was the duty of the delethe public accounts under this head for the gates to state to the House the terms of the
future, he should vote for the second reading arrangement in regard to this salary, and he
called upon him (Mr. Mitchell) by name to
of the present bill.
give an explanation as to whether there was
Hon. Mr. Reesor said the delegates who had an understanding on this subject between the
been sent to England to confer with the members of the delegation, and any of the
British Government in regard to the Union members representing the British GovernAct had not exceeded the powers given ment. When the question had been put to the
them in fixing the Governor-General's salary, leader of the Government he had replied to
as they had left the matter open to be deter- that question. During the course of the promined by the Parliament of Canada. It had ceedings of that delegation which lasted for
been said that a Money Bill could not be many weeks it was necessary to have frequent
altered or amended by this House, but must interviews with the members of the Imperial
be accepted or rejected. He would go further Cabinet, and in those discussions it was someand say it was very rarely that a Money Bill times necessary to have further explanations
was rejected by the House of Lords, and our with reference to them. He believed the quesposition relatively to the House of Commons, tion of the Governor's salary was one on
was very nearly similar to the relative posi- which there was a great deal of discussion, and
tion of the House of Lords to the House of it was one on which it might be thought the
Commons in England. The Senate of the opinions of the members of the British GovUnited States was also guided in Money Bills ernment should have some weight and some
by the same rules as the House of Lords. He importance in suggesting, or at all events, in
then referred to a measure passed in the indicating to the members of the delegation
House of Commons in England in 1860 repealing the duty upon paper, but which was re- the views Her Majesty's Government enterjected in the House of Lords. In that case the tained in the matter. Whatever his individual
Bill passed the House of Commons by a opinion might be, he believed the sum fixed
majority of only nine, and the House of Lords upon by the delegates met with the approval
had the feeling of the whole country in their of Her Majesty's Government, but whether
favor by rejecting it. He said if they passed they would have consented to any less sum he,
this Bill now it would be quite competent for as one of the delegates, was not able to anthe House of Commons at any future time to swer. He was opposed at this time to any
increase the Governor-General's salary if it attempt being made to reduce the salary of
was found necessary. He thought it was re- the representative of Her Majesty. Having so
quiring too much of the members of the recently matured the scheme for uniting the
Government in this House to ask them to give Provinces of British North America, this only

May 14, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

connection between us and the MotherCountry should not be interfered with this
first Session of the Parliament of Canada. If it
was found by practical experience that this
sum was more than the finances of the country
would bear, he thought the British Government would not interfere to prevent them
from reducing it, but it was injudicious to
make this reduction so soon after the representatives from the different Provinces had
agreed with Her Majesty's Government as to
what this amount should be. For these reasons
he felt bound to oppose the passage of the bill.
Reference had been made to the course pursued by him (Mr. MitchelD, in advocating a
reduction of salaries, as opposed to the course
he was now pursuing in regard to the salary
of the Governor-General. There was a great
difference between the two cases: in the one
case a convocation assembled for the purpose
of framing a Constitution for British North
America, and an understanding was come to
with the British Government, in regard to the
sum which the Governor-General shall receive, which was inserted in the bill; in the
other case, we had a Constitution without a
single employee, and when Parliament assembled, there had been only two appointed, and
their appointments were subordinate to any
action which Parliament might take, therefore
no injustice was done by this Senate in fixing
the scale of salaries. Although he did not
agree with all the arguments used by those
who opposed the bill, yet having been one of
the delegates he felt that the faith of the
country was pledged to the Government of
England in this matter. It would morally have
a bad effect upon the Union of this country, if
we were to insert this entering wedge so soon
after the Constitution was formed. He had
made these few remarks feeling that it would
have been improper for him to give a silent
vote upon this question; and feeling that a
pledge had been given to the British Government he felt bound to oppose this bill.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn gave a detailed statement
from the public accounts of the contingent
expenses of the Governor-General for some
years back up to the present time. In this
present year according to the estimates the
public expense for the purchase of furniture
and other items connected with the establishment of the Governor-General would be
$122,000. He had been compelled to give this
statement; the arguments against the bill
were placed upon the ground that these duties
and expenses devolved upon the GovernorGeneral, or that in the contemplation of the

law they were to be paid out of his salary. It
never had been done, but it was the duty of
the Government to see that it was done hereafter whatever his salary may be. The hon.
member for Toronto (Mr. Macpherson) said he
would be willing to go before his constituency
upon this question, and he had no fear but he
would be elected by a large majority. He (Mr.
Sanborn) could only say to him that he would
rely more upon his good standing in the county than he would upon the proposition. In that
large constituency which he represents there
are a great many men with small means who
would hardly appreciate the conduct of the
delegates in pledging the country to the sum
of $50,000, because they thought it was necessary to support a high officer of the Crown. He
(Mr. Sanborn) should go in opposition to the
hon. member if he took that as the ground of
his canvass. He is far more secure sitting in
this House under the mandamus of the Queen,
than if he was going back to the electors of
his constituency, and telling them he was decidedly in favor of keeping the salary of the
Governor-General at $50,000, instead of reducing it to $32,000.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson-That sum was fixed
according to the arrangement made with the
Imperial Government by our own delegates.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said his hon. friend was
wrong in asking an explanation from those
delegates, unless it was to give publication to
their opinions, because he knows none of
them would betray the secrets of that conclave. It would be contrary to the privileges
they enjoyed for them to come here and declare what transpired there, and how each one
had voted upon the questions which came
before them. The course they have taken is
the course taken by all statesmen. It is not the
men, it is the litera scripta we look to. We
come here as legislators, and not to hold an
enquiry as to what was the intention of those
delegates in London. We are here independently, and we must take the law as our only
guide, and interpret it for ourselves. According to the best legal authority the author
of a bill after it becomes law, is not to be
taken as evidence upon that law, because he is
the person most likely to be mistaken, having
a theory of his own to maintain. The hon.
member from Nova Scotia (Mr. McCully) gave
a correct statement of the matter when he
said the clause which relates to that subject is
exceptional, as it lays the question before
Parliament. The salary is made provisional,
and it comes before us for our decision, as to
whether that provisional salary is the one to

SENATE DEBATES
stand or not. The Minister of Marine says it is
ungracious to reduce the salary at this time,
but he (Mr. Sanborn) thought if they allowed
it to go on for several years, they would be
told there was a vested right involved in its
reduction. He thought by the course taken in
the other House this bill was not to be lightly
treated. The Government had brought it forward with all the prestige and power which
they have in that House, but they were defeated upon the measure by a vote of two to
one, or a majority of fifty. It was not for us to
take a position to set at defiance the expressed
wishes of the people, as expressed through
their representatives. He maintained that this
was not a question upon which we should
rush forward with a desire to maintain our
privileges, because the bill was one which
was in accordance with the wishes of the
people. He would be the last one to abridge
any of the privileges of this House, or to give
up any of our rights to legislate where we
have the power, but upon a measure of this
kind we would be placing ourselves in a false
position before the country, if we did not
sustain the verdict given by the representatives of the people.
Hon. Mr. Boisford said he thought we
should be informed of the compact entered
into by the Delegates from these Provinces to
the Imperial Government, which he felt ought
to be sustained. He respected the vote of the
House of Commons on this question, as we
should do on all others. They hold the purse
strings, and we in this House should act in
accord with that branch of the Legislature on
every occasion. He would therefore vote for
the passing of this bill. The second reading of
the bill was then declared carried on the
following division:Contents: The Honourable Messieurs AIkins, Anderson, Armand, Benson, Bill, Blake,
Botsford,
Bourinot,
Bureau,
Burnham,
Christie, Cormier, Dever, Dickson, Duchesnay,

May 14, 1868

E. H. J., Dumouchel, :Flint, Guévremont,
Hamilton (Kingston), Holmes, Leonard, Leslie,
Letellier de St. Just, McClelan, McCrea,
McCully, McMaster, Malhiot, Miller, Olivier,
Reesor, Sanborn, Seymour, Simpson, Wark,
Wilmot, Wilson.-37.
Non-Contents: The Honourable Messieurs
Allan, Campbell, Cauchon, Chapais, Ferrier,
Hamilton (Inkerman), Kenny, Lacoste, McDonald, Macpherson, Mitchell, Price, Ross,
Ryan, Shaw, Skead, Tessier.-17.
On the motion of the Hon. Mr. Sanborn,
seconded by the Hon. Mr. Armand, the said
bill was ordered to be read a third time tomorrow.
The House then went into Committee of the
Whole on the Bill intituled "An Act relating
to quarantine and public health (Hon. Mr.
Letellier de Si. Just in the chair, reported the
same with several amendments, which were
concurred in, and the bill read a third time
and passed.
The Bill, as amended, intituled "An Act
constituting the Department of Customs", was
read a third time and passed.
Also, the Bill intituled "An Act for the
better security of the Crown and of the
Government", was read a third time and
passed without amendment.
"An Act respecting the inspection of steamboats, and for the greater safety of passengers
by them", was read a second time, and passed
through Committee of the Whole (Hon. Mr.
Macpherson in the chair), without amendment, and ordered to be read a third time
to-morrow.
The Bill intituled "An Act respecting the
Civil Service of Canada", was read a second
time, passed through Committee of the Whole
without amendment (Hon. Mr. Ferrier in the
chair), and ordered for a second reading tomorrow.
The House then adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES

May 15, 1868

THE SENATE
Friday, May 15, 1868.
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
After routine,
Hon. Mr. Hamilton (Kingston) reported
from Committee on Commerce and Railways
to whom was referred the Bill, intituled "An
Act to incorporate the Canada Shipping
Company," that they ordered him to report
the same without amendment. Same ordered
to be read a third time to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. Allan from Standing Orders and
Private Bills Committee reported, "That having examined the petition of the Canada Vine
Growers' Association," praying for certain
amendments in their Act of Incorporation,
and found that no notice has been given; but
as no other interest than those of said company are likely to be affected, your Committee
beg leave to recommend that the rule relative
to notIce be suspended in this case. Ordered
said report to be adopted.
The Bill intituled "An Act to annex a portion of the Seigniory of Belair to the County
of Quebec, and another portion thereof to the
County of Portneuf," was reported from same
Committee and read a third time, and passed
without amendment.
Also "An Act to confirm a certain By-law
passed by the Directors of the Lake Memphremagog Navigation Company, and for other purposes," was reported from same Committee, read a third time and passed without
any amendment.
Hon. Mr. Chapais presented to the House a
Bill intituled "An Act respecting Trade Marks
and Industrial Designs."
"An Act to incorporate the Merchants'
Express Company of the Dominion of Canada," was reported from the Committee on
Standing Orders and Private Bills with several
amendments, which bill as amended was then
read a third time and passed.
The Governor-General communicated to the
Senate the despatch received from the
Secretary of State for the colonies, in answer
to the address voted to Her Majesty the
Queen, on the 18th day of December, 1867,
which was referred to the Joint Committee
on the printing of Parliament.
An Act to declare certain persons therein
mentioned, indemnified for having sat and
voted as members of the House of Commons,

while having certain offices under the Crown,
was read a first time, and ordered for a second
reading at next sitting.
An Act respecting the Consolidated Revenue Fund, was read a first time, and ordered
for a second reading at the next sitting of the
House.
An Act respecting offences against the person, was read a first time, and ordered to be
read a second time at the next sitting of the
House.
An Act respecting the duties of Justices of
the Peace out of sessions, in relation to persons charged with indictable offences, was
read a first time, and ordered for a second
reading to-morrow.
A message was received from the House of
Commons returning Bills intituled,
An Act respecting the Department of Inland
Revenue, and
An Act respecting the Department of
Customs, that they have agreed to the amendments in the Bills, without amendment.
Also a message returning the Bill intituled,
An Act for the organization of the Department of Agriculture, and that they had
passed the same without amendment.
Hon. Mr. Ryan moved, seconded by Hon.
Mr. Ferrier, to resolve that an humble address
be presented to His Excellency the Governor-General, praying that His Excellency
would be pleased:
lst. To call the attention of Her Majesty's
Government to the provisions of the Imperial
Act 9th and 10th Vict., cap. 95, by which
power is given to Her Majesty to approve of
any Act passed by the Legislature of any
British possession, admitting into such possession foreign reprints of British copyright
works, provided that reasonable protection to
the authors is, in Her Majesty's opinion,
thereby secured to them.
2nd. To impress upon Her Majesty's Government the justice and expediency of extending the privileges granted by the above
cited Act, so that whenever reasonable provision and protection shall, in Her Majesty's
opinion, be secured to the authors, colonial
reprints of British copyright works shall be
placed on the same footing as foreign reprints
in Canada, by which means British authors
will be more effectually protected in their
rights, and a material benefit will be conferred on the printing industry of the Dominion.-Carried.

SENATE DEBATES

May 15, 1868

And ordered, that such members of the portions which were applicable to Canada.
Privy Council as are members of this House, The provision relating to stealing pigeons had
do wait on His Excellency the Governor- been pointed out, and it had been said there
General with the said address.
was no use in having a law on a subject so
Pursuant to the order of the day, the Bill triffing. He knew a pair of pigeons, in Tointituled, "An Act respecting persons in cus- ronto, said to be worth $80, and there were
tody, charged with high treason and felony," many fanciers of particular breeds, who believe a pair of pigeons may be worth $100.
was read a third time and passed.
The law is intended to apply to house pigeons,
and it is no unreasonable thing to say a perGOVERNOR GENERAL'S SALARY.
son shall be punished for stealing them. Then
An Act to fix the Governor General's salary, the same objection had been taken to a proviwas read a third time and passed, on a divi- sion of the bill, making it criminal to steal
oysters. That was intended to apply to Quebec
sion.
The Acts respecting the inspection of steam- and the Maritime Provinces, and it applied
boats, and for the greater safety of passengers not to oysters in general, but to oyster beds,
which had been planted. After a man has
by them, was read a third time and passed.
spent his time and labour in planting an oyster
An Act respecting the Civil Service of bed there is no reason why he should not be
Canada, was read a third time and passed.
protected. Another objection has been taken
An Act respecting larceny and other similar to the provision of the bill relating to saplings
offences, was partly passed through Com- and small shrubs. That is not anything new in
mittee of the Whole, (Hon. Mr. McCrea the laws of Canada, and it was very desirable
in the chair), progress reported, and leave to have some criminal law to protect that kind
granted to sit again at the next meeting of the of property. He thought if there were any
House.
defects in the law they should let experience
An Act respecting cruelty to animals, was teach them what those defects were, because
read a first time, and ordered to be read a without any practical experience of their
working they would not be in any better posisecond time to-morrow.
An Act respecting the prompt and summary tion next Session to legislate upon them than
Administration of Justice in certain cases, was they were now. These bills were the fruit of
seven or eight years' attention to this subject
read a first time; second reading to-morrow.
An Act respecting the trial and punishment by a commission of eminent men in England,
of juvenile offenders, was read a first time, and they were considered as safe a starting
point as we could get for the preparation of
and ordered for a second reading to-morrow.
criminal laws. No matter what course we take
It being six o'clock, the House then ad- we cannot legislate upon this subject from our
journed until 7.30 o'clock p.n
own knowledge. In a matter involving so
much study we must trust somebody else to
AFTER RECESS.
prepare those bills, and it could not very well
be undertaken by a committee of our own
AN ACT RESPECTING LARCENY.
House. It had been said that simIlar legislaPursuant to the order of the day the House tion in reference to the Bankruptcy Law had
went into Committee of the Whole, on a Bill, been taken by a committee of the other
intituled "An Act respecting larceny and oth- House, but there a particular member had
taken a particular interest in the subject, and
er similar offences."
in that way the bill had been prepared. These
Hon. Mr. Campbell remarked that it had bills must be taken upon the responsibility of
been said all these bills on the criminal law the Government, and we must wait until exhad been copied from the Statutes of England, perience teaches us what changes are necesand it had been intimated that laws which sary before we build theories upon them in
were proper in a populous country like Eng- advance of their practical working. The object
land, were not proper here, because the rights in having so many separate provisions was in
of property were not so strictly looked upon. order to be able to refer to them, item by
He could inform them that the greatest care item, in subsequent legislation. This was far
had been taken to strike out everything that better than to consolidate them in advance,
was not adapted to this country. It was not a because it was only after having experience in
complete adaptation of the English laws, but the working of the law that we can find out
these bills were prepared after a careful ex- what is imperfect or deficient, and then we
amination of them and an adaptation of those can perfect and consolidate the whole scheme.

May 15, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Hon Mr. McCully said that allowing his
hon. friend's arguments to be sound, they
ought not to send down to the Maritime
Provinces a Code of Criminal Law which not
a single professional man in those Provinces
would know anything about. He knew what
the answer would be if he went down to Nova
Scotia and attempted to induce the people to
accept some of those clauses. The genius of
the people of that Province would revolt if we
attempted to introduce them. The whole of
the criminal law is severe to an extent we
have long since abandoned. We look to the
neighbouring Republic for an example in these
laws, instead of to those old severe punishments which were formerly in operation in
England. It would be far better to have these
bills remain over until next Session, and then
we would have time during the early part of
the Session to go through them clause by
clause. It was not fair that the people of the
Maritime Provinces should have these laws
placed upon them, without their representatives having time to consider them at all.
There is one provision of the law making rape
a capital offence, for which a man is liable to
be hanged. This severe punishment for that
offence has been banished out of our laws and
the laws of England for many years. Why are
these severe laws required? For the most trivial offences men are to be sentenced to hard
labour, in jail, for a period less than two years.
There was not a jail in the Maritime Provinces adapted for hard labour.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said his hon. friend must
not make the assertion that there were no
jails adapted for hard labour in the Maritime
Provinces.
Hon. Mr. McCully said he meant there were
no such j ails in Nova Scotia.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot said there were none in
the country districts of New Brunswick.
Hon. Mr. McCully said if every one convicted of these small offences were to be confined
in jail for such a length of time, the jails
would be filled with these people. This would
increase the county expenses, and tax'ation
would thereby be increased all over the
Province. It is wel known that a hostile feeling against Confederation has been produced
in Nova Scotia by the Stamp Act and newspaper postage, but if they pass a Bill to
confine men in jail for two years for these
trivial offences it will produce a state of feeling there which will astonish every one. In
reference to the remarks made about the value of pigeons he said that not long since he

had purchased the place where he now resided, and he had found some thirty or forty
pigeons. These pigeons destroyed every garden in the neighbourhood, and in consequence
the pigeons were killed. Under a clause of this
bill every man who touched one of those
pigeons, which were a nuisance to the neighbourhood, would have brought down upon
himself this penal law.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said it was plain to be
seen that there was a great repugnance to
accept these Bills in their present shape, but
in consequence of the late period in the Session in which they were brought forward,
they had no time to give them proper consideration. He thought the difficulty might be
removed if the Government would consent
that all these Crininal Bills, if they are
passed, should not come into operation until a
proclamation is issued, and have it understood
that that proclamation will not be issued until
after the next Session of Parliament. Then a
joint committee could be formed during the
next Session of Parliament, who would be
familiar with the subject; they would then
have time to consider the matter fully, and
those who objected to the provisions of those
bills, would have an opportunity of giving
their reasons for those objections; by this
means, the committee would be able to digest
a law which would be more satisfactory than
a law arrived at in any other way. He was
satisfied that if this law now came in force, it
would be looked upon in Nova Scotia and
New Brunswick with a great deal of repugnance. He then compared portions of the
criminal law in the revised Statutes of New
Brunswick with the proposed law, saying that
these laws were more in detail than those
existing in the Maritime Provinces. They were
accustomed to give the general principles of
their laws in a very concise manner, and that
very fact would be sufficient to create a strong
objection to this mode of legislating upon the
subject. Their local legislation has not prepared them for these laws, and we do not
know what machinery they have for carrying
them out, therefore, this was one strong reason why they should not be put in force.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said the reasons given
by the hon. member, commended themselves
to the House. While his hon. friend was speaking, he had taken an opportunity of consulting
the Minister of Justice who has taken charge
of these bills, and in deference to the opinions
expressed by hon. members of the House, he
was ready to adopt the suggestion of his hon.

SENATE DEBATES
friend from Wellington division (Mr. Sanborn),
and consent that all these bills should be
passed upon the faith of the Government, who
will introduce a separate Bill to provide that
they shall not come in force until a proclamation is issued by the Governor in Council,
after the next Session of Parliament. This will
afford the Local Legislatures time to pass
measures which must be necessary in order to
harmonize their legislation with these bills,
while the opportunity will be afforded to the
Dominion at large, to furnish suggestions for
the amendment of those bills.
Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Jusi objected to
aid in passing this bill on any such understanding. If it must be changed next Session,
what is the use of passing it now? There was
no time left to examine this or any of these
bills, and he did not want to take any Bills on
the word or opinion of any persons, even if a
Minister of the Crown.
Hon. Mr. Tessier (in French) pointed out the
great dissimilarity between the laws of England and those in force in Canada. We, in the
Province of Quebec, consider the English
Criminal Law best, and the French Civil Law
best suited to our wants and wishes. He
thought the English Criminal Law the best in
the world and was happy to live under its
power. But he could see no necessity for this
hurried legislation regarding the Criminal
Law procedure in the Lower Provinces for
another year. We are responsible for the laws
enacted as well as the Ministry. Leave the
important measures before the country for an
expression of opinion, and when we meet
again we will be prepared to deal with them
intelligently.

May 15,1868

and trusted leaders of the parties that compose the Legislature. He could not see the
force of the opposition to the passage of this
and other similar bills.
Hon. Mr. Bureau (in French) explained the
féodalité for pigeons under the old French
régime. But it is obsolete in Canada, and he
could not now consent to its provisions being
placed on our statute book. When the codifiers
undertook the codification of our laws, they
sent copies all over the country to get the
opinions of those learned in the laws, and so
we had a very complete and almost perfect
code of civil laws. The English criminal law is
the greatest glory and happiness of the French
Canadians, who know and appreciate its many
benefits and advantages. Before next Session
we will have time to consider the bill, and
then deal with all these measures so as to
satisfy the public and our own consciences. It
is the interest of the Government to delay the
final passage of the bill, and so pass it in a
form that will give full and ample satisfaction. Hasty legislation is to be deprecated, as
they encumber and embarrass our system of
criminal procedure.

Hon. Mr. McCully spoke also against foreing the bill upon the Maritime Provinces
without preparation. He was satisfied that
legal men of great ability and eminence in
their profession had prepared and worked at
this bill with zeal and assiduity, so as to
make it a perfect measure of criminal procedure. He could not accept the responsibility
of this measure. It was now too late in the
Session to discuss and settle a measure of the
importance of a bill to amend, consolidate, or
assimilate the laws of criminal procedure
now existing in all the Provinces into one
Hon. Mr. Chapais (in French) contended general law for the whole Dominion of Canthere was no risk in passing these bills having ada. This bill, and others of a like nature,
been well and carefully prepared by the lead- ought to be entrusted to the best legal minds
er of the Government and the leader of the of the various Provinces, and give them
Opposition from the Province of Quebec ample time to consider them well and ar(Messrs. Cartier and Dorion) in the other range all the details, and not run the risk
House, and they, after mature reflection and of passing an incomplete or imperfect meassome debate, sent these bills to this House ure on the subject of all others that requires
approved of by them. The amendments can be the greatest care and diligence.
made next Session, if required, to the portions
wanting amendment, much better than if no
Hon. Mr. Wark also said he feared this
attempt were made to pass the bills assimilat- hurried legislation would create confusion in
ing or codifying the Criminal Laws of all the our laws, and give great dissatisfaction, and
Provinces. There never was a code made com- hoped the Government would listen to the
plete at once, being of law so different in voice of this House, and defer it until the
many parts. Then surely every member of early part of next Session.
Parliament cannot read every clause of every
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said as there was no time
bill that is passed into law, hence we all have in this Session to examine the bill, and he did
to take certain measures on the faith of tried not wish to take measures of such great in-

Maay 15, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

portance as this bill on trust, he hoped the
Government would listen to the reasonable
wish of the House, and defer the further consideration of this bill until the early part of
next Session, when we will have ample time
and leisure to discuss it in all its bearings.
Great changes are often very objectionable,
particularly in the public criminal laws of the
land. English laws are unsuited to this country, and cannot as a general rule be imported
into our prevailing systems without great danger. What we ail must admit, this bill, as well
as ail others of the same important character,
should have been brought down earlier in the
Session, and then we could have devoted the
time and attention which they required before
passing them. There is not an absolute want
of this measure in the country until the next
meeting of Parliament, and then let us take it
up at once, before bills come down to us from
the other House, and discuss it in all its bearings. Surely this was reasonable. The Commons did not seem to him to have devoted ail
the time and attention that this measure demanded, doubtless they were so overwhelmed
with work that they had appeared to pass
some of it carelessly to outsiders. Though he
did not say but this compilation is as perfect
as possible under the circumstances, but he
wanted to assure himself of this, and be able
to give satisfaction to himself, as well as
others, that such was the fact. He did not wish
to throw the whole responsibility off this
House, and put it on the shoulders of the
Government. We, too, had our duties and responsibilities, as well as the Government, and
he did not desire to assist in legislation that
may or may not commend itself to his judgment. He, therefore, felt bound to oppose any
further progress being made with this bill, as
lar as he could do so.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot objected to importing the
English policy into this new country. The
practice was wrong in principle, and the portions of the criminal procedure attempted to
be incorporated with our system here will
work unsatisfactorily. Hence he thought we
should have time ta decide what portions of
them are suited to us and our wants here in
Canada, and therefore he begged the Postmaster-General to accept the proposal to defer
the consideration of this and similar bills until the House meets again.
Hon. Mr. Ross was quite content to leave
the responsibility with the Government, as
they were much better qualified to prepare
such a measure as the present. He knew for a
fact that the best legal minds of the country

had prepared this measure, and any person
familiar with such measures knows well that
two to five persons are as many as can assist
at the same time at the same bill. This is a
very comprehensive measure, and he thought
well and carefully prepared. Any defects that
may be discovered in its working can be
remedied hereafter when desirable. The
codification of our criminal Ilaws is a move in
the right direction, and he hoped they would
assist in passing the bill, so that the country
would not be deprived of its advantages any
longer.
Hon. Mr. Allan also was desirous that the
bill should be passed this Session, and then it
would call out the opinion of the judges and
professional men on its working, so that if any
amendments were required we could be prepared to add them next Session.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said if the delay desired
by some hon. members be granted, we shall be
no farther advanced when we meet again then
we are now, as it is certain no judge or jurist
will say anything on the bill unless it is
passed into law and put before the courts. It is
well known that our judges are so hardly
worked that they have no time to study questions not submitted to them for their decision.
If any defects be discovered they can be
amended and remedied next Session, but if
the bill be not passed into law it is certain we
shall get no suggestions affecting this bill
before it is put on our Statute book. It has
been taken for granted that this is a very
crude, ill-digested bungle of legislation; nothing can be farther from the truth or the facts.
Let any one examine over carefully the bill,
and he must be satisfied that a painstaking
attention and marked legal ability have been
expended on this bill. As a whole he thought
it a very perfect measure, though some minor
isolated clauses might be amended hereafter
with advantage, perhaps, but these defects (if
such there be) can be remedied best after the
bill goes into force.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson said ail bills similar
to the present have to be taken to some extent
on trust, and he for one was willing to do so
in this case. It was manifestly impossible for
ail the members to read every bill, and if they
had the time how many of them were famillar
with this subject. Let us take the advantage of
the present time, and then it will not be too
late to amend the bill next Session. The hon.
member from Nova Scotia (Mr. McCully) aiways fears embarrassing the Government, but
whenever they may seem to want his aid to

SENATE DEBATES

May 15, 1868

pass any measure of importance, he is not to
An Act to declare certain persons, therein
be found with them. He would not for one mentioned, indemnified for having sat and
refuse his assent to the passing of this bill.
voted as members of the House of Commons
while holding certain offices under the Crown
Hon. Mr. McCrea reported the bill with was read a second time, passed through
amendments, which report the House agreed Committee of the Whole without amendment,
to receive on Monday next.
and ordered to be read a third time to-morAn Act respecting riots and riotous proceed- row.
ings was read a second time, passed through a
An Act respecting the Consolidated ReveCommittee of the Whole, (Hon. Mr. Anderson
nue Fund was read a second time, passed
in the chair), with several amendments, which
were concurred in, and was then read a third through Committee of the Whole without
amendment, and (the 42nd rule being sustime and passed.
pended) read a third time and passed, and
The House then resolved itself into Com- ordered that the Clerk do go down to the
mittee of the Whole on the Bill, intituled "An House of Commons and acquaint that House
Act respecting malicious injuries to property," that the Senate have passed the bill without
(Hon. Mr. Benson in the chair), reported the any amendment.
same with several amendments, which report
A Bill intituled "An Act to increase the
was ordered to be received on Monday next.
excise duty on spirits, to impose an excise
An Act respecting Police of Canada, was
read a second time, then passed through duty on refined petroleum, and to provide for
Committee of the Whole, (Hon. Mr. Shaw in the inspection thereof" was read a first time
the chair), reported without amendment, and and the second reading fixed for tomorrow.
on the suspension of the 42nd rule of the
Hon. Mr. Chapais presented to the House a
House, was read a third time and passed, and
Bill intituled "An Act respecting copyright"
ordered to be sent down to the House of
Commons to ask their concurrence to the said read a first time and ordered for a second
reading on Monday.
bill.
An Act for the release and surrender of
An Act to incorporate the Bank of
Agriculture was read a second time, and or- offenders wrongfully arrested in certain cases
dered to be referred to the Committee on was read a first time, second reading fixed for
Banking, Commerce and Railways.
to-morrow.
An Act respecting indictable offences of
Hon. Mr. Campbell presented a return to an
forgery was read a second time, passed address to His Excellency the Governorthrough Committee of the Whole, (Hon. Mr.
Bureau in the chair), reported without amend- General, dated 12th inst., being a statement
ment, and ordered for a third reading on showing the debts of the Provinces of Nova
Scotia and New Brunswick to the Dominion
Monday.
Also, an Act respecting offences relating to at the most recent date.
coin was passed through the same stages and
The House then adjourned until to-morrow
ordered to be read a third time on Monday.
at 11 o'clock, a.m.

SENATE DEBATES

May 16, 1868

THE SENATE
Saturday, May 16, 1868.
The Speaker took
o'clock a.m.

the chair

at eleven

Afterclared Atte rouinepared
Pursuant to the order of the day, the Bill
intituled, "An Act to incorporate the Canada
Shipping Company," was read a third time
and passed.
Also, "An Act to declare certain persons
therein mentioned indemnified for having sat
and voted as members of the House of Commons, while holding certain offices under the
Crown."
ANpose
AGAINST THE PERSON
AGAIST PESONagree
TE
The order of the day being read for the
second reading of the Bill intituled, "An Act
respecting off ences against the person."
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved that the bill be
now read a second time.
The order of the day being called for going
into Committee of the Whole on the Bill intituled, "An Act respecting the manufacture
or importation of copper coins or tokens," was
postponed until Monday.
The second reading of the Bill intituled,
"An Act respecting offences against the person" being called.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn said the feeling of the
Senate was against passing this and the other
bills on the Criminal Law this Session. The
proposition he had made was, that the Government should give them an assurance that
these bills should be revised next Session by a
Committee skilled in these matters, and this
revision should be upon the responsibility of
the Government. They should be put together
in one pamphlet, and distributed throughout
the country, in order that they might receive
the comments of Judges and others well
versed in law, and then, at the next Session of
the House, we could settle upon a law which
would require a great deal of weighing before
we attempted to alter it afterwards. We ought
not to pass these bills and leave them with
the expectation that amendments will be
sought by individual members of the Legislature at some subsequent Session. If we do
so, the result will be, that instead of having a
permanent code we shall have private bills
brought in to amend this or that section,

which will destroy the consistency and harmony of the whole code, and render it unsatisfactory in its aperation. Perhaps the
Government cannot give this assurance, because they think it would be an anomnalous
mode o! proceeding. If this is so we ought fot
to proceed with these bis, because it is dein many quarters that we are not preto give them the deliberation which
they deserve. If no other mode was proposed,
he should be prepared to move that thîs bil
be not read a second Urne, because at this late
period of the Session, in the absence o! 50
large a number of members, the Senate cannot give this bil that deliberation and examination its importance deserves.
Han. Mr. Campbell was glad his hon. friend
had taken that position, because it would disf the whole question. The Minister o
they will not be able to
has a bill
Justiceupon said thatpass conjoîntly with these
to
measures, to stay the operation of them until
after the next Session o! Parliament. The
Government feel that they have done everything they can do to make these blills perfect,
and they can only be amended after actual
experience of their working. The only practical way is to take them upon the authority
of professional men and wait until de!ects are
shown before they are amended.
Hon. Mr. McCully said the feeling of Nova
Scotia was not favourable to the introduction
of those measures. They are a pretty severe
code taking them altogether. There is not a
first class school, but some of the boys might

be brought under the operation of that law,
and disgraced for lite, for merely taking a few
apples, and this was as hable to happen to the
best boy in the school as any other.
Han. Mr. Campbell-It has been the law in
Canada for twenty years, and t is the law
now in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia.
Han. Mr. McCuIIy said if it was the law
there now it would be the law whether we
passed this bill or not, therefore we should
take time to look into the matter and get a
code up worthy to carry out the object
proposed. Then we would not have to be at
the expense of printing this whole law, and
distributing it over the Dominion, when it will
have so soon to be brought before us again to
be amended.
Han. Mr. Campbell was quite willing to be
guided in this matter by the action of the
House. His on. friend had said tint, perhaps,
under this law the best boy in a school might

SENATE DEBATES

May 16, 1868

be treated cruelly for stealing apples, and
when informed that it is the law in the
Maritime Provinces, he says then let it be, for
there is no necessity for changing it. This
removes one objection that we are introducing
any novelty or arbitrary Act into that Province. He believed these laws would not be
enforced arbitrarily. If there was any possibility of adding to their usefulness by their being
placed in the hands of a Committee for revision, he would not object to it, but he believed
these laws should not have any other starting
point than from professional men.

passing bills of this importance at random,
and without time to examine them before
they are placed on our Statute books. Our
codification of laws for the Province of Quebec, was distributed from one end of the
Province to the other, to receive the criticism
and remarks of all the best legal minds of the
Province, and see the happy results and the
general satisfaction which this code has given,
but which crude and undigested laws never
can receive. He felt this railroad speed in
passing laws was the great cause of ail our
troubles.

Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just objected to
pass this Bill, enacting penalties that are obsolete, and never in the memory of any hon.
member of this House have such been attempted to be enforced. It is too much to ask
to pass this bill without examining it. If our
consent is necessary to pass such measures,
we ought to get the bills before the last days
of the Session, when all the bills are crowded
down upon us. There is no absolute necessity
for this measure, until we can have time to
examine its clauses during the next Session of
Parliament. The fault of the delay is not with
us, if fault there be, but with the Ministers
who have the control of this legislation.

Hon. Mr. Miller desired to make a few
observations before this division was taken on
the question before the House. The subject of
the criminal law was one of the highest importance, and if he had not earlier joined in
the discussion, it was not because he did not
take deep interest in it, or did not fully
realize his responsibilities in legislating respecting it. He had heard nothing to induce
him to oppose the second reading of the bill,
but on the contrary he believed the arguments
in favour of passing the criminal laws under
consideration in the manner asked by the
Postmaster-General were sound and unanswerable. The opponents of the bill say that
it is disrespectful to the Senate to be called
upon at this late period of the Session to pass
this and like important measures, but might
not the same thing be said of the other Branch
of the Legislature? The bills relating to criminal justice were passed in the House of
Commons with even less debate than they
have excited here. That body-the especial
protectors of popular rights, and those liberties of the subject in relation to which we
have heard so much buncombe spoken by
some hon. members-in his (Mr. Miller's)
humble opinion pursued the course this Senate should adopt on the present occasion.
They threw the whole responsibility of these
bills on the Administration, where it should
rest, and where it had very properly been
assumed. How could it be said that the same
manner of passing this and similar bills in the
popular Branch of the Legislature could be
disrespectful to hon. members, if adopted in
the Senate. Some hon. gentlemen had contended that the creation of the criminal
code for the Dominion should have been
referred to a Special Commission of the
ablest legal minds in the country, and that if
this had been done, there would be little objection to asking Parliament to adopt the result of the labors of such a commission in the
manner now proposed. Suppose these bills had

Hon. Mr. Chapais-The object of this bill is
not to enact new laws, but to assimilate the
existing Criminal Laws of the different
Provinces of this Dominion. The saine difficulty will exist next Session that prevails to-day.
We find it requires experience to perfect the
laws of any country, and it is only by time
that they can be made perfect. The sensibilities are all on the side of the criminals, not on
behalf of outraged society. The punishments,
&c., enacted in some clauses of the bill, have
already existed on the Statutes, and have not
been altered in the past. Why would they be
more so in the future. Great crimes require
exemplary punishments. Society is always
safer to have the remedy in its own hands,
then be at the mercy of the malefactors. Far
be it from him to wish to circumscribe the
powers of this hon. House in the forcing of
this bill, or any other, upon this House,
against the wishes of a majority in it.
Hon. Mr. Tessier thought this House did
not generally discuss enough the measures
brought before it. He could not admit that this
House is only an echo of the other House,
without any of the responsibilities that always
attach to reasoning and reasonable members
of the Legislature. He wished to take nothing
on trust, in matters of legislation. He entirely
dissented from the propriety or wisdom of

May 16, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

come before us from such a commission, what
hon. member would approve of submitting
them to a species of legislation whereby
they might be altered in every clause to suit
the different views of the seventy professional
members of this House? Lawyers did not require to be told that in many cases even
simple verbal alterations, which appeared of
no consequence to laymen, might destroy the
symmetry, scope and character of a whole
bill. He argued that the criminal laws were
essentially of that class which could not be
submitted to general tinkering, but could be
much more safely adopted on the responsibility of the Department of Justice, and the
trained legal minds that had prepared them.
But if these bills had not been formally referred to a commission, it was well known
they had been framed by a number of legal
gentlemen of the highest standing, at the head
of whom was the Minister of Justice. Therefore they have in fact, if not in name, come to
this Legislature from a commission who have
spent months of patient labour on their revision. Would it not then be injudicious in the
haste of going through committee to make illconsidered alterations? Would it be a wise
and proper mode of legislation that every
member of the House on such a purely legal
subject as the formation of a criminal code
should be at liberty to make alterations to suit
his own particular views? It had been said
that the proposed code was too voluminous,
and a comparison had been drawn with the
criminal laws of Nova Scotia and New
Brunswick, which were spoken of as models of
brevity and simplicity. He had frequently
heard it regretted in our Courts of Justice that
this brevity was secured only by the loss of
that precision of generality, which was necessary to the comprehensiveness and punishment of al classes of offences. Besides, the
peculiar construction of our laws is not so
favorable to a ready and precise application of
the decisions of the great minds of the English
Bench as is desirable. The bills before the
Senate being a transcript, so far as suited the
circumstances of the country, of the English
law, the advantage by the proposed change
must in this respect be manifest. Although
much may be said in favor of simple law, it is
not always possible to have it simple and safe.
Was it expected that in the formation of the
criminal code for the Dominion, that because
our laws were brief and simple-no matter
how imperfect, they should be taken as our
models, in preference to those which had been
evolved by time and experience, and were the
productions of the ablest legal minds in
Britain. He would not undervalue the clever

men the Maritime Provinces had produced,
but to talk of comparing our crininal code to
that of England, and setting it up as a model
for the guidance of this Parliament on the
inauguration of a system of laws for the
Government of four millions of people, was
absurd. Such a course might please the local
prejudices of some small communities, but this
was not the object the Legislature had in
view. Where could we find a better model for
our criminal code than that of Great Britain?
It has been said that much of the Criminal
Law of that country would not apply to
Canada. He readily admitted that, but it is not
proposed by the bills to apply the whole
English criminal code to this country. On the
contrary, we are only asked to accept such
portions as are applicable to our circumstances. He thought this House should do, as
had been done elsewhere, and take these bills
on the responsibility of the Department of
Justice. They will not come into operation till
the beginning of next year, and there would
be no hesitation hereafter in amending them
if they worked justly. They were not asked to
pass laws which would be unalterable, like
those of the Medes and Persians. We want a
uniform code-our present codes are discordant and imperfect. The sooner we make the
first step, the sooner will we arrive at a safe
and successful result. Objections have been
taken to particular clauses of these bills. It
would not be an easy task to frame a criminal
code which would not in some minor particulars be possibly capable of a tyrannical
operation. The cases supposed are extreme
cases, and the objections only of a minor character. Similar objections might be urged
against any law that came before us. He was
therefore willing to throw the whole responsibility of the bills before the House on the
Department of Justice, where the other
Branch of the Legislature had left it, and
where he thought the Senate would be wise in
allowing it to rest.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn moved in amendment,
seconded by Hon. Mr. McCully,
To leave out all the words after "be," and
insert, "not now read a second time, but that
it be resolved that at this late period of the
Session, and in the absence of a large number
of Senators, this Senate cannot give the revision and assimilation of the laws relating
to the administration of Criminal Justice
throughout the Dominion that deliberation
and careful examination its importance deserves."

SENATE DEBATES
The question of concurrence being put
thereon, the House divided, and the names
being called for they were taken down as
follows:
Contents:-The Hon. Messieurs Aikins,
Benson, Blake, Bourinot, Bureau, Clifford,
Christie, Cormier, Dever, Dickson, Dumouchel,
Flint, Leonard, Leslie, Letellier de St. Just,
McClelan,
McCrea, McCully,
McMaster,
Malhiot, Reesor, Sanborn, Tessier, Wark,
Wilmot.-25.
Non-Contents:-The Hon. Messieurs Allan,
Armand, Bill, Burnham, Campbell, Cauchon,
Chapais, Duchesnay E. H. J., Ferrier, Guévremont, Holmes, Kenny, Lacoste, McDonald,
Miller, Mitchell, Price, Ross, Ryan, Seymour,
Shaw, Skead.-22.
The amendment was therefore declared carried.
An Act respecting Trade Marks and Industrial Designs was read a second time, and
ordered to be referred to a Committee of the
Whole on Monday next.
The orders of the day for the second reading of the following bills being called, the
same were discharged on motion of Hon. Mr.
Campbell, seconded by Hon. Mr. Mitchell,
viz.:An Act respecting the duties of Justices of
the Peace out of Sessions, in relation to persons charged with indictable offences.
An Act respecting cruelty to animals.
An Act respecting the prompt and summary
administration of justice in certain cases.
An Act for the release and surrender of
offenders wrongfully arrested in certain cases.
An Act respecting the trial and punishment of juvenile offenders.
And an Act respecting the duties of Justices
of the Peace out of Session, in relation to
summary convictions and orders.
Pursuant to the order of the day the Bill
intituled "An Act to increase the excise duty
on spirits, to impose an excise duty on refined
petroleum, and to provide for the inspection
thereof," was read a second time, and ordered
to be committed to a Committee of the Whole
on Monday next.
The Hon. Mr. Campbell acquainted the
House that he had a message from His Excellency the Governor-General, under his sign
manual, which His Excellency had commanded him to deliver to this House.
The same was read by the Clerk, and is as
follows:

May 16, 1868

MONCK
The Governor-General communicates to the
Senate the accompanying despatch, addressed
to him, by command of the Queen, by the
Secretary of State for the Colonies:
Government House,
Ottawa, May 16th, 1868.
(Copy-Canada-Separate.)
Downing Street, 28th April, 1868.
My Lord,-I have the honour to inform you
that having received, with pain and regret,
your despatch, No. 62, of the 9th inst, informing me of the assassination of Mr. D'Arcy
McGee, in the city of Ottawa, I felt it my duty
to communicate the lamentable event to Her
Majesty, feeling certain that Her Majesty
would sincerely deplore the crime which had
deprived Canada, by the hand of an assassin,
of the able and devoted services of Mr.
McGee.
I have received Her Majesty's commands to
request you to convey to the family of Mr.
McGee the expression of Her Majesty's deep
sympathy with them in the loss which they
have sustained through this atrocious crime.
I have, &c.,
(Signed,)
Bu CKINGHAM and CHANDos.
The Viscount Monck,
&c.,
&c.,
&c.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell presented to the House a
return to an address to His Excellency the
Governor-General, dated the 14th instant,
praying His Excellency to cause to be laid
before this House copies of all correspondence
between the Department of Marine and
Fisheries, and the Trinity Board and the
Harbour Trust of Montreal, since the 14th
December last.
Ordered that the same do lie on the table.
Then on motion of the Hon. Mr. Campbell,
seconded by the Hon. Mr. Mitchell,
The House adjourned until half-past seven
o'clock, this evening.
AFTER RECESS.
The House met a half-past seven o'clock.
The following bills were brought from the
House of Commons by their Clerk, viz:
An Act to incorporate the Canadian Lake
Underwriters' Association, received two readings.

May 16, 1868

SENATE] DEBATES

An Act respecting the Governor-General,
the Civil List, and the salaries of certain public functionaries, was read a first and second
time.
An Act to make provision for defraying the
expenses of certain works of fortification required for the defense of the Dominion, was
read a first time, and second reading ordered
for Monday.
An Act to amend the Acts relating to the
Canada West Farmers' Mutual and Stock
Insurance Company, and to change the name
of the Company to the Canada Farmers'
Mutual Insurance Company, received two
readings.
An Act respecting perjury, was read a first
time, and second reading ordered for Monday
next.
An Act to amend an Act to provide for the
improvement and management of the harbour
of Quebec, and the Act to amend the same,
was read a first and second time.

329

An Act to incorporate the Stratford Board
of Trade, was read a first time, and second
reading ordered for Monday next.
A message was brought from the House of
Commons to return the Bill intituled,
An Act to incorporate the Merchants' Express Company of the Dominion of Canada.
Also, the Bill intituled, an Act respecting
riots and riotous assemblies, and to acquaint
the House that they have agreed to the
amendments made to the said bills without
any amendment.
Hon. Mr. Ross presented to the House the
second report of the Joint Committee on the
Library of Parliament.
On motion of the Hon. Mr. Ross, it was
ordered that the said report be taken into
consideration on Monday next.
The House then adjourned until Monday
next, at three o'clock p.m.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Monday, May 18, 1868.

May 18, 1868

an Order in Council made about the 1st of
July, 1862.
Ordered, That the same do lie on the Table.

On motion of Hon. Mr. Tessier, seconded by
Hon. Mr. Bourinot, it was
Ordered, That the last mentioned return be
After routine,
referred to the Joint Committee of the Senate
Hon. Mr. Anderson, chairman of Committee and House of Commons on the Printing of
on Banking, Commerce and Railways, to Parliament.
whom was referred the Bill intituled "An Act
Hon. Mr. Ryan moved, seconded by Hon.
to incorporate the Bank of Agriculture," reported the same with several amendments Mr. Ferrier,
which were concurred in, and the said bill
That an humble address be presented to His
was then read a third time and passed, and Excellency the Governor-General, praying
ordered that the Clerk do go down to the that His Excellency will be pleased to cause to
House of Commons and acquaint that House be laid before this House, copies of any correthat the Senate have passed this bill with spondence, proposals or suggestions received
several amendments, to which they desire during the present Session of Parliament, by
their concurrence.
the Hon. the Minister of Fisheries and Marine,
having reference to deepening and improvHon. Mr. Tessier, from the Select Com- ing the ship channel between Quebec and
mittee, to whom was referred the Bill in- Montreal, and to reconstructing and uniting
tituled "An Act to provide for the improve- the Trinity Board and Harbour Trusts of
ment and management of the harbour of Montreal.
Quebec and the Act amending the same."
The question of concurrence being put
Ordered that the said bill be read a third time
presently and passed, and sent down to the thereon, the same was resolved in the affirmative, and it was
House of Commons without any amendment.
Ordered, That such members of the Privy
Hon. Mr. Chapais presented to the House a Council as are members of this House do wait
return to an address to His Excellency the on His Excellency the Governor-General with
Governor-General, dated 7th May, 1868, pray- the said address.
ing that His Excellency will be pleased to
Hon. Mr. Wilmot moved, seconded by
cause to be laid before this House copies of all
correspondence which has taken place from Hon. Mr. Wark,
the lst of January last to the present date,
That an humble address be presented to His
between the Hon. the Minister of Agriculture Excellency the Governor-General, praying
and the Immigrant Agents at Hamilton, To- that His Excellency will be pleased to direct
ronto, Kingston, Ottawa, Montreal, Sher- that copies of all documents and surveys relabrooke, Quebec, St. John, N.B., Halifax, and tive to the construction of a canal connecting
any port or ports in Europe, having reference the waters of the Gulf of St. Lawrence, with
to the probable extent and character of the those of the Bay of Fundy, may be procured
immigration of 1868, as well as to the arrange- from the Local Governments of Nova Scotia
ments made and means provided, or to be and New Brunswick, and submitted to the
provided, in aid and encouragement of such Commissioner of the Board of Works for his
immigration; also, of any correspondence report thereon, to be laid before Parliament at
which has taken place between the Govern- its next Session.
ment of the Dominion and any of the Local
The question of concurrence being put
Governments upon the said subject.
thereon, the same was resolved in the affirmaOrdered, That the same do lie on the Table. tive, and it was
Ordered, That such members of the Privy
Hon. Mr. Campbell presented to the House
Council as are members of this House do wait
a return to an address to His Excellency the
on His Excellency the Governor-General with
Governor-General, dated 7th May, 1868, praythe said address.
ing His Excellency to be pleased to cause to be
laid before this House copies of the reports
Hon. Mr. Allan, from the Committee on
made by John Page, Esq., Engineer of the Standing Orders and Private Bills, to whom
Public Works Department, on the subject of was referred the Bill intituled "An Act to
the deepening of Lake St. Peter, in virtue of incorporate the Canadian Lake Underwriters'
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.

May 18,.1868

SENATE DEBATES

Association," reported the same with several
amendinents, which were ordered to be tai;en
into consideration by the House at the next
sitting thereof.
Hon. Mr. Allan, from same committee, reported without amendinent the Bill intituled
"An Act to amend the Acts relating to the
Canada West Farmers' Mutual and Stock
Insurance Company, and to change the name
of the company to the Canada Farmers' Mutual Insurance Company," which said bill was
read a third time and passed, and a message
ordered to be sent to the House of Commons,
that the Senate have passed the bill without
any amendment.
The following Bills were discharged from
the orders of the day on motion of Hon. Mr.
Campbell, seconded by Hon. Mr. Mitchell,

into the consumption of every family. A part
of the duty imposed upon many of our imports had to be paid by the person who sent
the articles, but in this case the whole duty
would have to come from our own people. It
would operate very injuriously against our
own industrial establishments. He knew one
establishment in New Brunswick for the
manufacture of the Albertine coal oil, which
would have to be shut up, and the operatives
discharged.
Hon. Mr. Christie said this tax was actually
about fifty per cent, upon the original price of
the oil, and it would operate very severely
upon the poor people of the country.

Hon. Mr. Campbell said the expense of
light for a small family was not much, therefore this tax of five cents per gallon upon oil
viz:
would not be felt very severely.
"An Act respecting indictable offences by
The bill was then agreed to, when the
forgery."
Speaker having resumed the Chair, it was
"An Act respecting larceny and other simi- read a third time and passed.
lar offences,"
The Bill intituled "An Act respecting the
"An Act respecting malicious injuries to
militia and defence of the Dominion of
property,"
Canada," was read a first time, and ordered to
"An Act respecting offences relating to the be read a second time at the next sitting of
coin."
the House.
The Bill intituled "An Act respecting copyThe House then resolved itself into Comright," was read a second tUie, and ordered to mittee of the Whole on the Bill intituled "An
be referred to a Committee of the Whole at Act respecting the Governor-General, the
the next sitting of the House.
Civil List, and the salaries of certain public
The House then resolved itself into Com- funtionaries, (Hon. Mr. Malhiot in the chair),
mittee of the Whole on the Bill intituled "An was read a third time, passed, and sent down
Act respecting the manufacture or importa- to the House of Commons without amendtion of copper coins and tokens," (Honourable ment.
Mr. Anderson in the chair). Reported the same
FORTIFICATION
with several amendments, and read a third
The order of the day was then read for the
time and passed, and sent down to the House
second reading of the Bill intituied "An Act to
of Commons for their concurrence.
make provision for defraying the expense of
Also, "An Act respecting trade marks and certain works of fortification required for the
industrial designs," was passed through its defence of the Dominion."
several stages with some amendments, and
Hon. Mr. Campbell said a Bill of this kind
ordered to be sent down to the House of
originating in the House of Commons to grant
Commons.
supply to Her Majesty for the construction of
fortifications to provide for the defence of the
EXCISE DUTIES ON SPIRITS AND
country, would, he was sure, meet with the
PETROLEUM
hearty approval of members from both sides
The House went into Committee of the of the House. The matter of the 'defence of the
Whole on a Bill to impose excise duties on country has formed the subject of communispirits and petroleum.
cations between the Imperial and Canadian
Governrnents, and has been brought before
Hon. Mr. Dickson in the chair.
Parliament repeatedily. Fron the infancy of
Hon. Mr. Wilmot thought it was entirely this country, the expense of its defence has
wrong to place a duty upon oil, as light was been borne almost wholly by the Mother
one of the necessaries of life, and it entered Country until the last few years. If the

SENATE DEBATES
amount of money expended by the people of
Great Britain for the defence of this country,
for the last sixty years, had been added up,
the amount would startle us. Not only have
the people of Great Britain expended money
to defend our country against foreign invaders, but against every source of annoyance
and trouble whatever, therefore we should
only be too ready and too willing to give
our assistance in the way this Bill provides.
During this year, Great Britain has expended
£998,000 sterling for the defence of this country, exclusive of the large sum they expend in
connection with the naval service, armories,
barracks and other services, making a total of
about £1,500,000 sterling. They expend here
annually a larger sum of money than the
House of Commons proposes to grant in this
Bill for the purpose of permanent fortifications. He alluded to former appropriations
which had been made for the permanent defence of the country, and said it was gratifying to find there was a disposition evinced by
the people of this country to do their part
towards its defence. The country had passed
beyond a state of pupilage, and we should
not hesitate a moment to provide for these
fortifications, without which it would be impossible to defend it, and our annual expenditure for the militia service would be useless
and vain. The necessity of these fortifications
had been pressed upon the people of Canada
again and again by the Mother Country, and
experienced officers had been sent out to prepare plans and specifications for those works.
These plans having been made, the subject
was again brought under the consideration of
the Government of Upper Canada, and a correspondence ensued between them and the
Imperial Government, which was followed up
by a deputation being sent to England, composed of members of the then Executive
Council, who were authorized to meet the
Imperial Government and come to an understanding upon this important question. In the
report which they presented to the Governor-General on their return, the subject is
treated at great length, and the necessity for
the people of Canada to bear their fair share
of the expenses for the defence of the country
is strongly adverted to. He (Mr. Campbell)
then read extracts from the said report, commenting upon them, and said it was upon
that understanding with the British Government that the sum proposed by this Bill
for the erection of fortifications has been voted by the House of Commons. He was confident that all the power and resources of the

May 18, 1868

British Empire would be given for our defence, on condition that we did our share of
what was necessary for that purpose. He then
read extracts from despatches received from
the Colonial Secretary, the last one being received in February last, in order to show that
the arrangements made between the two
Governments was even more than fair towards the people of Canada. The Imperial
Government were to undertake the construction of the necessary works at Quebec and
Halifax, with all the naval defence of the
country, and all the armaments in ail the
fortifications in the Dominion. The course of
conduct pursued by the British Government
was one which reflected honor upon them, and
for which this country should feel grateful.
Are we content to take upon ourselves a fair
share of this burden? He thought nothing
would be more unmanly than not to do so. If
we admire the institutions of the Mother
Country, and prefer a limited monarchical
form of Government, let us not only say so,
but let us do our duty under it as men; let us
say we are willing to make a sacrifice for the
sake of those institutions which we love. If we
adopted any other course, which he could not
for a moment suppose, what would be said in
England where they have for fifty or sixty
years past defended our country from infancy
to mature age. They would say we have defended the people of Canada, from the time of
their infancy with a sparse population until
they have grown up to a population of four
millions, and now we offer to defend them
with all our resources, if they will join with
us in carrying out those measures necessary
for their defence, and they refuse; therefore
we must come to the conclusion that they
pretended to be actuated by a loyalty which
did not exist. Under these circuistances this
measure has been passed by the House of
Commons, but no scheme has been laid down
for the expenditure of this money. The plans
and estimates have been drawn and shown in
confidence to the gentlemen who formed the
deputation to whieh he had referred, but it
would be impossible and impolitic to bring a
confidential report like that before Parliament, because its value depends in a great
measure upon its not being known. He would
draw attention to the tact that the delegation
when in England objected to any scheme that
did not make provision for the defence of the
whole country. This scheme, he said, made that
provision, and he thought it was a shame for
persons to represent this country as defenceless. It was the opinion of the eminent men,

May 18, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

who had drawn the plans of those fortifications, that after their erection the defence of
the country would be easy, the fortifications
affording a rallying-place for the troops, The
works for Montreal would extend in an arc of
three miles, and the centre would be about the
termination of the Victoria Bridge. These
works would include seven forts, besides the
curtain of earthwork which would make it
almost impossible for any army to approach
them successfully. These forts could be easily
manned. One hundred and fifty artillery men
in each fort would be enough to instruct the
less informed militia men in the discharge of
their duties. In regard to the expenditure of
this money, it is proposed that the expenditure shall be in St. John, Montreal, Kingston,
and some places West. A question had been
raised about this expenditure not being given
more in detail for the different localities; he
thought it would be impossible to give a detailed estimate, as the expenditure would be
directed by the Royal Engineers, and it would
take place in those portions of the country
which they considered most important. St.
John, N.B., is considered a most important
position to defend, in order to protect the
Intercolonial Railway. The defence of Montreal was also considered of vital importance,
while the defence of Kingston was of less
importance, but still necessary for the defence
of the lakes. The expenditure of this money
will be under the direction of those who will
have no other object in view except the defence of the country, and they will no doubt
discharge that duty conscientiously. The cost
of these works will by no means be so large as
some seem to suppose. The expenditure will
go on for five years. The first year the interest
on the expenditure will be $53,000, the second
year $107,000, the third year $160,000, the
fourth year $214,000, and the fifth year $216,660, and in forty years the whole debt would
be wiped out, if the invested sinking fund
yielded but five per cent. He was sure no one
in the House, and he was almost certain no
Canadian, but would be willing to appropriate
that and more than that, to preserve and
maintain British connection, and to carry out
those propositions, made so liberally by the
British Government, and to show them that
we are not recreant children, but are willing
to do our part of the defence of our homes
and our firesides. With these few remarks he
would now move that the Bill be read a
second time.

Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just objected to
the way this measure was submitted to the
House. He had no patience to do more than
allude to the old and absurd argument, that
any hon. member's loyalty was to be called in
question, because he might object to this
measure and its details. We should only go
according to our means, and not involve this
country in expenses far beyond our resources.
When British statesmen object to such measures as the present, and their details, and
discuss them freely, it never enters the head
of any sane man to question their loyalty to
the laws and institutions of the empire. As far
as he and his compatriots are concerned, they
have all given proof of their loyalty, and it
was not to be questioned or doubted. The
amounts voted this year already are far
beyond the powers of this country to endure,
and when every necessary (not to speak of
luxuries) of life was based upon the utmost
limit, surely we ought to pause before voting
five millions of dollars in a block sum for a
commencement of fortifications, to be placed
we don't know where. There is no specific
information afforded us as to the cost of these
contemplated works, where they are to be
placed, when commenced, or finished, nor any
of the details we had a right to expect, before
being called on to vote this enormous sum,
which is but an instalment of what will be
demanded hereafter. He wished to protest
against the passage of the Bill.
The said bill was then read a second time,
passed through Committee of the whole House
without any amendment.
Hon. Mr. Benson in the chair.
It was then ordered for a third reading
presently, was then passed and ordered to be
sent to the House of Commons, and acquaint
that House that the Senate have passed this
bill without any amendments.
The order of the day being read, for the
second reading of the bill intituled "An Act
respecting perjury",
On motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell, seconded
by Hon. Mr. Kenny, it was ordered that the
said bill be discharged from the orders of the
day.
The Bill intituled "An Act to incorporate
the Stratford Board of Trade", was read a
second time.
On motion of Hon. Mr. McDonald, seconded
by Hon. Mr. Anderson, it was ordered that
said bill be committed to the Committee on
Banking, Commerce and Railways.

SENATE DEBATES
The House proceeded to the consideration
of the second report of the Joint Committee of
the Senate and the House of Commons, on the
Library of Parliament, and the said report
was read by the Clerk as follows:
The members on behalf of the Senate of the
Joint Committee on the Library of Parliament, beg leave to present a second report.
That the new rules, in relation to the loan
of books from the Library during a recess of
Parliament, which were embodied in the first
report, and agreed to by Your Honourable
House, having failed to receive the sanction of
the House of Commons, the Committee have
framed other rules, of a less stringent character, which they trust may be accepted by both
Houses, in lieu of those previously recommended.
These rules are designed to be in addition
to, and in amendment of, the llth rule of the
Senate concerning the Library, and are as
follows:
(1.) That during the recess of Parliament no
member of either House, not residing at the
Seat of Government, shall be at liberty to
borrow, or have in his possession at any one
time, more than three works from the Library, or to retain the same for a longer
period than one month.
(2.) That no persons, who may be privileged, by a card from the Speaker of either
House, to borrow books from the Library,
shall be allowed to have in their possession
more than two works at any one time, or to
retain the same longer than three weeks; and
that all such persons shall return the books so
taken when required by the Librarian.
(3.) That no books of reference, or books of
special cost and value, may be removed from
the Seat of Government, under any circumstances.
(4.) That at the first meeting of the Joint
Library Committee at every Session of Parliament the Librarian shall report a list of the
books absent at the commencement of the
Session, specifying the names of any persons
who have retained the same, in contravention
of either of the foregoing rules.

May 18, 1868

AFTER RECESS.
MILITIA AND DEFENCE
The order of the day being read for the
second reading of the Bill intituled "An Act
respecting the Militia and Defence of the
Dominion of Canada,"

Hon. Mr. Campbell said he had no doubt
but this bill had received a great deal of
attention in the House of Commons. The militia included all men between the ages of 18
and 60, and it is proposed by this bill that
they shall be divided into active and regular
militia. The Active Militia includes the Volunteer, Regular, and Marine Militia. The
Volunteer Militia is to be raised by voluntary
enlistments; the Regular Militia is to be raised
by voluntary enlistments and men ballotted to
serve; the Marine Militia is to be composed of
seamen, sailors, and persons whose occupation
is upon sailing crafts in the Dominion. The
bill provides that the whole country shall be
divided into military districts, and these again
are to be divided into regimental and brigade
divisions as may be deemed expedient, and
such divisions may be divided into company
divisions. For each regimental division there
shall be appointed one Lieut-Col. and two
Majors of Reserve Militia. It is proposed in
this way to organize all the men in the country between eighteen and sixty, taking them
by rotation for duty according to the classes
specified in the bill, and these classes are so
arranged as to give the least inconvenience to
the country. It is proposed to take out for
actual drill every year, forty thousand men, to
be drilled for a period from eight to sixteen
days. If volunteers are found to give the quota
of forty thousand men, the ballot will not
come into force at all, but if not, then a resort
to the ballot will be necessary. This body of
men raised by ballot or voluntary enlistment,
and drilled for sixteen days, will constitute
the first military force to which the country
will look for service in case danger arises. In
addition to this there would be a large number of officers trained, and also a Dominion
Rifle Association established, which would
give the men a practical acquaintance with
the weapons used, and thus enable them to
come into the field having a great advantage
On motion of Hon. Mr. Ross, seconded by
over those who are not so trained. These were
the Hon. Mr. Chapais, it was ordered that the the principal features of the bill, which he
said report be adopted.
hoped would not be received with much oppoIt being six o'clock the House adjourned sition, and he would move that the bill be
now read a second time.
until half-past seven o'clock, p.m.

May 18, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Tessier said that to employ men in
active service and give them no more than
fifty cents per day, and to make the same
provision for the officers, was a feature of the
bill which was particularly obnoxious, and
would not meet the approval of the country.
The Lower House had decided in favour of
this bill by a large majority, and they are
responsible to the country for the working of
the measure, but for his part he would have
advised them to have deferred the measure, as
they were already incurring a large expenditure for the Intercolonial Railway; not merely
for the original cost, but an expense which
would go on from year to year. Then again
they were likely to require a large sum for the
purchase of the Northwest Territory, and to
open up roads and communications with it.
They should not go on with such a reckless
expenditure of the public money, until they
saw whether the Union prospered or not. He
thought it would have been better to have left
this question with the Home authorities, and
informed them of the position in which the
country stood in regard to this matter. He
generally expressed his views with great diffidence, but he could not help on this occasion,
raising his voice and protesting against the
course the Government were now pursuing.
Hon. Mr. Flint did not rise for the purpose
of opposing the bill, but he thought it should
be so amended as to give satisfaction to the
Volunteers and their officers. In the 10th
clause of the bill, the regular period of service
of the Regular Militia is placed at two years,
while the period of service required of the
Volunteers is three years. There should be no
difference in the time of service between the
Volunteers and those who are drafted from
the Militia, because this is placing them in a
better position than those who volunteer. He
would move, when the bill went into Committee, to make three years the term of service for both classes. He would also move that
the word "officers" be struck out of the 45th
clause, because he thought it was degrading to
place an officer in the same list as a private.
He was sure those officers would sooner serve
at their drill without pay, than be placed in
that position. The idea was absurd to give a
gentleman a commission in Her Majestys
service, and then pay him less than a scavenger on the street. They should either pay him
a sum commensurate with the duties he hasto
perform, or else not pay him at all. He
thought they should not interfere with the
views of the Government in regard to this
bill, except in the minor matters which he
had mentioned.

Hon. Mr. Sanborn thought that the true
mode to provide for the defence of this country, if we expected an organized war, was by
its militia. He did not think at the present
time, situated as we are, with the difficulties
having been tided over which had existed in
the United States, and which had considerable
influence upon those who had the direction of
affairs in England, that we could reasonably
expect those two great nations ever to be
involved in a serious conflict. He should almost lose hope of any advance in the civilization of the world, if he did not believe there
was not right feeling enough in the minds of
those two great nations to prevent them from
entering into a deadly conflict, which could
not be anything else but a war of destruction
of life and property, and which would throw
back the world into comparative barbarism. It
ought not to enter our minds as a feeling
beyond the region of possibility, that there
can be a conflict between those two great
nations. We are legislating under existing
facts; while there is no prospect of war, there
are elements of disturbance existing among
the people of the United States enough to
create apprehension in our minds. We have
not the same force to sustain us to aid in
preventing and putting down any aggressive
movement, not of a nation, but of an irregular
force, which has for its object a treasonable
design, as we would have in an organized war.
It is then our volunteer force would have to
be put to the test, and it will be found to be a
most valuable power. We find the Volunteers
are a body composed largely of men who have
entered. the service from a love for it. Military
drill has its pleasing associations to many
minds, and young men suited for active service form themselves into companies and
choose their own officers. If we do anything to
discourage the volunteer system, we do a serious injury to the affairs of the country. No
one has said otherwise than that the Volunteers have been a most important advantage
to the country, and the military schools have
proved an important success. If this bill is
carried into operation, the military schools
should be kept in good condition, because if
we hope for success we must have men
schooled in military drill. We must have the
elements of the military art obtained in some
way, or a military organization will be of but
little consequence. If the officers of a company
do not have the advantage of obtaining a
knowledge of drill, you have no means by
which you can put your machinery in motion.
The greatest objection which he saw to this
bill was that it discouraged to too great an

SENATE DEBATES
extent the volunteer movement. That feature
of the bill he thought very ill-timed, because
the effect of discouraging volunteers would be
to deprive the country of their services to a
great extent. This would be doing an injury to
the country which could only be remedied by
time, because we find by experience that
when men are subject to draft they come out
with reluctance, taking no interest in their
drill; they do nothing more than conform
themselves to the simple requirements of the
law. If you expect to have a military organization in a time of peace, in order to be
prepared for difficulties when they arise, then
you must have men who enter it with esprit
de corps, which will give them satisfaction
and pleasure in the discharge of the duties
devolving upon them. The remarks made
upon the 45th Section show the effect which
that clause would have. It would be lowering
the position of the officers of the Volunteers. It
was an object of ambition for a man to get a
position in the army or navy, as it gave him a
position in life; the volunteer movement being
something between the regular army and the
ordinary militia, those who entered the service gained a credit and reputation before the
country. When the salary of an officer, who
has discharged his duties, has been reduced, it
is looked upon as an indication for him to
resign, and in this way the officers of Volunteers will look upon it. It is not in regard to
the amount of pay to which they will object,
but to being placed on a level with their
subordinates. He said it was impossible for
them to amend the bill on those money
clauses, but he thought they were deserving of
some remark, and should call from them some
expression of their views. He had listened
with a great deal of interest to the remarks
made on the Bill on Fortifications by the
Postmaster-General, who had presented the
points which favoured it with earnestness and
ability. There was one feature in his remarks
which did not strike him (Mr. Sanborn) very
favourably; lie (Mr. Campbell) took the position that it was absolutely necessary to take
that measure with our whole hearts, and that to
display any kind of doubt in regard to it was
equivalent to a feeling of disloyalty. He (Mr.
Sanborn) did not think it necessary for us to
place ourselves upon ground like this with an
expenditure of $5,000,000 to begin with. He
thought the question should be viewed in all
its bearings from a Canadian as well as an
Imperial standpoint. When Col. Jervois made
his report there were serious apprehensions
felt of a conflict between the United States

May 18. 1888

and Great Britain, on account of difficulties
which might arise through the civil war which
was then raging in the neighbouring Republic.
It was that state of affairs which suggested
that report upon fortifications, and after
which the Hon. Postmaster-General says it is
a shame that any man should say that this
Dominion was indefensible. Perhaps it would
be a shame to say we had no spirit or desire to
defend this country, but it is no shame to a
man to give his opinion in regard to the advantages, or disadvantages for defence which
this country possesses. We should look upon
the country as it is with 1,500 miles of frontier
to defend. The scripture says when a man
builds a house he is to count the cost, and we,
when we grant large sums of money, should
consider the cost and the utility of the work.
Col. Jervois says in one of the first remarks
which he makes in his report: "I observe that
although owing to the length and nature of
the frontier of Canada it is impossible to protect it through its whole extent, yet an enemy
must notwithstanding gain possession of certain vital points before they acquire any certain military advantage." It must be borne in
mind that this report was made when there
was a probability of a conflict between the
United States and Great Britain, and the
views expressed are entirely Imperial in character. Col. Jervois also says in his report that
the main point is to fortify Lower Canada,
thus admitting that Upper Canada, in case of
a war must be abandoned. As a Lower
Canadian he (Mr. Sanborn) could certainly
have no objection to this view of the case; at
the same time, situated as he was, in the
eastern townships, he would not feel the advantage of the fortifications erected at Montreal as much as those who were on the other
side of the St. Lawrence. It is stated in this
report that the country on the other side of
the St. Lawrence is indefensible, and he states
the very position which the PostmasterGeneral says it is a shame to assert. The man
who has the charge of planning the fortifications has stated his views to us, and should we
not, in the discharge of our duty, look these
facts fairly in the face, in order to realize the
position, and ascertain what advantages these
fortifications would give? He was not prepared to say that those fortifications should
not be placed where it is contemplated to
erect them, but he would say that we were
taking a very serious responsibility upon ourselves, and it was one which was deserving of
much thought and deliberation. We should
look at it as Canadians, because we cannot
disguise the fact, that we may be left at some

May 18, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

future period to our own resources. We have
been often told by members of the Parliament
of Canada, when they were seeking to bring
about Confederation, that we were verging
towards a nationality, and that this Confederation was a first step towards making us a
nation. The whole tenor of the remarks of
British statesmen leads us to the conviction
that the responsibility of our becoming something great--or less great-according to our
ability, depends upon ourselves, therefore it is
our duty to view Canada as Canada alone. We
have here a home, a nationality-something of
which we have reason to be proud. We have
also reason to be proud of the country to
which we are attached, and of the Government which extends protection over us, but
we must have pride for Canada too. Viewing
this matter we must not only view it from an
Imperial point, of view, as for the interest of
the Empire, but we must view it in the light
of our own interest. The Postmaster-General
has told us of the amount expended by Great
Britain in keeping soldiers here. He (Mr.
Sanborn) believed that was not an increased
expenditure for Great Britain, as those soldiers must be kept, and they could be kept in
Canada as cheaply as anywhere else.
Hon. Mr. Campbell-Every additional colony gives the occasion for the employment of
so many additional troops, therefore we are
the occasion of so many additional troops
being employed.
Hon. Mr. Sanborn did not think any larger
number of troops was kept on account of
Canada being a possession of the British
Crown. If there were, it was for the maintenance of British power on this continent, from
an Imperial, and not from a Canadian, point
of view. Suppose a war takes place between
the United States and Great Britain, it would
not be on account of any grievance which we
have, as Canadians; yet the result would be
the devastation of the most beautiful and productive part of our country. Should we not
then assert our own peculiar position, and
show the state in which we would be placed
by the contingencies of war. Then look at the
importance of the colonies to bring power and
prestige to Great Britain. Let her be shorn of
them, and where would her name be in the
estimation of the world, in comparison to
what it is now? In regard to this bill, there is
no statement as to where these fortifications
are to be placed, or what they are to be. This
is an exceedingly important point, and one
upon which we ought to be informed. The
House of Commons should have been in99267-23

formed upon that point before making a grant
for those fortifications, but it having been
made, it becomes us to bow with grace to the
decision the representatives of the people
have given upon this question. In doing so,
however, he had felt it his duty to say something upon both these measures, in answer to
the remarks made so eloquently by the
Postmaster-General, with an expectation that
something would be said in reply. He thought
it would not be treating his hon. friend with
the consideration he deserved, if we passed in
silence a measure of so much importance, and
he knew he (Mr. Campbell) would rather hear
members who differed in opinion from him,
than to have nothing said upon the subject.
Hon. Mr. McCully said the subject of the
defence of the country had been most eloquently treated by his hon. friend (Mr. Sanborn), but he could not regard the subject in
the same light. It was a most important question, and one upon which they should all give
an opinion. He did not regret that the Government, had taken it upon themselves to
evince by the bills before the House that
there was a desire at the present time to meet,
so far as our means will admit, the wishes of
the British Government in regard to the defence of the country. His hon. friend (Mr.
Sanborn) had looked upon the Confederation
of the Provinces from a different stand point
from what he did. He (Mr. McCully) had believed that unless these Provinces were
Confederated, and made one common capital
throughout this Dominion, the time would not
be far distant when they would not have been
under British rule, and this had actuated him
in the interest he had taken in bringing about
this measure, but whether it was for weal or
woe depended upon the future. He felt that
we were compelled to submit to a large
amount of taxation, but he hoped the Government would use a great deall of economy,
and so expend this outlay required for fortifications in such a way as would give satisfaction to the country at large. He could not
expect that the entire scheme would have
been left open for criticism, but at the same
time he thought the Government had no right
to ask us to adopt these measures without
giving us all the information which they reasonably ýcan. The people of Nova Scotia are
not likely to be much benefitted by this outlay, because it had always been the policy of
the British Government to expend large sums
of money in Nova Scotia, but they were prepared to make considerable sacrifice in order
to have connection between the sea shore and

SENATE DEBATES
Canada by the Intercolonial Railway. Had it
not been for the prospect of getting'that road
constructed, they would not have consented to
enter this Confederation. He was not prepared
to give an opinion in regard to the defence of
this Dominion, more especially that portion of
it whiich extended fifteen hundred miles along
the lakes. He did not believe it possible to
defend the frontier of this country against
invasion by a perfectly organized body on the
other side of the border, but he believed that
with the means under our control, if wisely
spent, and with the assistance of England on
the Atlantic Ocean, it would be a long time
before they would gain much advantage in
Canada. For this reason he was prepared to
assist the Government to such a reasonable
extent in regard to mîlitia and fortifications as
would satisfy the people of England that the
people of Canada were doing all which could
be reasonably expected of them. He believed
that when the people of England knew of our
action in this matter it would increase their
sympathy for us more than if we had been
drifting along year after year without endeavouring to help ourselves. Though there were
some men in the British Parliament who were
endeavouring to get rid of these colonies, yet
he believed it was the sentiment of the British
nation, not only to spend their money, but to
give us all the advantage the prestige of that
nation could give if we did but a reasonable
share towards the defence of the country. If
war were to come he believed a large portion
of the Dominion would be trodden under foot,
and it was to prevent war we should organize
and show such a front that would prevent
invasion. A large portion of this money is to
be spent to protect Montreal, which is the
commercial capital of the Dominion, and then
even if the west is devastated that city would
be a secure retreat for our forces. For these
reasons, and these only, he would consent to
give his support to these measures. He felt the
force of the remarks which the PostmasterGeneral addressed to the House in reference
to the bills coming from the people's representatives. They are the judges, having
come from the people and to whom they must
give an account of their stewardship; therefore, it is not for us to intervene with reference to the amount of means which they are
willing to appropriate for the defence of this
Empire. He did not undervalue the difficulties
which might occur in providing for our defence, but he knew of no more legitimate way
of obviating those difficulties than by making
this appropriation, and holding the Govern-

May 18, 1868

ment strictly responsible in regard to dispensing the means placed at their disposal for this
service.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson said that as these
varlous Provinces had been united into one
Dominion, it was felt that an improved military system was indispensible. This was now
being provided by this bill, but he regretted
that it did not give more encouragement to
the organized Volunteers than they now receive. He would be pleased to hear the hon.
Postmaster-General state the reasons why the
Government had not given the Volunteers
more encouragement than they have done under this bill. He thought they were a useful
organization and the system should be extended and every encouragement given them, but
he feared that under this bill the movement
would die out altogether. In regard to military
schools, he thought they had been of great
service in the past, and he regarded them as
indispensible in the future. He said they
should also have navy schools, as they had a
large number of sailors, who were the best
material for forming a naval force. All they
require is -instruction in naval gunnery, and
that can be imparted to them in the winter
season when they are out of employment. He
hoped that by next winter the Government
would have arrangements made by which
they could receive this instruction. He also
hoped the whole country was prepared to do
its duty in the matter of defence, both as
regards the militia and fortifications. With respect to the cost of fortifications, that was a
matter the country would expect the Government to exercise as judicious an economy
as possible. They will feel, however, that it is
necessary to meet the views of the Home
Government so far as circumstances will admit. There was great force in what some hon.
members have said, that circumstances have
changed very much since these measures were
urged upon us, and that we are returning to a
state of affairs which existed before the lamentable war broke out in the United States,
when we had no fear of invasion from our
neighbours. He hoped that time would return
when it would not be necessary to make any
heavy expenditure in the matter of defence
generally, but at the present time, he thought
it would be well for us to maintain an efficient
militia, and to expend a reasonable sum in
fortifications, in view of troubles which may
arise with our neighbours, or rather from
those organizations of Fenians who have
placed themselves under their protection. One
objection which he had to this Militia Bill
was, that he feared an efficient militia could

May 18, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

not be organized under it, as the time allowed
for drill-from eight to sixteen days-was not
sufficient for the purpose, and for this reason
be thought that the volunteer movement
ought still to be encouraged. With regard to
the expenditure upon the different fortifications be thought that was a matter for the
military authorities to determine. It would not
be right for us to say that unless a certain
amount of money is expended in our locality,
we will go against the bill; it is only the
military authorities who can say where these
fortifications can be most advantageously
placed. Montreal is an important point, and it
is one which we ail admit would be a costly
place to fortify, but while the military authorities were considering the cost of these
fortifications, he hoped they would not disregard the necessity for defending the western
peninsula. It has been said that Montreal was
the heart of the country, and if it was taken
the country would be cut in two and the west
would be of little value. Whether that would
be the case or not, every one would admit that
if the west was overrun and the supplies cut
off, Montreal would, in a military sense, be in
a worthless condition. His bon. friend
(Mr. McCully) had spoken of the large amount
of increased expenditure which had been undertaken by the country, and he seemed to
cast the blame of it upon the Government. In
this he was scarcely just, as Imperial Legislation has forced upon this Government the
initiation of measures involving a very large
expenditure for the Intercolonial Railway,
which amounts to upwards of two-thirds of
the actual expenditure provided for this
Session. That measure found its place in the
Imperial Act from the imperative demands of
the representatives from the Maritime
Provinces. One gentleman here (Mr. McCully)
said the Maritime Provinces insisted upon the
construction of the Intercolonial Railway and
without it nothing would have induced Nova
Scotia to consent to enter this Union. If the
large expenditure connected with the construction of this road has been forced upon us
by his Maritime friends, it is scarcely just in
them to reproach us with that expenditure. If
they think that costly work can be dispensed
with there was no doubt but they could get
that agreement cancelled, but be believed
they had no wish to do so, therefore they
should not reproach the Governnent for
burdening the country with an expenditure in
which they really have no option, He would
not occupy the tine of the House any further,

but be would be obliged if the PostmasterGeneral would give an explanation in respect
to the want of encouragement to the Volunteers which is in this bill.
Hon. Mr. Wark said although a considerable
expenditure was involved in these measures,
yet he did not think it was more, considering
the resources of the Dominion, than we should
expend for the defence of the country. He did
not think it was more than was required at
the present time, and certainly it was not
more than the people of the United Kingdom
had a right to expect from us. We have until
this time been protected in a paternal way by
the Mother Country, but we have now assumed a more advanced position. He looked
upon this Dominion as a member of the Empire, and it was a great mistake for people to
talk of separating this Dominion from the
Mother Country. We could not afford to separate, the one country being necessary to the
other, and vice versa. Every statesman in
England must see the importance of the
Colonies to Great Britain, in the event of a
war, to give them aid, and to furnish coal for
their steamships, because those ships are useful just in proportion to their obtaining supplies of fuel. A great many speak of the
United States, as though in the event of a war
they could choose their own battle ground, as
England and France did in the Russian war.
We know they must meet the whole power of
the British Empire on the ocean, and that is
one reason why they will not involve themselves in a war. We cannot afford to fortify our
whole frontier, but the very circumstance of
our having fortified certain strong points will
convince our neighbours, in the event of war
that they cannot obtain possession of any
important point in the Dominion. They
know that their commerce must be exposed
on every sea, as all the steamers sailing from
New York across the Atlantic are owned in
Europe, and would in a short time be converted into privateers. If their commerce suffered
so much from a few privateers from the
Southern States, how much more would it suffer from the fleet of Great Britain. These circum-stances will go far to prevent a war between the two countries. He hoped that in the
defence of our country we would go on step by
step-first the organization of the militia, and
then the erection of fortifications. At the same
time be would much rather see the money
expended in fortifications spent in enlarging
our canals, as that would be the best protection against a war with the United States,
because it would put the people of a portion
of the Western States under an obligation to

SENATE DEBATES
Canada for a cheaper and better outlet to the
ocean than they have on their own railways
or canals, and whilst they would be compelled
to construct war vessels on the lakes, these
canals would admit for us any amount of
gunboats which would destroy any fortifications they might erect. He agreed with what
had been said in regard to the efficiency of the
Volunteers, and it was not fair that after public spirited young men had given up their time
and means in organizing and carrying forward this volunteer mevement, they should be
treated with indifference by wealthy individuals, who should be compelled Dy taxation to support them. At the same time he
did not think militia drill in this country
should be left entirely to the Volunteers, because it was desirable that every man capable
of carrying arms should know something
about the use of them. He would like to see a
system of drilling introduced into schools to
give boys from twelve to fourteen years of
age some idea of the use of arms.
Hon. Mr. Wilmot said it was a fact to be
much regretted that a portion of the British
people, and he feared no very inconsiderable
portion of them, were preparing the way to
throw this and other distant Colonies on their
own resources as regards their self-defence,
which will appear from late debates in the
British House of Parliament, and on other
great public occasions, when allusion was
made to the dangers to life, and the hardships
and expenses attending the marching of the
troops from Halifax to the interior of Canada
in the winter season through mud and snow to
defend this country. He hoped this large
amount would be judiciously expended, so as
to yield us some lasting benefit in return.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said this was a measure
which suited the wants and requirements of
the country, and from what he could learn
from the people and their representatives, he
must conclude that it was one that would give
satisfaction to the country. It was satisfactory
to the Government to know that the pledges
given by them to the British Government that
the people of this country were not disposed
to depend entirely upon the people of England
to defend them, is likely to be realized. Notwithstanding what had been said by his hon.
friend (Mr. Wilmot) in regard to the sentiments uttered in his presence when in
England, he (Mr. Mitchell) believed that the
sentiments of the English people were not
to cast off the colonies. The sentiment is not
that the colonies should defend themselves, or
that England should get rid of them, but it is

May 18, 1868

that Great Britain and her colonies together
should form the British Empire, and that we
as a free people-having the benefit of British
laws, British institutions, and the privileges
dependent upon British connection _should
bear our fair share of the burden of defending
the whole Empire and maintaining its integrity. This is a just and right view of the
question. He was present on the occasion referred to by his hon. friend (Mr.
Wilmot), when a gentleman occupying a high
position in England referred to the expense
the colonies were to the British Treasury,
ana ne referred to the fact that a great deal of
British blood and British treasure had been
spent in British America. Great Britain, he
said, suffered a great deal of disadvantage in
maintaining the liberties and rights of the
country. When these statements were made
he (Mr. Mitchell) had felt the question was
not fairly put, and that the gentleman addressing the assembly did not understand the
question. He (Mr. Mitchell) had the satisfaction of showing to that assembly, in which
were some of the noblemen of England, the
unfair position in which the speaker had placed
these colonies when he said that troops had
to be sent to St. John, and marched through
to Canada amid snows and storms in the
month of December at a great risk of life. He
(Mr. Mitchell) took the opportunity of asking
whose battles they went to fight? Was it to
fight the battles of the Canadian people? Was
it in defence of the liberties of all the people in
British America, or was it to protect the liberties of a British quarter-deck fromi the invasion
of a foe? Was it not the attempt made to
lessen the protection which the British flag
gave which was the occasion of those troops
beîng sent to Canada? The expressions to
which he had given utterance in that assembly, drew from the audience expressions
of satisfaction and approval. The numbers of
those in England who wish to throw us upon
our own protection is very small; all the
British people ask of us is that if British
treasure is to be spent in Canada, we should
pay our just share to maintain the rights and
liberties of the country. He did not think there
was a single man on the floor of the House,
or any man who wished to remain a British
subject, but was willing to contribute his fair
share for the defence of the country. These bills
will be an evidence to the people of England
that we desire to maintain British power on
this Continent, and it will be an argument
against the reasoning of those who desire to
sever the connection between us and the
British Empire. He thought the argument used

May 18. 1868

SENATE DEBATES

by his hon. friend (Mr. Sanborn), that if
England had not these colonies she would
have to maintain her troops elsewhere, was
wrong. If Great Britain was denuded
of her colonies, the number of troops
required to maintain and protect her rights
would be very much less than they are now,
and so far from making these colonies a
means of employing troops they only come
here as a measure of necessity. He did not
think it was necessary to say much in reference to the remarks made concerning the
length of our frontier, as that was a point they
might as well leave to military men, but he
felt that so long as we remained defenceless
we invited attack.
The bill was then read a second time and
referred to a Committee of the Whole House,
Hon. Mr. McCrea in the chair.
Reported the same without amendment.
And on motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell, seconded by Hon. Mr. Mitchell, the 42nd rule
was suspended, the said bill read a third time
and passed on a division, and ordered to be
sent to the House of Commons to acquaint
that House that the Senate have passed this
bill without any amendment.
A message was received from the House of
Commons With a Bill intituled, "An Act to
continue for a limited time the several Acts
therein mentioned," which was read a first
time, and ordered to be read a second time
to-morrow.
Also a message from the Commons, with a
Bill intituled, "An Act for the regulation of
Fishing and protection of Fisheries," to which
they desire the concurrence of this House,
which bill was read a first time, and ordered
to be read a second time to-morrow.
"An Act respecting the commencement of
certain Acts of this Session therein mentioned," was read a second time, and ordered
that the 42nd rule be dispensed with as far as
it relates to this bill, and that the same be
read a third time and passed.
An Act respecting Forgery, Perjury and
Intimidation in connection with the Provincial
Legislatures and their Acts, was read a first
time, and ordered for a second reading at the
next sitting of the House.
Hon. Mr. Burnham, from the Joint Committee of the Senate and flouse of Commons,
on the Printing of Parliament, presented
their 15th report.
Ordered, that it be received, and the same
was then read by the Clerk as follows:

The Committee have carefully examined
the followIng documents and recommend that
they be printed, viz.:
Return to an address from the House of
Commons; for a copy of the address of the
House of Assembly of Nova Scotia, to the
British Government, for the repeal of so much
of the British North American Act as refers to
that province &c.; also the instructions to
the Hon. Mr. Tupper on the same subject,
before or since his departure.
Return to an address from the House of
Commons, correspondence which has passed
between the Canadian and the Imperial
Governments as to the status, rights and
privileges abroad of British subjects naturalized in any one of the Provinces of the Dominion.
Return and supplementary return to an address from the House of Commons; correspondence between the Government of the
late Province of Canada, and the Governments of the Dominion and Newfoundland, as
to the disputed boundary line between the
two countries in Labrador (Distribution only.)
Return to an address from the House of
Commons, showing the number of vessels
owned in the Dominion of Canada, on the lst
July, 1867, and showing whether they are
steamers or sailing vessels, &c.
Return to an address from the House of
Commons, showing the number of railways in
the Dominion of Canada, when built, length,
cost of construction, &c.
Statement in obedience to the order of the
House of Commons, showing the names of the
shareholders of the several banks of the Dominion, with the amounts of stock held by
each, &c.
Second report of the Committee of the House
of Commons, on Immigration and Colonization.
Return to address, House of Commons; for
the amount of securities, whether bonds or
stock issued by the Dominion of Canada
since lst July last, with the rate of interest,
nature of securities, &c., &c.
Return to address, House of Commons; reports made by the officers of the geological
survey with reference to the gold districts of
Nova Scotia.
Petition of Thomas McGoey and others, of
the district of Ottawa and its vicinity; praying
for an investigation into the conduct and acts
of the Honourable Aimé Lafontaine, Judge of
the Superior Court in and for the said district.
Report of the Committee on privileges and
elections.

SENATE DEBATES
Letter of Job Wilkinson, Esq., dated 4th
February, 1852, with the papers connected
therewith, on the report of Major Robinson,
Intercolonial Railway.-(Distribution only.)
Return to address, House of Commons;
showing what sum or sums of money (if any)
have been paid out of the Consolidated
Revenue Fund of the late Province of Canada,
and of the Dominion, to the credit of the
Upper Canada (now Ontario) Municipal Loan
Fund, under the provisions of the Seigniorial
Amendment Act, 1859, with the date of payments, &c.
Return to address, and supplementary return, House of Commons; For all reports since
1st July, 1867, to the Government, which may
have been made by surveyors, or other officers
employed to construct roads and other works
for the opening communication between the
head of Lake Superior and the Red River.
Message from the Governor-General, with
despatch from the Secretary of State, in answer to the joint address from the Senate and
House of Commons to Her Majesty, praying
the annexation to Canada of Rupert's Land
and the Northwest Territory.
The Committee also recommend that the
following documents be not printed, viz.:
Return to an address from Senate, on the
subject of the encouragement of the building
of ships of wood and iron known as composite
vessels.
Return to an address from House of Commons-,statement of convictions and penalties
levied under Fisheries and Game Acts, by
John McLaren Esq., during 1866 and 1867.
Return to an address from the House of
Commons-statement of number of sittings,
their date and duration, of the Court at Amherst, in the Magdalen Islands, since its establishment, and all correspondence between the
Government and the Judges of the district of
Gaspé, &c.
Return to an address from the House of
Commons-copies of all memorials addressed
to the Government on the subject of the duty
on hops.
Return to an address from the House of
Commons-return of al surveys and reports
relating to harbors on the east coast of Lake
Huron; also, all reports relative to said surveys of harbours of refuge or otherwise,
north of the town of Goderich, &c.
Return to an address from the House of
Commons-correspondence between the Gov-

May 18, 1868

ernment of the late Province of Canada,
or the Government of the Dominion, and the
Government of Newfoundland in relation to
duties of customs which the latter Government exacts from our fishermen, on articles
used in the fisheries, &c.
Return to an address from the House of
Commons-return of fines imposed, and seizures made in the county of Digby, for
breaches of the revenue laws, since the first
day of July last, &c.
Return to an address from the House of
Commons-statement of accounts rendered to
the Government by the proprietors of the
Gazette de Sorel; and likewise a statement of
all moneys paid to the same, with date of such
payments, the whole since 1862 inclusive.
Return to an address from the House of
Commons-copies of contracts entered into
with Robert H. McGreevy, for work done on
Public Buildings, Ottawa.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
Asa A. Burnham,
Chairman.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Burnham, seconded
by Hon. Mr. Shaw; it was ordered, that the
said report be taken into consideration by the
House to-morrow.
The House then resolved itself into Committee of the Whole on the Bill intituled "An
Act respecting copyrights," (Hon. Mr. Reesor
in the chair,) who reported the same with
several amendments, which were concurred
in. The bill was then read a third time and
passed.
An Act respecting forgery, perjury and intimidation, in connection with the Provincial
Legislatures and their Acts, was ordered to be
postponed until to-morrow, on motion of Hon.
Mr. Campbell, seconded by Hon. Mr. Mitchell.
The amendments proposed by the Committee of the whole House to the Bill intituled
"An Act to incorporate the Canadian Lake
Underwriters' Association," were then considered, which said amendments were severally
concurred in, the bill was read a third time as
amended, passed, and ordered to be taken to
the House of Commons, and acquaint that
House that the Senate had passed this bill
with several amendments, to which they
asked their concurrence.
The House then adjourned.

May 19, 1868

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Tuesday, May 19, 1868.
The Speaker took the chair at three o'clock.
Hon. Mr. Anderson from the Cormmittee on
Standing Orders and Private Bills reported
the Bill, intituled "An Act to incorporate the
Stratford Board of Trade," which was then
read a third time and passed.
The fifteenth report of the Joint Committee
of the Senate and House of Commons on the
Printing of Parliament, was read and adopted.
The Bill intituled "An Act to continue for a
limited time the several Acts therein mentioned," received several readings and was
passed.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Ryan, seconded by
Hon. Mr. Aikins, it was ordered that the return presented yesterday to an address of this
House to His Excellency the GovernorGeneral, dated 7th May, 1868, praying His
Excellency to be pleased to cause to be laid
before this House copies of the reports made
by John Page, Esq., Engineer of the Public
Works Department, on the subject of deepening Lake St. Peter, in virtue of an order in
Council made in July, 1862, be read.
PROTECTION OF FISHERIES
Pursuant to the Order of the Day the Bill
intituled "An Act for the regulation and protection of, Fisheries," was read a second time.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said this was a measure
of great importance to the interests of the Dominion, and he felt assured that every hon.
member of the House would take a careful
look over its provisions and notice the
changes made from the old Canadian Act,
which was introduced in 1854 by his hon.
friend (Mr. Campbell), when he was Commissioner of Crown Lands. He believed this
Canadian Act had been a great success, and
this opinion which he had formed of it was
corroborated by the testimony of those who
have been engaged in the fisheries of the lake
shores and western rivers of the Dominion.
There have been alterations made in it for the
purpose of assimilating it to the wants and
requirements of the Maritime Provinces. He
felt that with the slight experience which he
had in this branch of the public service the
best course which he could take, was to adopt
the old landmarks established by men who
had more experience than he had in this Department. Therefore, with the assistance of

gentlemen in his own Department, he had
prepared this bill, making as few changes as
possible, and those changes he would point out
when the House went into Committee upon
the bill.
The House then went into Committee of the
Whole upon the Bill (Hon. Mr. Benson in the
chair), when after a long conversational
debate in reference to the changes that had
been made, the bill was agreed to with several
amendments, after which the bill was read a
third time and passed.
The Bill intituled "An Act respecting the
Northern Railway of Canada," was read a first
and second time, agreed to by a Committee of
the whole House, and ordered to be read a
third time at the next sitting of the House.
RELIEF OF SICK AND DISTRESSED
MARINERS
The Bill intituled "An Act respecting the
treatment and relief of sick and distressed
mariners," was read a first time.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell then moved the second
reading of the bill, and said its object was for
the purpose of assimilating the different systems in the several Provinces of the Dominion
for the support of sick and distressed mariners. In the Province of old Canada, for the
maintenance of mariners, a tax of one penny
per ton was imposed upon vessels coming into
the ports of that Province. In Nova Scotia and
New Brunswick there was also a tax imposed
of two or t'hree cents a ton, according to the
amount of shipping, for that purpose, and for
the maintenance of Hospitals. Every two or
three years the law had to be altered, sometimes making the tax more, and sometimes
less. Under this bill those laws will be assimilated, and a tax of so much a ton will be
imposed upon the tonnage of vessels, for the
purpose of maintaining sick mariners who
may be chargeable to that fund.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Mitchell the House
went into committee upon the bill, ( Hon. Mr.
Skead in the chair), when it was agreed to
without amendment.
FISHING BY FOREIGN VESSELS
A message was then brought from the
House of Commons with a Bill intituled, "An
Act respecting Fishing by Foreign Vessels,"
which was read a first time, when
Hon. Mr. Mitchell moved the second reading, and said the bill was almost a transcript
of similar Acts, which for the last eleven

SENATE DEBATES
years had been on the Statute books of
New Brunswick and Nova Scotia. The object
of the bill was to make foreign fishing vessels
found within three miles of the coast liable to
be taken into ports and condemned. The passing of the Reciprocity Treaty shortly after
these Acts came into operation practically did
away with their operation; but now the treaty
being repealed it becomes necessary in order
to enforce the rights of our fishermen that an
Act should pass in Canada similar in its character to those former Acts. He then referred
to the regulation which had been passed, and
which had received the assent of Her Majesty,
to give license to foreign vessels to fish within
three miles of the coast for the fee of $2 per
ton. The bill was then read a second time,
when the House went into committee and
agreed to the bill without amendment.

May 19, 1868

the maintenance of lights, and adopting the
principle of maintaining lights out of the
general treasury.

Hon. Mr. McCully objected to bills coming
up here without giving the members of the
House an opportunity of judging of their
provisions. He referred particularly to a bill
they passed in about five minutes, in regard to
the confiscation of American ships when
found fishing within three miles of the coast,
but believing it to be a good bill, he had not
raised his voice against it. These Marine bills
might have been here sooner. He did not
blame the Minister of Marine for the delay,
because he knew he gave his attention to
them, but it was the Government, who were
responsible for these measures not arriving
here at an earlier period. He hoped that hereafter, we should not be put in the position
The Speaker having resumed the Chair the of having to pass bills without reading them.
bill was read a third time and passed.
Hon. Mr. Mitchell sympathized with his
Hon. Mr. Mitchell presented.to the House a hon. friend, and if he had not known the facts
return to an Address to His Excellency the he would have taken the same objection. This
Governor-General, dated yesterday, praying was a bill which affected the taxation of the
that His Excellency will be pleased to cause to country, therefore it was necessary that it
be laid before this House, copies of any corre- should be introduced into the other House.
spondence, proposals or suggestions, received The other bill regarding confiscation also
during the present Session of Parliament, by affected property, and had to come from the
the Hon. the Minister of Fisheries and Marine, other House. Every bill which he had presenthaving reference to deepening and improving ed was connected in some way with taxation,
the ship channel between Quebec and Mont- and therefore it became a matter of constitureal, and to reconstructing and uniting the tional necessity that they should be received
Trinity Board and Harbour Trusts of Mont- from the other Branch of the Legislature.
real.-Referred to the Joint Committee on These bills had been in the other House for
many weeks, and the consideration of them
Printing.
here had been prevented by the great amount
of business before that Branch of the LegisLIGHTHOUSES, BUOYS AND BEACONS
lature. He hoped that in future a great part of
The Bill intituled "An Act relating to light- the business introduced into the other Branch
houses, buoys and beacons," received two would come here earlier in the Session, as we
readings.
would have better legislation if we had more
regretted this
Hon. Mr. Mitchell said the object of the bill time. He his hon. friend. hasty legislation as
much as
was for the purpose of assimilating the laws
The House then went into Committee upon
relating to lighthouses, buoys and beacors. In
the late Province of Canada, lights on the the bill, and agreed to it without amendment,
coast were maintained out of the general and ordered the third reading of the said Bill
treasury; in Nova Scotia, they were main- at next sitting of the House.
tained by a tax of ten cents per ton on the
PENALTIES IN RESPECT OF
shipping which entered the ports of that
STAMP DUTIES
Province; in New Brunswick they were also
maintained by a tax on the shipping. It would
A message was brought from the House of
be unjust to allow the law to remain as it is,
because in the Maritime Provinces this tax Commons with a Bill entitled, an Act respectwas collected at their ports, while in Canada ing certain penalties in respect of Stamp
it would be taken out of the general treasury, Duties, which was read a first time.
to which the Maritime Provinces contribute.
Hon. Mr. Campbell moved the second readTherefore, the Government had introduced ing, and said it was a bill which had been
this bill abolishing all taxation on tonnage for suggested by his bon. friend from Nova

May 1-9, 188

.ENATE DEB Mfl

Seotia, who had aseertained that there was a
difieulty in that Province, inasmuch as the
law providing that stamps should be affixed ta
notes and bils of exchange was not thoroughly known in that part of the country. He (Mr.
Campbell) had satisfled him that there was no
difficulty attending the receovery of the notes,
by affixing stamps to them at any time before
judgnent was given, but still persons would
be liable to penalties for not having affixed
them when the notes were drawn; therefore,
to meet that diMculty this bill had been introduced into the other branch of the Legisiature.
The bill then received a second and third
reading, and passed.
An Act respecting railways received its
first and second readings.

operation, he could not conceive how the
information reached tbem, and it surprised
him as much as it did his hon. friend.
Hgn, Mx. Masçpbfr.o hoped the Government would take every means of enquiring
into the matter, as in justice to the employees
who were aware of the proposed changes, the
matter should be well sifted.
loi, Mx. AUiiw did not think it was good
policy to take the duty off breadstuffs, particularly in regard to corn.

Hon. Mr. MUter said the duty on breadstuffs
was a serious act of injustice to the Maritime
Provinces, but he thought the Government
would have adopted a wiser course if they
had continued the duties on flour and imposed
some protective duty upon coal; the former
would have been acquiesced in by the people
DUTIESQF CUSTOMS
of Nova Seotia in consideration of a duty
being placed upo that important article of
A message was brought from the House of production in Nova Scotia.
Commons with a Bill intituled "An Act to
amend an Act of the present Session, inHon. Mr. Dever argued against the untituled 'An Act inposing duties of customs fairness of the discriminating duties upon
with the tariff of duties payable under it
spirits, the high priced wines being imported
Read a first time.
at a much lower rate of duty according to
value
Hon. Mr. Campbell in moving the second was than other spirits. He held that wine
chiefly used by the wealthy, therefore, he
reading, said this bill made certain changes in could
see no reason why a duty should not be
the tariff whicb had been in force since the imposed upon that article equal in amount to
first part of the Session. He then enumerated other spirits which
have to
the principal alterations which had been made on their cost. Wine paid but pay 130 per cent
30 per cent while
from the previous tariff.
the duty on whisky was 150 per cent, and on
Hon. Mr. Macpherson desired to express his gin and West India rum it was 200 per cent.
gratification that the duty on breadstuffs had
The Bill was then read a second timne; combeen removed. He had read in a report of the mitted to a Committee of the whole Flouse,
proceedings of the other House that certain Agreed to and read a third time and passed.
merchants and dealers in wine in the MariThe following Bills were brought froin the
time Provinces had taken their wine out of
bond under the old tariff, after the new tariff House of Commons, and the amendments
should have been in operation. He would like made by that House were agreed to by the
the Government to explain how it happened, Senate, viz.:An Act respecting the Manufacture and
and to what amount the revenue had suffered? 'He did not attach so much importance Importation o! Copper Coins or Tokens.
to the amount as to the occurrence. He underAn Act respecting the commencement of
stood the Government had taken measures to certain Acts of this Session therein mentionecI
prevent anything of that kind occurring by
An Act to incorporate the Bank of
taking possession of the telegraph the day the Agriculture.
tariff had come under the consideration of the
An Act to provide for Gaths of Witnesses
other House.
being administered in certain cases for the
Hon. Mr. Campbel was glad to find his purposes afeither Houseof Parliament.
hon. friend was gratified with the change in
The BiH intituled "An Act respecting
the tariff in regard to breadstuffs. In reference Forgery, Perjury, and Intimidation in connecto the enquiry how the contemplated changes tion with the ProvincialLegislatures and their
ik the tari« tad eached St. John, thus en- Acts," had several readings and was passed.
abbdg ail the merchants to take their wines
The House then adjourned until half-past
out of bond before the new tariff came inte seven o'clock, p.m.
99267-24

SENATE DEBATES
AFTER RECESS
The House having met, the following bills
were read a third time and passed, viz.:
An Act respecting the Northern Railway.
An Act respecting the treatment and relief
of Distressed Mariners.
An Act respecting Fishing by Foreign
Vessels.
An Act relating to Lighthouses, Buoys and
Beacons.
AN ACT RESPECTING RAILWAYS
The House went into Committee of the
Whole on a Bill intituled, "An Act respecting
Railways,"
Hon. Mr. Chaffers in the chair.

May 19,1888

Hon. Mr. Macpherson said as express coinpanies had the charge of valuable parcels, it
was very important that they should be responsible companies. He was in favour of
proper competition, but to afford facilities to
all those who represented themselves as express companies, he thought would not be for
the interest of the public.
Hon. Mr. Reesor remarked that so long as
one company was allowed to have a monopoly, so long would the public be imposed upon.
If they could have one more express company
in Canada, the charges for carrying by express would be more reasonable.
Hon. Mr. Flint thought it was not right that
one company should have a monopoly of the
whole country.
Hon. Mr. Macpherson said a railway company had power to make arrangements with
as many companies as they chose.

Hon. Mr. Campbell, in reply to an objection
made to a clause of the bill which provided
Hon. Mr. Flint said it should not be left
that railways should carry freight for every
discretionary with them whether they should
Express company upon the same terms, stated
that the clause did not apply to existing give greater privileges to one company than to
another. The railway itself was a great
Railway companies.
monopoly, and they charged just what they
Hon. Mr. Ferrier said if the principle was saw fit. If they carry freight for twelve and-awrong the clause ought not to be passed, even half cents a certain distance when navigation
is open and charge fifty cents during the winthough it did not come into operation now.
ter months, it shows they either charge too
Hon. Mr. McMaster said it was quite true much in the last instance or too little in the
that the law did not affect existing roads, but first. The railway companies should not say
those roads which it did affect would be inti- which express company they will take, but
mately connected with existing roads, there- they should be compelled to serve them all
fore it was extremely desirable that the clause alike. If we could get half a dozen express
should be struck out.
companies, there would be competition, and
the public would be better served.
Hon. Mr. Campbell had no strong opinion
upon the subject, as he had no experience in
Hon. Mr. Benson would vote against the
the matter. If the committee thought proper to amendment to strike out the last clause.
strike out the clause he would have no objecAn amendment was then moved to strike
tion.
out the clause, which was carried.
Hon. Mr. Ross thought the clause unfair,
The Committee then rose and reported the
and it was not right to pass it simply to bill agreed to as amended, after which it was
gratify some persons who unfortunately can read a third time and passed. not get a contract, where some other company
The following bills from the House of
has it.
Commons, received several readings and
Hon. Mr. McCrea said it was only fair that passed, viz.
An Act respecting the Internal Economy of
all express companies should be served alike
it would be a monopoly for one company to the House of Commons.
An Act further securing the Independence
get privileges at a cheaper rate than another.
Several express companies were to be estab- of Parliament.
An Act respecting the Canada Vine lished, but a company composed of Americans had a monopoly on the railway lines, Growers' Association.
which gave them a great advantage. He
On motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell the
thought the clause a good one, and it ought House adjourned until to-morrow at eleven
o'clock, am.
not to be struck out.

SENATE DEBATES

May 20, 1868

THE SENATE
Wednesday, May 20, 1868.
The Speaker
o'clock.

took the

chair

at eleven

The following bills were received by message from the House of Commons, viz.:
An Act respecting Copyrights.
An Act respecting Trade Marks and Industrial Designs.
An Act respecting the internal economy of
the House of Commons.
An Act respecting the Police of Canada,
with several amendments, which were concurred in by the Senate.
An Act respecting Railways.
And an Act for the regulation of Fishing
and the protection of Fisheries.
A Bill intituled an Act relating to interest in
Nova Scotia, was presented to the House by
Hon. Mr. McCully, and received three several
readings and passed.
A message was brought from the House of
Commons by their Clerk, with a Bill intituled,
an Act to amend the Act for the incorporation
of the Northwest Navigation and Railway
Company.
The Bill, after passing through the necessary readings, was passed without amendment.
A Bill intituled an Act respecting Harbour
Police, was also read three times and passed.
The House then adjourned until three
o'clock in the afternoon.

Hon. Mr. Wilmot enquired whether the biH
now under discussion had been printed and
distributed, for a most important Government
measure came before the House at its last
meeting, purporting to be a bill for the independence of Parliament, which his hon.
friend, the Postmaster-General, explained at
the second reading, was for the purpose, as he
(Mr. W.) understood, of permitting Queen's
Counsel to hold seats in the House of
Commons, but he had been informed that it
went very much further, and would permit
Sheriffs and Registrars of deeds and wills to
be elected-officers of all others that should
be excluded. The bill had been brought in
under a false title. It should have been entitled a bill to establish the subserviency of
Parliament, and not the independence. Had he
(Mr. W.) been aware of the provisions of the
Bill he would certainly have divided the
House upon it, and he very much regretted
that the Government should have taken such
a course.
Hon. Mr. Campbell said it would be a very
delicate subject for this House to say who
should or who should not be elected into the
other House of Parliament. The matter was
solely for the other House to deal with. Upon
introducing the bill he had stated that it permitted Queen's Counsel, Attorneys and others
to hold seats in Parliament.
Hon. Mr. Ross said as all these officers were
controlled by the Local Legislatures, there
could not be the slightest objection to their
holding seats in Parliament. The Dominion
Government had no control over them.

Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just said no officer
of the Local Government should be independent of the Federal Government. They have to
pay the Lieutenant-Governors of the ProvAFTERNOON SESSION
inces, and they have a sort of pressure upon
A message was brought from the House of those Local Governments, therefore, when he
Commons by their Clerk, to return the Bill saw that Sheriffs and Coroners were to have
intituled an Act to incorporate the Canadian the liberty of being elected to the Commons
Lake Underwriters' Association, and to ac- he thought it would be an injury to the counquaint the House that they had agreed to the try. He objected to these measures being so
hastily passed through Parliament, when they
amendments made by the Senate.
had no means of testing whether they were
suitable for the country or not, on account of
TOBACCO DUTY
so many members being absent.
A message was brought from the Flouse of
Hon. Mr. Reesor quite agreed with the hon,
Commons, by their Clerk, with a Bil intituled member who had taken his seat. It was to be
an Act for the better securing the payment of regretted that under this bilLpersons could be
the duty imposed on tobacco manufactured in elected to the Commons that were not allowed
Canada, was read a first and second time.
to be elected under the old law of Canada. In
Hon. Mr. Campbefl moved the third read- regard to the bill before the House he thought
ing, when
it would be a less expensive way of coflecting
99267-241

SENMA
the revenue on that partieular production
than under the old systern, and it would not
tntefere with Its production.
Tht bill was then read a third time and
passed.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell the House
adjourned until half-past seven o'clock.
EVENING SESSION
Hon. M4r. Burnhan, from the Joint Committee of the Senate and House of Commons,
on the Printing of Parliament, presented their
I6th Report. Which report on motion of Hon.
Mr. Burnham, seconded by Hon. Mr. Skead,
was then adopted.
A Message was brought from the House of
Commons by their Clerk, with a Bill intituled
"An Act respecting procedure and other mattors relating ta Criminal Law," to which they
desire the concurrence of the House.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Campbell, seconded
by Hon.Mr. Kenny, it was
Ordered, that the said Bill be discharged
from the order of the day.
Also a message with a Bill intituled, "An
Act trespecting patents for invention," which
bill was read a first time.
Another message with a Bill intituled "An
Act for granting to Her Majesty certain sums
of money required for defraying certain expenses of the public service, for the financial
years ending respectively the thirtieth day of
Juno, 1868, and the thirtieth day of June,
1869; and for other purposes relating to the
public service," to which they desire the concurrence of this Bouse.
The said bill was read a first time.
Ordered, that the 42nd rle be dispensed
with, In so far as It relates to said bill, and
t¶at the saine be read a second Urne, and third
thne, nd passed, -and ordered to be sent down
to the House of Commons, and acquaint that
flouse that the Senate have passed this bill
without any amendment.
Hon. Mr. Chapais presented to the House a
report of the Minister of Agriculture, for the
six months ending let July, 1867.
"An Act respecting Insurance Companies,"
(fron the House of Commons,) was read a
Brst tine, and the 42nd rule being dispensed
with, it was read a second and third time, and
passed, and ordered to be sent down to the
flouse o! Commons, and acquaint that House
that the Senate have passed this bill withaut
any anendment.

DEATES

My
May le, 188"

A message was brought frin the House of
Commons, by their Clerk, to return the Bill
intituled "An Act for the taking of evidence
in Canada in relation ta civil and commercial
matters pending before Courts of Justice in
any of Her Majesty's Dominions, or before
any Foreign tribunals," and to acquaint that
House that they have passed the said bill
with several amendments, ta which they desire the concurrence of this House, which said
amendments were agreed to.
Ordered, that the Clerk inform the House of
Commons that the Senate doth agree to the
amendments ta the :said bill, without any
amendment.
A message was brought from the House of
Commons, by their Clerk, ta return the Bill
entitled, an Act respecting Forgery, Perjury
and Intimidation, in connection with the
Provincial Legisiatures and their Acts, and to
acquaint this House that they have passed the
said bill with several amendments, to which
they desire the concurrence of this honourable
House, which were agreed to, and ordered
that the Clerk inforn the House that the
Senate doth agree to the amendments to the
said bill without any amendment.
Hon. Mr. Campteil, Postmaster-General,
then gave the House considerable information
regarding the postal service arrangements ta
the Maritime Provinces during the coming
season of navigation, which seemed ta give
general satisfaction.
Hon. Mr. Ryan wished ta ask the Postmaster-General if the report he had just
heard was true, that a motion was carried in
the Bouse of Commons, at the instance of the
member for Argenteuil, (Mr. Abbott) that
the Grenville and Carillon Canal was ta
be closed on Sundays. Re thought it very
invidious to select the Province of Quebec
Edone, in the Dominon, to enforce such regulattions, whereby they interfered with the innocent amusements and business arrangements of its inhabitants. It was a great hardship ta be detained on a journey over from
midnight on Saturday until Monday; besides,
no through steamers in England (the country
we ought ta copy fron) were interfered with
or stopped on their voyage for the Sunday. He
respected ýthat day, he hoped, as much as any
other lhon. memnber, but he thought this was
carrying matters to an extreme.
After the Hon. Messrs. Campbell, Macpherson and Price had taken part in the debate,
the House adjourned until Friday next.

May 22, lue8

SEIAI

THE SENATE
Frday MayM. 188
To-day, at two o'clock p.m., His Ecellency
the Governor-General proceeded in state to
the chamber of the Senate, in the Parliament
Building. The members of the Senate being
assembled, Hmis Exceleney was pleased to command the attendance of the House of Coinmons, and that House being present, the following bills were assented to in Her Majesty's
name by His ExceUency the GovernorGeneral, viz.:
An Act ta define the privileges, immunities
and powers of the Senate and House of
Commons, and to give summary protection to
persons employed in the publication of Parliamentary papers.
An Act providing for the organization of the
Department of the Seeretary of State of
Canada, and for the management of Indian
and Ordnance Lands.
An Act respecting the Currency.
An Act respecting Inquiries concerning
Public Matters.
An Act to regulate and restrict the Contingent charges ef the Departments of the
Publie Service, and to establish a stationery
office.
An Act respecting Commissions, and oaths
of aliegiance and of office.
An Act for continuing the Parliament of
Canada, in case of the demise of the Crown.
An Act respecting the security to be given
by Officers of Canada.
An Act to enable Her Majesty ta provide
for the widow and children of the late Hon.
Thos. D'Arcy McGee.
An Act for the organization of the Departmenit of Marine and Fisheries of Canada.
An Act respecting Accessories to, and
abettors of, indictable offences.

An Act to authorize the carrying of gas
pipes across the River Niagara, in order to
facilitate the lighting of the Town of Clifton
with gas.
An Act to Incorporate the Clifton Suspension Bridge Company.
An Act to amend the Acts relating to the
Niagara District Bank
An Act respecting the Departmant of Justige.
An Act to amend au Act intituled "Au At
respecting the Statutes of Canada."

DEATES
An Act ta enabi bots in any part of
Canada to uSe notes et the Dominion instead
of issuing notes of their own.
An Act respecting Aliens and NaturaUsation.
An Act to confrm the Amalgamation of the
Cemmeredia Banik of Canada and the Merehants' Bank; and to amend and consolidate
the Acts oi Incorporation of the sid Banks.
An Act respecting the navigation of
Canadian Waters.
An Act respecting the Geological Survey
of Canada.
An Act respecting Penitentiaries, and the
Directors thereof, and for other purposes.
An Act to impose a duty on Poreign Reprints of British Copyright Works.
An Act respecting the Inspection of
Steamboats, and for the grester safety of
passengers by them.
An Act respecting the Consolidated Revenue
Fund.
An Act constltuting the Department of
Inland Revenue.
An Act constituting the Department of
Customs.
An Act to annex a portion of the Seigniory
of Belair to the County of Quebec, and another portion thereof to the County of Portneuf.
An Act for the better securlty of the Crown
and of the Governnent.
An Act respecting persons In custody
charged with Hlgh Treason or Felony.
An Act respecting the Clvil Service Of
Canada.
An Act for the organination of the Department of Agriculture.
An Act to confrm a certain by-law passed
by the Directors of the Lake Memphremagog
Navigation Company, and for other purposes.
An Act to incorporate the Canada Shipping
Company.
An Act to declare certain persans therein
mentioned lndemnifled for having sat and voted as members of the House of Commons,
while holding certain offces under the Crown.
An Act to Incorporate "The Merchants'
Express Company of the Dominion of Canada".
An Act respecting Riots and kotous Assemblies.
An Act to amend "An Act ta provide for the
improvement and management of the Rarbour of Quebec't. and the Act amending the
sane.

SENAtE bEBATES
Arn Ac tto make provision for defraying the
erperise -of certain Works of Fortification required for the defence of the Dominln.
An Act respecting the Governor-Geteral,
the civil list, and the salaries of certain public
functionarles.
An Act t amend the Acts relating to the
Canada West Farmers' Mutual and Stock
Insurance Company, and to change the name
of the Company to the "Canada Farmers'
Mutual Insurance Company",
- An Act to increase the excise duty on
Spirits, to impose an excise duty on refined
Petroleum, and t provide for the inspection
thereof.
An Act respecting the Militia and Defence
of the Dominion of Canada.
An Act to provide for Oaths to witnesses
being administered in certain cases for the
purposes of either House of Parliament.
An Act to incorporate "The Canadian Lake
Underwriters' Association".
An Act respecting the internal economy of
the House of Commons and for other purposes.
An Act for the regulation of Fishing and
protection of Fisheries.
An Act respecting the Northern Railway of
Canada.
An Act relating to Lighthouses, Buoys and
Beacons.
An Act respecting the Treatment and Relief
of Sick and Distressed Marners.
An Act respecting Penalties in respect of
Stamp Duties.
An Act respecting the Canada Vine Growers'
Association.
An Act respecting Police of Canada.
An Act further securing the Independence
of Parliament.
An Act relating to Quarantine and Public
Bealth.
An Act respecting Fishing by Foreign
Vessels.
An Act respecting the Manufacture or
Importation of Copper Coins or Tokens.
An Act te incorporate the Stratford Board
of Trade.
An Act te amend the Act of the present
Session, intituled: "An Act imposing duties of
Customs with the Tariff of Duties payable
under it.'
An Act te Incorporate the Bank of Agriculture.

May 22, 1868

An Act to corntiue for a limited time the
several Acts therein mentioned.
An Act respecting the commencement of
certain Acts of this Session therein mentioned.
An Act for better securing the payment of
the duty imposed on Tobacco manufactured in
Canada.
An Act respecting Railways.
An Act to amend the Act for the incorporation of the Northwest Navigation and Railway
Company.
An Act respecting Copyrights.
An Act respecting Trade Marks and Industrial Designs.
An Act respecting Harbour Police.
An Act respecting Insurance Companies.
An Act respecting forgery, perjury, and intimidation in connection with the Provincial
Legislatures and their Acts.
An Act to provide for taking Evidence in
Canada in relation to civil and commercial
matters pending before Courts of Justice in
any other of Her Majesty's Dominions, or
before Foreign Tribunals.

After which His Excellency the Governor-General was pleased te reserve the following bills for the signification of Her
Majesty's pleasure thereon:
An Act respecting the Treaty between Her
Majesty and the United States of America, for
the apprehension and surrender of certain
offenders.
An Act to fix the salary of the GovernorGeneral.
An Act for the relief of Joseph Frederick
Whiteaves.

Then The Honourable te Speaker of the
House of Commons addressed His Excellency
the Governor General as f olloweth:
May it please your Excellency,
The Comrnons of Canada have voted the
supplies required to enable the Government te
defray the expenses of the publie service.
In the name of the Commons, I present te
Your Excellency a Bill, intituled: "An Act for
granting to Her Majesty certain sums of
money required for defraying certain expenses of the public service for the financial
years ending respectively the thirtieth day of
June, 1868, and the thirtieth day of June,

SENATE DEBATES

May 22, 1868

1869; and for other purposes relating to the
publie service;" to which I humbly request
Your Excellency's assent.
To this Bill the Royal assent was signified,
in the following words:
In Her Majesty's name His Excellency the
Governor-General thanks Her loyal subjects,
accepts their benevolence, and assents to this
Bill.
After which His Excellency the Governor-General was pleased to close the First
Session of the First Parliament of the Dominion with the following
SPEECH:
Honourable Gentlemen of the Senate,
Gentlemen of the House of Commons:
I am glad to be enabled to release you from
further attendance to your duties in Parliament.
The Acts which you have passed for remodelling the Militia force of the Dominion, and
securing the defence of your territory, will, I
trust, accomplish the objects which you
desire to obtain.
I hope the measures which have been
adopted for regulating the fiscal system of the
Dominion will tend to the promotion of commercial enterprise, and to the stability of the
public credit.
I congratulate you on the passage of the
Acts by which the Executive Departments of

the Dominion have been organized, and their
efficiency provided for.
I must express my regret that the measures
for the assimilation of the criminal law of the
several Provinces of the Dominion which
were submitted by my directions to Parliament, have not been presented for the sanction of the Crown.
Gentlemen of the House of Commons:
I thank you for the provision you have
made for the public service, and I am satisfied
it will be applied with a due regard to
efficiency and economy.
Honourable Gentlemen, and Gentlemen:
I rejoice that I am in a position. to congratulate you on the general prosperity which prevails through the Dominion, and I feel assured
that on your return to your homes you will
exert yourselves in promoting obedience to
the laws and inculcating attachment to the
free institutions under which it is your happiness to live.
The Speaker of the Senate then said:
Honourable Gentlemen of the Senate and of
the House of Commons:
It is His Excellency the Governor-General's
will and pleasure, that this Parliament be
prorogued until Wednesday, the first day of
July next, to be here held, and this Parliauntil
accordingly
prorogued
ment
is
Wednesday, the first day of July next.

INDEX
Abbreviations: ir., 2r., 3r., = first, second, third reading. smdt. = amendment con.
= committee. carreg. = correspondence. Govt. = government. H. of
C.
House of Commons. M. ==motion. RA. = Royar Assent. ref.=
referred.

Accessories and Abetors of Indictable Offences Bill
H. of C., Ir., 229; 2r., 234; con., Zr., passed, 341; R.A., 349
Adamson, Rev. Dr.
Chaplain, 151, 198, 199, 203, 204, 206-8
Librarian, 198, 199, 203, 204
Adamson, James
Clerk, salary, 128
Agriculture
Labourers, 258
Agriculture Depariment
Duties, importance, 213, 214
Agriculture Department Bill. Mr. Chapais
ir., 170; 2r., 184, 201, 209-14; 3r., passed, 214; H. of C., 319; RA., 349
Agriculture Minister
Report, 348
Aikins, Hon. J. C.
Banks in any part of Canada to use Dominion Notes instead of their own, Bill, 273
Customs Bill, 116
Customs Duties Act amdt Bill, 345
Fisheries reports, 129
GeoIogical Survey Federal Government to continue, qu., 37
Incorporated Companies, 164
Library of Parliament catalogue printing, 158
Municipal and, Assessment Acta, extra copies prlnted and distributed, qu., 17, 22
Patents for Inventions Bill, 288
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 70, 78, 80
Secretary of State Department Bill, 170
Aliens and Naturalization Bill. Mr. Campbell
Intro., 122, 124-7; ir., 127; 2r., 140; com., 157, 201; amdts, 168, 169, 184, 18&; 3r.,
passed, H. of C., 201, 279; R.A., 349
Allan, Hon. G. W.
Address in Answer to Throne Speech, 4-6
Bills, Senate origination, legislation, 96
Committees power to send for persons, 61

SENATE
Allan, Hon. G. W.-Cont.
Confederation, 4-6
Governor-General's salary, Bill to fix, 311
IntercoloniaI Insurance Company Bill, 91, 96
Larceny and other similar offences Bill, 323
Legislation affecting N.S., N.B. corres. Local Govt., Dominion Govt., 137
Library of Parliament catalogue printing, 159
Library of Parliament Com. Report, 246, 254, 255
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 41, 43, 47
McGee, late Hon. Thomas D'Arcy, provision widow and family, 173
Ontario, Province of, Financial Crisis, Select Com. Report, 294-7
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 82
Printing Com. report, 31
Rupert's Land and North-West Territory incorporation with Dominion of Canada,
112
St. Lawrence and Ottawa Railway Company Bill, 115
Senate business, 15
Senate daily sittings open with prayer, 187, 207
Speaker Senate, election, 251, 252
Standing Orders and Private Bills Report, 39, 138, 161
Whiteaves Divorce Bill, 243
Allan Company
Halifax, fortnightly steamer call, 183, 219
Anderson, Hon. J. H.
Bank of Agriculture Bill, 33ý0
Banks in any part of Canada to use Dominion Notes instead of their own, Bill
272
Currency Bill, 241
Dominion credit, advances, interest allowed, charged, Bank of Montreal, qu., 17,
22, 25
Dominion Notes
Banks Maritime Provinces same terms Bank of Montreal, qu., 17, 21
payment response Bank of MontreaI, qu., 17, 22
terms issued by Bank of Montreal, commission allowed, qu., 17
Halifax, fortnightly steamer call, qu., 183
Mail contract, Halifax-Great Britain, qu., 183
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 54, 78, 80
Printing Com. 13th Report, 231, 235
Stratford Board of Trade, Bill to incorporate, 333
Animals, Cruel±y to, Bill
1r., 320; 2r., 328
Apprehension and Detention of Persons Suspected of Committing Acts of Hostility
Against Her Majesty's Person and Government Bill
1r., 62; 2r., 73; com., 91, 92; 3r., and passed, 92; H. of C., lr., 186
Archibald, Hon. T. D.
Secretary of State Department Bill, 215
Sworn, took seat, 122
Armand, Hon J. F.
Chaplain appointment, 208
Frayer to open daily sittings, 207
Speaker Senate, election, 252
Arms, Unlawful Training of Persons in Use and Practice Bill. Mr. Campbell
1r., 92; 2r., 110; 3r., passed, 111

INDEX
Auditor General Officer of Parliament; Expenditure of Money, Except Energencies,
Not Allowed Without Authority of Parliarnent Balances Written Off Yearly
Bill
3r., passed, 119
Bank of Agriculture Bill
ir., 309; 2r., 324; com., 3r., passed, 330; H. of C., 345; R.A., 350
Bank of Montreal
Upper Canada Court action, 97
Bank of Upper Canada Bill
H. of C., 112
Bank Statements Bill. Mr. Macpherson
1r., 275; 2r., 305
Banking, Commerce and Railways Committee
Appointment, 11
Dever, Hon. James, appointment, 153
Macpherson, Hon. D., appointment, 37
McMaster, Hon. William, appointment, 95
Banks and Banking
Bank establishment Belleville, petition, 18
Bank establishment Hastings County, petition, 37
Bank notes, circulation, 260, 261, 268-70
Bank notes, issue, 260-72
Bank of Montreal, terms government business transacted, M. (Mr. Wilmot) for
papers, 37
Bank profits, 262
Bank statements, 262, 263, 272-4
Banking and currency, 290-305
Dominion note system, 290-305
Interest rate, 133
National Bank system, 290-8
Systems prevailing, 264-71
Banks Bill
2r., Sr., passed, 120
Banks in Any Part of Canada to Use Dominion Notes Instead of Their Own, Bill
1r., 232; 2r., 246, 260-74; 3r., passed, 274; R.A., 349
Banque Nationale Bill, see National Bank Bill
Bar Parliament Building
Closing, petition gratification, 122
Belair, Seigniory of, Portion Annexed to County of Quebec, Portion to County of
Porineuf Bill
H. of C., Ir., 300; 2r., 306; 3r., passed, 319; R.A., 349
Benson, Hon. J. R.
Adjournment Easter, 162
Banks in any part of Canada to use Dominion Notes instead of their own, Bill,
270, 271, 274
Governor-General's salary, Bill to fix, 309, 316

SENATE
senson Hon. J. R-Cont.
Lake St. CL-ir channel, qu. 260
McGee, late Hon. Thomas D'Arcy, provision widow and family, 174
Niagara District Bank Act, amdt., 183
Railways Bill, 346
Reciprocity Treaty United States, 218, 219
St. Clair Flats navigation, M. for papers, 281, 282
Ship-building, 218
Speaker Senate, election, 252
Sworn, took seat, replacing late A. J. F. Blair, 122
Bill, Hon. C. R.
Stamps for Notes and Bills of Exchange Nova Scotia, qu, 186, 187
Statutes of Canada distribution Magistracy, qu., 186
Bills
Amendments, 82-91, 312
Money, 310, 312, 314, 316
Royal instructions respecting passag, 12;, 18
Senate origination, legislation, 13, 14, 96
Senate passage, 119
Bills, See also individual titles
Auditor General Officer of Parliament; expenditure of money, except emergencies, not allowed without authority of Parliament, balances written off yearly
Bank Statements
Board of Works
Colonial Fire Insurance Company. Mr. Christie
Customs Tariff
Dominion Life Assurance Company. Mr. MeDonald
Intercolonial Insurance Company. Mr. Skead
Justice, prompt and summary Administration
Lawless Aggression Protection. Mr. Campbelt
National Bank, amdt. Mr. Tessier
Nova Scotia, interest in
Offenders wrongfully arrested, release and surrender
Parliament Publishers Protection
Publication of Parliamentary Papers
Upper Canada Bank Settlement
Bills, Government bills initiated in the Commons, See also individuat titles
Accessories and Abettors of Indictable Offences
Agriculture Department. M. Chapais
Aliens and Naturalization. Mr. Campbell
Animals, cruelty to
Apprehension and detention of persons suspected of committing acts of hostfIity
against Her Majesty's person and Government. Mr. Campbell, Mr. Blair
Arms, unlawful training of persons in use and practice. Mfr. Campbell
Bank of Agriculture
Banks
Banks in any part of Canada, ta use Dominion Notes instetd of their own
Belair, Seigniory of, portion annexed to County of Quebec, portion to Caunty
- of Portneuf
British Copyright Works duty on Foreign Reprints
Canada Shipping Company, to incorporate
Canada Vine Growers' Association
Canada West Farmers' Mutual and Stock Insurance Company Act, to amend
and to change the name of the Company to Canada Farmers Mutual Insurance Company

INDEX
Bills-Cont.
Canadian Lake Underwriters' Association, te incorporate
Civil Service of Canada
Clifton Suspension Bridge Company
Commercial Bank of Canada, amdt.
Commercial Bank of Canada and Merchants' Bank Amalgamation
Commissions and Oaths of Allegiance and of Office. Mr. Campbell
Consolidated Revenue Fund
Contingent Charges in Departments of Public Service, to regulate, restrict and
establish stationery office
Copper Coins or Tokens, importation or manufacture
Copyright. Mr. Chapais
Criminal Law
Crown and Governmesrt lir better security
Currency
Customs
Customs Department, to constitute
Customs Duties Act, amdt.
Evidence in Civil and Commercial Matters
Excise Duty, to increase on spirits, impose on refmed petroleum and provide
for inspection
Etradition Treaty Ertension. Mr. Campbell
Fishing and protection of Fisheries regulation
Fishing by Foreign Vessels
Forgery Indictable Offences
Fortification, works for defense of Dominion, to provide for defraying expenses
Geological Survey of Canada
Governor-General, Civil List, and salaries of certain Public Functionaries
Governor-General's salary, to dx
Harbour Police
House of Commons, certain persons indemnified for having sat and voted as
Members while holding certain offices under the Crown
House of Commons, Internai Economy
Incorporated Companies. Mr. Campbell
Independence of Parliament, further securing
Inland Revenue
lnland Revenue Depariment
Inquiries concerning Public Matters. Mr. Campbell
Insurance Companies
Intercolonial Railway
Justice Department. Mr. Campbell
Justices of the Peace, duties out of Session in relation to persons charged with
indictable offences
Juvenile Offenders, trial and punishment
Lake Memphramagog Navigation Company, to confirm a certain by-law passed
by Directors
Larceny and other similar offences
Lighthouses, buoys and beacons
Malicious Injuries to Property
Marine and Fisheries Department. Mr. Mitchell
Mariners, relief of sick and distressed
Members' indemnity and Speakers' salaries. Mr. Blair
Merchants' Express Company of the Dominion of Canada, to incorporate
Militia and Defence of Dominion of Canada
Navigation of Canadian Waters. Mr. Mitchell
Niagara District Bank Act, amdt. Mr. Benson
Niagara Falls Gas Company
Northern Railway of Canada
Northwest Navigation and Railway Company, amdt.

SENATE
Bills-Cont.
Oaths to Witnesses being Administered for the purpose of either House of
Parliament. Mr. Campbell
Offences against the Person
Offences to the Coin
Parliament of Canada continuing in case of the demise of the Crown
Patents for Inventions. Mr. Chapais
Penitentiaries and directors
Perjury
Persons in custody charged with High Treason or Felony
Police of Canada
Postal Service Regulations. Mr. Campbell
Promissory Notes and Bills of Exchange Duties
Provincial Legislatures, forgery, perjury and intimidation
Quarantine and Public Health
Quebec Harbour Act anidt.
Railways
Riots and Riotous Assemblies
St. Lawrence and Ottawa Railway Company
Secretary of State Department. Mr. Campbell
Security Officers of Canada. Mr. Campbell
Senate, House of Commons, Parliamentary Papers, privilege, immuni ty, powers
Stamp duties penalties
Statutes of Canada
Statutes of Canada, amdt.
Steamboats, inspection and safety of passengers
Stratford Board of Trade, to incorporate
Supply
Trade Marks and Industrial Designs. Mr. Chapais
Whiteaves Divorce. Mr. Ferrier
Bills, Private
Time reception petitions extended, 37, 95, 154, 242, 275
Blair, Hon. A. J. F.
Apprehension and detention of persons suspected of committing aéts of hostility
against Her Majesty's person and Government Bill, 62
Bills, Senate origination, legislation, 96
Intercolonial Insurance Company Bill, 91
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 44, 45
Members' indemnity and Speakers' salaries Bill, 40, 73
North-West Territory resolutions, 96, 112
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 88
Rupert's Land and North-West Territory incorporation with Dominion of Canada,
112
Senate, rules, 24, 25
Blair, Late Hon. A. J. F.
Senate adjourned in respect, 122
Board of Works Bill
passed, 119
Bossé, Hon. J. N.
Federal, Local Legislatures' rights, 96
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 65
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 71
Replaced by Chapais, J.C., 122

INDEX
Botsford, Hon. A. E.
Adjournment, Easter, 162
Clerk appointment, 198
Committees, power to compel attendance, 61
Confederation, 86
Governor-General's salary, Bill to fix, 309, 318
Library of Parliament Com. report, 255
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 43, 45, 64
Miller, Mr., appointment, 97
Officers and servants former Legislature, employment, appointment, 35, 36
Ontario, Province of, Financial Crisis, Select Com., 61
Patents for Inventions Bill, 275, 276
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 27, 53, 85, 86, 88, 89
Reciprocity Treaty United States, 220
Senate officers allowances, pensions, 205
Senate rules, 24, 25
Speaker Senate election, 252
Bounties
Payment, 216-9
Bourinot, Hon. John
Chaplain appointment, 208
Fisheries reports printing, 129
Harbour, Iighthouse, tonnage charges comparative statement various ports, 38
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 59, 78, 80, 86, 90
British Copyright Works Dufy on Foreign Reprints Bill
H. of C., 1r., 263; 2r., 274; com., 284-7; 3r., passed, 306; R.A., 349
British Copyright Works Foreign Reprints
Address to His Excellency, 319, 320
Brown, Hon. George
Charges McDougall, W.C.B., 117, 118
Buchanan, Laie Alexander Carlisle
Successor as Immigrant Agent at Quebec, 176
Buckingham, Duke of
Treasonable offences, telegram, 171
Bureau, Hon. J. O.
Adjournment, 22, 160
Banks in any part of Canada to use Dominion Notes instead of their own, Bill
263-6
Contingent Account Com. Report, 34
Copper Coins or Tokens, importation or manufacture Bill, 308
French language ignored, appeal to Speaker, 199
Immigration aid, encouragement, 258, 259
Indian rights, lands, 190-2
Larceny and other similar offences Bill, 322
Ontario, Province of, Financial Crisis, Select Com. Report, 302
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 77, 83, 91
Printing Com. 13th Report, 230
Secretary of State Department Bill, 190-2
Senate officers allowances, pensions, 204
Senate rules, 23, 24
Whiteaves Divorce Bill, 188, 233, 234, 242, 243

SENATE
Burnham, Hon. A. A.
Printing Joint Com. report 6th, 111; report 15th, 341, 342
Campbell, Hon. Alexander
Adjournment, Easter, 159-161
Aliens and Naturalization Bill, 122, 124, 140, 157, 184, 188
Apprehension and detentionof persons suspected of committing acts of hostility
against Her Majesty's person and Government Bill, 62, 186
Arns, unlawful training of persons in use and practice Bill, 92
Banking and curreney, 294, 295
Banks in any part of Canada to use Dominion Notes instead of their own Bill,
260-4, 272
Bills
passage through Senate, 119
Private, time reception petitions extended, 37
Royal instructions respecting passage, 12, 18
Blair, Hon. A. J. F. death, 122
British Copyright Works duty on Foreign Reprints Bill, 286, 287
Chaplain added to duties of Sergeant-at-Arms, amdt., 33
Charitable and literary institutions, grants in estimates, 27
Charitable institutions grants, 139
Clifton Suspension Bridge Company Bill, 229
Commercial Bank of Canada Bill, amdt., 81, 82
Commissions and Oaths :of Alegiance and of Ofice Bill, 122, 123
Committees, power to compel attendance, 61
Contingent Accounts Com. Report, 94, 101, 109, 142-7, 204, 206
Contingent Charges in departments of Public Service to regulate, restrict and
establish stationary offce Bill, 239
Currency Bill, 239, 244, 245
Customs Bill, 116
Customs Duties Act, amdt. Bill, 345
Customs Tariff Bill, 120
Debates reporting, 10
Evidence in Civil and Commercial Matters Bill, 248, 283
Excise Duty, to increase on spirits, impose on refined petroleum and provide for
inspection Bill, 331
Extradition Treaty Extension Bill, 203, 223, 228
Federal and Local Legislatures' rights, 97
French Translation proceedings, 199
Galt, Hon. A. T. resignation, 8
Geological Survey of Canada Bill, 283, 284
Governor-General's salary, Bill to fix, 309, 314-6
Holiday, Statutes of Canada Bill interpretation, 92
House of Commons Gallery set aside for Senate members, 18
Incorporated Companies Bill, 123, 140, 156, 168, 164, 188, 189
Independence of Parliament, further securing Bill, 347
Indian rights, lands, 189-94
Inland Revenue Bill, 116, 119
Inland Revenue Department BiU, 288, 239, 246, 247
Inquiries concerning Public Matters Bill, 123
Intercolonial Insurance Company Bill, 116
Intercolonial Railway contract, 260
Intercolonial Railway route through Nova Scotia, 222
Interest rate uniform, 232
Judges Superior Courts equalizing salaries, allowances, pensions, 200
Justice Department Bill, 201, 209, 224
Larceny and other similar offences Bil, 288, 289, 82&2-28
Lawless Aggression Protection Bill, 92, 111
Library of Parliament Com, report, 255

INDEX
Campbell, Hon. Alexander-Cont.
Militia and Defence of Dominion of Canada Bill, 334, 337, 341
Oaths to Witnesses being Administered for the purpose of either House of
Parliament Bill, 187, 203
Offences against the Person Bill, 325, 326
Officers and servants former Legislature, 33, 35
Ontario, Province of, Financial Crisis, Select Com., 61, 293-5, 307
Parliament Publishers Protection Bill, 228
Penitentiaries and directors Bill, 282, 283
Post Office Department dismissals, 116
Postal Service contract Cunard Steamship Company, 110
Postal Service Maritime Provinces, 110, 348
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 11, 20, 27, 31, 51-9, 66-72, 74-89, 110
Prayer to open daily sittings, 200
Printing Com. Joint with House of Commons agreed, 18
Printing Com. 13th Report, salary Clerk, accounting, 229, 231, 235-7
Procedures Select Com., 154
Proceedings, Select Com. report, 282
Railways Bill, 346
Retrenchment general in Public Service, 182, 183
Rupert's Land and the North-West Territory incorporation with Dominion of
Canada, 112, 113
Secretary of State Department Bill, 163, 189-94, 201, 202
Security Officers of Canada Bill, 122, 123
Senate business, 13, 14, 31, 111
Senate, House of Commons, Parliamentary Papers, privilege, immunities, powers
Bill, 223
Senate proceedings to former members Legislative Council of Canada, 115
Senate rules, 3, 25
Speaker Senate election, 249, 250
Stamp duties penalties, 344, 345
Stamps for Notes and Bills of Exchange, 186, 187
Steam communication Montreal, Quebec and Gulf ports N.S., N.B., 138
Whiteaves Divorce Bill, 157, 233, 244
Canada, Dominion of
Credit, advances, interest allowed, charged Bank of Montreal, qu. (Mr Anderson), 17, 22, 25
Federal, Local Legislatures' rights, 96
Indebtedness, 112
National independence, 4, 336, 337, 339
Reciprocity Treaty with United States, qu. (Mr. McCully), 16, 19, 20
"Canada Farmer"
Postage exemption, 86
Canada Shipping Company, Bill to Incorporate
H. of C., Ir., 289; 2r., 306; com., 319; 3r., passed, 325; R.A., 349
Canada-United States
Friends and neighbours, 4
War, 335-9
Canada Vine Growers' Association
Petition amendments Act of Incorporation, 319
Canada Vine Growers' Association Bill
Ir., 2r., Sr., passed, 346; R.A., 350
Canada West Farmers' Mutual and Stock Insurance Company Act, Amdt, Bill
H. of C., ir., 2r., 329; com., 3r., passed, 331; R.A., 350
99267-2

SENATE
Canadian Inland Steam Navigation Company Acts Amdt., Bill
1r., 96; 2r., 110; 3r., passed, 111
Canadian Lake Underwriters' Association Bill to Incorporate
H. of C., 1r., 2r., 328; com., 330, 331, 342; 3r., passed, 342; H. of C., 347; R.A., 350
Canals
Gulf of St. Lawrence and Bay of Fundy, qu. (Mr. Dickey), 21; M. (Mr. Wilmot)
for papers, 330
St. Clair Flats, M. (Mr. Benson) for papers, 281, 282
Sunday closing Grenville and Carillon, 348
Cassels, Mr.
Banking and currency, 297
Cauchon, Hon. J. E.
Appointed Speaker, 1
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 63, 65
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 71, 78
Chandler, E. S.
Declined Senate seat, 122
Chapais, Hon. J. C.
Adjournment, Easter, 160
Agriculture Department Bill, 170, 184, 201, 209, 210, 214
Agriculture Minister's Report, 348
Banks in any part of Canada to use Dominion Notes instead of their own Bill,
266
Chaplain appointment, 207, 208
Contingent Accounts Com. Report, 145, 146
French translation Contingent Accounts Com. 5th Report, 199
Immigration Department, 185
Immigration, year 1868, aid, encouragement, 257
Indian rights, lands, 190
Larceny and other similar offences Bill, 322
Leave of absence, 154
Library of Parliament Com. appointment, 153
McGee, late Hon. Thomas D'Arcy, provision widow and fanily, 172, 172
Offences against the Person Bill, 326
Patents for Inventions Bill, 246, 275, 279, 287, 290
Public Departments, constituting, 209, 210
Quarantine and Public Health Bill, 275
Secretary of State Department Bill, 190
Speaker Senate election, 251
Sworn, took seat, replaced Bossé, J. N., 122
Trade Marks and Industrial Designs Bill, 319
Whiteaves Divorce Bill, 233, 234
Chaplain
Adamson, Rev. Dr., 151, 198, 199, 203, 204, 206
Appointment, 33, 35, 198, 206-9
Discontinuance of office, 151
Duties added to Sergeant-at-Arms, 33
Charitable and Literary Institutions
Grants, 18, 27
Charitable Institutions
Grants, qu. (Mr. Ryan), 139

INDEX
Christie, Hon. David
Adjournment, 13, 15, 160
Blair Hon. A.J.F. death, 122
Colonial Fire Insurance Company, Bill to incorporate, 39
Excise Duty, to increase on spirits, impose on refined petroleum and provide for
inspection Bill, 331
Governor-General's salary, Bill to fix, 309
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 44, 45
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 78, 85, 87, 89, 91
Senate, business, 13
Civil Service of Canada Bill
ir., 307; 2r., com., 318; R.A., 349
Clerk of the Senate
Appointment, 32
Salary, 106, 140, 148, 149
Clifion Gas Bill, see Niagara Falls Gas Company Bill
Clifion Suspension Bridge Company Bill to Incorporate
H. of C., 224; 2r., 229; passed, 238; H. of C., 247; R.A., 349
Colonial Fire Insurance Company, Bill to Incorporae. Mr. Christie
Intro., 39
Commercial Bank
Failure, 60, 61, 290, 295, 297, 299
Commercial Bank of Canada and Merchants' Bank Amalgation Bill
H. of C., Ir., 255; 2r., 274; com., 275; 3r., passed, 282; R.A., 349
Commercial Bank of Canada Bill, Amdi. Mr. Campbell
2r., coin., 81; 3r., passed, H. of C., 82
Commissions and Oaths of Allegiance and of Office Bill. Mi. Campbell
Intro., 2r., 122; com., 3r., passed, 123; H. of C. amdts., 186; R.A., 349
Committees
Pover to compel attendance of persons or production of papers, 61
Communication
Steam, Montreal, Quebec and Gulf ports N.S., N.B., qu. (Mr. Miller), 138
Water, opening between Gulf of St. Lawrence and Bay of Fundy, qu.
(Mr. Dickey), 17
Confederation
Allan, 4-6
Botsford, 86
Dickey, 182
Hazen, 135, 136
Letellier, 8; Locke, 131, 137, 221
McCully, 6, 212; McDonald 6-8; Miiler, 118, 119;
Sanborn, 9, 213
Wier, 131, 132; Wilnot, 117, 130-2, 181, 182
Confederation Medal
Design, cost, 242
99267-251

Mitchell, 134, â135

SENATE
Consolidated Revenue Fund BI
1r., 319; 2r., com., 42nd rule suspended, 3r., passed, H. of C., 324; R.A., 349
Constitutional Act
French translation al proceedings, 199
Contingent Accounts Comnittee
Appointment, 11
Debates, cost reporting, printing, 12
Report
1st, 32-6; 2nd, 97-110, 140-50, 307; 3rd, 93-5, 111, 115; 5th, 157, 187, 194,
198-200, 199, 203-9; 6th, 195-8
Allowances, to Officers no longer required, 128
Scale salaries, reduction staff, N. of M. amdt. (Mr. Letellier), 122
Contingent Charges in Depariments of Public Service,
Establish Stationery Office Bill
1r., 232; 2r., 239; com., 244; R.A., 349

to Begulate, Restrict, and

Copper Coins or Tokens, Importation or Manufacture Bill
H. of C., lr., 300; 2r., com., 308, 325; 3r., passed, 331; H. of C., 345; R.A., 350
Copyright Bill. Mr. Chapais
1r., 324; 2r., 331; com., 3r., passed, 342; H. of C., 347; R.A., 350
Criminal Law
Bils respecting, 320-8
Criminal Law Bill
H. of C., 348
Crown and Government for Better Security Bill
H. of C., 1r., 300; 2r., com., 308; 3r., passed, 318; R.A., 349
Crown Lands of the Late Province of Canada
Commissioner's report tabled, 65
Currency
Dominion Notes
Banks Maritime Provinces same terms Bank of Montreal, qu. (Mr. Anderson), 17
terms issued by Bank of Montreal, commission allowed, qu. (Mr. Anderson),
17
payment response by Bank of Montreal, qu. (Mr. Anderson), 17, 22
Currency Bill
1r., 232; 2r., 239-41; com., 244., 245; 3r., passed, 245; R.A., 349
Customs Bill
com., passed, 116
Customs Department, Bill
H. of C., 1r., 300; 2r., com., 308; 3r., passed, 318; H. of C., 319; R.A., 349
Customs Duties Act. Amdt. Bill
1r., 2r., com., 3r., passed, 345; R.A., 350
Customs Tariff Bill
1r.. 120

INDEX
Debates (Official Report)
Com. action, qu. (Mr. Miller), 123
Cost, com. appointed, 10, 12
Newspaper reports incorrect, 11
Printing, 91, 137, 139, 140, 151-3
Reporting this Session, 10
Dever, Hon. James
Banking, Commerce and Railways Com. appointment, 153
Customs Duties Act, amdt. Bill, 345
Introduced and took seat, 129
McGee, late Hon. Thomas D'Arcy, Bill to provide for the widow and children,
226, 227
McGee, late Hon. Thomas D'Arcy, eulogy, 228, 227
Summoned to Senate, 122
Dickey, Hon. R.B.
Adjournment, Easter, 159-61
Aliens and Naturalization Bill, 184
Chaplain appointment, 198
Clerk appointments, 197
Communication water, opening between Gulf of St. Lawrence and Bay of Fundy,
qu., 17, 21
Confederation, 182
Contingent Accounts Com. Report, 148-50
Currency Bill, 241
Federal, Local Legislatures' rights, 97
French translation disapproval Speaker's decision, amdt., 199
Holiday, Statutes of Canada Bill interpretation, 92
Incorporated Companies Bill, 156, 188
Intercolonial Railway route through Nova Scotia, qu., 221, 222
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 41, 62-4
Nautical Training Schools, 218
Newspapers postage postponement, abolition qu., 139
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 69-72, 76-80, 83, 86, 88
Printing Com. 13th Report, 230
Printing contract, 28
Reciprocity Treaty United States, 218
Retrenchment general in Public Service, 182
Secretary of State Department Bill, 180, 184
Senate business, 13
Senate officers allowances, pensions, 205
Divorce
Bills, dealing with by Senate, 157, 232-4, 242-4
Dominion Life Assurance Company
Petition establishment, 53rd rule suspended, 37
Dominion Life Assurance Company Bil. Mr. McDonald
1r., 37; 2r., 40
Dominion Notes, see Currency
Doucet, Mr.
Appointment, 150
Duke of Edinburgh. see Prince Alfred, Duke of Edinburgh

SENATE
Emigration
United States, 216, 217, 257-60
Estimates
Charitable and literary institutions grants, qu. (Mr. Ryan), 18, 27
Evidence in Civil and Commercial Matters Bill. Mr. Campbell
1r., 2r., 248, 283; 3r., passed, 305; H. of C. amdt., 348; R.A., 350
Excise Duty, to Increase on Spirits, Impose on Refined Petroleum, and Provide for
Inspection Bill
Ir., 324; 2r, 328; com., 3r., passed, 331; R.A., 350
Exhibitions
Dominion development, 213
Extradition Treaty Extension Bill. Mr. Campbell
2r., 203; com., 223, 228; 3r., passed, 232; Her Majesty's pleasure, 350

Fenians
Assassination attempt Prince Alfred, Duke of Edinburgh, 221
Condemnation, 225, 226, 338
Ferguson, Hon. John
Harbour, lighthouse, tonnage charges comparative statement various ports, 38
Ferrier, Hon. James
Adjournment, Easter, 159, 161
Banking and currency, 293, 302
Banks in any part of Canada to use Dominion Notes instead of their own, Bill,
272, 273
Contingent Accounts Com. Report, 101, 102, 108, 146, 149
Copper Coins or Tokens, importation or manufacture Bil, 308
Governor-General's salary, Bill to fix, 314
Grand Trunk Arrangements Act 1862, amdt., 95
Immigration aid encouragement, 259, 260
Intercolonial Railway contract, 260
Railways Bill, 346
St. Lawrence and Ottawa Railway Company Bill, 115
Speaker Senate election, 251, 253
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 79
Whiteaves Divorce Bill, 157, 188, 201, 232-4
Fisheries
Fishermen, bounties qu. (Mr. Locke), 17, 21
Reports protection Gulf of St. Lawrence, Minister Dominion fisheries, failure,
distress fishermen, M. (Mr. Miller) for papers, 129, 130
Fisheries Bill
Introduction, time, 14, 15, 26, 200, 201
Fishing and Protection of Fisheries Regulation Bill
1r., 341; 2r., 3r., passed, 343; H. of C., 347; R.A., 350
Fishing by Foreign Vessels Bill
1r., 2r., com., 3r., passed, 343, 344, 346; R.A., 350

INDEX
Flint, Hon. Billa
Bank establishment, petition Belleville, 18
Bank Hastings County petition establishment, 37
Geological Survey of Canada Bill, 283, 284
Milita and Defence of the Dominion of Canada Bill, 335
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 75, 80
Railways Bill, 346
Forgery Indictable Offences Bill
1r., 309; 2r., com., 324
Fortier, Mr.
Late Sergeant-at-Arms, petition, 158
Fortifications, Works for Defense of Dominion, to Provide for Defraying Expenses Bill
H. of C., 1r., 329; R.A., 350
Fraser, Samuel
Sessional Messenger, left Senate employ, 122
French Canadians
Emigration to United States, 259, 260
Senate officials and employees, 93, 94
French Language
Ignored, appeal to Speaker, 199
Translation all proceedings, 199
Galt, Hon. A.T.
Resignation, 8
Garon, Joseph
Sessional Clerk, left Senate employ, 122
Gas Pipes Across the River Niagara in Order to Facilitale the Lighting of the Town
of Cliffon with Gas, Bill, see Niagara Falls Gas Company Bill
General Court of Appeal for Canada
Provision, qu. (Mr. Sanborn), 161
Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod
Appointment Rene Kimber, 1
Duties discharged by Sergeant-at-Arms, 32, 33, 107
Importance, salary, residence, 107, 141
Geological Survey
Federal Government to continue, qu. (Mr. Aikins), 37
Geological Survey of Canada Bill
H. of C., 1r., 263; 2r., 274; 3r., passed, 283, 284; R.A., 349
Glasier, Hon. John
Introduced, took seat, 186
Summoned to Senate, 122
Government Departments, see Public Departments

SENATE
Governor-General
Salary, 101, 107
Salary, reduction, notice of res., 151
Governor-General, Civil List, and Salaries of Certain Public Functionaries Bill
H. of C., 1r., 2r., 329; com., 3r., passed, 331; R.A., 350
Governor-General's Salary, Bill to Fix
H. of C., 1r., 300; 2r., 308-18; 3r., passed, 320; Her Majesty's pleasure, 350
Grand Trunk Arrangements Act 1862, Amdi. Mr. Ferrier, Mr. Hamilton (Kingston)
1r., 92; 2r., 95; 3r., passed, 96
Great Britain
Canada militia and fortifications, 332, 337-41
Hague, Mr.
Banking and currency, 291, 292, 295, 297, 300
Hamilton, Hon. John (Kingston)
Commercial Bank of Canada Bill, amdt., 82
Grand Trunk Arrangements Act 1862, amdt., 96
Navigation of Canadian Waters Bill, 178
Niagara District Bank Act, amdt., 186
"Hansard's"
Record of debates, 151
Harbour Police Bill
1r., 2r., 3r., passed, 347; R.A., 350
Harbours
Charges, also lighthouse, tonnage comparative statement various ports, M. (Mr.
McCully) for papers, 38, 39, 229
Trinity Board and Harbour Trusts, Montreal, corres. Marine and Fisheries Dept.,
M. (Mr. Ryan) for papers, 307, 328, 330, 344
Harvey, Arthur
Petition ref. Library Com., 13
Hartney, Mr.
Clerk Printing Com., salary, 230, 231, 234-7
Hazen, Hon. R.L.
Aliens and Naturalizations Bill, 124-6, 188
Clerk appointments, 195, 197, 198
Confederation, 135, 136
Contingencies Accounts Com. Report, 144, 145, 187, 198
Debates, printing, 139, 140, 152
Extradition Treaty Extension Bill, 228
Navigation of Canadian Waters Bill, 169, 176, 178
Parliament Publishers Protection Bill, 228
Prayer to open daily sittings, 187, 200, 206, 207
Printing, Joint Com. report, 138-40
Retrenchment general in Public Service res., strike out preamble, 182
Secretary of State Department Bill, 202
Security Officers of Canada Bill, 167, 168
Senate rules, 24, 25

INDEX
Holiday
Statutes of Canada Bill interpretation, 92
Holmes, Hon. John
Rupert's Land and North-West Territory incorporation with Dominion of Canada,
113
Senate officers and servants appointments, dismissals, salaries, 104, 105, 144
Speaker Senate election, 252
House of Commons
Gallery, set aside for Senate members, 18
Printing Com. request Joint with Senate agreed, 18
House of Commons, Certain Persons Indemnified for Having Sat and Voted as Members While Holding Certain Offices Under the Crown
1r., 319; 2r., com., 324; 3r., passed, 325; R.A., 349
House of Commons, Internal Economy Bill
1r., 2r., 3r., passed, 346; H. of C., 347; R.A., 350
Housekeeper
Salary, 141, 149
Hudson's Bay Company
Rupert's Land and North-West Territory incorporation with Dominion of Canada,
113, 114
Hunt, Mr.
Chemist, 284
Hunter, Rose and Co.
Printing contracts continued, 28-31

Immigration
Agent at Quebec, steps to facilitate and encourage, qu. (Mr. Ryan), 176, 186
Aid, encouragement, 256-60
Aid New Brunswick, 260
Year 1868, aid, encouragement M. (Mr. Ryan) for papers, 247, 256-60, 330
Imperial Act
Power, 286, 287
Incorporaled Companies Bill. Mr. Campbell
Intro., 123; 2r., 140; com. 156, 163, 164, 188, 189; 3r., passed, H. of C., 189
Independence of Parliament, Further Securing, Bill
1r., 2r., 3r., passed, 346, 347; R.A., 350
Indians
Rights, lands, protection, 179, 180, 189-94, 201, 202
Inland Revenue Bill
1r., com., 116-9; passed, 119
Inland Revenue Department Bill
H. of C., 1r., 232; 2r., 238, 239, 246, 263; com., 274; 3r., passed, 275; H. of C., 319;
R.A., 349
99267-26

SENATE
Inman Company
Mail contract, Halifax-Great Britain, 183
Inquiries Concerning Public Matters Bill. Mr. Campbell
2r., 123; R.A., 349
Insurance Companies Bill
ir., 42nd rule suspended, 2r., 3r., passed, 348; R.A., 350
Intercolonial Insurance Company, Bill to Incorporate. Mr. Skead
2r., 40; Rule 62 suspended, 51, com., 91, 96, 97; postponed, 116
Intercolonial Railway
Bill introduction, route, qu., M. for papers (Mr. Tessier), 16, 18
Fleming and Wilkinson Reports, printing, 154
Robinson's route petitions, 82, 129
Route, contract approval Parliament, subsidy, qu. (Mr. Reesor), 242
Route through Nova Scotia, qu. (Mr. Dickey), 221, 222
Intercolonial Railway Bill
1r., 2r., 120; 3r., passed, 121
Interest
Rate uniform, 176, 187, 232
International Monetary Conference, Paris
Currency establishment, 239-41, 244, 245

Jervois, Col.
Fortifications report, 336
Judges
Salaries, allowances and pensions regulation bill, qu. (Mr. McCrea), 139
Superior Courts equalizing salaries, allowances, pensions, qu. (Mr. Odell), 200
Judiciary of the Dominion of Canada
Expenses chargeable to Consolidated Revenue Fund, M. (Mr. McCully) for
papers, 66, 153, 154
Justice Department Bill. Mr. Campbell
Intro., 201; 2r., 209; com., 224; 3r., passed, 228; H. of C. amdt., 3r., passed, 274;
R.A., 349
Justice, Prompt and Summary Administration Bill
ir., 320; 2r., 328
Justices of the Peace, Duties Oui of Session in Relation to Persons Charged WiUh
Indictable Offences Bill
ir., 319; 2r., 328
Justices of the Peace Oui of Session in Relation to Summary Convictions and Orders
Bill
2r., 328
Juvenile Offenders, Trial and Punishment Bill
1r., 320; 2r., 328

INDEX
Kenny, Hon. Edward
Bank of Montreal, terms Government business transacted, 37
Whiteaves Divorce Bill, 233, 234
King, Mr.
Banking and currency, 290, 291, 302
Lajoie, Mr.
Assistant Librarian, 254
Lake Memphremagog Navigation Company, Io Confirm a Certain By-Law Passed by
Directors, Bill
1r., 280; 2r., 306; 3r., passed, 319; R.A., 349
Lakes
St. Clair channel qu. (Mr. Benson), 260
St. Peter deepening, report John Page, qu. (Mr. Tessier), 228, 256, 330, 343
Land
Location good tracts, cost, 260
Lapierre, Mr.
Library, 254
Larceny and Other Similar Offences Bill
1r., 279; 2r., 288, 289; com., 320-4
Lawless Aggression Protection Bill. Mr. Campbell
1r., 92; 2r., 110, 111; 3r., passéd, 111
Legislative Council of Canada
Members, sessional pay, employees, 79
Letellier de St. Just, Hon. Luc
Adjournment, Easter, 161
Agriculture Department Bill, 210, 214
Blair, Hon. A. J. F. death, 122
Chaplain appointment, 207, 208
Confederation, 8
Contingent Accounts Com. Report, 93-5, 99, 150; amdt., 122, 141, 142
Customs Bill, 116
Debates, reporting, 10
French translation proceedings, 199
Galt, Hon. A. T., resignation, 8
Geological Survey of Canada Bill, 284
Governor-General salary, 101
Governor-General's salary, Bi to fix, 310
Incorporated Companies Bill, 156, 157
Independence of Parliament, further securing, Bill, 347
Indian rights, lands, 193
Intercolonial Railway Bill, 120
Larceny and other similar offences Bill, 322
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 46
McGee, Hon. Thomas D'Arcy death, 166
Ministers, Public Departments reduction in number, 238, 239
Offences against the Person Bill, 326
Point of order, no motion, 182, 183
Post Office Department dismissals, 116
99267-261

SENATE
Letellier de St. Just, Hon. Luc-Cont.
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 70, 71, 79, 83, 89-91
Prince Alfred, Duke of Edinburgh assassination attempt, 222
Public Departments constituting, 210, 214
Public Service dismissals, appointments, 93, 94
Rupert's Land and North-West Territory incorporation with Dominion of Canada, 112
Senate business, 14
Senate officers and servants appointment, dismissal, salaries, allowances, pensions, 99-104, 109, 128, 204
Senate officers dismissal, salaries, French Canadians, 93, 94
Speaker Senate election, 248, 254
Whiteaves Divorce Bill, 233, 234, 243, 244
Librarian
Adamson, Rev. Dr., 198, 199, 203, 204
Todd, Mr., commendation, salary, 254, 255
Library Messenger
Salary not reduced, 141
Library of Parliament
Catalogue printing, 155, 158, 159
Harvey, Arthur petition, 13
Rules, 334
Library of Parliament Committee
Appointments H. of C., 156
Appointments, Ross, Hon. John; Chapais, Hon. J. C., 153
House of Commons Select Com. to assist Mr. Speaker in direction, 64
Reports 1st, 244; 2nd, 246, 254, 255, 329, 334
Lighthouses
Beacon, bar, harbour St. John, qu. (Mr. McClelan), 16
Lighthouses, Buoys and Beacons Bill
Ir., 2r., com., 344; 3r., passed, 346; R.A., 350
Lloyds
Ship classification, 46-9
Locke, Hon. John
Adjournment, Easter, 161
Confederation, 131, 137, 221
Debates, printing, 152
Fisheries Bill, 200
Fishermen, bounties, qu., 17, 21
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 41, 48
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 75, 79
Printing Com. report, 29
Senate rules, 26
Senate vacancy caused by death of Senator Wier, qu., 244, 254
Speaker Senate election, 253, 254
Wier, Hon. Benjamin death, 165
Logan, Sir William
Geologist, 284
Lower Canada Agricultural Journal
Postage exemption, 85

INDEX
Macpherson, Hon. D. L.
Adjournment, Easter, 160
Aliens and Naturalization Bill, 168, 169
Bank Statements Bill, 275
Banking and currency, 290-300, 304, 305
Banks in any part of Canada to use Dominion Notes instead of their own, BiU,
261-3, 271-4
Chaplain appointment, 207
Contingent Accounts Com. Report, 109
Customs Duties Act, amdt. Bill, 345
Customs Tariff Bill, 120
Debates, printing, 152
Governor-General's salary, Bill to fix, 311-3, 317
Immigration aid, encouragement, 257, 258
Larceny and other similar offences Bill, 323, 324
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 45, 49
Militia and Defence of the Dominion of Canada Bih, 338, 339
Navigation of Canadian Waters Bill, 178
Ontario, Province of, Financial Crisis, Select Com., N. of M., 41; 60-2; report,
154, 290-305, 307
Point of order, 208
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 75, 78, 83
Railways Bill, 346
Rupert's Land and Northwest Territory incorporation with Dominion of Canada,
112
Secretary of State Department Bill, 170
Senate business, 13
Speaker Senate election, 251
McClelan, Hon. A. R.
Clerk appointments, 195, 198
Contingent Accounts Com. report, 36
Lighthouse, Beacon Bar, harbour St. John, qu., 16
New Brunswick representatives declining seats, qu., 10, 12
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 77
Senate officers, allowances, pensions, 206
McCrea, Hon. Walter
Adjournment, Easter, 162
Aliens and Naturalization Bill, 125, 126, 138, 157
Judges salaries, allowances and pensions regulation bill, qu, 139
Larceny and other similar offences Bill, 324
Library of Parliament catalogue printing, 159
Postal Service Regulation Bil, 69
RaiIways Bill, 346
McCully, Hon. Jonathan
Agriculture Department Bill, 210-2
Aliens and Naturalization Bill, 124, 127, 184
Banks in any part of Canada to use Dominion Notes instead of their own, Bill,
263, 267, 274
Bills, Senate origination, legislation, 96
British Copyright Works duty on Foreign Reprints Bih, 285-7
Charitable institutions grants, 139
Clerk appointments, 195
Confederation, 6, 212
Contingent Accounts Com. Report, 33, 34, 95, 99, 100, 199, 307
Cunard Steamer Service, Halifax termination, qu., 16, 18, 19
Currency Bill, 240, 244
Debates of Parliament printing, reporting, 139, 151-3

SENATE
McCully, Hon. Jonathan-Cont.
Debts Nova Scotia and New Brunswick to Dominion, M. for papers, 281
Divorce procedures, 157
Evidence in Canada in relation to Civil and Commercial Matters Bill, 283
Extradition Treaty Extension Bill, 223
Fisheries reports, 129
French translation disapproval Speaker's decision, 199
GeoIogical Survey of Canada Bill, 283, 284
Government contracts Dominion liability, 30
Governor-General salary, 181
Governor-General's salary, Bill to fix, 309, 310
Harbour, lighthouse, tonnage charges comparative statement various ports, M. for
papers, 38, 39
Incorporated Companies Bill, 156
Indian rights, lands, 190-4
Intercolonial Railway contract, 260
Interest, rate uniform, 176, 187, 232, 246
Judges pensions, 200
Judiciary of the Dominion of Canada expenses chargeable to Consolidated Revenue Fund, M. for papers, 66, 153, 154
Justice Department Bill, 224
Larceny and other similar offences Bill, 321, 322
Legislation affecting N.S., N.B., corres. Local Govt., others with Dominion Govt.,
136, 137
Library of Parliament catalogue printing, 159
Library of Parliament Com. report, 254, 255
Lighthouses, buoys and beacons Bill, 344
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 43-5, 48, 49 63-5
McGee, late Hon. Thomas D'Arcy provision widow and family, 173, 174
Militia and Defence of the Dominion of Canada Bill, 337, 338
Navigation of Canadian Waters Bill, 168
Oaths to witnesses being Administered for the purpose of either House of Parliament Bill, 187
Offences against the Person Bill, 325, 327
Ontario, Province of, Financial Crisis, Select Com. Report, 300, 301
Parliament Publishers Protection Bifl, 228
Patents for Inventions Bill, 276, 277, 280
Point of order, 207
Postal Service contract Cunard Steamship Company to Halifax, 110
Postal Service Maritime Provinces, 110
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 52-6, 82-91
Prayer to open daily sittings, 207
Printing Com. Reports 4th, 91; 13th, 236
Public Departments constituting, 210, 211
Reciprocity Treaty with United States, renewal, qu., 16, 19, 20
Secretary of State Department Bill, 163, 179, 190-4, 201, 202, 215
Security Officers of Canada Bill, 167
Senate officers and servants appointments, dismissals, salaries, allowances, pensions, 99-108, 204
Senate rules, 23
Ship-building, 218
Speaker Senate election, 252, 253
Steam navigation line with British West India, qu., 16, 19
Whiteaves Divorce Bill, 232-4, 243
Wier, Hon. Benjamin death, 165
McDonald, Hon. Donald
Confederation, 6-8
Dominion Life Assurance Company Bill, 37, 40

INDEX
McDonald, Hon. Donald-Cont.
Dominion Life Assurance Company petition establishment, 37
Governor-General's salary, Bill to fix, 313, 314
McGee, Hon. Thomas D'Arcy
Death, 166
McGee, Late Hon. Thomas D'Arcy
Address to Governor-General and reply, 174-6, 328
Eulogy, 226, 227
Newfoundland sympathy, 281
Prince Edward Island sympathy acknowledgment, 228
Provision widow and family, 171-6
McGee, Late Hon. Thomas D'Arcy, Bill to Provide for the Widow and Children
1r., 221; 2r., 224; 42nd rule suspended, 3r., passed, 227; R.A., 349
McMaster, Hon. William
Adjournment Easter, 160
Banks in any part of Canada to use Dominion Notes instead of their own, Bill,
272-4
Incorporated Companies Bill, 188
Ontario, Province of, Financial Crisis, Select Com. Report, 298
Railways Bill, 346
Senate officers allowances, pensions, 205
Mails, see Postal Service
Malhiot, Hon. Charles
French translation all proceedings, 199
Malicious Injuries to Properfy Bill
H. of C., 1r., 289; 2r., 306; com., 324
Manufacturing
Encouragement, 258, 259
Marine and Fisheries Department
Minister's correspondence Boards of Trade, Trinity Houses, Harbour Commissioners Quebec, Montreal, M. (Mr. Ryan) for papers, 73, 115
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill. Mr. Mitchell
2r., 31, 39, 41-50; com., 62-5; 3r., passed, H. of C., 66; R.A., 349
Marine and Fisheries Minister
Powers, 71
Mariners, Relief of Sick and Distressed Bill
1r., 2r., com., 343; 3r., passed, 346; R.A., 350
"May's Parliamentary Practice"
Reference, 148
Members' Indemnity and Speakers' Salaries Bill
1r., 40; com., 3r., passed, H. of C., 73
Members of Parliament
Seats, appointed office of emolument, qu. (Mr. Steeves), 138
Merchants' Express Company of the Dominion of Canada, Bill to Incorporate
H. of C., 1r., 300; 2r., 307; com., 3r., passed, 319; H. of C., 329; R.A., 349

SENATE
Messengers
Salaries R. Greer, A. Miller, J. Mondor dismissed, 307
Michel, General
Canada defence, 112
Militia
Volunteer force, 5, 6
Militia and Defence of Dominion of Canada Bill
Intro., 14; 1r., 331; 2r., 334-41; 42nd rule suspended, Sr., passed, 341; RA., 350
Miller, Mr.
Appointment, 97, 98
Miller, Mr. P.
Appointed English clerk, 195-8
Miller, Hon. William
Confederation, 118, 119
Contingent Accounts Com. Report, 307
Customs Duties Act, amdt. Bill, 345
Debates, printing, 152
Debates reporting, com. action, qu., 123
Fisheries Bill, 200
Fisheries, reports protection Gulf of St. Lawrence, Minister Dominion Fisheries,
failure, distress fishermen, M. for papers, 129
Inland Revenue Bill, 118
Legislation affecting N.S., N.B. corres. Local Govt., others with Dominion Govt.,
137
Marine and Fisheries Department BilI, 48, 63, 65
Offences against the Person Bill, 326, 327
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 77, 78, 84
Secretary of State Department Bill, 215
Security Officers of Canada Bill, 168
Senate officers and servants appointments, dismissals, salaries, allowances, pensions, 103-8, 203, 204
Steam communication Montreat, Quebec and Gulf ports N.S., N.B. qu., 138
Whiteaves Divorce Bill, 233
Miners Schools
Establishment, 283, 284
Ministers
Duties, travelling expenses, 210-4
Mitchell, Hon. Peter
Adjournment, Easter, 162
Aliens and Naturalization Bill, 126
Banking and currency, 303
Banks in any part of Canada to use Dominion Notes instead of their own, Bill, 274
Banks, interest rate, 133
Chaplain appointment, 207, 208
Clerk appointments, 196-8
Confederation, 134, 135
Contingent Accounts Com. Report, 34, 147, 150, 198, 205, 206, 208
Currency Bill, 245
Customs Tariff !Bill, 120
Emigration United States, 217

INDEX
Mitchell, Hon. Peter-Cont.
Fenians, 226
Fisheries Bill, 14, 15, 26, 200, 201
Fisheries reports printing, 129
Fishing and protection of Fisheries regulation Bill, 343
Government contracts Dominion liability, 28-31
Governor-General's salary, Bill to fix, 311, 313, 316, 317
Harbour, lighthouse, tonnage charges comparative statement various ports, 38, 39
Intercolonial Railway Bill, 120, 121
Intercolonial Railway reports, printing, 154
Larceny and other similar offences Bill, 321
Legislation affecting N.S., N.B. corres. Local Govt., others with Dominion Govt.,
132-6
Lighthouse, buoys and beacons, Bill, 344
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 31, 39, 41-50, 62-4, 66
Nautical Training Schools, 217
Mariners, relief of sick and distressed Bill, 343
McGee, Hon. Thomas D'Arcy death, 166
McGee, late Hon. Thomas D'Arcy, provision widow and family, 171-4, 226
Militia and Defence of the Dominion of Canada Bill, 340, 341
Navigation of Canadian Waters Bill, 160, 169, 170, 176-9, 187
Oath of Secrecy, 134, 135
Patents for Inventions Bill, 276-9, 287, 288
Point of order, rules, 182
PostaI Service Regulation Bill, 54, 69, 77, 88, 90, 91
Prince Alfred, Duke of Edinburgh assassination attempt, 221-3
Printing Com. 13th Report, 237
Printing contract, 28, 29
Reciprocity Treaty United States, 218
Retrenchment general in Public Service, 181, 183
Secretary of State Department Bill, 170, 179, 180
Security Officers of Canada Bill, 166-8
Senate
appointments vacant seats, 110
business, 14, 15
officers and servants appointments, dismissals, salaries, 98, 108-10
officers Lower Provinces employment, 93
Ship-building bounties, 216, 217, 220
Speaker Senate election, 254
Steam communication Montreal, Quebec and GuIf ports N.S., N.B., 138
Wier, Hon. Benjamin death, 165
Wilmot, R. D. and McDougall, W. C. B. corres., 118
Moniizambert, E. L.
English Translator, Law Clerk, 158
Senate service withdrawal with allowances, 275
Montreal Temperance Society
Bar Parliament Building closing, petition gratification, 122
Morton, Mr.
Banking and currency, 295
Motions for Papers
Bank of Montreal terms government business transacted (Mr. Wilmot), 37
Canal Gulf of St. Lawrence and Bay of Fundy (Mr. Wilmot), 330
Debts Nova Scotia and New Brunswick to Dominion (Mr. McCully), 281
Fisheries, reports protection Gulf of St. Lawrence,ý Minister Dominion fisheries,
failure, distress fishermen (Mr. Miller), 129, 130

SENATE
Mortions for Papers-Cont.
Harbour, lighthouse, tonnage charges comparative statement various ports (Mr.
McCully), 38, 39, 229
Immigration year 1868 (Mr. Ryan), 247, 330
Intercolonial Railway Bill, introduction, route (Mr. Tessier), 16
Judiciary of the Dominion of Canada expenses chargeable to Consolidated Revenue Fund (Mr. McCully), 66, 153, 154
Legislation affecting N.S., N.B. corres. Local Govt., others with Dominion Govt.
(Mr. Wilmot), 130-7
Mail, coasting service inland waters or coasts, agreements, contracts (Mr. Reesor),
246
Marine and Fisheries Minister corres. Boards of Trade, Trinity Houses, Harbour
Commissioners Quebec, Montreal (Mr. Ryan), 73, 115, 307, 330, 334
St. Clair Flats navigation (Mr. Benson), 281, 282
Ship-building, nautical schools petitions, letters Boards of Trade (Mr. Tessier),
216, 274
Ship channel Quebec and Montreal deepening, improving (Mr. Ryan), 330, 344
Municipal Assessment Acts
Extra copies printed and distributed, qu. (Mr. Aikens), 17, 22
National Bank Bill, Amdt. Mr. Tessier
Intro., 163, 170, 203, 238
Nautical Training Schools
Establishment, 216-9
Navigation of Canadian Waters Bill. Mr. Mitchell
1r., 160; 2r., 169, 170; com., 176-9; 3r., 187, 201; passed, 201; H. of C., 289; R.A.,
349
New Brunswick Press
Postage resolutions, 56, 57
New Brunswick, Province of
Debts to Dominion, M. (Mr. McCully), 281, 324
Legislation affecting, corres. Local Govt., others with Dominion Govt., M. (Mr.
Wilmot) for papers, 130-7
Representatives declining seats, qu. (Mr. McClelan), 10, 12
Niagara District Bank Act, Amdt. Mr. Benson
2r., 183, 184; 60th rule suspended, 3r., H. of C., 186, 279; R.A., 349
Niagara Falls Gas Company Bill
H. of C., 224; 2r., 229; 3r., passed, 238; R.A., 349
North-West Territory
Colonizing and organizing, 7, 9, 214
Government correspondence Hudson's Bay Co. relative claims, communications,
costs, qu. (Mr. Wark), 18
Incorporation with Dominion of Canada resolutions, 96, 112-4
North-West Territory, see also Rupert's Land
Northern Railway Company
Petition legislation raise capital for works, 280
Return Tabled, 154
Northern Railway of Canada Bill
1r., 2r., com., 343; 3r., passed, 346; R.A., 350

INDEX
Northwest Navigation and Railway Company Bill, Amdt.
1r., 2r., 3r., passed, 347; R.A., 350
Nova Scotia, Interest in Bill. Mr. McCully
ir., 2r., 3r., passed, 347
Nova Scotia, Province of
Debts to Dominion, M. (Mr. McCully), 281, 324
Legislation affecting corres. Local Govt., others with Dominion Govt., M. (Mr.
Wilmot) for papers, 130-7
Legislature salaries, 101

Oaths to Witnesses Being Administered for the Purpose of Either House of Parliament Bill. Mr. Campbell
Intro., 1r., 187; 2r., 203; com., 224; 3r., passed, 228; H. of C., 345; R.A., 350
Odell, Hon. W. H.
Clerk appointments, 195, 198
Incorporated Companies Bill, 188
Judges Superior Courts equalizing salaries, allowances, pensions, qu., 200
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 49, 50
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 52, 66-72, 75
Senate appointments vacant seats, 110
O'Farrell
Assassination attempt Prince Alfred, Duke of Edinburgh, 221
Offences Against the Person Bill
1r., 319; 2r., 325-8
Offences Io the Coin Bill
1r., 309; 2r., com., 324
Offenders Wrongfully Arrested, Release and Surrender Bill
1r., 324; 2r., 328
Olivier, Hon. L. A.
Banking and currency, 299
Ontario, Province of, Financial Crisis
Explanation, 60
Ontario, Province of, Financial Crisis, Select Committee
M. (Mr. Macpherson) appointment, 41, 60-2
Report 1st, 154, 290-305, 307
Ottawa, City of
Cost of living, 106
Ottawa District
Committee representation, 11

Parliament of Canada, Continuing in Case of the Demise of the Crown Bill
ir., 154; 2r., 158, 164; com., 3r., passed, H. of C., 164; R.A., 349

SENATE
Parliament Publishers Protection Bil
Com., 228, 229
Patents
Law present session, qu. (Mr. Sanborn), 130, 246
Patents for Inventions Bill. Mr. Chapais
1r., 246; 2r., 275-9; com., 287, 288; 3r., 290; H. of C., 348
Paton, Mr.
Banking and currency, 297
Penitentiaries and Directors Bill
H. of C., 1r., 274; 2r., 282, 283; 3r., passed, 305; R.A., 349
Pensions
Senate officers and servants, 128, 142, 203, 204
Perjury Bill
H. of C., 1r., 329; 2r., 333
Persons in Custody Charged with High Treason or Felony Bill
H. of C., 1r., 300; 2r., com., 308; 3r., passed, 320; R.A., 349
Police of Canada Bill
1r., 306; 2r., com., 42nd rule suspended, 3r., passed, H. of C., 324, 347; R.A., 350
Post Office Department
Dismissals Montreal, 116
Phrenological examinations, 116
Revenue and expenditure, 52-5, 69, 70, 74, 76
Post Office Savings Banks
Creation, 55, 58, 59, 68, 79-84, 90
Post Offices
Establishing or closing, 70
Number, 54, 69
Postal Service
Canada and Provinces of N.S. and N.B. review present position, 51-8
Cunard Steamship Company contract mails to Halifax, 110
Currency, difference in values, 82, 84
Dead Letter Office, 52, 72, 75
Ferries, 70, 78
Free postage, petitions, addresses, 78
Halifax-Great Britain mail contract, qu. (Mr. Anderson), 183
Letters, 54, 67-9, 72, 74, 76
Letters, publie carriers, 68, 69, 77
Mail, coasting service inland waters or coasts, agreement, contracts, M. for
papers (Mr. Reesor), 246
Money orders, 54
New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, qu. (Mr. Steeves), 12, 17, 51-7, 66-70, 76, 77, 83,
110, 348
New Brunswick press resolutions postage, 56
Newspapers, 52, 55-9, 67-9, 76-80, 84-6, 89, 90
Newspapers, postage postponement, abolition, qu. (Mr. Dickey), 139
Parcel post, 52, 67
Postage exemption newspapers, periodicals Education, Religion, Temperance and
Agriculture, 84-8, 90

INDEX
Postal Service-Cont.
Proposed changes, 55-8
Public carriers, 68, 69
Rates
letter, 51, 52, 55, 67, 69-72, 76, 78, 85, 86, 89, 90
newspaper, 52, 55-9, 67-9, 76-80, 84-6, 89, 90
prepayment 51, 67, 71, 72, 74-80, 84
Registration, 52, 80, 110
St. John and Halifax, 20
Stamps, 82, 84
Stealing mailed letter, punishment, 79
Postal Service Regulation Bill. Mr. Campbell
Intro., 1r., 11; 2r., 20, 21, 51-9; com., 66-72, 74-91; amdt., 82-91; 3r., passed, 91;
H. of C., 121
Postmaster-General
Powers, 68, 70, 71, 78
Postmasters
Permanent situation, 141
Salary, 78
Voting for members of Parliament, 78, 79
President of the Council
Blair, Hon. A. J. F., 96
Price, Hon. D. E.
Bounties ship-building, 218
Contingent Accounts Com. Report, 34, 35
Nautical Training Schools, 218
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 75
Officers, servants, former Legislature, 35
Prince Alfred, Duke of Edinburgh
Assassination attempt at Sydney, 221-3, 229
Printing, Joint Committee
Clerk, Mr. Hartney, salary, 230, 231, 234-7
House of Commons request for Joint Com. agreed, 18
Reports
2nd, 28-31
3rd, 73-4
4th, 62, 111, 115, 163; printing Debates of Parliament, 91, 137, 139, 140, 151-3
6th, 111, 115
9th, distributions papers, documents; printing catalogue Library o! Parliament, 155, 201
10th, 154; Library of Parliament, 158, 159
lth, 159
12th, 201
13th, 229-31, 234-7
14th, 247
15th, 341-3
16th, 348
Private Bills, see Bills, Private
Private Bills Committee, see Standing Orders and Private Bills Committee

SENATE
Privy Council
Members 13, 238
Oath of secrecy, 133, 134
Work, 211-3
Procedures Select Committee
Appointment, 154, 155
Proceedings, Select Committee
Report, 282
Promissory Notes and Bills of Exchange Duties Bill
1r., 119, 120
Prorogation
First Session of First Parliament, 351
Provincial Legislatures, Forgery, Perjury and Intimidation Bill
1r., 341, 342; 2r., 3r., passed, 345; H. of C., amdt., 348; R.A., 350
Public Depariments
Constituting, 209-14
Reduction in number, 238, 239
Public Service
Appointments, dismissals, 93, 94
Large and expensive, 184, 185
Officers salaries, reduction, notice of resolution, 151
Public Service, Granting Money to Defray Expenses Bill
1r., 42nd rule suspended, 2r., 3r., passed, 348; R.A., 350
Publication of Parliamentary Papers Bill
H. of C. amdt. French, 247

Quarantine and Public Health Bill. Mr. Chapais
1r., 275; 2r., 305; com., 3r., passed, 318; R.A., 350
Quebec Harbour Act Amdi. Bill
H. of C., 1r., 2r., 329; com., 3r., passed, 330; R.A., 349
Quebec Scheme
Controversy Brown, George and McDougall, W. C. B., 117, 118
Wilmot, R. D., 130
Questions on Notice
Canal Gulf of St. Lawrence and Bay of Fundy (Mr. Dickey), 21
Charitable and literary institutions grants in estinates (Mr. Ryan), 18, 27
Charitable institutions grants (Mr. Ryan), 139
Communication water opening between Gulf of St. Lawrence and Bay of Fundy
(Mr. Dickey), 17
Cunard Steamer Service, Halifax, N.S. termination (Mr. McCully), 16, 18, 19
Debates reporting, com. action (Mr. Miller), 123
Dominion credit, advances, interest allowed, charged Bank of Montreal (Mr.
Anderson), 17, 22, 25
Dominion Notes, Banks Maritime Provinces same terms Bank of Montreal (Mr.
Anderson), 17

INDEX

383

Questions on Notice-Cont.
Dominion Notes terms issued by Bank of Montreal, commission allowed, payment response (Mr. Anderson), 17, 22
Fishermen bounties (Mr. Locke), 17, 21
General Court of Appeal, provision (Mr. Sanborn), 61
Halifax, fortnightly steamer call (Mr. Anderson), 183
Immigration, Agent at Quebec, steps to facilitate and encourage (Mr. Ryan), 176,
186
IntercoloniaI Railway Bill introduction; route (Mr. Tessier), 16, 18
Intercolonial Railway route, contract approval Parliament, subsidy (Mr. Reesor),
242
Intercolonial Railway route through Nova Scotia (Mr. Dickey), 221, 222
Judges salaries, allowances and pensions regulation bill (Mr. McCrea), 139
Judges Superior Courts equaIizing salaries, allowances, pensions (Mr. Odeil), 200
Lake St. Clair channel (Mr. Benson), 260
Lake St. Peter deepening report John Page (Mr. Tessier), 228, 256, 330, 343
Lighthouse, Beacon Bar, harbour St. John (Mr. McClelan), 16
Members of Parliament seats, appointed office of emolument (Mr. Steeves), 138
Municipal Assessment Acts, extra copies printed and distributed (Mr. Aikens), 17,
22
New Brunswick representatives declining seats (Mr. McClelan), 10, 12
Newspapers postage postponement, abolition (Mr. Dickey), 139
North-West Territory, Government correspondence Hudson's Bay Co. relative
claims, communications, costs (Mr. Wark), 18
Patents law present Session (Mr. Sanborn), 130, 246
Postal Service contract Halifax-Great Britain (Mr. Anderson), 183
Postal Service New Brunswick, Nova Scotia (Mr. Steeves), 12, 17
Reciprocity Treaty with United States, renewal (Mr. McCully), 16, 19, 20
Senate vacancy caused by death of Senator Wier (Mr. Locke), 244, 254
Stamps for Notes and Bills of Exchange Nova Scotia (Mr. Bill), 186
Statutes of Canada distribution Magistracy (Mr. Bill), 186
Steam communication Montreal, Quebec and Gulf ports, N.S., N.B. (Mr. Miller),
138
Steam navigation ine with British West India (Mr. McCully), 16, 19

Railways Bill
1r., 2r., 345; com., 3r., passed, 346; H. of C., 347; R.A., 350
Reciprocity Treaty
United States, 216-20
Reesor, Hon. David
Agriculture Department Bill, 209, 214
Aliens and Naturalization Bill, 184
Banks in any part of Canada to use Dominion Notes instead of their own, Bill,
263, 268-70
Bounties, 219, 220
Currency Bill, 241, 245
Governor-General's salary, Bill to fix, 309, 316
Immigration aid, encouragement, 259
Independence of Parliament, further securing Bill, 347
Inland Revenue Department Bill, 238
Intercolonial Railway route, contract approval Parliament, subsidy, qu., 242
Mail, coasting service inland waters or coasts, agreements, contracts, M. for
papers, 246
Nautical Training Schools, 219
Ontario, Province of, Financial Crisis, Select Com. Report, 298, 299
Patents for Inventions Bill, 279
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 77, 81

SENATE
Reesor, Hon. David-Cont.
Printing Com. 13th Report, salary Clerk, accounting, 235, 236
Public Departments, constituting, 209, 214
Railways Bill, 346
Rupert's Land and North-West Territory incorporation with Dominion of Canada, 113, 114
Senate officers, allowances, pensions, 204-6
Tobacco, manufactured in Canada, securing payment of duties Bill, 347, 348
Retirement Allowances, see Pensions
Riots and Riotous Assemblies Bill
H. of C., Ir., 300; 2r., com., 3r., passed, 324; H. of C., 329; R.A., 349
Ritchie, Hon. J. W.
Contingent Accounts Com. Report, 144, 145
Divorce cases, 157
Fisheries Bill, 200
French translation disapproval Speaker's decision, 199
Government contracts Dominion liability, 29, 30
Indians, rights, lands, 192
Legislation affecting N.S., N.B. corres. Local Govt., others with Dominion Govt.,
137
Secretary of State Department Bill, 179, 192
Security Officers of Canada Bill, 166
Senate business, pressure end of Session, 200
Wier, Hon. Benjamin death, 165
Robertson, Hon. John
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 62, 64
Members' indemnity and Speakers' salaries Bill, 73
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 75, 84
Senate officers and servants appointments, dismissals, salaries, 108
Ross, Hon. John
Adjournment, Easter, 159, 160
Banks in any part of Canada to use Dominion Notes instead of their own, Bill,
274
Clifton Suspension Bridge Company Bill, 229
Currency Bill, 240, 241
Governor-General's salary, Bill to fix, 309
Independence of Parliament, further securing Bill, 347
Larceny and other similar offences BUll, 323
Legislation affecting N.S., N.B. corres. Local Govt., others witþ Dominion Govt.,
135-7
Library of Parliament catalogue printing, 158
Library of Parliament Com. appointment, 153; report, 329
McGee, late Hon. Thomas D'Arcy, provision widow and family, 174
Railways Bill, 346
Secretary of State Department Bill, 179
Senate officers allowances, pensions, 204, 205
Sworn, took seat, 122
Whiteaves Divorce Bill, 233
Rules and Orders of the House
Printed with Union Act, 12
Rules of Order and Debate Special Commitiee
Appointment, 3

INDEX
Rules of Order Select Committee
Report, 92
Rupert's Land and North-West Territory
H. of C. message to Her Majesty, 112
Incorporation with Dominion of Canada resolutions, 112-4
Ryan, Hon. Thomas
Bounties ship-building, 219
British Copyright Works duty on Foreign Reprints Bill, 285-7
British Copyright Works, foreign reprints, address to His Excellency, 319, 320
Canal Sunday closing Grenville and Carillon, 348
Customs Tariff Bill, 120
Charitable and literary institutions grants in estimates, qu., 18, 27
Charitable institutions grants, qu., 139
Fenians, 225, 226
Governor-General's salary, Bill to fix, 309
Immigration, Agent at Quebec, steps to facilitate and encourage, qu., 176, 186
Immigration year 1868, aid, encouragement, M. for papers, 247, 256
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 46-8, 63, 64
Marine and Fisheries Minister correspondence Boards of Trade, Trinity Houses,
Harbour Commissioners Quebec, Montreal M. for papers, 73, 115, 307, 328, 330
McGee, late Hon. Thomas D'Arcy, Bill to provide for the widow and children, 224-6
Post Office Department dismissals, 116
Prince Alfred, Duke of Edinburgh assassination attempt, 225
Rupert's Land and the North-West Territory incorporation with Dominion of
Canada, 112
Senate business, 14
Ship-building, 219
Ship channel Quebec and Montreal deepening, improving, M. for papers, 330, 344
Strike ship-building, 219

St. Clair Flais
Navigation, M. (Mr. Benson) for papers, 281, 282
Si. Lawrence and Ottawa Railway Company, Bill to Incorporate
H. of C., 112; passed, 115
Sanborn, Hon. J. S.
Agriculture Department Bill, 212
Aliens and Naturalization Bill, 124, 126
Banking and currency, 303, 304
Banks in any part of Canada to use Dominion Notes instead of their own, Bill, 263
British Copyright Works duty on Foreign Reprints Bill, 285-7
Chaplain appointment, 208
Confederation, 9, 213
French translation proceedings, 199
General Court of Appeal, provision, qu., 161
Government contracts Dominion liability, 31
Governor-General's salary, Bill to fix, 308, 317, 318
Indians, rights, lands, 192
Justice Department Bill, 224
Larceny and other similar offences Bill, 288, 289, 321-3
Legislation affecting N.S., N.B. corres. Local Govt., others with Dominion Govt.,
136
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 47, 64, 65
Militia and Defence of the Dominion of Canada Bill, 335-7
Offences against the Person Bill, 325, 327
Ontario, Province of, Financial Crisis, Select Com. Report, 302-4

SENATE
Sanborn, Hon. J. S.-Cont.
Patents for Inventions Bill, 246, 276-9, 287, 288
Patents law present Session, qu., 130, 246
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 72, 76, 82, 83, 86-8
Printing Com. 13th Report, 231
Printing contract, 30, 31
Public Departments, constituting, 212, 213
Public Service general retrenchment, 183
Secretary of State Department Bill, 179, 180, 192
Senate officers allowances, pensions, 205
Senate rules, 21, 25, 26
Speaker Senate election, 248, 249
Secretary of State -Department Bill
H. of C., 156; 2r., 163; com., 170, 179, 180, 189-92, 201, 215;
349

3r., passed, 215; R.A.,

Security Officers of Canada Bill. Mr. Campbell
Intro., 2r., 122; com., Sr., passed, 123; amdts H. of C., 166-8; R.A., 349
Senate
Adjournment, 13, 15, 22, 23, 111, 308
Adjournment, Easter, 159, 160
Appointments vacant seats, 110
Business
bills origination, legislation, 13-5, 96, 238
from Government, 31
petitions time extended, 111
pressure end of Session, 200
sittings, 95, 111, 143, 282
62nd rule suspended, 95
Clerk appointments, 195
Debates, printing, 91, 127, 139, 140
Distribution papers, documents, 155
Divorce bills, 157, 232-4, 242-4
First Session, First Parliament Oath and Declaration of Qualification of Members, 1
French Canadians dismissed, proportion employed, 93, 94, 103
French translation all proceedings, 199
Leave of absence, Chapais, Hon. J. C., 154
Members summoned, 122
Members sworn, took seats, 122
Officers, servants
allowances, pensions, 128, 203, 204
appointments, dismissals, salary reduction 32, 35, 93, 94, 97-109, 140-50, 151
changes in position, salary, 140-50
former Legislature, pensions, 32, 33, 93, 94, 102, 140, 143, 144
leaving employ, 122
petitions on dismissal, 96
salaries, 142
Offices, al vacant on Confederation, 140
Parliamentary practice making inquiries from the Government, 23-6
Prayer to open daily sittings, 187, 200, 206, 207
Proceedings to former members Legislative Council of Canada, 115
Rules, 3, 21, 23-6
Vacancy caused by death of Senator Wier, qu. (Mr. Locke), 244, 254
Senate, House of Commons, Parliamentary Papers, Privilege, Immunities, Powers Bill
H. of C., Ir., 203; 2r., 223; 3r., passed, 232; R.A., 349

INDEX
Sergeant-at-Arms
Appointment, 32
Discharge duties Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod, 32, 33
Seymour, Hon. Benjamin
Contingent Accounts Com. Report, 32, 34, 35, 93, 97-9, 110, 111, 128, 140, 141, 151,
187, 194-200, 203, 307
Printing Com. 13th Report, 230
Ship-Building
Boards of Trade petitions, letters, also nautical schools, M. (Mr. Tessier) for
papers, 216, 274
Bounties, 216-20
Importance, 216-20
Shipping
Classification of vessels, 46-9
Cunard Steamer Service, Halifax, N.S., termination, qu. (Mr. McCully), 16, 18, 19
Mail, coasting service inland waters or coasts agreement, contracts, M. for papers
(Mr. Reesor), 246
Ship channel Quebec and Montreal deepening, improving, M. (Mr. Ryan) for
papers, 330, 344
Steam navigation line with British West India, qu. (Mr. McCully), 16, 19
Simpson, Hon. John
Adjournment, Easter, 160, 161
Banks in any part of Canada to use Dominion Notes instead of their own, Bill, 273
Fisheries reports printing, 130
Land, location good tracts, cost, 260
Library of Parliament catalogue printing, 158, 159
Ontario, Province of, Financial Crisis, Select Com. Report, 301, 302
Printing Com. Reports, 28, 62, 73, 74, 91, 137, 151, 152, 154, 155, 158-9, 163,
221, 229-31, 234-7
Senate officers allowances, pensions, 206
Stamps for Notes and Bills of Exchange, 187
Skead, Hon. James
Emigration United States, 258, 260
Immigration aid, encouragement, 258
Intercolonial Insurance Company Bill, 40, 51, 97, 116
Intercolonial Railway Bill, 121
Land, location good tracts, 260
Navigation of Canadian Waters Bill, 170
Ottawa District Com. representation, 11
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 75, 76
St. Lawrence and Ottawa Railway Company Bill, 115
Speaker (Hon. J. E. Cauchon)
Appointed, 1
Currency, gold, 245
McGee, Hon. Thomas D'Arcy death, 166
Speech to His Excellency Governor General, 2
Speaker, House of Commons
Address to Speaker of the Senate, 2
Speaker, Rulings and Statements
Amendment to motion for 3rd reading of a bill, 91
Committee proceedings, 208
French translation records, 199; amdt. ruled inadmissible, 199

SENATE
Speaker, Rulings and Statemenis-Cont.
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 45
Motion in writing, 182
Mover to give notice of motion as amended, 182
Order, 104, 183
Preamble to motion, no debate, 182
Speaker, Senate
Election, 248-54
Speakers, Houses of Parliament
Salary, 144
Stamp Duties Penalties Bill
1r., 2r., 3r., passed, 344, 345; R.A., 350
Stamps
Obtaining for Notes and Bills of Exchange Nova Scotia, qu. (Mr. Bill), 186
Stamps, see also Postal Service, stamps
Standing Orders and Private Bills Committee
Appointment, 11
Power to send for persons, 61
Reports, 39, 138, 161, 289
Stationery Office, see Contingent Charges in Departments of Public Service, to
regulate, restrict, and establish a stationery office
Statutes of Canada
Distribution Magistracy, qu. (Mr. Bill), 186
Statutes of Canada Bill
1r., 62; 2r., 73; com., 3r., passed, 92
Statutes of Canada Bill, Amdi.
H. of C., 1r., 260; 2r., 274; 3r., passed, 275; R.A., 349
Steeves, Hon. W. H.
Adjournment, Easter, 159, 160, 162
Currency Bill, 244
Debates newspaper reports incorrect, 11
Inland Revenue Department Bill, 238
Library of Parliament catalogue printing, 158
Library of Parliament Com. report, 254
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 43, 45, 56, 65
Members of Parliament seats appointed office of emolument, qu., 138
Postal Service New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, qu., 12, 17
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 27, 78
Printing Com. reports, 73, 231, 236
Printing contract, 28, 29
Public Departments, reduction in number, 236
Public Service general retrenchment, 183
Public Service large and expensive, 184, 185
Secretary of State Department Bill, 163
Security Officers of Canada Bill, 167,168
Senate business, 31
Senate officers and servants appointments, distnissals, salaries, 98
Senate rules, 26
Steam communication Montreal, Quebec and Gulf ports N.S., N.B., 138

INDEX
Steamboats, Inspection and Safety of Passengers Bill
1r., 307; 2r., com., 318; 3r., passed, 320; R.A. 349
Stratford Board of Trade, Bill to Incorporate
H. of C., 1r., 329; 2r., 333; 3r., passed, 343; R.A., 350
Strikes
Ship-building, 218
Subsidies, see Bounties
Supply Bill
1r., 119, 120
Taylor, J. F., The Elder
Commissioner appointed for taking Oaths of Senators, 1
Taylor, Mr.
Salary, 106
Tessier, Hon. U. J.
Adjournment, 22
Aliens and Naturalization Bill, 126, 127
Banks in any part of Canada to use Dominion Notes instead of their own,
Bill, 274
Bounties payment, 216, 220, 221
British Copyright Works duty on Foreign Reprints Bill, 286, 287
Chaplain appointment, 208
Contingent Accounts Com. Report, 32, 94, 145-8, 248, 307
Currency Bill, 244
Emigration United States, 216, 220
Evidence in Canada in relation to Civil and Commercial Matters Bill, 283
Federal, Local Legislatures' rights, 96
Fisheries reports printing, 129, 130
Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod duties, 32
Government contracts Dominion liability, 29
Governor-General's salary, Bill to fix, 309, 310
Incorporated Companies Bill, 156
Intercolonial Railway bill, introduction, route, qu., M. for papers, 16, 18
Intercolonial Railway reports, printing, 154
Lake St. Peter deepening report John Page, qu., 228, 256
Larceny and other similar offences Bill, 289, 322
Lawless Aggressions Protection Bill, 111
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 44, 45
Militia and Defence of the Dominion of Canada Bill, 335
Ministers travelling expenses, 211
National Bank Bill, amdt., 163, 203
Offences against the Person Bill, 326
Officers, sevants former Legislature, pensions, 32, 33
Ontario, Province of Financial Crisis, Select Com. Report, 294, 299
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 71, 72, 78, 87, 88
Printing Com. 13th Report, 237
Quebec Harbour Act amdt. Bill, 330
Reciprocity Treaty United States, 216
Rupert's Land and North-West Territory incorporation with Dominion of Canada,
112
Secretary of State Department Bill, 179, 180, 184
Senate business, 14

SENATE
Tessier, Hon. U. J.-Cont.
Senate officers and servants appointments, dismissals, salaries, 100, 102
Senate rules, 26
Ship-building, nautical schools petitions, letters Boards of Trade, M. for papers,
216, 274
Whiteaves Divorce Bill, 234
Throne Speech
Address in Answer, 4-6
Viscount Monck, 2, 3
Tobacco, Manufactured in Canada, Securing Payment of Duties Bill
1r., 2r., 3r., passed, 347, 348; R.A., 350
Todd, Mr.
Librarian, commendation, salary, 254, 255
Todd's "Parliamentary Government"
Reference, 148
Todd's "Parliamentary Manual"
Purchase 100 copies, 111
Trade Marks and Industrial Designs Bill, Mr. Chapais
Intro., 319; 2r., 328; 3r., passed, 331; H. of C., 347; R.A., 350
Trea±y Between Her Majesty and United States of America for Apprehension and
Surrender of Certain Offenders Bill, see Extradition Treaty Extension Bill
Tucker, Mr.
Clerk candidate, 195
Union Act
Printed with Rules and Orders of the House, 12
United States of America
Friends and neighbours, 4
Immigration, 257-60
Reciprocity Treaty, qu. (Mr. McCully), 16, 19, 20
Rupert's Land -and North-West Territory acquisition, 112, 113
Upper Canada Bank Seuflement Bill
Passed, 115
"Upper Canada Farmer"
Postage exemption, 85
Walsh, John
Permanent Clerk,,left Senate employ, 122
Wark, Hon. David
Adjournment, Easter, 160, 162, 163
Agriculture Department Bill, 213, 214
Banking and curteiey, 304
Bounties, 220
Clerk appointments, 196
Immigration aid New Brunswick, 260

INDEX

Wark, Hon. David-Cont.
Larceny and other similar offences Bill, 322
Varine and Fisheries Department Bill, 46
Militia and Defence of the Dominion of Canada Bill, 339, 340
Navigation of Canadian Waters Bill, 177, 178
North-West Territory, Government correspondence Hudson's Bay Co. rela tive
claims, communications, costs, qu., 18
North-West Territory incorporation with Dominion of Canada, 214
Ontario, Province of, Financial Crisis, Select Com. Report, 304, 305
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 71, 77, 79, 80, 84, 87
Rupert's Land and North-West Territory incorporation with Dominion of
Canada, 113
Secretary of State Department Bill, 215
Senate business, 15
Speaker Senate election, 253
Steam communication Montreal, Quebec and Gulf ports N.S., N.B., 138
Whitby Meeting
Charles McDougall, W.C.B., against Brown, George, 117, 118
Whi±eaves Divorce Bill
Intro., 157, 170, 188, 201; 2r., 232-4; 79th rule suspended, ref. Select com., 234,
238; 3r., 242-4; Her Majesty's pleasure, 350
Wier, Hon. Benjamin
Confederation, 131, 132
Death, 165
Ontario, Province of, Financial Crisis, Select Com., 61
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 56, 72, 80, 84
Senate officers and servants appointments, dismissals, salaries, 97-101
Wilmo,

Hon. R. D.

Adjournment, Easter, 160
Aliens and Naturalization Bill, 126, 157
Bank of Montreal, terms Government business transacted, M. for papers, 37
Banking and currency, 293, 304
Banks in any part of Canada to use Dominion Notes instead of their own, Bill,
263, 266-8
Bounties ship-building, 219, 220
British Copyright Works duty on Foreign Reprints Bill, 286, 287
Canal Gulf of St. Lawrence and Bay of Fundy, M. for papers, 330
Clerk appointments, 197
Confederation, 117, 118, 130-2, 181, 182
Contingent Accounts Com. Report, 95, 97, 150
Currency Bill, 239, 240, 244, 245
Debates, com. appointed inquire cost, 10, 12
Debates, printing, 140, 152
Excise Duty, to increase on spirits, impose on refined petroleum and provide
for inspection Bill, 331
Governor-General's salary, Bill to fix, 309-13
Immigration aid, encouragement, 258
Independence of Parliament, further securing Bill, 347
Inland Revenue Bill, 117, 118
Larceny and other similar offences Bill, 321, 323
Legislation affecting N.S., N.B. corres. Local Govt., others with Dominion Govt.
M. for papers, 130-7
Marine and Fisheries Department Bill, 48
McDougall, W.C.B. correspondence, 117, 118
Members' indemnity and Speakers' salaries Bill, 73
Militia and Defence of the Dominion of Canada Bill, 340

392

SENATE

Wilmoi, Hon. R. D.-Cont.
Navigation of Canadian Waters Bill, 176
Ontario, Province of, Financial Crisis, Select Com. 60; Report, 297, 298, 303
Postal Service Regulation Bill, 54, 56, 82, 83, 90
Public Service general retrenchment, 181-3
Quebec Scheme, 130
Salaries, reduction, notice of res., Governor-General, Public Service Dept.
Officers, 151
Security Officers of Canada Bill, 166, 167
Senate officers and servants appointments, dismissals, salaries, 97, 99
Senate rules, 25
Wilson, Hon. Charles
Adjournment, Easter, 160

