Technical and Bibliographic Notes / Notes techniques et bibliographiques
The Institute has attempted to obtain the best original copy
available for scanning. Features of this copy which may be
bibliographically unique, which may alter any of the images
in the reproduction, or which may significantly change the
usual method of scanning are checked below.

Coloured covers /

Couverture de couleur

D
D
D
D
D
D

Covers damaged /

Couverture endommagée

Covers restored and/or laminated /
Couverture restaurée et/ou pelliculée

Cover title missing /

Le titre de couverture manque

Coloured maps I

Cartes géographiques en couleur

L'Institut a numérisé le meilleur exemplaire qu'il lui a été
possible de se procurer. Les détails de cet exemplaire qui
sont peut-être uniques du point de vue bibliographique, qui
peuvent modifier une image reproduite, ou qui peuvent
exiger une modification dans la méthode normale de
numérisation sont indiqués ci-dessous.

nI Coloured pages / Pages de couleur
riI Pages damaged Pages endommagées
D Pages restored and/or laminated
Pages restaurées et/ou pelliculées
I

I

Pages discoloured, stained or foxed/

w

Quality of print varies /
Qualité inégale de l'impression

Encre de couleur (i.e. autre que bleue ou noire)
Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur
Bound with other material /
Relié avec d'autres documents

Only edition available /

Seule édition disponible

D

Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion

D

Additional comments /

along interior margin / La reliure serrée peut
causer de l'ombre ou de la distorsion le long de la
marge intérieure.

Commentaires supplémentaires:

Pages detached / Pages détachées
Showthrough I Transparence

Coloured ink (i.e. other than blue or black) I
Coloured plates and/or illustrations /

Pages décolorées, tachetées ou piquées

D

D

Includes supplementary materials /

Comprend du matériel supplémentaire

Blank leaves added during restorations may

appear within the text. Whenever possible, these
have been omitted from scanning I Ilse peut que
certaines pages blanches ajoutées lors d'une
restauration apparaissent dans le texte, mais,
lorsque cela était possible, ces pages n'ont pas
été numérisées.

DEBATES ANID PROCEEDINGS
0F THE

SENATE OF CANADA
IN THE

$

laýlt*»tqld

ï Il

0F THE

DOMINION

oF CANADA.

JOHN GEORGE BOURINOT,
SHORT-HAND WRITER

TO THE

SENATE:

&C.

OTTAWA:
PRINTED BY THE TIMES PRINTING & PUBLISHING Co., WELLINGTON-ST.
187;:2.

TABLE OF CONTENTS.

Arbitration between Ontario and Quebec, 18
Answer to Speech, 5
Bills passed during Session, 200, 201, 202,
203, 204, 205, 206
Canal Extension, 22
Copyrights, 26, 62, 155, 158
Cape Breton, 34
Canal-Bay Verte, 33, 113
i
Welland, 33
Civil Actions in Beauce, &c., 79
Classification of Masters & Mates, 114
Contingent Accounts, 154
Coast Navigation, 15.
Deceased Senators, 14
Drill Sheds in Nova S.otia, 53
Divorce of J. R. Martin, 74, 90
Dominion Notes, 80, 92, 98
Dual Representation, 174
Electoral Districts in New Brunswick, 78
Fisheries, 16, 47
Inland Fisheries, 38
Intercolonial R. R.-Explanations of Hon.
Mr. Mitchell, 59
Immigration tAid Societies, 68
Insolvency Law, 94, 98, 106, 151
Intercolonial U. R., 92, 59, 113
Judges' Salaries, 23

Library of Parliament, 5
Light Houses, 70
Manitoba Judiciary, 36
"
Land Question, 36
Navigation of St. Lawrence, 22, 32
Narrow vs. Broad Gauge, 41
New Brunswick School Systemn, 18&
Prince of Wales, E. R. H., 12
Patents, 16
Postal Facilities, 39, 67, 71
Public Lands, 54, 71
Public Business, 54
Quarantine, 75, 92
Returns of Baptisims & Burials, 5
Speech-At Opening, 1
"i
At Close, 1D8
Senators-Deceased, 14 •
St. Lawrence Navigation, 22, 32
Superannuation of Mr. Harley, 50
St. Francis & Megantic R. R., 69
Superior Court Judges, 78
School System, N. B., 188
Translations, 52
Treaty of Washington, 115-150
Washington, Debite on Treaty af.11-45e
Weights & Measures, 184

DEBATES AND PROCEEDINGS
O' TRI

SENATE

OF CANADA,
IN THI

FIFTH SESSION OF THE FIRST PARLIAMENT

CANADA

OF Ti

DOMINION OF

WEICH WAS CALLED TO MEUT, FOR THE DESPATOH

BusitsES, ON THURSDAY, THE 11TH APRIL, A.D., 1872,
IN TRI 85TH YEAR OF THE REIGN OF HER MAJESTY QUEEN
OF

VICTORIA.

THE SENA TE.

Ov.?TWA, April 11, 1872.
This day, at three o'clock, P. M., Bis
Excellency the Governor General proCeeded in state to the Chamber of the
Senate, in the Parliament Buildings, and

tok his seat upon the Throne. The members of the Senate being assembled, His
Excellency was pleased to command the
attendance of the fouse of Commons, and
that House being present, His Excellency
was pleased to open the Fifth Session of
the First Parliament of the Dominion of
Caada, with the following Speech from
the Throne:
e1n. Gentlemen of the senat.
Gentlmen of the House of CoMMnn*

The auspicious ecovery which ths merey Of, PoÏidence voucbsfed from the well
l
l.tl neqs of thé Prno of Wales,
'iAd forth a universel expriuaiod' of joy

and thankfulness throughout the Empire.
Al classe of the people testified their
deep sense of relief from the anxieties of
a long and painful suspense by joining
thpir beloved Queen in a public Thanks,
giving which proved in vstness of attendance and unanimty of feeling the grand.
est and most impressive ceremony ever
witnessed in the British Capital.
I invite you to follow the good example
on the fifteenth day of this month.
It was thought advisable to defer the
solemnity until after the meeting of Par.
liament. and I feel assured that the Menm.
bers of the two Houses, as well as ail Her
Majesty's faithful subjects throughout the
Dominion will be anxious .to unite in
celebrating the occasion with all becomlng
observance and loyal alacrity.
Your Meeting has itself been postponed
to a later sson than usual, upon comniderations of Imperial as weil as Colonia
interest, and at the instance of Rer Ms.
jesty's Government

Speech from

[SENATE.]

The young Province of Manitoba, was
lait September threatened with an invasion of lawless persons from the United
States. Prompt measures for resistance
were adopted by the local authorities and
attended with the best results.
In order to reassure the people of the
Province, and to prevent a recurrence of
the outrage, I ordered a force of two hundred Militiamen to be sent te Foi t Garry.
Notwithstanding the inclement season
of the year the troops surmounted the difficulties of the march with energy and
success, thus proving net only their own
discipline and endurance, but also the
value of the route through our own Territory.
The accounts of the expenditure occasioned by this expedition will be laid before you, and you will be requested to
pass a iiill to indemnify the Government.
A copy of the Treaty made at Washing.
ton last year between Her Majesty the
Queen and the United States of America,
in which the Dominion has so great an
interest, will be laid before you. 4
Se much of the papers and of the cornpleted correspondence as can be made
public without injury to the interests of
the Empire or of Canada, will also be at
once submitted for your information, and
your attention will be invited to this important subject.
A conference was held at Ottawa in September last, on the important subject of
Immigration, at which the Government of
the Dominion, as well as those of every
Province, were represented.
A scheme for joint and several action
waa provisionally arranged, to which I
invite your attention.
I do not doubt that you will be inclined
te make ample provision for the encouragement of Immigration with the maintenance and extension of which the development of the vast natural resources of
Canada is so vitally interwoven.
Since last Session the union of British
Columbia with Canada bas been happily
consummatedand ber representatives now
take part in your deliberations.
In order te open up and settle the fertile
Territories of the North West. and to link
British Columbia therewith, it will be necessary for you to make provision for the
construction of a Railway to the Pacifie
Ocean, in conformity with the terms of
Ber Mjesty's Order in Council uniting
British Columbia with the Dominion. An
appropriation wasmade in the last Session
for the preliminary Survey of the route
for this Railway. The work hu been
diligntly prosecuted, and a report of

the Throne.

the progress achievel will be laid before
you.
You will, I trust, concur with me in
thinking that the long contemplated improvement and extension of our system
of Canals ought to be vigorously prose.
cuted.
The rapid increase in the trade of Canada, and the importance of competing
for, and accommodating the commerce of
the Great West, render it necessary that
the means of transport by water should
be cbeapened and facilitated.
. I bave te request your serious consideration of this subject, and in connection
with it, the expediency of providing a diTrect water communication between the
Gulf of St. Lawrence and the Bay of
Fundy.
The decennial Census having been
taken last year, the duty of readjusting
the representation in Parliament of the
four Provinces originally constituting the
Dominion devolves upon you now, according te the terms of the Union Act.
A measure for the purpose wil! accordingly be submitted lor your considera.
.tion.
Among other measures, Bills will be
presented te you relating to the Judges of
Superior Courts-to the regulation and
management of the public lands and
mines of the Dominion in- Manitoba and
the North West Territories, and for the
amendment of the laws relating to the
public health.
Gentlemen of the House of Commons:
The accounts of the past year will at
once be laid before you, and likewise a
statement of the receipts and expenditure
of the current year, up to the close of
the last month.
It is gratifying te me to be able to announce to you that the revenue for the
past, as well as that for the current year,
will be considerably in excess of what was
estimated, and that consequently there ls
no reason te apprehend embarrassment
from the immediate commencement of the
contemplated public improvements.
The estimates for the ensuing year will
be submitted to yen, and I trust that youwill be of opinion that the supplies which
my Government will ask you to vote for
the service of Rer Majesty can be granted
without inconvenience to her Canadi-tn
subjects.
Hon. Gentlemen of the Senate:
Gentlemen of the Houe of Commons:
I have all the more satisfaction in recurring to your counsel and assistance ait
this period, iasnth . I may congratulate you on.the general prospetity, of the.-

The

[APRIL '11l 1872.1

Addiwx.

toupiry. and the fortunate issue ,of, thé tobasn giving his apprseval to the senti'tepp taken to unite and consolidate the mente contained thei He made special
*as territoris which now form the - Do. reference to the illnèesof a. R. I. the
she newef wbch had been
Prince of,Walea,
I fel assured that you willi continue te read with the deepest regret hy the peodevqte the same assiduity as in the put pleof the North West. à,e need not give
te the augmented labours, which the the House the assurance that no portion
exigencies of more numerous constituen- ef the people of Canada sympathized more
eies and a wider aphere of operations deeply with Ber Majesty, or felt greater
demand at your hands, and 1 earnestly satisfaction at the recovery of.the Prince
pray that your ellorts in the path of duty than the inhabitants ôf that little Province
May be so happily guided as to maintain in the far Western wilderness. He could
ee d justice in ail the bordera of the nottoo highly approve of the reference in
n stdensure the happiness and the speech to Manitoba, where the peolasting welfare of all classes of its inhabit- ple were deeply attached to British
institutions and had no other desire
ants.
The following Senators were introduced than to give them their support,
and preserve and strengthen the conneoand took the usual oaths :
Hon. Messrs. tFutherland, Macdonald, tion with the Dominion. He was perfectly
satisfied with the manner in which the
Carrall, Cornwall, and Girard.
Government of Canada had acted toDon. Mr. CAMPBELL introduced a Bill wards that Province, and had no doubt
proforma.
that they would do their best to develop
A Return of Baptisms was laid on the its resources. He had read with inttable.
erest that paragraph in the Speech which
referred to the Treaty of Washington, and
LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT.
for one would be happy to give the ques.
Mr. SPEAKER laid before the Rouse, tion that consideration which its import.
the Report of the Librarian of the House ance required. He had no doubt that
of Commons, on the state of the Library the efforts of the Government to promote
o! Parliament.
immigration would have happy results to
The Bouse then adjourned.
the prosperity of the Confederation. He
beard with satisfaction the announcement
FR1DA T, 12th April, 1872.
from the Throne that the Government in.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three tended using their best efforts to construct such public works as were neces.
'clock.
sary for the development of the great re.
NEW MEMBER.
sources of this country. and he hoped
len. Mr. KAULBACK was introduced that the time was not fer distant when
and took bis seat alter having gone through the locomotive would pass through the
the usual formalities.
Province of Manitoba on its way to the
Pacific coast. The prosperous condition of
RETUltNS.
the finances, and the Dominion generally,
The SPEAKER laid on the table the was to every one a subject of congratulaLibrarian's Report for the present year. tion, and he was convinced that we had
Also a return of Baptisms and Burials lor every reason to look to the future with
With these remarks he
hopefulness.
the several distriots,
asked permission to move the following
MOTION.
resolution for an Address to His Excellency
Bon. Mr. CAMPBELL moved that when the Governor General in answer to his
the Bouse adjourn it stand adjourned until speech from the Throne :
fue.day next, in order to give members " That the following Address be prean opportunity of assisting in the Thanks. sented to bis Excellency the Governor
Oving for the reeovery of the Prince of General, to offer the respectful thanks of
Wales. He aiso stated that he would niove this Bouse to Bis Excellency, for - the
an address of congratulation to Her Mjetty gracious Speech which His Excellency has
been pleased to make to both Houses of
'Ou the sane subject.
Parliamet, nanely:
To His Excellency te Right Honorable
ANSWER TO TUE SPEECH.
Jour, BAnonhasGAR, of'Lisgar and BallieB. Mr. QLRARD, in proposing the borough, ln the County of Cavan, Ireland,
aSl
to th. Addreus, expieased the in the Peerage of the United Kingdom of
pheur ,he
;U
flas
one of the in- Great BritainandIrelandand aBaronet,one
t"of the distant Provines of Mani, of Her Majesty's Most Honorable Privy

1%e

2~e&kleu.[SENÂ-TE]

Counoil, Knight Grand Cross of the Most
Honorable Order of the Bath, Knight Grand
Cross of the Most Distinguished Order of
&8int
Michael and Saint George, Governor
Generai of Canada. -and Governor and
Commander-in-Chief of the slandof Prince
Edward.

Address;

We thank Yoeur Excellone for th
promise thatt the acunu af
e
diture eeo.ioned by thi e]4ediiie wàl
be laid before as, and we will give Our tne
attentive conuideration to the Bil .t. hi.
çlemnify the Government whioh Yon, E.
cellency ha been pleased to informn a *
shall be requested to pans.
qyit Please Your Ezoellency:
We are gratefuL also to Your Excelency
'We, Her Majesty's dutiful and loyal for the intimation that a oopy of the 'Res.ty
•subjects, the 8enste of Canada, in Parha.
made at Washington laat year betwe
ment assembled, respectfully thank Your Her Majesty the Qaeen and the U(ited
Excellency for your gracious speech at the States of America, m which the Dominion
bas so great an interest, will belaid before
opening of this session.
We agree with Your Excellency that the us, and that so much of the papers and of
auspicious recovery which the mercy of the completed correspondenoe as eací be
Proeideuce vouchsafed from the veli nigh made public without injury to-the interests
mrta illnesas of the Prince of Wales, of the Empire or of Canada will also be
called forth a universal expression of joy at once submitted for our informationand thankfulnes throughout the Impire, and we will respond to Yous Exoellency's
and that al classes of the people testified invitation by giving our best attention to
their deep sense of relief from the anxie. this important subject.
We rejoice td learn from Your Excelties of a long and painful suspense, by
joining their beloved Queen in a public lency that a conference was held at Ot.
Thanksgiving, which proved in vastness of tawa in September lat, on the subject of
attendance and unanimity of feeling the Immigration, at which the Goverument of
grandest and most impressive ceremony the Dominion, as well as those ef every
Province, were represented; and that a
ever witnessed in the British Capital.
We thank Your Excellency for inviting scheme for joint and several action was
ms to follow the good example on the tif- provisionally arianged, to whieh Your
teenth day of this month. We are glad Excellency ia pleased te invite cur attenthat it was thought advisable to defer the tion. We shall be well inclined to make
solemnity until after the meeting of Par- ample provisions for the encouragement
liament ; and we assure Your Excellency of Immigration, with the maintenance and
.that the mem±jbers of tis louse will be extension of which the development of the
anxious to unite with all Her Majesty's vast natural resources of Canada is so.
faithful subjects throughout the Dominion vitally interwoven.
in (elebrating the occasion with all be.Ib gives us great pleasure to be officially
informed by 'Your Excellency that since.
coming observance and loyal alacrity.
We thank Your Excellency for inform- last Session the union of British Columbia
ing us that our meeting has itself been with Canada has been happily consumpostponed to a later season than usual, mated, and that her representatives now
upon considerations of Imperial as well es take part in our deliberations.
We thank Your Excellency for recaiing
Coloni al interest, and at the instance of
our attention to the fact that in order to
Eer Majesty's Government.
We learn with regret that the young open up and settle the fertile Territoriea
Province of Manitoba was, last September, of the North West, and to link British
threatened with an invasion of liwless Columbia therewith, it will be necessary
persons from the United States. But we for Parliament to make provision for the
are hapy to be informed that prompt construction of a Rsilway to the Pacifie
measures for resistance were adopted by Ocean, in conformity with the temus Of
the local authorities, and attended with Her Majesty's Order in Council, uniting
the best results; that in order to reassure British Columbia with the Dominion, and
the people of the Province, and to prevent for reminding us that an appropriation
a recurrence of the outrage, Your' Excel- was made in the last Session for the prelency ordered a force of two hundred liminary Survey of the route for this Ril.
anilitiamen to be sent to Fort Garry ; and way; and we are glad ta learn from Your
tht, not withstanding the Inclement sea- Excellency that the work bas been dilison of the year, the troops aurmounted gently prosecuted, and that a report of
the difficulties of the narch with- enrgy thé progress achieved vil be laid before us.
and succesi, thus proving moto 4nly their
We concur with You Exoellenoy in
own discipline and endumace' but alsoi thinking that thelong, eontemplated 1the value of the route tbretngb out. 4a
provement and extension of our stem of
territory.
CabOlUSgt ta be vigrously prosecutè

9

The

[APRIL 12, 1872.]

Addres.

ad that the rapid increase in the trade minbn had great cause for thankfu1nen
of Canada, and the importance of coin- when they cons idered the state of
peting for and accommodating the com- as a whole. There waa one subjecton'hi&
merce of the Great West, render it noces- there oould be no diflerence of opinionuary that the means of transport by water namely, the âu3picious recovery of
should be. cheapened and facilitated. As Royal Highness the Prince of Waloi,
which vas a subjet for illjoicing -to
requested by Your Excellency we vi
give our serious consideration to this sub- people of every part of the British Emu
The state of th finances was exject, and in connection with it to the ex-.
pediency of providing a direct water com- eingly satisfactory, and ho had no
munication between the Gulf of St. Law- doubt that with judicieuq Manageraen
there would b. ne noce sity for increas
rence and the Bay of Fundy.
The decennial Census having been the burthensof the people of theDominiop.
taken last year, and the duty of re- The revenue of the country appeared tg
adjusting the representation in Parliament b. perfectly sufficient at the present time,
of the four Pi ovinces originally constitut- net only for the ordinary expenses of the
"ig the Dominion, having devolved upon Dominion gi'raIy, but for the purpose
Parliament now, according to the terms of extending and improving the commuby means 6f
of the Union Act, we shill not fail to give nications cf the Dominion
our best attention to the measure for the Canais and R:xilwaya. He hoped that the
saheme for the encouragement cf Imm!purpose which Your Excellency is pleased
to inform us will be submitted for our gratien weuld leai te the early settlement
of eur newly acquired possessions, a
consideration.
Our attentive consideratien will alsc b. offlmrt shauld be wanting t carry eut tus
given te the Bille relating te theJudges cf objet se ndispensale he the progress o
Superior Courte, te tho reouuiond and a young coundry.
Public Lanois
of tapi
management
n rinc of Wae
i s teti
tHona. l H
and Mines of the Dominien in Manit
eon
et
tba and the Nhrth Wwst Territ-as
ries, and for tii. amen Ient cf th.e discussion after the romarks that had falaws relating to the. Publia Health, whilien from tahe two gentlemen who ad
Your Excellency lias aise been pleased t just resumed their sata. Hence hongratuef tme
n the preo
lated tha ftse
goiermembers fromn Manitoba and British Copentdtusam
aa will .
We are grateful t0 Ytur Excellency for lumbia and there oeuld be ne doubt ig
e minds of any on.e tit they woul
b
the expression cf your satisfaction in recurrng te our counsel and assistance at render very valuable assistance to h.
ofuperio ors, w. beg lave te recipro- a oungaderlegisation. ae
rsltonwas confident
he
hie peried ; and ton t orguationz and work cf cuty.
fthe he.
remarks made by
cate Your Excellency's cengratulatiens on tnt tf
Manitoba-that oe
the general prosperity of the country, and gentleman from
extend were deeply attached te Britis
the. fortunate issue ef theo stops taken t
unite and consolidate the vast territeries înstitutiens-wore heard witii peculisr
and wouby be
satisfaction by the Doiuse,
whiiici new forn then Dominion.
rend withpleaure by the pedple t f the
Yeur Excellency may rest assured ta
ioole Dominion eo had ne other dent
Wshali continue te devote the saine as
section peacfl and
iduity as ln the pat te the augmentod thour no see tit
whicii tiie oxiu.ncies of more nu- i presperous. H. hoped thnt viionevor M~
labers
the wuli
re th mms fanyon thato for eonnectthe xprssin o yor saisfctin
overnment teck mensures
flircu costiuenie~'ad avidr ee
Oueratensetimenside atiour wiladel siiee ing Canada with Britis t Columbia, they
We unit. viti Your Excellency in oarnosî-wuladietet.reltonhybaj
ly praying that our efforts in the. patli cf brouglit up inithe. cher branc-that ýtei»
utymay b. e h eappily guided as te main. lino hould b. constructed net at the extain pence and juntice in al the bordera cf pense of the Dominion, bu through al
gency of cempanios Chear, hear, fro
tie land and ensure tie happiness and
bondhes). In conclusion Z
lasting welfaro cf aP ulasss cf its inhabi- Mnisteial
expressed hiriiope tat te Goynratu
tYnte.
sid in second. -and he roferreo espcisllyee tof. Min
. wil. Mr. ROBERTSON,
tk.
lu rhe Addresf, toat it was net necessary ter forMarine and fisheris-would
istae to the
deralbl
a souse at an
rinat gho ohould detain t
very eloquent re rks tien cf the St. Ladrnce, b as te pzo.
gth after the
lt year.
suad casualties socurred
teat ad fallen froi the gentleman vie
sad t t sinsh
Hon. wer. DeCKEY
le mugit say at toe
the preeedd- iun
fta
lide theuglt he souser mi t controersial discussion ihad rise
Onite tnt
asu Ecsume tnt th people f tht Dor eould be a breac of b Piametnry oft

il

Routine

[SENATE]

quette and propriety to make any lengthy
remarks. He did not intend to make a
speech, but simply wished to express the
satisfaction ha felt as a representative of
Nova Scotia
to
find
that
the
Goverqment
intended opening
up
water communication
betweei
the
Bay of Fundy and the Gulf of St. Lawrence- a scheme in which he had always
taken the deepesi interest and had done
his best to promote under the conviction that it would be a great benefit to
the whole country.
In answer to Hon. Mr..BUREAU,
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL stated that the
papers relative to the Treaty would be
laid on the table at the sanie time they
were submitted to the Commons. thougth
he could not state the exact day; aud
there would be ample opportunity given
for discussion.
The Address was adopted.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELLi moved, seconded
by Bon. Mr. MITCHELL- that the said
Address be presented to His Excellency
by such members as are members of the
Privy Council. Carried.
The House then adjourned until Tuesday at 3 o'clock.

12

Business.

nual Reports respecting Trade and Navi.
gation and Inland Revenue.
H. R. H. TUE PRINCE 0F WALES.

theor othe day
tulattonoPrthe oves, o
nct

of
o ga
as RoaHi

Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL said-I ar confident that the Bouse wilI cordially, and
with one voice, unite in the congratula.
tions whîch it is proposed that the Parliament of Canada should offer to Ber
Majestyon the happy reoovery of Hig
Royal Highness the Prince of Wales. We
have taken the earliest opportunity after
the Speech from. the Throne had been
answered, to submit to this Bouse ti'Address containing these congratulations,
and every hon. nember will, I am sure.
gladly seize the earliest oFportunity of
tendering theni to Ber Majesty. We al
remember
the
universal
anxiety
which was feit in this country during
those gloomy days when H. R. Highnees's
lite was in danger. If I may venture te
gauge the experience of other hon. members by my own, I may safely say that
that anxiety was spread over the whole
Dominion,and pervaded every fire side. It
OTTAWA, April 16th, 1872.
was not merely that we loved the
The bPEAKER took the Chair at 3 Queen with the respectful attachment and
e personal sorrow with which, for
oclock.
the greatof a free people, and feit deeply
second tue, she was threatened. Nor
.the
NOTICES OF MOTION.
that we sympathized tenderly and
Hon.erely
lon Mo]
nre NoN
th
avernotietwhe- truly with the courageous and noble wife
hof
the Prince; but we believed the nation
ther it is their intention to introduce a bill t be passing through a time of consider.
to amend the law respecting patents and able political uneasiness, for many old
inventions.
landmarks ot the country had been
Hon. Mr. MILLR.-Whether it is the attackod, and a disposition had manifest.
intention of the Government to maintain ed itself arongst a portion of the
a force for the protection of the coast fish- British publi,
an
active
portion,
eries and whether the lmperial authorities to attack others, stimulatod more or
will co-operate.
less by success, and strengthened by numHon. Mr. BOTSFORD.-Whether the berswhose views went infinitelybeyond any
Government propose to adhere to the exprossed, or perhaps held, by its leaders.
the
circumstances,
these
broad gauge for the Intercolonial Rail. under
danger,
ln
iRs
life
Prince's
way.
the
on
and when we reflected
BILLB.
robable effeot
upon th. Queen's
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL introduced a Bill gealth of a fatal termination of bis illnesu,
to anend the Act respecting the Statutes sud on the tender years of the young
Prince Albert Victor, we knew that w.
of Can4da.
concern.
for
deep
Hon. Mr. AIKIlNS introduced a Bill res- had cause
ting the Public Lands of the Dom. And ow that the sorrow With which
Queen and the Nation were threatened
mien.the
bas passed by, we rejoice with a joy as al
RETURNS.
pervading as were our grief and our aymIXIN
Hon. Mr. Hon. fr. o ~
AIKTN
a ~ t's
re
b
We heartily pray tat B.
ith respect to corpora punishment.spared,
d that is
when it aeco pes God R aU Him
Bon. Mr. ITCHLL presentedthe ab. reign,

*18

H. R. Highness

[A«PRIL,16, 1872.]

to the Throne, may long perpetuate the
constitutional rule under his Royal mother's administration, under which we and
all ber subjects have so long enjoyed the
blessinge of free and just government.
I am confident that, notwithstanding
the teachings of a smail and narrow.
minded school of political philosophera,
the people of England will res;pond to the
sentence with which .this address is closed,
and which so entirely speaks the senti,
ments of this House in assuring lier Majesty of our " unswerving attachment to
the Empire, and'of our devotion to ber
Throne and Person " With these words,
I now beg leave to propose the following
Address of Congratulation :
To the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty:
MoSr GRACIOUs SOVEREION:

the Prince of Wales. 14

anxiety was at last removed, and the
British Empire was saved from the sad
calamity of the death of the beir to the
British Crown. Happily, however, all
danger to British institutions had been
averted by his recovery, and the attachment of all classes of th( people ,to the
Crown strengthened by the event which
had caused so much sorrow and anxiety
throughout the length and breadth of the
British Empire.
The Address was then ordered to be
engrossed, signed by the Speaker, and
sent to the Commons for their concurrence.
DECEASED SENATORS.

The SPEAKER having informed the
House of the death of Senators B. E. J.
Duchesnay and Bill,
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL moved an adjournment of the House out of respect to
those gentlemen, and in doing so, alluded
particularly to Senator Duchesnay, with
whom he had a longer and nore intimate
with
thans he had
acquaintance
gentleman
That
Bill.
Senator
had been like himself, long connected
with the Conservative party, and was a
member of an illustrious French Canadian
family, whose name was perfectly familiar
to every student of those times when the
French were the rulers of Canada. The
late Senator was a worthy scion of that
etock, and had always fulfilled most hon.
ourably and consistently all bis publie
duties, while not a few present could also
testify to his courteous demeanour and
other admirable personal traits.
Bon. Mr. HOLMES spoke of his acquaintance with the late Senator Bill, who
had always been most upright and honorable in all his relations with the world.
Hon. Mr. ARMAND seconded the motion
of the hon. Postmaster General, and referred to the high descent of the late
Senator Duchesnay,to his amiable qualities
and to his sincere desire to perform strictu
ly and honourably his*obligations as a pub.
lic man. le had left behind him very
many friends who would always preserve
his memory fresh in their mmds.
The House then adjourned.

We, Your Majesty's dutiful and loyal
subjects, the Senate of Canada in Parlianent assembled, humbly approach Your
Majesty to offer You our earnest congratulations, on the restoration to health of
Ris Royal Highness the Prince of Wales.
The visit of Bis Royal Highness to British North America, and the acquaintance
which he then made with its people, have
served to render their sympathy during
his illness the more keen, and we humbly
assure Your kajesty that Your subjects in
Canada are deeply thankful to Almighty
God for the happy recovery of the Prince.
. Your Majesty's Canadian subjects of all
creeds and races participated in Your
Majesty's affliction whilst Bis Royal figh.
riess' 1fe was in danger, and we humbly
trust that Your Majesty will graciously
suffer us to,unite in the congratulations
Which, by acclamation from all parts of
the Empire, have greeted Your Majesty
on the passing away of the great calamity
With which the nation was threatened.
We desire humbly to renew to Your
Majesty the expression of our unswerving
attachment to the Empire, and devotion
to Your Majesty's Throne and Person.
lon. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. JUST,
Who followed in French, said that it was
With the most unfeigned pleasure that he
rose to second the Address, which had
Just been moved by the Hon. Postmaster
General.
ie could relterate what that
hor. gentleman had said so forcibly, that
WEDNusDAY, April 17, 1872.
the whole population, without respect to
The SPEAKER took the chair at 8
Olas or creed, had heard with the deepest
sorrow the news of the illness of fi. R. o'clock.
Uighness the Prince of Wales, and had
NOTICES OF MOTION.
Iy2rpathied most sincerely with his august
Zuther and wife in their great sorrow.
After presentation of a number of Petie could also testify to the joy that per- titions from Dominion Board of Trad
lVaed classes when the cause for Grand Trunk Railroad Company, Montl
all

Routine

[SENKÂTE.]

and Champlain Railroad Company, Ship.
owners and $hip Chandlers of Ontario,
&c.
Hon. Mr. SANBORN gave notice that
he woald move for copies of ail correspondence between the Dominion Government ànd Local Governments of Ontario
and Quebeoc, with respect to the Provincial Arbitration.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL laid on table liât
of Standing Committees of the Senate,
which Government intended moving.
Hon. Mr. BOTSFORD gave notice that
he would move for an address, praying
for return, giving certain information respecting European & North American
Railroad, and that portion of the Inter.
colonial Railroad, extending to Amherat
N. S.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBE LL presented Addreus from Ris Excellency the Governor
General, laying before the House certain
Census returns.
The House then adjourned.

18, 1872.
The SPEAKER took the chair at three
THURSDAY, April

o'clock.

PETITIONS.
Tye following petitions were read:
Of the Corporation of the Town of Wood.
stock, in the Province of Ontario.
Of Sir W. E. Logan, F.R.S., and others
of the City of Montreal, of Sir Hugh Allan,
President of the Montreal Telegraph Company, and of the Board of Trade of the
City of.Montreal.
Of Messrs. Jones and Miller, and of Wm.
Lewis and others connected with Shipping
in the Province of Ontario.
Of the Caughnawaga Ship Canal Com
pany.
STANDING COMMITTEES.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL moved, seconded
by Hon. Mr. MITO ELL, that the following
be Standing Committees of the House:
PRINTING-Hon. Messrs. Aiken's, Bureau,
Burnhami, Carrall, Chapais, Dumouchel,
Ferguson, Girard, tiazen, Holmes, Locke,
Olivier, Reesor, Sanborn, Simpson and
Skead.
LMnaAwT-Bon. Mesrs. Allan, Blake,
Bo minot, Chaffers, Chapais, Cormier, Cornwal, Ferguson, Girard Hazen, Ltcoste,
Leonard, Locke, Ma arIane, Malhiot,
Mills, Odell, Panet, ReJor, Renaud and
Steeves.
STANDING ORDEs AND PivATE BILLS.Hon. Messrs. Aikins, Allan, Archibald,
A&rmsgnd, Botsford, Bourinot, Cornwall,
Dever, Dickson, Ferrier, 'Flint, Girara,

Business.

Guevremont, Hazen, Letellier de St. Just,
Miller, Northup, Olivier, Panet, Perry,
Sanborn, Seeves, and don. Mr. Camp.
bell.
BANKNmG, CoMMEcEn,
AND RAILWAY.on. Messrs. Bureau, Chapais, Churchill,
errier, Foster, Hamilton (Kingston),
Kaulback, McDonald (Toronto), MoLelan,
McMaster, Macdonald (Victoria), Macpherson, Malhiot, Mitchell, Robertson, tyan,
Simpson, Skeaa, Smith, Sutherland, fessier, Wark, Wilmdt, and Wilson.
CoNTINGENT AccouNTs. -

Hon. Mesrs.

Armand, Benson, Botsforc, Burnham,
Carroll, Chapais, Christie, Dickey, Dickson, Dumouchel, Hamilton (inkerman),
Letellier de St. Just. McClelan, McDonald
(Foronto), Macfarlane, Macphersun, Miller,
Mitchell, Mills, Read, -Ryan, Seymour,
Shaw, Tessier, and Wilson.
PATENTS.

Hon. Mr. SANBORN made the following
enquiry of the Government :-Whether it
is the intention of the Government during
the present -ession of Parliament, to introduce a Bill to amend the Law relating
to Fatents for Inventions, so as to permit
citizens of other countries to obtain Pa,
tents on the same ternis as citizens of the
Dominion can obtain them in foreign countries; not giving to foreigners in any case
better teris than to our own citizens ?
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-It is the intention of the Government t4 . troduce a bill
making more liberal the exi g law respecting Patents ; but it will b. more convenient hereafter to state its precise de.
talsa.
THE FISHERIES.

Hon. Mr. MILLER asked:-Whether it
is the intention of the Government to
maintain a force for the protection of the
Coast Fisheries during the coming season,
and if se, will the Imperiai Government
co-operate in the service ?
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL-It is the intention of the Government to place the usual
force on the service to which my hon.
friend has re erred, and it is also the intention of the Imperial Government to give
such directions as will ensure the co-operation of Her Majesty's fleet with the crmnsers of the Dominion.
Hon. Mr. LOCKE-Is the force to be
placed on the service at once ?
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL-One vessel has
already received orders to proceed to the
Magdaien Islands in connection with the
herring fishery. The mackerel fishery
which requirès the most vigilance on our

part, does not come on till later, but

wo

PAGE
MISSING

PAGE
MISSING

PAGE
MISSING

PAGE
MISSING

25

Question of

[APRIL 28, 1872.]

Hon. Mr. LOCKE -- Are not the salaries
la Ontario higher than those in the other
Provinces ?
Hou. Mr. CAMPBELL-They are some.
What higher.
Hon. Mr. WIL[OT referred to the in.
crease in thê cost of living within the past
ten years, and the propriety of equalizing
the salaries of the Judges, especially in
view of the large coutribution to Customs
by the Maritime Provinces-larger in proPortion than that made by the old Province of Canada. Hie could not understand
Why such a distinction should be made in
the case of men so higbly qualified to fill
the position as were the Judges of the
Maritime Provinces.
Hon. Mr. MITChELL agreed with the
remarks of his hon. colleague that the
question of salaries might have to be dealt
With in another Parliament.
Hon. Mr. LOCKE was curious to know
Whether there was to be a radical change
ln that new Parliament to which reference
Was made (laughter).
STATUTES.

The House then went into Committee,
Hon. Mr. H<amilton in the Chair, and passed the Bilt with respect to the custody of
the Statutes of Canada.
MESSAGE.

Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL announced a

Message fromn His Excellency graciously

acknowledgiog receipt of the Addresa of
the Senate.
TUEsDAY, 23rd April, 1872.

The SPEARER took the chair at 3
'clock.
PRIVATE BILLS.

Hon. Mr. HAZEN, from the Committee
Ot Standing Orders and Private Bills, rePorted favourably on the following petitiOn, recommending in case of several
suspension of ordiniry rule with reference
to notice:
Of Messrs. James Domville & Ce., and
Others of the City of St. John, in the
?rovince of New Brunswick; praying for
tht passing of an Act to authorize them
to establish a Banking Institution in the
said City of St. John'Jf W. H. Howland and others of the.
of
etyToronto; praying to be incorporated as " The Toronto Corn Exchange Association."

Of the Detroit River Tunnel Company;
DYing for the passing of an Act to amend
heir Act of incorporation, so that bonds
14aY be issued on the guarantee of Rail-

4

Copyright.

way Companies using the Tunnel and for
other purposes.
Of the St. Lawrence and Ottawa Railway
Company; praying for the passing of an
Act to amend their Act of incorporation,
to authorise a further extension of their
Railway, and for other purposes.
Of the (Gan'md Trunk Railway Company
of Canada, . foresaid; praying for the psssing of an Act, to create a third mortgage
upon the lines and property of the Montreal and Champlain I<ailway Company,
newly purchased by the said Grand Trunk
Railway Company of Canada, and for other
purposes.
Of J. C. Fitch and others of the City of
Toronto; praying to be incorporated as
" The Bank of Canada."
qUESTION OF "COPYRIGHT.'

Hon. Mr. RYAN-In pursuance with
the notice which is on the minutes I rise
to move,
"That an humble Addlress be presentled tu His
Excellency the Governor General, praying that
Ris Excellency will cause to be laid before this
House, copies of all correspondence with the Imperlai Government, or with any person or persons sinoe the 20th Fcbruary, 1871, In relation to
the question of Copyright, as well as ta that of
re-printing British Copyright works in Canada."

It ewill be in the recollection of the.
House that for the last four years a motion similar to this, or having relation to
this bubject, has been proposed by myo
self, and addresses based on the motion
have been regularly adopted by the
Senate, but I am sorry to say that. although the question is one of great importance to the interests of the country
no result of any moment has, so far, beea
produced by these frequent addresses, or
the representations made by the Canadian
Government to the British authorities in
relation to the matter. Honourable gentlemen will probably recollect the history of this question. In 1868 when
the first address of the Senate was passed
we found it in this position. 'lhere was
then a right which was acquired from the
imperial Government in 1849, to import
British copyright books from the United
btates oi'the payment of a small duty,
on condition of this duty being set aside to
form a fund for the benefit of the author.
This was intended as a concesiun to
Canada, so that cheap literature might be
imported into the country. But as time
went on, and our printing, like other industrial interests, increased those who
were engaged in the publishiug business
felt it a grievance that whilst they were
prevented from printing copyright works,
their importation froin a foreigu country
was actually allowed under the condition

Question of

[SENATE.I

mentioned. The object of the Address
which was presented to His Excellency at
that time was to remove this grievance by
giving the same right to our prmnters and
publishers of priating British copyrights
as was accorded, and still is accorded,
to American publishers on the other side
of the line. Our capabilities for printing
uuch works cheaply were as great then as
those possessed by the Americans-per.
haips more so; and we appealed on the
eubject to the British Government through
His Excellency the Governor General, and
that Address was followed by despatches
from the Government, which were brought
down to this flouse on our motion in due
course. The representation was made to
the British Government that, as soon as
ever measures were taken for the protection of the interests ot the British
authors in the shape of an excise,
permission should 1e given for the
reprinting of British copyrights in Canada
I need not go through the varions negotiations which have passed since 1868
between our Government and that of
Great Britain. You will reoollect perhaps
one important fact which I mentioned last
year, and that was, that the prospect of
an International Copyright Treaty with the
United States was the chief impediment
to having our wishes complied with.
Great hopes were held out that that Treaty
would be accomplished, þut it fell to the
ground, and there is ne appearance at
present that such a measure will be carried
out. We are therefore precisely in the
same position that we were in 1868 on
this subject with this exception, that ne.
gotiations have been going on at different
times between the Government here and
the Imperial Government. In return to
the address presented last year a new
paper was sent down, and which has not
yet been specially brought to the notice
of the House though it is amongst the
papers which were printed. In the Sessional Papers, No. 43. I find a report
from the Minister of Finance and the
Minister of Agriculture to the Governor
General and Yrivy Council. They say :
"What the undersigned would venture to
suggest is that the duty on the reprints
of books first published, either in Great
Britain or its dependencies, when imported from foreign countries, should be materially increased."
The object evidently of this suggestion
was to put an end to importations from
the United States but it is obvious that
to do away with the power of importing
these works would, of course, increase
the coost of literature in this country unLess we are allowed to reprint them our-

Copyright.

selves. We are yet, perhaps, too poor a
country to pay European prices for the
literature which we require. The report
goes on to say : " And that it should, be
levied in all cases for the benefit of the
author or owner of the copyright, should
such exist." Every gentlemean will be
prepared to join in the justice of that recommendation, that whilst we ask privileges of this sort we should certainly
make provision for the benefit of the
author whose work we should publish in
this country. The object we have in view
is to benefit the British author as well as
the Canadian lublisher whose interests
are identical. The only interest that
would be injuriously affected would be
the British publishers, and they hive, I
believe, thrown many impediments in the
way of our acquiring the privilege which
we ask for. " And te prevent evasion of
the law, a declaration should be requested
from importers that any works which they
may claim to import free of such duty
have never been published either in
Great
Britain
or
in
British
dependencies ;
that foreign
reprints of works published in Canada
should be wholly prohibited; that any
author publishing in Canada should be, as
at present, protected in his copyright, but
that, unless British copyright works should
be published concurrently in Canada,
licensed Canadian publishers should be
allowed to publish, paying for the benefit
of the author or owner of the English
copyright an excise duty which cou[d be
collected by means of stamps as easily as
The
other duties of a similar kind
undersigned have no doubt that such a
scheme as that which they have suggested
could be carried into practical effect with
great advantage to the English authors,
who, as a-rule, would sell their copyrights
for Canada te Canadian publishers. It is
true that British publishers would not
gain that colonial circulation which they
have long tried to obtain without success ;
but it is vain to expect that the expensive
editions published in England can meet a
sale in any part of the American continent."
Since these communications have passed
between the two Governments, others,
no doubt have, followed, and I hope that
there will be no objection te showing the
position of thess further negotiations with
as little delay as possible.
Although it
may appear te some that the subject has
been followed up, perhaps too persistently,
yet, I believe, nothing but persistence and
energy in urging this matter on the Im.
perial Governient will bring it te a suacessful issue. Since I gave notice of my
motion I have thought that it would be

29

Question of

[ARL23, 1872.]

perhaps advisable to make an addition to
show Britizh authors how little benefit
they receive from the present mode of
collecting duty on American reprints of
their works coming into Canada. I would
therefore propose to add to the words of
my motion as printed: " Also a return
showing the amount of duty collected
upon ccpies of British copyright works imported into the Dominion from the United
States during the fiscal year 1870-71, as
well as the amount of such duties as have
been paid to the author or authors ofsuch
works." It now just con es to my recollection that a voluminous correspondence on the subject of copyright appeared
in the London Times, not many months
ago, and amongst many authors, who then
made known their complaints, the Archbishop of Dublin wrote a letter in which
ho complained of the very small return
received from Canada, and rather reflected
upon the management of our Customs in
collecting the duty for the benefit of British authors I think he said that althou h
one of his works was widely circulated in
Canada, yet all he received was something like six shillings and eight pence,
or some such trivial sum.
There is no
doubt whatever thait i
lrge numbers of
such works are smuggled into this country from the United States. but in addi
tion to this many pass the Custon flouse,
because of the absence of timely returns
from the proper authorities in England. i
have no doubt, knowing as I do something of the slowness with which public
departments move. that returns of copy
right works only come out some time after
they have appeared in England, and bave
been copied in the United States, and consequently are not in the possession of our
Customs officers, as soon as the American
reprints are sent in. The officer looks at
bis lists, and not seeing the work mentioned in them, allows the books to pass
free. Under such circumstances it will be
easy to explain why such a small amount
is collected on American repeints for the
benefit of authors. As a forcible illustra.
tion of the position in which our publishers are
Dow
placed,
I
may
Inention
that
a
well
known
gentleman in Montreal-I refer to the
Compiler and publisher of the Dominion
D)irectory-who ,has labored long and
earnestly in this matter, has been forced
to establish a printing office at Rouses'
t'Oint, across the frontier, in order that ho
May be in a position to compete with
-A&merican publishers. Ido not attempt to
Justity or offer an opinion on this proceedlDg; I give it simply as an example of the
effect of the present system upon our

Copyright.

printing industry. We should certainly
endeatvour to encourage Canadian publishers and keep them in the country, instead
of forcing them across the border. In my
motion, I refer to correspondence with
"person or persons," as well as with the
Government for I understand that a correspondence has been going on with influential incdividuals on this question, and
a letter bas been written by a distinguished gentleman, Sir Charles Trevelyan, approving of the action and demands of the
Canadian Government on the subject. I
believe such correspondence should encourage our Government to prosecute
this o1ject with vigor, and use every
effort to obtain the very desirable boon we
have so long been asking.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELLI replied: I may
say at once, I believe there la no officiai
correspondence after that to which my
hon. friend bas referred-the report of
two members of the Government on the
subject, which was sent to England. There
bas been, however, some unotlicial correspondence, and the hon. gentleman is right
in mentioning the name of Sir Charles
Trevelyan. but I do not know if it can be
brought down. I would suggest to my
hon. triend that he also add te bis motion
a request for a ieturn which will show the
dates at which the copyright lista come
out to this country; and then the whole
case will be laids before the public. My
hon. friend deserves to succeed-he bas
persevered, session after session, sine
Confederation, and 1 may add that bis
efforts have not been confined to this
House, but have been exerted, with the
same object in view, during the vacation,
both in this country and in England. The
Government are entirely in accord with
the hon. gentleman on the question, and
hope that now, since there is no prospect
of an International Copyright Treaty, they
will be able to come to some satisfactory
arrangement with the British authorities.
In accordance with the suggestion of
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL,
Mr. RYAN added the following words to
his motion :
" And further a return stating at what
dates and periods with reference to the
dates of publication, lista of works which
are copyrights are transmitted from the
proper departrment in tendon to the
proper department for collecting the duties on copies of such copyright works in
this country."
Hon. Mr. BUREAU made a few remarks, but they were not audible to the
re orter.
The motion, as amended, thon pv'sed.

Routine

[SENATE ]

PICTOU RAILWAY.

lon. Mr. DICKEY asked the Government whether it is intended to afford increased facilities for the conveyance of
coal over the Government line of railway,
between Pictou and Halifax. iii Nova Scotia, and in doing se, he stated that there
had been actually a coal famine last
March in Halifax. The carrying capacity
of the line was unequal te the public requirements.
Hon. Vir. CAMPBELL replied that it
was intended te afford incre ased facilities
en the line iu question-in fact, the Minister of Public Works had already con.
menced to make improvements in the di
reotion required.
STATUTES.

On motion of Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL the
bill in respect te the custody of the Statutes was read a third tume. and sent to
the Commons for their concurrence.
The flouse then adiourned.
WEDNEsDAY, 24th April, 1872.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
o'clock.
COPYRIGHT.

Hon. Mr. RYAN presented a petition
in reference te Copyright from the Dominion Board of Trade, and again called attention of the Governmert te the subject.
POSTAL STEAM COMMUNICATION
WEST INiIES.

W1TH

On the presentation of a petition by
Hon. Mr. DICKE;Y in reference te direct
Steam Communication between Canada
and West Indies and Brazil.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL stated that there
was a prospect of that communication
being afforded at no distant date; for
favorable propositions were now under the
consideration of the Government-of
course he could net say whether they
would be accepted or not-who were very
desirous of securing the communications
in question.
Hon. Mr. RYAN-With the Foreign or
British West Indies?
Hon Mr. CAMPBELL-It was hoped
that it would be arranged that the proposition would extend te the British as well
as Foteign West Indies.

Business.

to the printing of Mr. Dawson's report.
Report to be considered on Monday.
NAVIGATION OF ST. LAWRENCE.

lion. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. JUSr
asked whether it is the intention of the
Government to provide eflectually for the
protection of the navigation of the St.
Lawrence, either by stationing tug boats
of the necessary tonnage and power to
relieve, and help te save vessels, and the
crews of vessels leaving the Ports of Montreal and Quebec annually, during the
last days of the season of navigation, or
by encouraging Companies for that pur.,
pose.
Whether it is the intention of the Government to grant rewards te those residents on the South Shore of the St. L..wrende, in the Counties of L'Islet and
Karmouraska, who, at the risk of their
lives, succeeded in saving theý crews of
vessels abandoned in the midst of the ice
during the severe cold of last autumn,
Uon. Mr. M[TCHELL replied that it
was not the intention of the Government
to station tug-boats at any particular
points for the purpose of relieving vessels.
The Government laid it down as a principle of action not to interfere with the enterprise of private companies when they
were equal to the performance of the
service. The Quebec Tug Boat Company
was efliciently conducted, he understood
from members of the mercantile commu.
nity. Only when the services of such
companies could net be obtained, and life
and property were in peril, were the Government justified to step in. Indeed, the
Government had no boats which oould be
detailed for such a service. The Druid
was unfit, while the Napoleon was indispensable
for
the performance of
the.remote Light House Service. With
respect to
the
latter
part
of
the first question the Government
had always done its best te assist said
vessels. With refereuce to the second
question there was a suma of money put in
the Estimates last year as a reward for
those who had made themselves conspicuous for saving life and property. Appli.
cations were now under the purview of
the department in relation to the heroism
of the habitants of L'Islet and Ramouraska, ard they would receive that attention to which they were entitled.
FISHERIES.

Hon. Mr. SANBORN gave notice of an
PRINTING.
enquiry with reference to expences incur.
Hon. Mr. SANB')R à presented report red last session by British and Canadiai
Joint Commlttee on Printing, approving Governments in protectang the Fisheries.
of the action of Mr. Hartney in reference
The louse then adjourned.

t'a

Rossitse

[APRIL 25, 1872.]

Busiesess.

'THURSDAY, 25th April, 1872.
the estimates, and consequently hie enquiry was answered. It was the wish
The SPEAKER took the chair at 3 of the government to expend the money
*'clock.
so that the object desired might be ae.PETITIONS
complished this season. The two plane,
Hon. Mr. SANBORN favorably reported proposed for increasing the supply of
from Committee on Standing Orders and water had been reported upon by the
Private Bills on following petitions:Engineers, and elaborate reports in e nOf W. H. Gault and others of the City nection therewith were now hefore the
of Montreal, praying to be incorporated Board of Works, but he did not know what
as "The Exchange Bank."
conclusion would ce arrived at by the DeOf the British Americn Assurance Com- partment.
FISHERIES.
pany ; praying for the passing of an Act
to alter and amend their Act of incorporaHon. Mr. MITCHELL laid on the table
tion in certain particulars.
Of the Great Western Railway Com- the Annual Report of the Departinent of
pany; prayng that the restrictions of the Marine and Fisheries.
Che House then adjourned.
one hundred and thirty-first clause of
the Railway Act may be modified,and that
FmD&i, 26th April, 1872.
tbe power of loaning and guaranteeing
The SPEAKER took the chair at g
may be defined.
Of El S. Howland and others, of the o'clock, p.m.
City of Toronto, praying to be incorpoBRITISH COLUMBIA.
rated as the "Pacific Junction Bridge ComHon. Mr. MITCHELL laid on the table
pany," for the purpose of constructing a
Railway or other Bridge over the river Ste. the report of the Hon. Mr. Langevin's
Marie, near the Sault Ste. Marie.
visit to British Columbia.
Of the Caughnawaga Ship Canal ComCAPE BRETON.
pany, praying for the amendment of the
Act of Incorporation.
Hon. Mr. BOURINOT-1 now beg leave
to make the follow'ng enquiry of the GovBAY VERTE CANAL.
ernment-Whether the Government have
Hon. Mr. DICKEY asked the Govern- .received a Report of the Survey which they
ment whether the Report of the Survey of ordered to be made for opening a Canal
a Canal to unite the waters of the Gulf of between the waters of the Bras d'Or et
Saint Lawrence with the Bay of Fundy East Bay and Sydney Harbour, and in conwill be submitted to Parliament, and tinuation of St. Peter's Canal, thereby
facilitating the growing trade of the most
when?
extensive Coal mines of the Dominion
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL replied that it situate in Cape Breton ;-and if such Rewould be presented during the present port has been received, to request the
session. The Engineer, who had been Government to lay it on the Table of the
directed to report on the Canal unfortu- flouse ? Also, whether it is the intention
nately fell ill, and the report was conse- cf the Government to prosecute the proquently delayed. It was now under con- posed work at an early date ? My chief
sideration of Mr. Page, and would be laid reason for making this enquiry is this,before Parliament as soon as possible.
that some time ago a public meeting was
held at Sydney to take this matter into
WELLAND CANAL.
consideration, and at that meeting my
lon. Mr. BENSON said that sinoe he hon. colleague (Mr. Archibald) and myself
had given notice of bis enquiry with re- were asked to act in concert with the hon.
spect to the supply of water for the Wel. gentleman who represents the county in
land Canal, he found there was an item the Comamons. On the occasion of that
already in the Estimates. It was, how. meeting, I took a somewhat prominent
ever, very desirable to know what action part, and therefore I may be allowed te
the government intended to take in con. make a few remarks in relation to the
nection with this matter, for the parties subject. It has been replied elswhere to
interested were very anxious on the sub- a somewhat similar enquiry- that the enject. Two propositions for remedying gineer who was to be sent to examine the
existing difficulties were before the gov- St. Peter's Canal, would also examine the
ernment, and he hoped they would soon ground through which it is proposed te
bein a position to state their decision.
construct the work in question. I may
lon. Mr. CAMPBELL replied that, hie state, however, that a Government Eu.
hon. friend had seen there wae au item in gkieer, Mr. laeNab, h. already take

Cape

[SENATE.]

Breton.

amurvey of the route, and I presume his will be m a position to state something
eport is in the hands of the Government. definite with respect to the Canal in ques-

With respect to St. Peter's Canal, it is well
known that it is too narrow for the large
elass of vessels who are likely to make use
et it. If the work in question is opened
up, there is no doubt whatever that the
amount of shipping that will avail itself of
both canals will be very large in the
*ourse of time, inasmuch as they will afford such admirable facilities for reaching
the very valuablé coal mines of Sydney.
Instead of being exposed to the dangereus navigation of the Atlantic coast of
the Island at certain seasons, especially
dangerous in the vicinity of Ecattarie,
these vessels will be enabled to avail
themselves of the secure passage by the
kiland waters of the Bras d'Or Lake and
Spani -h River up to the wharves at Sydmey where they can load wi h celerity. It
must be borne in mind that the coal
mines of Cape Breton are the most extensive in the Dominion, and are already
*onnected with the noble harbor of Sydney by lines of rails ay. In the face of
the hostile American tariff.. the coal export is still two thirds <, the whole sent
out of Nova Szotia ; and under a more
favorable commercial arrangement with
the United States. the production must,
in the course ot time, reach to millions
of tons annually. We have aIready great
hcilities in the shape of railways and
wharves for carrying on the trade, and
eventually Sydney must become one of
the largest and busiest towns of the DoWe also expeot one day to
minion.
me the mines connected with Louisbourg,
an
admirable
harbour,
open
at aIl seasons, and the nearest Atlantic
prt of the Dominion to Europe
am quite sure that the attention of the
Government will be drawn to this flourish.
ing section of Canada, and that they wili
mot fail to consider its requirements, and
grant those smas of money which- are
absoluSely necessary for the development
of, its large industrial resources.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Iasked the hon.
gentleman who is at the head of the
Lie Works whether there was any report on the subject, and understood from
him that none was in the possession of
the Department. Now that my hou. friend
hasteferred to the report of Mr. MoNab,
I will make further inquiry into the subjea. I was aiao informed by the Minister
of Publie Works that it is hie intention
to instract the engineer detailed, to examine the 8. Peltr's Ceni, aise tÔrepo on the woek 'opod
between Bras

tion. I had the pleasure last summer of
visiting Sydney in company with my hon.
colleague, the Minister of Marine and
Fisheries, and seeing the hon. gentlemen
opposite (Hen. Messrs. Archibald and
Bourinot), and I confess I was both delighted and astonisbed at the spaciousness and security of the harbour-decidedly not surpassed on this continent.
When I consider the existence of
its extensive coal mines, and their close
proximity to the sea, I can have no
doubt as to the future of the fine Island
to which my hon. friend has just
referred. 1 trust that he will believe thit
the Government are anxious in every way
possible to promote its p;osperity. When
I look at the Bras D'Or Like, I can easily
believe that screw steamers, likely here.
after to take the place of sailing vessels,
would follow the route proposed to be
established.
Hon. Mr. BOUIINOT-There are now
several screw steamers on their way from
Great Britain, to enter into the coal trade
of Cape Bretoi.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Therefore the
navigation of the Bras d'Or is more important than ever. The Government
will not fail to give the subject all the consideration to which it is entitled.
MANITOBA JUDICIARY.

Hon. Mr. GIRARD asked the Government-When does the Government intend to complete the judicial organization
of the Province of Manitoba, and to appoint Judges for the administration of
justice within the limite of that Province ?
lon. Mr. CAMPBELL-I beg to say
that the official copy of the Act under
which the judiciary of Manitoba has been
arranged, has been only recently received
in this part of the country, and that we
have not yet had time to make the
appointment of the judges required under
its provisions. The Government, however,
expect that the organization of the judiciary in the Province will be completed at
an early date.
MANITOBA LAND 4UEBTION.

Lion. Mr. GIRARD-As this honorable
House is aware, I am one of the representatives of that new Prevince, whose organisation instill tar from being conpleted
so as to meet the wanta and necessities of
the people You msat have seen by the
publi ptrit hat there has been a good
dsontent in the Provinos en
d'Or and Sydney, Iver., Otourswhen dea
&Me eport às r«eed, th Gvemnmt asunt of the land quetion. t have Jst

Manitoba

87

[ARIL 26, 1872.1

received a letter from a rnember of the
Legislature informing me that there exista
considerable agitation on the subject; and
it is therefore very advisable that the
question should be arranged as soon as
practicable. The Province is young yet,
but has immense capabilities for progress,
and it no doubt will fill an important place
in the future among the members of the
Confederation. It is, therefore, very necessary that every care should be taken
to remove all causes of dissatisfaction in
the Province, especially with respect to
the pub!ic landa. The people of Manitoba do not yet thoroughly understand all
the laws and regulations with respect to
the question, but they are loyal and
honest. When an engagement has been
solemnly entered into, they believe it
ought to be carried out as soon as possible; and therefore they are very anxious
on the subject of the division of the land
grant made some time ago. It is for the
interest of the Government and of the
whole Confederation to deal with this
question as expeditiously as possible. No
portion of the people of the Dominion
are more attached to the institutions
which they now enjoy ; and I hope to be
able to return to them with the knowledge that their just claims have been
granted by the Government. With these
remarks I aak permission to inquireWhether the Government have adopted
maeasures:
lot. For putting an end to the existing
difficulties and confusion in the Province
Of Manitoba on the subject of the public
lands.
2nd. For the division, as soon as posSible of the 1,400,000 acres of land approPriated for the half-breed residents of
nitoba among those who have a right
thereto, and if not, what measure the
Government intend to adopt for the purDose of putting an end to these difficultieS ?

lon. Mr. AIKINS-In respect to the

irat question, I may say that the GovernKient have adopted measures for allaying
any discontent that may at present exist
l the Province. It is well understood
tht

the halt.breed lands could not be se-

0ed until the surveys were sufficiently
r advanced. During the past year some
40enty surveyors were sent into the
Province, and the work has been very
"e.tically prosecuted, as the map I
ml'Èluow lay on the table will olearly show.
th4I aurveys are now suffîiintly far ad.
%cod to-enable a selection of the lands

%0
fe

ladel

Te Loutenat Governor

nteuictdwih
tomke the selection..

n asked.
The rights of

Land

Question.

existing settlers are to be respectedcertam sections are to be retained in cer.
tain townsbips for the Hudson's Bay Counpany-also a certain section for school
purposes. The wood lands are also to be
divided so that a portion will be retained
for the use of immigrants. With reference
to the second question, 1 may reply that
until the rear une of the settlements was
fixed, the allotment could not be made.
Instructions have been given by the department to complete this reir line as
soon as possible, and it is expected that
by the fall patents will be issued to at
least one half of the half- breeds. I may
also add that the services of some fifty
surveyors have been obtained-some of
them have already gone-to hasten the
surveys of the Province.
INLAND FISHERIES.

Hon. Mr. FLINT asked the Government
when it is their intention to take steps to
protect the Salmon and other fish in the
lakes and streama in the rear part of the
County of Frontenac, United Counties of
Lennox and Addingtou, County ut Hastings and Peterborough, from destruction,
caused by parties employed in taking
them with spears and nets contrary to the
Fishe.y Act, and if so, whether that ao.
tion will be immediate ?
My reason for making this enquiry, he
said, is that our rivera and lakes are well
stocked with salmon and salmon trout
which are, every spring and fall, taken by
spears and nets in large quantities by
foreigners who come from the other aide
of the line. I have been credibly informed that one bundred tons were take.n du-.
ing last fall to the United States from one
place. Representations have been made
on the subject to the Fishery Department,
but the Fishery Agent has not yet received instructions to deal with the matter,
and consequently I am constrained to
make this enquiry at the present tine%
when there is urgent need that some step.
should be taken to prevent those encroachments by foreigners.
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL-1 May state in,
alswer to the hon. gentleman that the
Government are very anxious to protect
the inland fisheries, and have done their
best to aocomplish the object they have in
view. No doubt these encroachments are
very extensive, but it is very difficult for
the Department, with the amal Oum of
money and staff at their disposai, to pro.
teot effectually all the waters or se extessive au area as thta watered by the 8
On
and great lakes.
Lawrence
thst
diffloulties;
great
the
of
the Departnent have te soatend

Iiand

[SENATB.)

agiinst is the want of co-operation on
the part of the settlers and farmers who
live in the vicinity of the lakes and
streams ; and until they do their duty it
i ailmost impossible for the small staff of
public officers to give anything like effective protection to all the waters of the
Dominion.
Hon. Mr. FLINT-The gentleman to
whom 1 referred is Mr. Wilkins, of Belleville, who was sent to examine into this
matter, and he is still. awaiting instructions ever since he made his report. So
far as I am concerned I am desirous of
doing all in my power to assist the Government in protecting our inland fisheries.
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL explained that
he understood that the difficulty in the
case of the gentleman alluded to was that
the Government found it necessary to
limit the staff to a certain sum of uoney
for travelling expenses. 'T7hat gentleman
had more than once exceeded the limit,
and he was not now in a position to move
in the matter unless he travelled without
pay.
Hon. Mr. SKEAD-This subject is very
important, and 1 am glad attention has
been called to it by the hon. gentleman
opposite. Whilst I am willing to accord
due credit for what has been done by the
Department, 1 must say that they are ae.relict if they do not ask for a large sum to
protect the fisheries in question. I have
known large quantities of fish taken by
upear and nets in the fall, and through
the winter, in the direction of the Ottawa
River-not by the foreigners spoken of,
but by people from the Canadian side of
Lake Ontario. I believe the Government
ought to have a Fishery Inspector in every
eounty.
POSTAL FACILITIES.

Hon. Mr. SANBORN asked the Govern.
ment whether any arrangement has been
roposed, or is intended to be proposed
bythe Government of the Dominion to
the Government of the United ýStates
whereby articles of a bulky nature, such
as are carried by parcel post or book post.
may be transmitted from one country to
the other at a uniform and cheap rate by
mail ? His attention, he said, had been
ealled to the question by the faot of many
permons being anxious to get seeds from
dealers in the United States. At present,
the expense was great, as much as the
value of the package itaelf. He also asked
leave te add to bis question an enquiry
whether the money order system could not
b. carried out between Canada and the
United States.

Fisheries.

Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL replied t hat no
arrangement was likely to be made in the
face of the Customs difficulties. which>
appear insurmountable. As respects the
Money Order system, the Governmenb
were anxious to see it established, but
they found it was not likely to be attain.
ed whilst the United States adhered to
their present currency.
MESSAGE.

A Message was received from the Con
mons with the Bill respecting Larceny of
Stamps, and malicious injuries to proper.
ty.
The flouse adjourned.
MONDAY, 29th April, 1872.
The'SPEAKER took the chair at eight
o'clock.
PETITIONS.

Hon. Mr. HAZEN, from the Committee
on Standing Orders and Private Bille,
reported favorably on the following petitions :
Of the Honorable L. H. Holton, and
others ; praying to be incorporated for
the purpose of constructing a Railway
through the southern frontier of the Province of Quebec, between the River St.
Lawrence and the River Richelieu.
Of Geo. H. Wilkes, and others ; praying to be Incorporated as a Company foir
the purpose of constracting Water Works
on the improved plan of the patent obtained by Charles H. Waterous, of the
Town of Brantford.
Of the Managers of the Ministers' Wie
dows and Orphans Fund, of the Synod of
the Presbyterian Church of Canada, in
connection with the Church of Scotland,
praying for certain amendments to thei
Act of Incorporation.
Of C. Grindon, and others, of St. John,
m reference to certain debentures.
NOTICES OF MOTION.

Hon. Mr. KAULBACK gave notice of
motion with respect to the lighthouse of
St. Margaret's Bay.
Hon. Mr. MACFARLANE gave notice
with respect to the report of geological
survey.
BILLS.

On motion of Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL,
the Bill from the House of Commons with
reference to lareeny of stamps was read a.
second time.
Also a bill to correct a clerical errer in
.the law respecting maisious injurier. t#'
proposty.

4 -s.

[APILe 80, É182.]

Nao

PRINTING REPORT.
On motion of Hoq. >fr. SAN#0p1;, the
repo4 of ths joint Cojnmitteo on Print.
4ng was deferred until Thusday, 1fr. Dawson having wiitten te the Conmittee since
te Report was first submitted.
MESSAGE.

1 message was récoived from is Excel.
lendy the'Governor General' with 'certWin
papers in reference to the Washington
.
.
Treaty.
The Hôuse then adjourned.
TUMsDT, 30th April, [872.
The SPEAKER took the chair at three
4'olock.

Brodd,l"ge

with celebra'ted~ Engineers idterestsd ln
English Rail*ays met' i' Walos; and re.
ported on the eapabilities 'of the line)
and the results of their examinationwere
unanimously i favour of the wor.
Thb
issue of this examinatioü was, tha tei
Government of Izdia adopted a auge of
three feet five inches. Thé Rumsian Gov.
ernment ' constructed their railwayt
-thenceforth on a gauge of three feet
Norway and Sweden adopted the g*g
of three feet six inches. There were
railways running in France only twehtynine Juches in gauge-oe in Prussia of
thirty-one Inches. Two of these lines' in
Orante were in private bands, and anôther
under the control of the Governmentý
and all had been eminently succesaful ir
point of- ecomomy of construction and
managemen while at the same time they
fulfiled
all
the
requirements
of
the
trade
Of
the
sec.
tion through which they passed. These
gentlemen came to the conclusion that a
gauge from 3 feet to 3 feet 3 was the widest necessary to perform all the work on

Riohard Martin, Barrater-at.Law, appeared at the Bar, and gave testimony to
the effect of having ser'ed certain papers
Q the respondent at Suspension Bridge,
N.Y. The petition of J. Robert Martin
for an act of di vorce from his wife was thon
read and refoerred toCommittee on Stand. a railway. The authority of Capt Tyler wa
quoted to show the great rate of speed at
ing Orders and Private Bills.
which a line might be worked. The rai.
way in question carried double the quan.
NiARROW vs, BROAD GUAGL
tity of traffic passing over the Grand
Hon. Mr. BOTSFORD, in scoordance Trunk, at a rate of 35 or 40 per cent. le
with his notice of enquiry, thon brought for working the road and maintenance of
forward a large number of authorities to way. He also read from authorities to
show the advantages that the country show the smaliness of cost i constructing
would derive from having the Intercoloni- the narrow gauge. It had been proved
ai Railway constructed on the narrow that the gauge of 2 feet 6 was enough for
instead of the broad guage. In the first the heaviest traffic, and was the cheapest
place he stated that ho deeply regretted in point of working. On the ordiuaay
that the Government of the day had not broad gauge, thè weight on the engine
graiously yielded to the voice of the ma- wheels and rolling stock was somethtng
Jority when this question was brought up between three and five tons, and the proin the Commons two years ago. He pre- portion of dead weight which the cars
SUmed he was not incorrect in stating are obliged to carry ta some 70 per cent.
that a majority were in favor of changing of the weight carried; but on the narrow
the guage for the line which had been gauge all this was reversed. Experience
adopted by the Goernmnk The Gov. had proved that the extraordinary weight
einment deaIlt with it as a Govehment of engines and cars on bros d gauge ines
Measure and yet there was only a majority would in course of time crush any iron or
0t two against a-reduction of the guage, steel rails. Great stress had been laid on
that too after a division in whioh the necessity of having railways of one
some six or eight members of the gauge, but now-a-days méchanical appli.
Administration voted.
It
was an ances were arrived at such perfection that
Undoubted fact that a flood of light had the oot of transfer from one car to another,
been east upon this subject of late years, ws comparatively little, and would
1td that the superior advantages of a be very insignificant when placed against
Marrow gauge had been proved beyond the cost of a broad as compared with a
Gaspute. in this connection he referred narro guage. It had been found, toc,
t
Wauthorities which were entitled to the by er
nce that the curves on a line'
highst respe.t-to the Commission ap. coudemade muôh shorter . 'on the exL*ited to oquire into the menit cf thie amination inquestion,a train eit hundred
eus Festining Railway. Gentlemen feet Ion& laden with minerans sud pas.
came from Russis, Sweden, Norway, Swit- sengers, was frequently running on three
"Urland,
North Germgay, and together different curies at the ame Ume. [t wa

48

Narne vs.

[SENAT.]

folly to comstruçt a road on tLe broad
principle.in a new counftry, when the:uame
amomnit of % nvght be doue, at a great
ork
Ssauing of. ecpenditure. In order, how.
ever, te arrive az correct conclusion .with'
respect to the Intercolonial Railway it was,
necessary to taie into.consideratiQn the
geographical positionof the country, and
compare that line with others.in progress.
Taking Montreal as the natural point of
departure for the tradeof the Great West,
the distance to Hl;ifax was some 858 miles
in length. The Iterclo'nialýtouched tp,
49th degree.of Nor.,h Ititude,'and passed
through a country çf' which he had personal knowledge, and he oogld agfely
assert that a large tract of it was not cal.
culated to attract setilers in Irge num.
bers, though parts of it might be pretty
well timbered. XTow there was.a rival lipe
in contemplation,- the line which was te
run from, Montreal via River du Loup
through the «Valley of St. John to the
port of St. John-ah admirable harbour
accessible at aIl seasons. This road would
run entirely through British -territory and
was 624 miles in length to St, John againat
the 858 of the Intercolonial to Hali ax ;
and it would be actually to the advantage
of the Haligonians to go by the former
in preference to the latter. lie Lad acquaintance with the country through
which it passes, and could say that it was
well suited for settlement. Again, there
was the line from tSherbrooke via the Megantic to St. John, making only 435 miles
between Montreal and St. John. It would
therefore be seen that the Intercolonial
was to be brought into competition with
rival lines, much shorter and running
through a country better adapted for settlement. In the case of the Intercolonial,
it must also be recollected, that it was exposed to all the difficulties arising froin
heavy falls of snow very diflicult to remove, even by the ploughs generally used
for such purposes. Yet in face of the
fact that the Intercolonial was to conpete with rival unes under all these cir
cumstances, the Government had determined to construct it on the most expensive system of guage. Had they yielded
to the feeling of the Commons two years
ago they would have saved the country a
large anount of public money. The
cçat of the narrow guage was calcula.ted at about three-fifths less than the
broad guage; and here the hon. gentreman
quoted from the remarks of Mr. Potter,
President of the Grand Trunk Railway,
who declared at ameeting of the Company
that it was of great importance to Canada
that the Intercolonial and Pacific roads
ahould be of the narrow guage of thej

Broad Guage.

American railways, and tbat it would psy
the Canadian Government five times- over
were they to give the funds neoessary to
stbstitute the narrow guage on the-Grand
Trunk line, Captain Tyler, at the same
time, gave a very emphatic condemnation
of the policy: of thé Canadian Government
when he stated that.the"ideaof employing
the five feet guage for the whole lengthof
the line,: and through such a country was
little short of madness." In conclusion
the hon. gentleman stated that he had
been always in favor of the narrow guage
and was very anxious te see if adopted in
He was at no time opthis country.
posed to the construction of the Intercolonial road; he had always thought that the
northern Counties of New Brunswick were
entitled te consideration, but he believed
that the Government had adopted an en tirely wrong principle with reference te its
construction. The people of the North
Shore of New Brunswick would themselves
awake
time
of
the course
in
to the consciousness that it would have
been for their interest had the narrow
gauge been adopted. He did not wish te
throw any impediment in the way of the
speedy completion of the line, but he certainly did desire te save a large amount of
public money, which was being thrown
away. He concluded by asking whether
the Government still adhered te its decisien of completing the Intercolonial Railway-on the broad.gauge, and if net, what
width of gauge did it propose te adopt ?
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL replied that he
had net interrupted his hon. friend, but
he had assuredly been out of order in
offering such extended remarks, previous
te making a mere enquiry of the Government. In making that reference he (Mr.
C.) had no other wish except te call attention te the advisability of adhering strictly te those rules which are intended te
fclitate the despatch of public business.
The question of the hon. gentleman, however, could be very easily answered ; the
Government were compelled by law te
construct-here he quoted from the Statute-the line on the gauge of five feet
six inches. He did net propose te follow
the hon. gentleman into a discussion of
all the points he had raised, buthe gather.
ed from that hon. gentleman's remarks
that they were founded te some extenton
a-misapprehension. For instance, Captain Tyler was net arguing in faveur of
the Festining gauge, or for three feet six
inches, but for four feet eight and a half
inches. The idea of that gentleman was
te construct the Intercolonial on that
large
a
apply
and
guage,
the
alter
to
money
sum of

45Narrow. vs.

[APRIL j80, 1872.]

guae of the Grand Trunk Line ; but hon.
members knew full well'how such a propoition would be met in this stountry,ý
Now if his friend confined his remàrks to
the 4 feet 84 guage, thon he could inform
.him that every care had been taken by
the Government to-ascertain as accurately
as possible the best guage for the Intercolonial road. At one end they saw the
grand Trunk and its feeders, some 1,200
or 1300,milea, and at the other some 300
miles in the Maritime Provinces, and
with these facts before them they were
foreed' to decide on continuing one guage
throughout. He had supposed that the
4 feet 8j guage could have been coustfteted and worked more cheaply. The
opinions of the best engineers in thé
eountry, among others, the engineer Who
had taken part in the redudtiân of the
guage of the Great Western Une, had
been ·taken, and they were to the effects
thait there was no importa:Ét difference:
between constructing a 4 feet 84 and a '6
fet 16 mch guage. It was for these reasons that the.Government had concluded
that it wasmost expedient for the public
interests to adhere to the guage now in
general use on the most important lines
of
comnnunication.
So
far, certainly, it had never been urged
in eitiher branch of the Legislature -never
suggested even by professional men of
standing -that we should build the Intercolonial line on -a guage less than 4 feet

8J. No onecould urge that it would be
advisable, with the limited experience
we have so far of the extremely narrow
guage roads, we should change our system. It was quite possible that the short
line of the Festining, only some 14 or 15
milesin length, would be equal to the
public requirements in thatr particular
district. -Animmense number of persons,
and a large traffic might go through a
small lane, but it was very different when
we came to consider the great fines of
communication. Perhaps in the course of
time the narrow guage systen would be
adopted, but at present engineers were
not quite satisfied on the subject, and it
was certainly not advisable for the Cana-.
dian Government to try any experiments.
Hon. Mr. BOTS'ORD contended that
he had only followed the practice of the
House of Lords in making the remarks he
did.

Broad-Guage.

tiouse went into Committee, Hon. Mr.
Bourinot in Chair, and passed the Bill in
reference so Larceny of Stamps with
amendments.
The House then adjourned.
WDja8slbr, lut May, 1872.
The SPEAKER toôk the Chair at 3
p.m.
PETITIOs.

Hon. Mr. BfiA EN,
from Comnittee on
Standing Orders and Private Bills, report,
ed favourdbly oni fbifoviKg petitions.
Of the Western Asutrance Company;
praying fbr certain ambudmnents to their
Act of Incoiporation.
Of the Northern Railway Company of
Canada; praying for an'Act to consolidate
into one ease, the présent leases of the
Toronto, Simcoe and Muskoka Junction
Railway Company, and the North Grey
Railway Company.
Of A. G. P. Dodge, f'Township of West
Gwillembury, in the County of York, Pro.
vince of Ontario, and late of the tity of
New York, praying for -an A ct of natural.
ization.
Of Messrs. Gooderham and Worts, and
others of the City of Toronto; praymng to
be incorporated as "The Mail Prîtnwg and
1ublishing Company."
Of the Hon. David Lewis Macpherson
and others, of the City of Toronto, and
elsewhere in the Dominion of Canada ;
praying to be incorporated as "The Inter.
oceanic Railway Company of Canada."
Of Wm. L. Forsyth, and others, prayingto be incorporated as "The Auticosti
Company."

. Of "The Canada Southern Railway Company," praying for power to construct a
Railway Bridge over the Detroit River, at
or near the 'own of Amherstburg; and
also, to construct a Railway Bridge over
or a Tunnel under the St. Clair Riuer ;
that two companies may be incorporated
for theÉe purposes, to be called respectiveIY, the " Detroit River Railway Bridge
Company," and the "Sit. Clair River Railway Bridge and Tunnel Company ;" and
that the Directors of the Canada Southern

Railway Company be the Provisional Di,
recters of the said Companies.
Of George Laidlaw, and others, of the
City of Toronto; praying to be incorporat-

ed as the Lake Superior and Fort Garry
Railway Company.
Of J. McGaw, and others of the Cities of
On motion of Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL, Montreal, Toronto and Kingston, praying
the Bill in reference to Malicious Injuries to be incorporated as " The Inland Marine
to Property was read a third time and and Fire Insurance Company of Canada."
sent to Commons.
Of R. Jas. Reekie and others, of the
THIRD READING.

Routine

[SENATE.)

Business.

Dominion of Canadaï praying for the pass.
ing of an Act to authoriseoi tem to con'
struct a Railway westward, from Lake Nip.
issing through Fort Garry to British Columbia, with a terminus on the Pacific
Ocean, and for other purpose.

proximate estimateiof the expenditur
of the Home Government for the like
service, ho stated that ho could not gise
any reliable dita on which to estiraatié
the cost of such semvce but ho is iatis.
fied that it must amount to several. hudreds of thousands of dollars.

Committee on Standing Orders and Private Bills having reported that rules had
been complied with in case of petition of
J. Robert Martin.
Hon. Mr. CAMP0ELI, introduoed a Bill
for the relief of sange.
Second reading i6th May, wheu petitioner appears at Barof louse.

Hon, Mr. WAÉK moyed that an, hqe
ble Address-be presented to Hjs gxpel
lency the Governor Qeneral, praying that
His Excellency will be pleased to-çp*se
such measures to ho taken as will eDable
the Miniater of Finance to convert i to
Life Annuities stich portions of th* Publis
Debt as may, from. time to tîi be foW4
necessary to meet the requiemenýed of
persons seeling such means of riaYument. In making the motion he atatd
that ho had 'knowa very many peréofs,
men qnd women iell advanced in years,
widows and orphanï and ý othors, snir
heavy 1Ises on account of the mn-mu
agement and dishonesty of persçieg4o
whom they had entrusted their moners,
and ho thought it very advisable to estb.,
lish the system in question, which woul4
afford a fund where parties could fin4a
safo investment. It was nQW .sixty yeamy
since tl'e system had been establishedin
England, and it was now working admirably, although some losses were sustained,
at the outset by the Government, on £o.
count of the trickery of stock jobberq,;
but such resuit need not be feared in this
country, as the operation of the iaw cquit
ho well guarded.
-Ifon. Mt. CAMbPBELL replied that th
Minister of Finance had now the power to
make the provision in question, and ig.
tended offiring some amendnents in the
same direction during the present session.
Under these circumstances, the hon. ges
tleman would probably consent to wi9Ik
draw his motion.
Hon. Mr. WARK consented.

ANNUITISB.

PRINTING.

Bon. Mr. SANBORN presented swo re-

ports from the Joint Committee on Peint.
ing. Consideration on Monday next.
REVFÉNUES.

Hon. Mr. BUREAU referred to the necessity of having, in accordance with the
notice which he had given for an address,
a detailed statement of the revenue
arising from duties of Customs and other
revenues of every kind proceeding from
each of the Provinces of the Dominion of
Canada, from the Union, or from the admission of the Province into the Union,
until the 30th June, 1871, and of the expenses of collection of suoh revenues, dis.
tinguishing the articles imported and exported and the duties paid thereon, in
each of the said Provinces, tromn the said
dates to the 30th June, 1871, and the
corresponding expenses of collection of
such duties to the said d.ite. He then.
withdrew his motion.
GEOLOGIGAL SURVEY.

lon. Mr, MACF&RL AN, asked whee
ther the Report of the Geological Sui'vey
wili be submitted to Parliament and when?
Hon. Mr. CAifPeELL-In a few days.

IM!MIGRATION.

Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL introduced a Bit
FISHERIEB.
Ito provids for the incorporation of ImmiHion. Mr. HAZENasked What was the gration Aid Societies.
erpenditure incurred by the Dominion
PUBLICI/ ANDB.
Government in protecting the Fisheries
The Bill in reference to the above subduring the last soeasn, and whether they
can form any approximate estimate of ect was deferred until Monday net
the expenditure of the dome Govern- F rench copy not being ready.
ment for the like seivice?
LARCENY OF STAMPS.
lion. Mr. MITCHELL replied Te
estimated cat of thM
On motion of the Hon, Mr. CAMLBELa,
afarine Police fr
thi ÉiL inM
reference to Stamps was r
the protection of the Fishery was durg
'
the at year abouf$84,00. With reard third time, Md sent back to the House
te the second brMn of the question ase Cbmmons.
to whether Governmekttean form any apThe House then adjourned.

49

uperannuation-

[MAY 2, 1872.]

Explanation.

t he best man to fill the position, on the
round that he had always been the chief
The SPEAKER took the Chair at 3 gxecutive offBeer, and was in every way
e
0'olock, p.m.
h ighly qualhfied for the oifice. During bis
PRINTING.
life time Mr. Harley had opposed the
arty with wh¶ich he (Mr. Mitchell) had
lion. Mr. SANBORN asked that the always been associated, and supported
Order of the day, consideration of the se- t hat with which Mr. Hlutchison was con.
Cond report of Printing Committee be r ected. He was a man of energy and ex.
discharged, as it only referred to a matter e rcised much influence in the district
of arrangement between the Committee vhere he lived. But he (Mr. M.) lelt thal
and their Clerk.
ie would be wanting in bis duty to the
public were he to take into consideration
EXPLANATION.
nything except the ability of that genlion. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. JUST t leman to discharge the trust confided to
asked an explanation from the Minister him. When the appeintment was offered
Of Marine and Fisheries, respecting the to him, Mr. Harley confessed that bis
living would depend on it for he was no
superannuation of Mr. Harley, Light. 1
onger in affluent circumstances. Mr.
house Inspector, New Brunswick.
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL replied that he Harley received the appointment and
Was glad that the opportunity had been continued to discharge it up to 1870,
affMrded him ot giving an explanation re- when his health began to fail, for he
specting a matter which bas been brought was afilicted with two serious comUp elsewhere, with the object of reflect- plaints, either of which made it
ing ou his conduct as a public man. actually misery for him to travel to remote
Biiefly stated the charge was that he bad places, at ail times and in ail mannear of
placed an officer, of seventy years of age, ways. Mr. Harley wished to resigt,
in a public position during 1867, and had although his means of livelihood were at
superannuated bim last year in order to stake; but, Mr. Mitchell persuaded him
appoint bis brother to the same office. to remain for some time longer, with the
Now, he would inform the House that hope that his health would improve. He
prior to Confederation the practice of con- held it for six months, but instead of be.
ducting the Light-house service differed coming better, he got worse, even with ail
in the several Provinces. In Nova Scotia the car he exercised. Again he reluct.
there was an Inspector; in Canada, it was antly te ered bis resignatiQn-here Mr.
conducted under direction of Trinity Mitchell read the letter of resignation.
Bouse ; in New Brunswick, by Boards of Mr. Harley held the office, at his personal
Commissioners, one for the North Shore. solicitation, for some eight or nine months
IInd the other for the Southern or Bay of longer, but when the spring came ho
Fundy side. Those two Boards were com- found he was incapacitated from discharg.
Posed generally of men who looked after ing bis duties-he was then 75 years of
and charged 10 per age-and the result was that the Departthe lights,
cent. commission on supplies furnished. ment unwllingly consented to lose the
In 1851 Mr. John larley was on the Com- services of an i.ble public officer. lie then
Iniasion-here the hon. gentleman read looked into the question, and came to the
Gazette conclusion that Mr. Harley had been over
from the New Brunswick
TUp to 1867 he held that position. At the 19 years in the public employment, and
timue of bis appointment h. was a gentlz- was entitled to superannustion on a 20
man of lairge experience as a shipbuilder, years' service. He reprsented the fact to
ad was held in great esteem wherever h. the Council in a report which he read to
Wa known. Subsequently, however, by the House. Ile read the Act as apply.
the force of circumstances he was reduced ing not only to the inside, but the outside
to poverty, and remained so at the time of services, and believed Mr Harley was en.
Coniederation, when the light bouse ser- titied to twenty-fiftieths of bis salary which
Ti0e was placed under charge of the De- was at that time $,200.
The matter was
Partment of Marine and Fisheries. He referred, in accordance with the usual
(Mi. M.) after due deliberation came to-the practice, to the Treasury Board, where
conclusion that the system in operation in tor the first time, the question was raised
iova Scotia was the best to adopt-of whether persons who bad been in the
having a paid inspector to inspect- the public service for 30 or 40 years, receiving
light houses, make the necessary report of only commission or fees. and subsequently
tie supplies, and assume a responsibility received a regular salary, were entitled to
to the Government. le selected Mr. superannuation on the whole period, or
»arley out of the three Commissioners as merely
for
that
term
when
.

TaURSDÂY, 2nd May, 1872.

i1

Superannuation-

[SENATE ]

MitMr.
salaried.
they
were
chell read from the Superannuation Act in
support of his view of the case, contend.
ing in particular, that under the 9th section Mr. Harley was clearly entitled to
come in; also from the regulations made
subsequently in elucidation of that law.
The 9thf section specially referred to persons employed "in the outside service of
the said departments," and " to service in
an established capacity in any of the public departments of the Government or
ettices of the Legislatures of any of the
Provinces." In the regulations established
for guidance in all cases under the
law, the agents of the Department of
Xarine and Fisheries, as well as inspectors
of Ilhthouses, were specially mentioned.
TheTreasury ]Board, lie regretted to say,
did not corne to altogether the same cou..
clusion he had-they doubted whether
such an officer should be rmnked as having
had twenty years' service; of the four
yearm since 1867 of course there was no
doubt whatever. They agreed, finally, to
give him ton years' service, and ho was
accordingly placed on the superannuition
list at the small pittance of some $216 a
year. Yet he (Mr. Mitchell) had been accused before the country of having placed
a man on the buperannuation Fund when
he had no claim to such consideration.
If a man in the position of Mr. Hanley
had no right to receive a retiring allowance, thon there was no use whatever in
thé Superannuation Act. As respects bis
succesor, it was true he was a relative
of his' own, but he was known to be a
ma 6f respectability and influence,
and was able to teach that gentleman *who had so unwarrantedly
question
in
made the accusation
He would not descend to the scurrility
which had accompar ied the charge, but
he would say that the house w4th which
that gentleman was connected had had
the supp[ying of the light houses for 20
years and raceivoed just such prices as
they wished ; avd it was therefore not
dificult to understand why he feit aggrlived that the means of continuing the
sane state of things were nolonger avail.
able for 'him. Before sitting down, he
(Mr. M.) -sked permission to refer to auther matter which was also to be brought
up elsewhere, and in connection with
which the hon member for Grandviile (Mr.
Lètellier) had plazed a notice on the table
that day If those charges were true, thon
he was unfit to occupy his present posi.

Explanation.

man, it was advisable to defer them until
the motion came up in due form.
lion. Mr. MITCHELL would not go
into the question, after the hon. gentle'
man had so kindly expressed a wish to defer the discussion. Lie would simply say
that there was not a shadow of truth in
the charges made against him. He could
satisfy the flouse and country that those
charges are baseless and malicious ; and if
the hon. member elsewhere dared t6 as
sort them again he woulc be ready to
meet them.
TRANSLATIONS.

Hon. Mr. BUREAU offered a few ex.
planations in reference to the mode 'n
which the tranalators of the flouse performed their duty, on account of an alWjsion having been made on the previous
day to
some delay in the translation of tho
bill concerning public lands. The faut
did not lie with them, the alteratigia
made from time to time in the bill had
delayed the translation.- The translators
performed their duties most satiafapkliwi
in the opinion of the French mermbner.
The work had never been more efioientiy
performed than it was at present.
The House thon adjourned.
FmnAY, May 3rd, 1g72.
The SPEAKER took the chair at three
o'clock.
PETITIONS.

Hon. Mr. SANBOBN, from the Conuimtee on Standing Orders and Private &1Is,
reported favorably on the following pedtions:
Of Hon. John Young, Managing Diroq.
tor in Canada, of the (anadian and Eurepean Telegraph Company.
Of the Mutual Life Association of Oau ada.
Of Rev. William Morley Punshon, I.A.,
President of the Conference of the Wesleyan Methodist Church.
0f Sir Hugh Allan, and others, of the
city of Montreal.
Of the St. Francis and Megantic International Railway Company.
Of the Grand Trunk Railway Company
of Canada; and of the Corporation of the
town of Gait.
Of D. MoInnes and others.
And of the Corporation of the village et
Waterloo.
The Committee reported that the following petitions properly came under contion.
lion Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. JU T de- sideration of local legislatures :
Of the Board of Trade of the twn Of
precated any explanations at that time,
asgto in the inteest of the hon. gentie. St. Catharipa's.

Rouïïmn

[MÂT t, 1872.]

Of C. H. Fairweather,. President, and
others, members of the St. John, New
Brunswick, Board of Trade.
Of Eobert H. Kittson. and others, of
Sorel, in the Province of Quebec.
Hon. Mr, BENStN said the petition from
St. Catharine's had been favorably reported upon in the Committee of the
other House, and did not understand why
there should be a distinc:ion.
Hon.. Mr. SANBORN replied that the
Committee only adhered to the decision
they came to lat year in reference to such
subjects.
lion. Mr. ROBERTSON said there was a
difference of opinion as to the construe.
tion of the British North America Act.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL said that under
e*sting ciroumstances it seemed as if all
that could be done was to let each House
pursue the course it thought proper. He
Was of opinion that the Boards of Trade
were of a provincial or local character.
PUBLIC BUSINESS.

lon. Mr. WARK suggested to the Go.

Vernment whether some systemi might
Dot be devised by which more business
Miight be originate I in the House.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL replied that
Committees had been appointed in the
Rlàhie of Lords, where the sanie difficulty
,wgs felt, but go action had been taken
b remove it. [he most important meacures, of necessity, originated in the other
branch. During this session, however,
-me very important measure, the Bill
*specting Public Lands waa before the
'Uouse, and would be taken up next week.
Bills respecting ImmigrationSocieties, and
UI other subjects, would oone up for couIleration. Sa far as the members of the
Government and the House were conOarned, they had every disposition to
'fitiate as many measures as practicable
Sithat branch.
The House then a4journed.
MONDAY, 6th May, 1872.

aeSPEAKER

took the chair at 3

BILLS.

Hon. Mfr. SANBORN introduced a bill
tOamiend the Act respecting t. Francis
44 Megantic Railway.
Hon. Mr. CA MPBELL introduced an
4Ot reàpecting quarantine.
ENQUIRY.

en, Mr. MACFARLANE asked the
9ernment whether any regulaians hbave
Made by the Govornment for main.

Busines.

taining the drill sheds in Nova Scotia, t
what uses are they to be applied and at
whose charge are they at present. He
explained that these drill sheds which had
been raised previous to Union at consid.
erable expense by LocalGovernments, and
by private subscriptions, were now lying
useless or converted into workshops, and
otherwise used for private purposes.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL had not fully
understood the purport of his hon. friend's
enquiry, and would look further into the
question.
PRINTING.

On motion of Hon. Mr. SA&NBORN, the
report of Joint Committee on Printing was
adopted; it alludes to expenditures of the
past year, lo the economical management
of the service, and satisfactory manner in
which Mr. Hartney performis his duties.
PUBLIC LANDS.

Hon. Mr. AIKINS moved the second
reading of the Bill respecting public lands,
and in doing so stated that the preamble
showed that it referred exolusively to
Manitoba and the North West Territories.
The measure dealt with the *hole land
question in its entirety, and inclusive of
timber and mineralg.
The system of
survey had been discussed elsewhere dur.
ing the previous session, and the policy
there favored had been embodied in an
Order of Council, and the surveyors
subsequently sent out to the territory.
The systeni differed very little from that
adopted in the United States, but there
were one or two exceptions- For inamoe,
the bill made provision for roads, as aiso
for the convergence or divergence of meri.
dians. The lines bounding townships on
the east and west aides, shall in all cases
be true meridians and those on the north
and south aides shall be chords interseet.
ing circles of latitude pasing through the
angles of the townships. The townships
shall be numbered in regular order nortà;
erly from the international boundary or
49th parallel of latitude, and shall lie
ranges numbered, Manitoba eaat and west
from a certain meridian line run in 1868,
after the 'Principal Meridian,'drawn north.
erly from the 49th parallel at a point two
miles or thereabouts westerly from Pei.
bina. In the United States they had
certain governing lines, but their town.
ships were laid out east and west, and th
had no such provisions as in our bit
Under the systen of survey, the country
in laid out in blocks of four townshiip
each by projecting the base and connect.
igg lie-the map showedt&Iio-nd eas
and *est meridian boundaries of e"ch

Public

[SENATE.]

bl->ck. On these lines all township, sec-tion, and quarter section corners are
marked, to govern in the subsequent subdivision of the block. After detailing the
system of survey, the bill refers to the
disposal of the Dominion lands, in which.
it is provided that the Hudson Bay Uompany is entitled to certain portions of the
territory known as the "Fertile Belt." The
Company, however, may select land, in
lieu of allotted land, provided it
not on the Indian reservation and settled
under lawful authority. Next come the
the lands-first
modes of settling
per acre;
one
dollar
by cash,
the
right, or
next, pre-emption
riglht to purchase by actual settlement.
Any person being the head of a lamily, or
a single man above the age of twenty-one
years, who has made a settlement on
unappropriated Dominion Lands, and who
has iuhat>ited or improved the same, nd
has erected a dwelling thereon, may have
himself entered with the Local Agent of
the division in which such land is situated
for any number of acres not exceedng
the quarter section of land including the
residence of the claimant, and being a subject of lier Majesty by birth or naturaliz i.
tion, shall receive a patent therefor, upon
paymg the price of such lands. Every
claimant cf pre-emption rights must within twelve months after filïng his cliim furn.
ish the Local Agent proof of continuous
residence on the land he claims, and pay
the price thereof, and in detault of so
,doing the land so settled and improved
will be subject to the entry of any other
purchaser. Agan, there is the homestead
system: any person coming into the territory and settling on a quarter section of
surveyed and unoccupied lands, becomes
entitled to a patent at the end of three
years. It is intended, said the hon. gen.
tieman, to verge the pre-emnption clause
into those referring to the homestead
system, in accordance with the prnciple
of a Bill which has just passed its second
reading in Congress. It is also provided
that certain reservations be made in every
township for educational purposes. In
the subdivisions of townships which may
consiat partly of prairie and paitly of tim
ber land, such of the sections or sub-divi.
sions of sections containing islands, belts,
or other tracts of timber, shall be subdivided into such number of wood lots of
not lesa than ten, and not more than
twenty acres in each lot, as wili afford, so
far as the extent of wood land in the
township may permit, one such wood lot
to. each quarter section prairie farm in
auch township. Any tract of land covered
by f9ret $mber may be set apart as

L:nds.

Timber Lands, and reserved from sale and
settlement. The right of cutting timber
on such limits shall be put up at a bonus
per square mile, varying according to the
situation and value ojf the limit, and soU
to the highest bidder by public competition. The purchaser sh all receive a lease
granting the right of catting timber on
the land for twen'y one ycars, and contain.
ing certain conditions Provision is also
made with respect to mining lands. No
reservation of gold, silve r, iron, copper, or
other mines or minerals shall be inserted
in any patent from tha Crown granting
any portion of the Dominion lands. Any
person may explore for mines or minerals
on any of the Dominion lands, surveyed
or unsurveyed, and not then marked or
staked out and claimed or occupied, and
may, subject to the prcvisions of the law,
purchase the same. la case of certain
lands proving to be riclI in minerals, the
Secretary of State shall 'ave the power to
withdraw such lande fro.m sale, and in lieu
thereof institute a systein of lease to discoverers or first applicants. The rent payable
to the Crown under any such lease shall
be a royalty. not to exceed two ant a half
pier cent. on the net profit of working.
When there are two or more claimants for
the sane tract, then if the claim of the
first discoverer be not fully established to
the satisfaction of the Secretary of State,
the same shAl be put up at public auction
on stated terms of lease, and sold to the
highest bidder. As respects col lands,
they are withdrawn from the operations of
the Act as regards the rights of squatters
to homesteads on the Dominion lands in
advance of the surveys, and are reserved
in the interest of the general public. The
law provides for the steps necessary to be
taken by persons desirous of carrying on
coal mines in the territory. The Bill also
provides regulations with respect to surveyors of Dominion lands, and among
other things it is provided that a Board of
Examiners be established for the examination of candidates lor commissions as surg
veyors.
Hon. Mr. LETELLLER DE ST. JUST
called attention to the fact that the French
copy of the Bill had only been placed in
the hands of mniembers, and that it was
advisable to defer the going into Committee fer some time, in order to afford
ample opportunity fora thorough criticisml
of so important a measure.
Hon. Mr. SIMPSON also wished time to
consider it, as he had only just then received bis copy.
Hon. Mr. BUREAU did not intend to
oppose the second reading of the Bill, but
as that waa the proper tine to dausa its

Publie

[MA 6, 1872.]

principle, he would ask the indulgence of
the House for a very few minutes whilst
he stated some of the objections he had
to the measure in its present shape. He
considered that the bill was, in many
respects, of a very extraordinary character,
inasmuch as it made regulations of a
maost arbitrary character with respect to
the public lands of the west. The regulations provided in the bill could ac.
tually be set aside by the Governor in
Council-a very large power to be given to
any Government. The most important
feature of the bill, in his opinion, was the
extriordinary power it placed in the
hands of the local agent, who could decide every question wbether a settler had
complied with the regulations necessary
to entitle h va to enter into the possession
ot lands. That agent might act justly or
unjustly, and yet he was exempted from
punishment in case of unfair or abitrary
conduct. Then the bill laid down the rernarkable proviso that aIl settlers entitled
to land must be British subjects; and that
too, at the very time we had emigration
agents abroad in France, Belgium, and
other foreign countries to induce immigration into Canada. He was quite positive that the effect of such regulations
would be to prevent people fronw coming
into the Dominion. He appealed to the
hon. Secretary of State to remove this
unfortunate clause ot the measure. A nd
the strange feature of the bill was the
absence of any regulation regarding persous who may have settledi on lands by a
znistake which they may have only found

Lands.

the questions of Clergy Reserves, or the
Seignorial Tenure. He trusted that every
guarantee and security would be given to
the parties who might receive these lands
for the object contémplated by the Bill,
so that the issue might be satisfactory to
the peace and happiness of the community. He, as a native of Quebec, felt deeply interested in the future of Manitoba,
for ho believed very rmany of his fellow
country men would find their way there in
the course of time, especially when there
was railway communication with the far
western province. It was well known
that the want of public works and manufactures as well as the character ot the
commercial policy of the capntry had
tended to denude the parishe' of many
of the people, but lie believed that with
the development of enterprise in the province the emigration to the United States
would cease, or the people would prefer
seeking their fortunes in parts of Canadian
Territory like Manitoba. He objected to
the Bill, he said in conclusion, because it
gave too great power to. Government and
to individuals. If he understood it
aright, it was proposed to appoint another
Depatrtment-he supposed another member, a Surveyor General, would be added
to the Cabinet, and the number conesquently made even instead ot remaining
as at present at the unlucky figure thirteen. He had strong objections to many
features of the Bill, but nevertheless he
would do his best, when the House went
into Committee to perfect its details for all
must confess that there was a great nocessity for such a measure, and that it was
the duty of every one to improve it a
far as practicable.
Hon. Mr. LE 'ELLIER DE ST. JUST
called attenti->n to the 45th clause, and
urged that sufhcient encouragement was
not given to individuals to discover coal
beds.
Hon. Mr. AIKINS said that as respects
immigrants thè Bill was more favourable
than the American law, for a settler oould
in
get his patent thethree years, whereas it
United States.
required five in
The Bill was read a second time, and It
finally decided to go into Commitree on
Friday next.
The House then adjourned.

out after they had made considerable improvements. Such persons would not be
entitled to be indemnified for the
improveinents in question, and that he
considered a great injustice. lie had no
particular objection to the mode of diviUion, but he did think the system in
rogue in the United States, by which
large grants of lands were made for the
Construction of railways, was well worthy
of consideration.
About two hundred
m4illion of acres of land had been granted
to companies for that purpose-no less
than 125,000,000 had been granted to the
Pacifie Railroad Companies alone-and
the results have been highly beneficial to
the developinent of the resources of the
country. The, quantity of land so granted.
Was equal to 30,000 square miles, or cornTUESDAY, May 7th.
erising more than the States of Ne w York,
The SPEAKER took the chair at thre
ew Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana,
and Ihinois combined He was in favor o'clock.
PETITIONS.
0f assisting Education by publie grants, but
Hon. Mr. HAZEN-From Committee on
every care should be taken to avoid a repe.
tition of such difficulties as arose in this Standing Orders ani Private Bills, report.
bountry in the pat. No one hadforgotten ed favormbly on following petiionsi
Of

Int&ttolonial

9

[SEN ATE.]

W. L. Forsyth, W. lorn Macdougall, D. E.
Papineau and others; Trustees of Toronto
Savingu Bank. Committee reported adversely on petition of Levis Board of
Trade.
INTERCOLONIAL RAILROAD.

Hon. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. JUST-I
hope that the feeling which prompts me
in making the present motion wili be weil
understood by the House. I d3 not make
it in a personal spirit, for I would be very
sorry that any feelings which prevail elsewhere should be exhibited in this Hlouse.
It bas been said that large expenses-injustifiable expenses in fact, have been
incurred in connection with the Intercol.
onial Réilway-that property has been
purchased at exorbitant prices by the
Commissioners of the work. It is our
duty to enquire what foundation there is
for such statements, and therefore without
further preface I beg leave to make the
following motion:
For an Address to His Excellency the Governor
General, praying that fils Excellency will be
pieased to cause to be laid before this Hlouse
copies o ail papers, tters and documnts tiat
have pssed between the (loverninut, of the D>ominion, the Comnissioners on the Iltereolonial
Railway, and otlier persons interested iii the oillowing matters, viz.
As to the rout paid by the said Commissioners,
for the use of the House occu pied at, Newcastie,
by A. L. Light, Esq., an mthe Lutercolonial oUile,
statiug who wvas tile owvuer.
1st.-of the said House at te time it was so
rented.
2i d.-Of the lands taken for the railway station.
grd-.Of the old ship yard intended for water

terminus.

eommercial buildings now occu4th.-y'f the oid
Pied as the Cjustom flouse at.Newcasile.
Specitying separately the amount paid 3 early
for rent, the land uamages, the price paid or to be
pnid foreah of the sait! premises, and to whom,
when and liow ?

Hon. Mr. MITCHELL replied-I am
glad that the hon. member has made such
a motion, and I fully appreciite the kindly
spirit mn which he bas done it. I ara
pleased to have an opportunity of refuting
immediately certain assertions made elsewhere; but I may first say that the papers
astied for will"be brought down as soon as
possiLle by the Government. I must
observe that I do not intend going at
length into the subject at present, mas
much as the motion which bas been made
elsewhere has not yet been taken up ; and
therefore I shall reserve full explaliations
until that happens. In the meantime I
may state that the moment I saw the motion, I enclosed it to the Railway Commissioners, and 1received the following
reply.OTTAWA, May ist, 1872.
SI,-Yours of yesterday with slip of questious
by the Hon. Mr. Hutchison, and your wish that
1 should give you an offlcial answer is received,
à*d ILnow beg to comply with your request as
toglos .-

Raidoy

QrU4EsTIONS.
lt. H1ow much Is pald
Four hund:ed dollars
to the Minister of Ma- ($400) per annum for
rine and Fisheries for offices and resitence of
rent of the house lately District Engineer!
occupied by him in
Newcastle, and owned
by A. L. Lizht, and the
Intercolonial Railway
Offices?
2nd. How mueh wasI Nothing. Solicitorreawarded him as landirorted 5th August, 1871.
damages?
Will not accept payment at all, not because
dissatisfied with award,

but declines to take any

amount.
3rd. How much is hel Grounds for station not
to receive for the rail- selected nor valued.
way station location ?
4th. How mueh ie hel There has been no
to recelve for the ship point selected as yet at
yard intended for a deep N ewcastie as a deep
water terminus.
water terminus?
I have the honor to be,
Sir,
Your obd't serv't,
RALPU JONES
(SIgned)
HON. P. MITCHELL,
&c., &c., &c.,

âdee,

As respects the fourth question, the
old Commercial Building at Newcastle, I
can simply say, I am not in a position to
answer it definitely. However, I believe
the buildings are owned by Mr. Tuck of
St. John, but the government have not
made any appropriation for the use of the
building, nor have they selected the place
for the Custom Fouse. I am glad to have
this opportunity of giving an unqualified
denial to the idea that may have arisen
from the assertion made elsewhere, that
I have derived some profit from the pro.
perty referred to in the motion. The rent
I receive 38 altogether insignificant com.pared with the value of the bouse, whilst
I have always refused to receive anything
for land damages. My advocacy of the
Intercolonial Riailway bas been always on
public grounds, and I am ready to vindi.
cate, as I have always done, the present
location of the line. On another occasion,
however, I expect to have ample opportunity of dealing with the whole question
at greater lengTh.
Hon. Mr. WILMOT suggested an adjournment till Tuesday or Wednesday, if
public business was not in a forward state
and gave notice of motion with that ob.
ject in view.
ion. Mr. CAMPBELL said the Public
Lands Bi1 was an order of the day for
Friday, but the matter of adjournment
was entirely in the hands of the House.
Hon. ler. LETELLIER DE ST. JUST
thought abundant time should be given
for consideration of so important a ques.

tion.

Hon. Mr. WILSON urged an adjoume
ment.

Britsh

[MAY 8ý 1872.)

Copyrights.

Hon. Mr. SANBORN suggested business v ance it. Under ail the cir cumstances I
might be coming up from the other t hink the Senate must be c nvinced of
t he necessity of urging strongly upon the
House.
After some further rem3rks from hon. Government the object which I wish te
gentlemen, it was decided to leave he attain in again moving in refèrence te this
matter undecided until the following natter. The second part of my enquiry
s in these words:
day.
Whether it is the intention of the Go.
The House thon adjourned.
vernment te urge without delay on the
Imperial Government, the importance,
WEDNESDAY, 8 May.
during the prosent session of the ImpeThe SPEAKER took the Chair at 3 rial Parliament, of such legislation as
o'clock.
will in effect entitle the Printers and
Publishers of Canada te re-print British
COPYRIGHT.
Copyright works in this Dominion?
Although we have been informed that
Hon. Mr. RYAN-The first part of the
motion, of which I gave notice on Monday, there has been no official correspondence
on the subject in the public departments
is te the following ettect:
When the Returns asked for in the we have seen in the public prose some
Senate's Address of the 23rd April, on very interesting letters bearing upon this
the subject of Copyright, are likely to be public question. On a former occasion I
alluded te some letters written by Sir
laid before this House ?
These Returns were laid before the Charles Trevelyan, and since then 1 found
Hiouse yesterday, but the amounts paid te them publihhed in the Toronto tail. I
the different authors are net given; while am happy te say that the purport of those
the most important part of the Address letters is entirely in accordance with the
views we have been urging upon the Gois answered in the following terme:
I am directed by the Governor General vernment. Sir Charles Trevelyan is an
to inform you that there is no correspon- author as well as the holder of the
dence on record in this office since the copyrights of Lord Macaulay's works and
28th February, 1871, on the subject of he has written these letters te Messrs Long"Copyrights respecting British Copyright man with the view of urging upon the
publishers of England just such views as
Works in Canada 1"
I muet confess that I read this announce- we have always advocated in this liouse,
ment with a feeling of great disappoint- and which were pressed, in 1868, upon
ment. We find, after ail the encourage- the Imperial (overnment. The conclusion
ment given by the Government te the of these letters is given in terme which, I
motions made in this House-afier ail the think, wili commend themselves to the
addresses on the subject from the Senate, House and, I hope, te the country, and
that it has been thought of so little me- wili induce this Uovernment te urge this
ment as net te require any official corres question again upon the attention of the
pondence since 28th February, 1871. Imperial authorities, He says:
" Our be3t course, in my opiion, will
Some fourteen menthe altogether, have
now elapsed since any officiai communica- " be to leave the UJnited States go their
tibn on this important subject has been "own way, but to make an immediate
I "arrangement with Canada on the basis ofw
made te the Imperial Government.
confess it appears te me that either the 'fered by them. At the present relative
price of labour and material in Canada
representations of the Senate must be
passed by as of very little importance, or "aà4 the States, this would lead te a par.
the question must be considered of great "tial transfer of the reprinting business
insignificance. I cannot, however, believe •froia the United States where English
that the representations of. this House "authors get nothing, te Canada where
have beén deemed of a trivial nature, and "they would get 121 per cent., with the
aocordingly I am driven te the conclusion " probable ultimate result that the United
that the subject has net been thought "States would aise agree te allow authors
Worthy of consideration, or has been ai. "or their assignees, a percentage of the
together forgotten; but here again I am "sale of the reprints of their works, on
Met by the remembrance that assurances "condition that American authors were
have been given time ai. À again by the "allowed the same privilege in England.
. ... The Act of Parliament passed to
Organ of the Government in the House
tihat they take a deep interest in the "sanction the arrangement with Canada
question. Yet, notwithstanding, there is "should, of course, prohibit the introduc.
ne evidence that any eflort has been made " tion into England of reprints of English
dUring the past fourteen menths, to ad. "copyright works from any quarter.

68

British

[SENATE.]

Copyrights.

64

" Lastly, I would submit that the circum- the first part of my hon. iriend's remarks,
" stances call for early and decided action. that the return does not show the distri"We must not be like 'dumb driven bution of copyright moneys to British
authors, I May Bay that it is iMpossjke for
"cattie,'"
I must say in ail c:ndour that the dumb- the Government to make such a stateness spoken of, may, in my opinion, be ment. The money coliected in Canada
tairly attributed to those who have not is transmitiel to the British Uovernment
urged the prosecution ot the matter who make the distribution, and consemore energetically. It is ail very well to quently we hae no information on that
With refr
in
say that private correspondence is going
on, but we cannot know what is doing marks, I may reply that 1 think I stated
unless we have officiai correspondence. I the other day that there was ne official
hope that the inducements which have been correspondence, but 1 believe there had
held out te me amongst other senators to been some uncfficial communications on
persevere in this matter are not fallacious, the subject. The (lovernment are not
tll
open te the charge of nt acting energe.
and that the Governnent themseives w
nove more energeticalty andi make their ticaly on this matter- t sh the experience
communications more erphatic in the of us ail thatvery oten more is done by
future. In 1871 when brought this sub- tunofficial than by officiai correspondence.
jeot before the flouse, I stated -14 Two The hon. gentleman bas referred to the
objects were sought to be obtained; fiust, correspondence between Sir Chares
t» be put on the same footing as printers Trevelyan and the Longmans. dhat genof the United St ites in regard to reprint teman la the owner o a copyright and
hon friend,
r
ing Britih copyright works ; seuondpy, tW takes precisely theevie of my
induce the Imperial Government. te make but Mr. Longman represents much larger
Colonial Copyrights extend over the hoe interest s iohcopyrights aud holds doffirent
British Emapire. The latter point the Im- opiions, and s0 far as 1 can iearn repre.
c
perl bad already agreed to concede, and sentes the viesn of the British publishing
fc
Swas now for the Dominion Government trade. Se ito wim be seen is diiculti for
te urge upen the former the requisite le. the British Governent o deal with the
gislatian." In reply te my remarks, the matter in view of suoh conlicting opinions.
going
"It was The correspondence that has
hon. Postraster General said maen
true we had been pronsed legîsiation on has been conducted b Sir Francis
incks with the view et ffecting the
on the subject. Latterly, the Minister of
Finance had been folowing the question rnds of the great publishing houses of
up, but ho (Mr. C.) did fot know how far Engand, and in one f bis letters Sir
the matter had gene. The course adopt- Charles Trevelyan refers the Lengune to
ed by bis hon. frienci was deserving of Sir John Rose as un autbority in the matý.
ad but litle doubt ter. In this way the Goverment have
every praise, and e
that it would be eventually crowned by been doing ali that tihey couid te accomhovernment pLh the objet which my hon. frend ba
I hope now the
suCosil
will evince their confidence de my in view, and which ho has tried te accomsucces, by doitg everything lu their power plish in so energetic a manner eI answer
te prome the objeeto. Again, the ether te the question wheteer we intend e urge
day, when this subjeot was befoîe this en the Impria Goverment the impe.
beg te say i h
ouse, the. hon. ?ostmaster Generai said: tance of this easure,
our intention
are entirely in accord Tovernment th do se n an officia letter
IlThe
with the hon. gentleman on tihe question, during the present session of the Imperial
oliament.
I hope tbat new, since there is ne prospect Pa
ion. r. RYAN-i an satisfied with the
of an International Cb>yright Treaty, they
wil be able te corne Vo some satisfactory assurance given of i mediate action beng
arrangement wits the British authorities." taken as 1 think have received distinct
o have the same hopes, and consequeitly recognition ef the princile that officiai
repreientations aýe more iikely te have an
I have cone V the conclusion, and t a
sure the House wi l cose te the same etect than any private correspendence.
that we should lose ne time, but impress With rerence te Sir Charles Treveiyan'
give his
e oay allusion to ir John Rose,
upon the Imperial Govern ent the ne
You would do well te conin
cessity of legiseation duing the present exact words
session of the Imperial Parliament. If we fer with Sr John ose who-here you will
edow anothier year te pass by we wil b. notice the word Si Charles uses-was the
in the same position in 1873 that we were great premoter of the Canadian, cemp'o.
remark refers, I take for
ouis
in 1868, and therefore ak bave te make mise.d
grauted, te a former peried. We know
tob secend enquiry on the paper.
econducted
John
heesn poesprreeion. Mr. CAMPBELL-n reforeni tn tce

British

[MA-Y s, 187 2.]

Copyrights.

pondence on the part of Canada in 1869, the Imperial, Parliament shall pass an Act
and did so with great minuteness, but I granting power to reprint British copy
am apprehensive that he has net been right works in Canada, then the Governor
urging the matter se energetically since he in Council shall have authority te levy an
ceased te have any official connection with excise tax of net less than 15 per cent. on
it. I have now corne te the third part of suci reprints for the benefit of the author
My enquiry-Whether, in expectation of, or holder of the copyright.
Hon. Mr. WILMOT- I think that the
and preparatory to such Imperial Legisla,
tien, it is the intention of Goverriment te hon. member deserves muoh credit for
introduce during the present Session any the energy with which lie has pressed the
Measure whereby authority may be con. matter. It seems certainly a very
ditionally obtained te levy a suitable ex- anomalous state ofthings that the Canadiau
cie duty on ail reprints of British Copy- publisheys are obliged te go across the
right books in Canada, which duty shall be lines te qet up a printing establishment in
made applicable te the use and benefit of order tO print books for circulation in
the authors and owners of such works ? Canada. We should do everything in our
This excise duty is recommended in the power te encourage home industry-not
joint report made by Sir Francis lincks drive it te foreign countries.
lon. Mi. SANBORN-I think that the
and Mr. Dunkin, and transmitted te England by Ris Excellency the Governor lion. member is entitled te every credit
General. The importance of acting at for the perseverance ho has shown in
once during the present session and in. directing the attention of the House and
troducing a bill te levy a suitable excise Goveinment to this important question.
duty in case the British Parliament con. I had the honor of expressing an opinion
sents to allow British copyrights te be re on a former occasion, which met with
that
degree
of
approval,
printed in this country, must be cib- some
vious te every one in this House. If this we might have now the power of
is not done by the Dominion Parliament legislating directly on the question of
before this session ends, and unless power Copyrights. We are seeking the power
be taken te levy an excise duty and so be in a different way from what we are seekready to correspond with the Imperial le. ing anything else. When Legislative
gislation which we hope for, another tour- power is given te a Colony, it is well underteen months may pass before we meet stood on constitutiqual principles it cannot
again and our printers and publishers be be properly withdrawn; and when wehave
still left te complain of serious and op. representative institutions w. have the
pressive grievances.
right of oxercising all the privileges that
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-My hou. friend they bring with them. Wehaveexercised
draws a conclusion from the language of that power in former times with as .little
Sir Charles Trevelyan- a mere inadven apparent right as in this case. I.am aware
that the imperial Copyright Act does
tence on the part of the latter evidentlywhich hardly does justice te the active extend over the Colonies. I am alse
exertions of Sir John Rose, for lie con aware that wi.h regard to Patents ofInventinues te do ai lie can te promote the ob- tion, which is a cognate questionand ought
ject we have ail in view. In reply te the te be treated in the sanme way, full liberty
hon. member's question, I may say 1 arm lias been conceded te us by the _mWpèrW
unable te promise that the Government Government, and if I remember rghtly it
will introduce a Bill during the presenY was conceded on açcount 9f a refusai on
session for the purpose referred te. It is the part, of the colonies te accept the lim.
impossible to introduce a Bill without fix- ýerial view of the matter. It was the
ing the rate of duty. My lion. friend will custom te issue Patents in Englaad for ail
see at present 12J per cent. duty is col- the colonies, but it was found that there
lected. Sir Charles Trevelyan says that is a was great reluctance even on the part of
fair sum, but Messrs. Longman think it is our Courts te enforce those laws,
not enough. It will be impossible te in,. -4herefore they became nullities, and the
troduce a Bill until we see the action of issue was to leave the matter in our own
the British Parliament, and have such in- hands, Now we might ask whether the
formation as will enable us te tix the per' sane reault would not accrue if we s.dopt.
centage that will be satisfactory to ail ed a copyright law of our own. W.1 e
paries.
net give equitable justice te autþors by
Hion.Mr. RYAN thought the same duty. dealing directly with tins subject? Wgare
12 per cent, would be accepted as quite is the impropriety of askmng wi Colonial
uticient, and that a conditional Act Pariaments have done in several intances,
2n ht be passed by the Dominion House legislating upon matters where there was,
X
na to the effet;that so soon a to a certain extent, an infringes
of

8

British

[SEN,ATB.]

Imperial Legislation, but where, at the
same time the spirit of our constitution,
gave us this power of acting. It seems to
me in that way we may best obtain what
we now desire.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-There is no
dount great force in the remarks of the
hon. gentleman, and i think it advisable
to bring the matter under the notice of
the Minister of Justice, and ascertaining
the possibility of obtaining the object in
the way suggested by the hon. member.
Hon. Mr. RYAN-1 hope this will not
prevent the Government urging immediate
action in the direction which I have suggested.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Certainly not.
The letter I previously mentioned is now
being written.
POSTAL FACILITIES.

Hon. Mr.,BOTSFORD made the following motion : That an humble Address be
presented to Ris Excellency the Governor
General, praying that Hia Fxcellency will
be pleased to be laid before this flouse, a
return shewing the number of special
trains mn on the E. and N. American
Railway, and the portion of the Intercoloniai extending to Amherst, or any portion
thereof, from the 1st day of May, 1871, to
the last day of December of the sane
year, stating the object, expense, and receipts of such special trains, and by whose
authority they were ordered. Also a
return shewing the names and numbers of
all persons who have passed free on any
portion of such railways, stating by whose
authority and for what cause such free
passes were given for the period above
mentioned. In the course of some re marks on the subject he reierred to the
want ot thai1 accommodation on that part
of the Intercolonial Railway between
Painsec Junction and Amherst. He stated
fromn personal knowledge that there had
been no passenger or mail trains between
those two points, although they were running on other portions of the road. The
Postmaster General lately made an
arrangement by which t. postal car was
put on for the accommodation of the
public, but on account of more importance
being attached to traffic that car was con.
stantly shunted off,
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL would enquire
into the matter, and certainly remedy any
mistake that may have ariben. lie did not
understand why the matter had not betore
been brought under the notice of the
Government. The returns asked for, he
added, would be brought down as soon as
possible.

Copyrights.
ADJOURNMENT.

On motion of Hon. Mr. WILMOT,
seconded by lion. Mr. ARMAND. the
House agreed that when it adjourned that
day it should stand adjourned until the
evening of Wednesday next.
IMMIRUIATION Al) SOCIETIES.

Ron. Mr. CAMPBELL introduced a Bill
entitled an -4Act to provide for the ineorporation of ImmigrationAid Societies,' and
in doing so, stated that it had been prepared in consequence of the formation at
Ottawa last winter of a society to aid in
the bringing of immigrants into this country.Under the Bill the Minister of Agriculture,will have power fromu time to time, to
divide the Provinces into Immigration Districts, in each of which there shall be an
Immigration Agent. lai each district, an
Immigration Aid Society or Immigration
Aid Societies, for the. purpose of assisting
immigrants to reach C(J a from Europe,
and to obtain employ4ent on their arrivai
in Canada, and of eàabling persons in
Canada in want of labourers, artisaps, or
servants, to obtain them by such immigra.
tion, may be formed under the Act, The
Society shall have power to enter into
agreements and contracts, either with
members of their corporation or with
others, for any purpose relating to immigration. The Society may receive applications from persons desiring to obtain
artisans, workmen, servants or laborers
froin the United Kingdom, or fron any
part of Europe, and may enter into any
lawful contracta with such persons, inclad.
ing the obligation on the part of such per.
sons to employ the immigrants referred to
on their arrivai in Canada. It was the
object of the Government to give ail the
aid in their power to alil Societies who were
endeavoring to bring additional population
into the country. He had no doubt the
Bill would meet with the approbation of
the House.
Hon. Mr. SANBORiN had looked cursorily
over the Bill, and could not see that it
contained any objectionable features, but
it seemed to him, the first clause might
entail considerable expense, since it gave
the power to the Minister of Agriculture to
establish an office in every district. S
far we have had considerable inachinery
to iaduce immigration, but with very little
satisfactory results. Unfortunately the constitution under which we are now placed has
di'vided the control of this mode of immigration. The Local Governments, besides,
hold the lands which are the principal in
centive of immigration. The Federal
Governument consequently was oraeped

Br-iish

[MA 8, 1872.]

as to means to effect the purpose it has
in view, and could only resort to direct
subsidy. Ie thought the best agents are
local industries-the encouragement of
manufactures and construction of public
works. He thought it advisable to consider whether such Colonisation Societies
as existed in Quebec should not be logislated for in the same Bill-it would not
be expedient to have two societies of a
cognate character in the same locality.
He was satisfied that whatever was done
by the present head of the Department
with the view of promoting immigration
would be well performed ; lie was a man
of business capacity and good judgment,
and would bring those qualities to bear on
the administration of this Department;
but the same time it was well to remem.
ber that he was called upon to a large extent to make bricks without straw, since
the means at his disposal for achieving
anything were veiry limited.
Hon. Mr. WARK thought that the pre.
sent Bill was intended to do a great deal
oi good, and expressed his opinion that it
was not advisable for newly arrived im migrants to go upon wilderness lands be.
fore they had served some time upon
cleared farms.
Hon. Mr. WILMOT expressed a similar
opinion, and believed measures should be
taken to keep our own people in the
country by the encouragement of home
industries.
ion. Mr. CAMPBBLL said that the ob.
jection raised to the first clause was met
by the fact that any money required
would have to be voted in Parliament
every session. At present the immigration
offices were few in number, and there was
no intention just now to enlarge the
number, but only when the necessity
arose. He was sure that the Minister of
Agriculture would read with pleasure the
remarks of the hon. member for Wellington Division with respect to himself. A
great deal had already been done in the
direction of promoting immigration since
his hon. friend had joined the Governruent. As respects the reference to the
Colonization Societies he would mention
the matter to the MiniBter of Agriculture.
The Bill was read a second time.

Copyrights.

telegraph line along the route. Referred
to the Committee on Railways, Banking
and Commerce.
PUBLIC

LANDS.

On motion of lon. Mr. CAMPBELL,
the Bill respectmg public lands was made
t1e first order of the day for Wednesday
néxt.
The House thon adjourned.
WEDNOSDAY, 15th May.
The SPEAKER teok the chair at half
past nine, p.m.
LIGHT HOUSE.

After presentation of a number of petit
tions,
Hon. Mr. KAULBACK asked whether it
is the intention of the Government to
make provision in the Supplementary Estimates for the construction of a Lighthouse
on Green Island, off St. Margaret's Bay,
for the botter protection of the large interest engaged in Shipping and Navigation
along the Southern Coat of Nova Scotia ?
The bon. gentleman alluded to the importance of the work, and pressed its coup
struction in strong terms on the attention
of the Minister of Marine and Fisheries.
Hon. Mr. MiITCLELL replied that the
matter was under the consideration of the
Government who were aware of the im.
portance of the work, and would probably
come to a favorable decision respecting it.
The House thon adjourned.
THURsDAY, 16th

May, 1872.

After presentation and reading of Petitions,
PETITIONS.
Hon. Mr. sANBoRN-From Conimittee
on Standing Orders and Private Bills, re.
ported favorably on Petitions of Louis
Archambault of Quebec; of D. McInnes
and others; Canadian Suspension Bridge
Co.; G. E. Archer and others; D A.
Macdonald and others of Alexandria, O..
T. Reynolds and others; W. McMaster and
others; Committee reported petition from
Chatham Board of Trade as belonging to
jurisdiction of local legislatures.

ST. FRANCIS AND MEGANTIC R. R.

MESSAGE.

lion. Mr. SANBORN moved the second
reading of the Bill intituled : <<An Act
to amend the St. Francis & Megantie RailWay Act," the principal objects of which
are to enable the additional issue of half a
liion of bonda, and the construction of a

Messages were received from liouse of
Commons with Bills respecting securities
given by officers of Canada, Dominion
Notes, G. T. R. and International Bridge
Companies. Those Bills were read a first
time.

Public

[SENATE.]

WEIGHTM AND MEASUREB.

Hon. Mr. GIRARD asked whether the
Government mtends to give the Province
of Manitoba, a law regulating weights and
measures, or to extend to that Province
same laws and provisions on the subject
of weighta and measures as are in force
in other parts of the Dominion, and
to appoint Inapectors of weights and measures there.
Mr. CAMPBELL replied that it is not
the intention of the Government to estab,
ish the same laws in Manitoba during the
present Session,but they hoped to establish
a perfect and uniform system for the whole
Dominion when the next Session meets.
POSTAL FACILITIES.

Hon. Mr. GIRARD again made the followmg enquiry and urged the attention of
the Government to the subject which is of
much importance to the Province he represents; where there is considerable diffi.
culty found to transmit money, especially
in small sums :--Whether the Government
intends to complete the organization of
the Postal System in Mahitoba. by estab-.
lishing therein a Money Order Office or
Money Order Offices and a Savings Bank
Office or Saving's Banks Offices, such as
are established in the other parts of the
Dominion.
Lion. Mr. CAMPBELL replied that the
Government had every disposition to meet
the wants of the people of Manitoba in
every particular, and would pay attention
to the postal requirements of that Province at the earliest date possible.
PUBLIC LANDS.

Lands.

Hon. Mr. CHRLSTiE said the Bill in respect to homestead principle was really
more liberal than the American law.
In answer to an objection raised by Mr.
Girard to the 18th clause respectin g
those Townships reserved to Indiana, Hon.
Mr. AIKINS explained that when the
Hudson's Bay Company transferred their
rights, they were entitled to receive 5 per
cent. of the lands of the Territory. The
Company adhered to the right, and the
Government had no option in the matter.
Clause 22 respecting Educational endownent having been read,
Hon. Mr. BU REAU proposed an amendmept dividing the lands among all religious denominations for separate school
purposes, in proportion te their number.
Hon. Mr. AIKINS explained that such a
provision could not properly be incorpora.
ted with the present Bill which simply set
spart the lands as an endowment for purposes of education
Don. Mr. BUREAU agreed to defer his
amendment until another stage in the proceedings, stating that he wished to have
lands in question disposed of according to
certain principles.
Hon. Mr. GIRARD suggested that the
land should be under control of Trustees
or School Commissioners of sections where
they may be, who would keep them for
education, but would not have authority
to dispose of thein except through an
order in Council.
lion. Mr. AIKINS explained that such
provision was superfluous in present Bill.
Hon. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. JUST
thought the means of assisting Education
should be entrusted te the Local Government.
Hon. Mr. AIKINS said, that it rested
with the Parliament hereatter to say what
shall be done with the lands.
In reply to Hon. Mr. SANBORN,
lion. Mr. AIKINS stated that one dollar
per acre, would be about the same as that
fixed to land in Minnesota: the Governe
ment thought that the price would deter
persons from buying for mere speculative
purposes.
lon. Mr. SANBORN hoped, when village
lots were laid out in accordance with
clause 31, care would be taken to reserve
space for market places, cemeteries &c.
The Committee rose and reported
progress.
AFTER RECE

The House then went into Committee
on Bill respecting Public Lands. -Hon.
Mr. IAMILTON in the Chair.
Hon, Mr. GIRARD said in French that
he naturally felt great interest in the messure, affecting as it did the people of his
own Province. He had looked carefully
over the Bill and had no objection te many
ofits details,but there were certain features
which he did not approve of and which he
thought required modification and amendment. lie proeeded at some length te
state his objections, and read some amend.
mente which, whilst they did not affect
the princi le, materially affected the details
of the B1
Hon. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. J UST
proposed that the hon. member have his
amendments printed, so that the House
might be in a position to undersand their
actual tendenc.
The House again went into Committee
lon. Mr. AIKINS agreed to go on with on the Bill.
Hon. Mr. BOTSFORD, in reference to
those clauses to which there was no parti.
the 31st dlause, thought the upset pice
cular or valid objection.

Public

[MÂy 17, 1872.]

should be fixed on village lots, which may
be sold at private sale.
lon. Mr. AIKINS said the principle
generally laid down by the Government
Was to oeil by public Auction, but it was
deemed advisable, in certain cases, to
allow a choice of selling by private sale.
In reply to a suggestion by SENATOR
FLINT Hon. Mr. AIKINS replied that
there was no intention of having cemeteries
in villages that might be laid out.
The pre-emption clauses were amended
80 as to merge them into the homestead
system, in accordanoe with the principle
to be adopted in the United States.
Hon. Mr. SUTHERLAND urged in strong
terms the claims of a class of persons who
were not considered in the arrangements
with respect to the lands of Manitoba
These persons were living on very narrow
strips of land, and many of them would
be obliged to leave. During the recent
troubles no men had acted more patriotically than this class of persons whose
claims had been ignored. It was a great
injustice that the people in the section
where he himself lived should have been
forgotten in the allotment of grants of
land. He did not blame the Government
but was under the impression that the
rights of these people who were the pioneers of the settlement had not been sufficiently pressed on their attention.
Hon. Mr. MacFARLANE urgeda the
claims of these people to consideration.
Hon. Mr. AIKINS said it was open to
these or other settlers to get 160 acres of
land on payment of a small fee.
Hon. Mr. SANBORN said then they were
not placed in any better position than new
settlers.
Hon. Mr. LETEriLIER DE ST. JUST
Mid that these people were not treated as
well as those who belonged to his own
nationality, and expressed the hope that
'their claims would receive attention. Such
a concession as that suggested would tend
to theharmony and happiness of the whole
comamunity.
H1%n Mr. GIRARD said that if the Government adopted the suggestion they
would do what would be satisfactory to ail
classes of the population of Manitoba.
Atter sme remnarks froru Hon. Mr.
BENSON ta a similar effect
lion. Mr. AIKINS replied that he would
take the matter immediately into consideration.
Considerable d sultory discussion arose
On that part of the 34th clause which did
noet allow a settler voluntarily relinquishing or abandoning his claim, to make a
Second entry. After remark from Hon.
Mesars. Christie, Flint, Skead, and others,

Lands.

Hon. Mr. AIKINS agreed to amend the
clause so as to allow the second entry.
In reply to an amendment proposed by
Hon. Mr. GIRARD with reference to hay
lands, 36th clause.
Hon. Mr. AIKINS stated that the question ot hay land would be dealt with during the present season, and the right of
common would be ascertained. Those
who have the right of hay or common
would get their consideration in land.
In clause 45 respecting coal lands,
An amendment was adopted on the
s'mggestion of Hon. Mr. LETELLIER DE
allowing mine to be
ST. JUST,
forfeited in case parties cease to work
them for six consecutive months.
lon. Mr. GIRARD urged that the Province of Manitoba should be exempt from
the provisions of the 48th clause:-" Any
tract of forest land covered by forest timber may be set apart as timber lands and
reserved from sale or sttlement."
lon. Mr. AIKINS explained that such
an amendment was unnecessary in a Province situated like Manitoba.
Clause 65 respecting Slides havingbeen
read
lon. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. JUbIT
asked if provision should not be made to
prevent saw dust being thrown into rivers.
Hon. Mr. AIKINS said the Local Govera
ment would have regulation of such
matters.
The Committee went through 74
clauses, rose, reported progress, and received leave to sit again.
The liouse adjourned at a quarter
past 10.
FRmIa,

17th May.

The SPEAKER took the chair at three
o'clock.
After the presentation of petitions and
other routine proceedings,
lon Mr. AIKINS brought up a return
respecting the Intercolonial Railway.
RAILWAY.
Hon. Mr. HAMILTON, from Committee
on Railways, Commerce and Banking, reported favorably on the Bill respecting the
S Francis and Megantie Railway Company.
DIVORCE.

Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL moved the second
reading of the Bill to provide for the
divorce of John Robert Martin, and in
doing so said he did not vouch for the
accuracy of the facts alleged therein.
In accordance with the rules of the

fHouse, Richard Martin was c.lled to the

Routine

[SBNATE.]

bar and gave evidence of the service of
certain papers on defendant.
The Bill was carried on a division, de.
manded by Hon. Mr. Letellier de St. Just.
Contents 36; non-contents 19. It was
then referred to special committee to
examine evidence.
IMMIGRATION.
The House then went into Committeetion. Mr. Botsford in the chair-on the
Bill incorporating Immigration Aid Societies, which was reported upon without
amendment, read a third time and passed
PRINTING.

Business.

be divided, but given exclusively to local
legislatures or General Government.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL agreed that it
was advisable to have a definite principle,
as urged by the member for Wellington
Division, but it was found very difficuit to
arrive at a decision on the subject. A
Joint Committee had been appointed
during a previous session to deal with
the question, but nothing had come out
of it. Probably in the course of time a
satisfactory arrangement would be arrived
at, and such perplexities as now constantly arose prevented. As respects the
measure concerning Infectious Diseases,
he did not remember its exact nature,
but supposed it referred to Quarantine.
In answer to the member fr:m-n Manitoba,
he stated that it might be necessary to
frame a law which would prevent infectious diseases, like amall pox, coming into
Manitoba from the North West Territory.
The bill was then read a second time.
PUBLIC OFFICRS.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL moved the sec,
ond reading of the bill (from the flouse
of Commons) respecting security to be
given by officers of Canada.-Carried.
RAILWAY BILL.
Hon. Mr. FERRIER moved the second
reading of the bill confirming a certain
agreement between the Grand Trunk Railway and the International Bridge Company, and for other purposes.-Referred
to Committee on Banking, Railways and
Commerce.

On motion of Hon. Mr. SANBORN, the
first report of the Cormittee on Printing
was adopted.
QUARANTINE.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL moved the second reading of the bill rospecting quarantine, which re-enaots laws respecting that
subjeot, except those referring to public
healith, which properly fall under the juri8diction of the Provincial Governments.
It also includes several amendments to
the laws of the Maritime Provinces, which
experience has shown to be neces
Mary.
Hou. Mr. SANBORN referred to the distinction made by the Government with reference to the subject of public health,
and expressed the opinion that they had
come to a proper conclusion although the
view was different from that taken with
respect to many otier matters which came
before Parliament although belonging properly to local jurisdiction. He urged the
Government to lay down a general prin.
PUBLIC LANDS.
ciple and apply it to all legislation. The
Parliamnt, under its present position,
The House again went inte Committee
was absorbing an amount of business on the Bill respecting Public Lands, lion.
which ought not to come before it.
Mr. Hamilton in the chair.
In accordance with the suggestion of
Hon. Mr. MACFARLANE agreed with
the previous speaker that the time had Hon. Mr. BUREAU, the 107th clause was
corne to establish a certain principle with so amended as to read : " Governor in
reference to such matters. He was glad Council shalZl, at any time hereafter, subthat the Government had introduced such ject to then existingrights, as defined or
a messure which, he hoped, would pro created under this Act, withdraw from
vent the introduction of disease into mai the operation of this Act such lands as
ritime ports in the way it was done in Ha. have been reserved for Indiana or may be
lifax last summer.
required to satisfy the half breeds
Hon. Mr. GIRARD alluded to the ne. Claims "
cessity of preventing introduction of
The Bill having been considered,
disease into Manitoba from North West
Hon. Mr. SUTIIERLAND asked the
by Indians and others.
Government whether any steps had yet
Hon. Mr. BOTSFORD wished to know been taken in accordance with his suggeswhat distinction could be drawn between tion of the previous night, that a grant
Public lealth and Infectious diseases opf should be made to a class of persons whose
Stock, on which Parliament had legis- claims hitherto had been overlooked.
lated.
Hon. Mr. AIKINS would be prepared
Hon. Mr. WILMOT was of opinion that with an answer before the Bill was read a
power of dealing with diseases should not third time.

77

Routine

[MAY 20, 1872.]

Businus.

78

many of such judgments h've been con.
firmed; how many reversed, and how
many are still pending undetermined in
Revision or in Appeal.
3rd. The distance between Montmagny,
St. Michel and St. Jean respectively, and
the City of Quebec, and the mode of com.
munication between those places and the
City of Quebec and Montmagny, respectively.
MONDAY, 20th May, 1872.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL said that a good
The SPEAKER took the Chair at 3
deal of the information asked foif was not
O'clock p.m.
in the control of the Dominion GovernRAILWAY BILL.
ment but was to be obtained by reference
to the local administration.
Hon. Mr. HAMILTON, from Committee
on Banking, Railways. and Commerce,
ELECTORAL DISTRICTS IN N.B.
reported Bill respecting G. T. R. and InHon. Mr. BOTSFORD asked whether it
ternational Bridge Companies, without
was the intention of the Govern 1 ent to
amendment.
equalize the Electoral Districts, or the
PETITIONS.
election of Members to the Gommons in
Bon. Mr. SANBORN,. from Committee New Brunswick and how it proposes to
on Standing Orders and Private Bills, re- apportion the aâditional Members to which
ported favorably on petitions of Manitoba that Province is entitled. He called attenInsurance Co. • Mamtoba Bank ; Ontario tion to the inequality of the electoral
Shipping Forwarding Co.; Anc hor Marine divisions in New Brunswick as respects
Insurance Co. They asLo reported that the election of members for the Commons.
petitiona of W. Ford Joues of Gananoque For the last five years evident injustice
and others, and Dominion Trust Co. refer had been done te large and populous districts.
For instance
Westmoreland,
to provincial objects.
with a population of 3ô 000, had only one
IN BEAUCE AND MONT- representative, whilst
CIVIL ACTIONS MAGNY.
ree others, with
only 23,000 souls, had one each. RestiH on. Mr. BUREAU moved:-That an gouche, Sunbury, Albert and Victoria
Address be presented to His Excellency with 34,700 had four representatives. He
the Governor General, praying that Ris mentioned sore other facts in corroboraExcellency will be pleased to cause to be tion of bis assertion at the commencelaid before this House a tabular or other ment of bis remarks, and urged the necessity of remedying the injustice that
statement showing:
lat. The number of actions, oppositions had been done under the temporary Act
or other proceedings of an appealable now in operation.
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL replied that he
nature, in which contestations took place,
and hearings on the merits were had in the was glad that the hon. member had called
District of Montmagny, from the first attention to a question of so much imJanuary, 1868, to the first January last; portance, and thaà he could only say for
the number of such causes in which judg. the present that the Government had garuent has been rendered; how many of thered all the facts they could in relation
thema have been carried before the Court to the subject, and would soon be able to
ot Revision or the Court of Appeals ; how state the conclusions to which they had
muany of aùch judgments have been con- cone.
finned ; how many reversed, and how
' SUPERIOR COURT JUDGES.
ulany are still undetermined in Revision
or in Appeai.
Hon. Mr. BUREAU asked2nd. The number of actions, opposi.
ist. Whether the Government will, du.
tiOns or otheî proceedings of an appeal- ring 4he present Session, appoint a Puisné
able nature in which contestations took Judge of the Superior Court at Montreal,
Place and hearing on the merits were had oonformably with the Act of the Legis44 the District of Beauce. from the first of lature of Quebec, passed at its lat SesJanuary, 1868, to the first of January last; sion?
the number of such causes in which judg2nd. Whether to that end, resolutions
14ent has been re4dered; how many of will be introduced during the present
then have been carried before the Court Session, providing for the payn3ýnt of the
Of ltevisiôn or the Court of Appeal; how salary of such sixth Judge, or whethqr a
Hon. Mr. W ARK urged the claims Of
these settiers to favorable consideration
The Committee rose and reported the
Bill with certain amendments. Report
Was adopted and the Bill ordered to be
printea, as amended, before the third
reading.
The flouse then adjourned.

79

Dominion

[SENATE.]

Note.

80

sum for the salary of such sixth Judge Notes up t a certain amount, and when
has been placed in the'estimates for the that amount was exceeded then they were
only allowed te issue additional Notes by
fiscal year 1872-3?
3rd. Whether the Government intend holding the same sum in specie for the
to increase the salaries of the P>uisn<és redemption of such Notes in exceas. This
Judges of the superior Court for the Pro- regulation had been Iound by the Governvince of Quebec, seeing that those salaries ment to operate unfairly upon the banks
are msufficient, considering the important and the public, as thero was a demand
duties those Judges have to fulfil, and the from day to day for smaller notes over and
qualifications their high and responsil:le above the amount in circulation which it
position requires them to possess?
was very difficult to meet on the term
lu making the motion he called atten- mcntioned in the original Act. It wao
tion to the anomalous position in which therefore proposed under the Bill to
the administration of Justice stood owing allow an issue of Notes, &c.. above the
to the B. N. A. Act. Before a new Judge $9,000,000 on a security consisting partly
could be appointed the Local Govern- of specic-at least 20 per cent. of the
ment had to pass a law, and the Federal excess-and partly on deposits held by the
Government had to nominate hum and fix Banks. The Government bad core no
bis emolumeuts. Hoe hoped that there the conclusion that suc a measure was
would be as little delay as possible in necgssary for the convenience of the
country
the administration of Justice rromotingat large. hotsecurity ws ample
in Quebec, and with the view of obtaining inasmuch as the 20 per cent. was a ur n
the Banke, who
information on that point, he had made specie not exacted fron
were consequently more favored han the
the motion in question.
iealo arguedthatthis
Dominion itsel
Mr. CAMPBELL replied that it aon.
wu the intention of the Government to sum really represented a good deal more.
introduce a Bill which would efièct the Theeovernment were obliged te hold
object referred to in flrst enquiry. Pro- spocie at four different places in the diflef
to meet the
vision would also be made for the pay- rent Provinces and Nloctuatig
ment of suol$ an office, as soon as the curi ency they would necessariiy be obliged
necessary legislation wàs eibected. lie to keep more than 20 per cent. ot hd
quite agreed that the salaries of the also been found that the circulation is
Judges were too low, and had no doubt fluctuating, and the Goverment through
that it would be noessary to revise them the Finance Minister, had been obllged
to interfere and limit
from tine to te
his session.
circulation unnecessarily and inconn e
aathe
veniently because the arbitrary rule ha d
RAILWAY.
te amend the St. Francin & been laid down that they must hold dollar
TheBc,
Megantic Raolway Act ws read a third for dollar over and above the issue f
cmillions cf dollars.
te motin inqestine
Mr. MACPHlERSON regretted tha
r ion.
Homean.M.APE
ead
scen fit to introduce
the Goverr ment
QUAiANTINE,
such a biBd as he could not help feeling
Theruse thon went into Committee- that it was a stcp in the wrong direction.
vion. Mr. FaRoIE
in d the Chair-and lt was above aln things important that ine
passed the Quarantie Bi, with an mend- currency should rest on a very secure basi
ment. lt was read a third timo
-iknediate rodemption in gold. Under
the present Bi it was proposed t change
passed.
the present Law, so that only 20 per cent.
J UBLIC OFFICEwI, .
the
tneed io kept in roserveho redeen
The lieuse agan went ute Committee - excess of circulation over and above nhe
t was truc that the bih adsO
TUST in $900ly00,00.
er.i
lon. Mr. LIEELLIER DE
the Chair-on he Bih in reference ho the provided that the balances hield by t
security given by offcers of Canadua and Government in the banks shoÙld be consf
of
pansed it without amendment. The Bill dered as a portion lae the reserves.
hpped that the Goverument would nOt
was thn read a third time and passed.
piss suc a provision. Those deelit
DOMINION NOTES.
were not equivalent tegold; for the can
their notes i
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL moved the second are not obiged t redeemrn
reading of the Act regulatin the issue f gold, but in doninion paper. se basi
was really Pa er upon
Dominion Notes, and an doing o stated effect of the systemi
that under the law passsdr in the thirty- papr. lie did not athink it judiclous t
t We
tli.rd year of lier Majesty's reign, the weaken the reserves to much.
waeemment receivrd thepower te issue quite possible that doe for doulwo 0

Dominion

[MAr 20, 1872.1

Notes

unreasonable amount, and less might do would suffer. It was. more prudent to go
but the amendments proposed in the Bil on quietly and cautiously than to en.
went altogether too far in the wrong way. courage undue expansion and its dangerThey had the tendency to render the im- ous consequences. He hoped that the
muediate redemption of notes les secure, appeals which had been made to the Gov.
a state of things which Parliament should ernment would be heeded, and that they
guard against, for the result might be a would consent to amend the bill. The
depreciated currency. He was also afraid House had confidence in the financial
that the tendency of the measure, would capacity and prudent management of the
be to create bank favoritism-a very un. gentleman who now conducted our finandesirable result certainly. So long as the cial affairs, and whilst he remaiied in the
present Government were in power, he same position the country was not in
did not apprehend any danger, but it was danger; but we had no guarantee for the
wise to guard against the future. Suppose future, for we did not know who might be
the case of a favored bank being in office some years hence, and therefore
in a weak position, and that the Go- it was advisable to protect the public in.
vernment wished to help it, it might terests by every means in our power. ie was
lend such an institution a million of confident that those banks which wished
dellars,, and dnly require one-flfth of that to carry on their affaire prudently,
amount to be held-or $200,000 in gold. would not object to see the amount of
The balance of $800,000 might remain on specie held in reserve augmented to 40
deposit, or the bank might get credit for per cent.
an unlimited time, Such a state of things
Hon. Mr. LE TELLIER DE ST. JUST
was, m his opinion, very objectionable said that he held views similar to those
and should be prevented if possible. We just expressed, but he believed the wealth
had an instance in Upper Canada where a, of the country which was the guarantee
certain bank suffered very much from, for the debentures was as good as gold.
favoritism of this sort. Money was left But the moment the benefit of the circuon deposit, which it lent unwisely, and lation was given to the banks instead of to
everybody knew the unfortunate results the country, then we were moving in the
that accrued at last. ie hoped that the wrong direction. It became more neces.
Government would not press the bill in sary that gold should be the basis, the
its present shape, but would consent to moment you deprive the Government of
hold at least 40 per cent. in gold. The the benefit of the circulation and band it
Postmaster General had quite correctly to the banks.
stated that the Government would in
Hon. Mr. WILMOT said that every one
reality hold more than 20 per cent , and, could bear testivaon
to the benefit de.
for the same reason, the 40 per cent. rived by the whole country from the issue
would, in the end, actually amount to 50 of Dominion Notes. When he had first
per cent. Such a reserve would be quite addressed the flouse on tis subject in
sufficient, but still the other provision 1867, the amount of the circulation, was
With respect to the deposits was very ob- only $12,000,000, consisting almost entirejectionable and he would like to see it ex. ly of Bank Notea-not one per cent. on
punged from the Bill.
the taxable property of the country. His
Hon. Mr. RYAN agreed with most of hon. friend from Toronto had dwelt
the remarks of the preceding speaker, for strongly on the gold as the great seourity,
he was sure that whilst we based our cur- but he (Mr. W.) could remember thas in
rency on gold, we would have¢a currency 1825 had it not been for the discovery of
which would inspire confidence among al some one pound notes the Bank of Eng.'
Who havA business to do with the country. land would have been obliged to shut its
if we departed, to any great extent, from doors. The country, at that time, wanted
such a principle, as would be the case circulation,-there ws no want of pros,
Under the bill, then confidence in our perity-and the result ws a crisis, causing
Rfnonetary position would be impaired. great depreciation of property in Great
When we relaxed our system and held Britain, ruinous bankruptcies, and the
We have a
Out to banks an opportunity of receiving failure of many Banks.
currency which they do not require to pay country of 4,000,000 of people, and the
for in gold, undue expansion would ensue Census of 1851 shewed property to the
and financial embarrassment be the final amount of $1,400,000,000. If we looked
resuit. As long as we went on prosperously at the country alongside of us, and com.
that expansiun might seem e enough but pared the Census returns from 1861 to
let a criais occur, as it may occur in the 1871-during which years a most disasbest regulated countries, and banks geti trous war had occurred, causing the withito difficulties, then the country drawal ef au immense number of persons

83

Dominion

[SBNATE.]

from industrial pursuit, and destroying
an enormous amount of property, we find
that the value of taxab!e property had
increased from $1,000,000,000 to 30,000,000.
Hon. Mr. MAPHERSN-The value in
one case is in gold, and in the other in
depreciated currency.
lion. Mr. WILMOT-At the same
time there was now held more gold
in' the Banks of the United States
and Treasury Department than ever
before. This result was due in his (Mr.
W.'s) opinion by Mr. Chase adopting the
policy of issuing legal tender notes to the
extent of $413,760,863 and establishing a
free Banking Law with an issue of $300,000,000 of national Bank Notes, making
the whole currency uniform guaranteed
Under this financial
by the nation.
plicy, no notes could be issued by the
uks without security, and it had given
such a stimulus to the industry of the
people, that they had not only paid
off 'he large aum of $890,000,000 of their
deb, but had also released the country
of a large portion of internal taxation.
The policy was not without precedent, for
Mr. Pitt, one of England's greatest
statesmen, had inaugurated one Fomeý
what similar in 1797 by making Bank of
ECzngland notes a legal tender guaranteed
by the State, leaving gold to find its value
in tb. marker like ail other commodities,
which ontinued until 1823. The hof.
member would net deny taat during the
with
period referred te, it was the
that country (U. S.) which had stimulated
production inthe Dominion, and thereby
kept up aur Bak ic a great measure, by
supplying thoni with a large amount cf
foreigu exanige. Our faneraw and others
were able te oeil their goode te aur neiglvery curn
pokdisparagingly, and in that way
t te swell
.
revenue
te
The
its preaent reétricted
.gland was proportions. the Act Banjk cf
by
cf 1844
and beyond the £15,000,000 cf notes
s.oured by consoleansd obliged to hold
five pound note
live overeigs for
isued by tliis Act. The banking department was separated from the issue departçent. In 1847 th. bank;was bankrupt
se9far as the law was concerned and
Government had t coBe forward and
reieve th. batik by allowing il te issue
notes beyond the law. In 1857 it was the.
saie tbing, and in 1866, twh banks had a
larger amount of deposit in th. bank f
England, ths ail th. geld thal wua held
in both departments which they threatenedte demand. Again the Goverument
had le corne forward aud btop the depre
priod cf proferty, it ousquence cf the

Notes.

84,

restriction of circulation caused by a
fereign demand for gold. Even ncw on
acount of the Gernan purehaseg -f gold
iii the London market, the Bank of
England had again raised the rate to five
per cent and it may go tar bigher, retriet.
ing the home-trade, and may end in a
crisis and panie. He was of opinion that
th. gold systemwas bued en a fallaçy-it
was attempting b make a certain quantity
of geld not oiiy the unit of quantity but
the unit of value, a thing impossible
without causwg violent fluctuations. The
history of the United States for the past
ten years wu a proof that the theory in
question was based on a fallacy. Their
system had tided the country through a
most critical period without a commercial
crisis, when ils credit waa. almost prostrated, and lately the discount had been only
9 as between paper and gold. Gre4
Britainpaid off more cf her debt during
the two years closing th. war cf 1815,
Ihan she las ever paid sie, and th" wu
under the system of making Bank of
England notes legal tender, and allwing
gold to Iid i value in the maket e
any other produot cf labour. The effect
of resummg specie, payents, under 8*
Robert Peel's Act of 1819, was to, inoreae
the publie debl and private debte, incurred in paper aI 13i te the soveveign-in
fact te increase ail the liabilitis of the
countryonehalf for 1h. beoefldof the fn dexpense
holder and crediors at h
the
detor
Eradethe public asd
of
With respect t th presena Bgla, rstith
i
Dominion notes up to $9,00,000 as thy
were before, buHeas regards ti issue
beyond hal sus ther was ne restriction
whatever. l .bis judgment he an unt
of Dominion notes ougit not t t exeeed
the amount of lue annual revenue. In
the next place h. did nt think 1th. pb
lic should endor e the aount ofrca
tien te b. given te the Banks without
their obtaining something for it. The i.
Domnion notes wa the bet
culation ea
kind f currency w could have, for with
of eha
the we cculd travel from on end
mvery
country to the other. ihey were. a le &
tender endorsed by the State, psd t
whole property cf 1h. country w s Hable
h.
fer ahe redemption. W gat wied t
their
as eure
p
see wasi that ha circulatione
as i the neighboring country. Theank
were net liable te b. called upon to pay in
ihey had te deposit
gold on demand.
actual valuem-i debentures cf the United
States- and receive only 90 per ce.l of
cirulating notes for thn .th mkis cou.
try the result ofb. circulation cf Dominion notes had been most beneicral Now
rfrom
.
of tetal circulation and risen

85

jnimiion

[MiY 26, 1872.]

000,OO to $34,000,00o-the Bank circula,
tion having reached $23,QOO.000, and tbat
of the .Dominion notes $11,114,000. He
wished to see our banking system made
still more liberal, so that any number of
individuals, on furnishing proper security,
änd registering the name of their locality
and amount of capital, should have the
right to éstablish a Bank •and he was sure
that the intelligence of the country would
supo rt such a systemn, for it would place
bank'ng in the same position as all other
business dealers in money.
lion. Mr. BUREAU said that he considered the issue of Dominion Notes when
prudently managed, could promote the
public interests. The money now circuIting might be doubly advantageous to
'th country. In the fist place, it was a
benefit inasmuch as we had not to pay
interest on the Dominion notes. Again,
the money we have to borrow in England
for the construction of our publie works,
could be placed out at interest at a good
rate-nearly equal to the amount we have
to pay in England. Indeed, it might be
shown that we would receive a benofit to
the extent of making a saving of 8 per
cent. by the circulation of our notes. The
Goveinment was to reserve 20 per cent.,
and that was quite sufflicient in his opinion
becéuse we had the whole country as
security, and the Government might at
any time have gold for any amount ; and
th fact we had enough to meet our liabili.
tibs. The only thing of which he complainéd iu thepresent bill was that there
Was no limitation as to the issue.' If we

oked te the experience of the United

tes te guide us, we found that the
emnuoit of the circulation of the banks
Was limited to some $300,000,000, and
ri
our population with that of the
C îtod Sttes, we would be entitled to
0,f ,Qo .
* as better for the Govrnmet tostate definitely what amount
they WiMl require, but under any circumàtances we muat act with great care, The
first tirne the Giovernment issued notes,
they askèd for $5,000,000,then they raised
thé im to $9,000,000, and now no
iotiit was fixed, but the Government
hiight issue as much as they pleased. One
danger he apprehended was the patronage
bf tMè Govertiment being handed to
OU¥ favoured bank, and in that case a
cais might arse. L the month of Sep.
tetfber last, theie was such a criais bee ie gold was going out of the couninté the Uiited States where the mar.
éi *ada;good dealbetter. The strongest
tition had control of more gold than
. ih'er 'iutions
off the qougtry
i Mdan resulè was à had its
h

Notes.

own way. When it required more gold
for operations in the United States itwent
to the other banks and forced then to
give it. Necessarily the banks were
obliged to ask more for discount so as to
pay for the gold they were obliged to get
from the United States, The consequence
was the banks did not respect their
charters, but obliged persons applyng to
them for accommodation to pay 9 per
cent. In September the Bank in question
had in specie-in other countriea, $958,557. here $1,577,093 or $10,835,644, whilst
all the other Banks in Ontario and
Quebec had altogether only $4.317,252and hence it would be seen what power i
held in its hands.
If the patronage of the Government As
only to benetit one institution, if the de.
posits were not made 6f such a eroportion
as to prevent any run on a bank, there
would be greater danger to be approbended than now exista, of commercial embrasment and bankruptcy. In the United
States, the Government could always b9d
the keys of the position, inasmuch au the
importations are paid in gold, and they
have always in the treasury a quantity of
specie to prevent every note cirCuteld
by the different banîks is as at par, for it
was considered as gold. If, any persøns
combined to create a crisis with a view to
speculation the Government weie ina
position to step i and prevent it. la
this country, on the other band, it wa
not possible to find gold in a moment. If
theGovernment received the money for the
Pacific Railway and placed it at depouit in
a particular bank theycould not ask for it
at.a days' notice. Since the British GQvernment had found it expedient.to with.
draw the troops from the count¡ry,,we
were annually loosing ,a great amounlt of
gold-some million of dollars; ad ooOsequently we had to rneet the expens Qf
the defence of the country, ourselvøs.
Under these circumstances, the countxy
was a loser to the extent of perhaps two
millions of dollars. On the 30th &pril lat
circulation of the banks was $23,307,08
of Dominion Notes $10,129,575; fractiona
currency $396,967; making a total issue
of $33,834,198. In specie the banks' held
$9,002,522, and the Government $3,028,.
368 for the redemption of DominionNotqs
making a total of $10,060,090. From the
foregong figures it would seem that the
airculation of notes was about the pan» i
proportion to population as tiat of.she
United States. lie did not know whAt
the Government intended to do, but he
ýhought it would be wise policy to fix the
amount they proposed to rase unde
They had
the
present measure.

87

Dominion

[SENATB.]

Notes.

88

already done a great deal to promote the proceed with caution ana noz puen ue
monetary circulation of the country ; for it system te extremes. The effect of the
was not long since very many complainte prpoeed change, lie believed, was te withwere coming in of the inconvenience and draw gold from the ountry. Re knew
loss arising from the existence of a de- that the Finance Minister expected that
preciated currency ; and noone undertook the additional issue would be in snAler
to remedy the difficulty until the present notes; but it did not follow that the banks
Finance Minister- came into office, The would put one dollar more of the money
persons who suffered principally by this into circulation than was actuallynecessary
depreciated currency were the smali deal- te meet the demand of their customers.
ers and merchants throughout the coun- If anything beynd thatwas actuallyneeded
try, and many of them had to pay as a for the necessities cf the country was issued,
daily operation at the rate of 5 per cent. it would go into the vaulte of the Bank
on the $100 to get rid of the coin, and the and form part of their cash reserve, and
consequence wae financial embarrassment geld would go gradually eut et the countime anc again. He did not understand try. In England the business was doue
why the Finance Minister should not state with sovereigns. The Banks did net issue
the amount he intended to raise. Per, any notes under five pounds; but here
haps he proposed making a great finan- there was paper as low as ee and two
cial stroke, place the money he would dollars. Theamount of cah reserves
borrow for public works in the different hl nti
onr
a oe$40000
banks and receive interest on it, while he and assuming *7,000,000 of that was in
circulated as many notes as he wished. Dominion notes. then there was $7,000,000
He regretted that we had not new in this in geld, and if tbe Government held $3,.
country a banking system like that in the 000,00
more, that made $10,00,000
United States, which would enable per- te represent the whole go!d cf tb.
sons with a much amaller capital than country. Indeed, la ias a very rare thing
$200,000 to establish banks. fie would te see geld passing in erdinary business
like such institutions in towns and vil- transactions. Since the Union cf the Prolages, with a capital of $50,000. At pre- vinces the country had been generally
sent, the system was calculated to benefit prespereus-ne financial crisis lad occur.
only the wholesale merchants, but he red, ne difliculty had arisen te preve«t
wished to assist the farmers and small the circulatien being kept afleat; but iu
dealers in addition thrcughout the rural case cf a monetary criais, embarrassment
districts, but he had every confidence that might arise, and it was against such a couthe time would soon come when we would tmgency that Parliament should guarc.
have a more liberal banking law. He
Uder ail the circurastances ho recoicould see evidence pointing to the estab- mende caution, and a limitation te tbe
lishment ere long of a Bank of Issue by accommodation which the Banks aheuld
the Government. In the meantime, how- receive. Re did net believe there ias any
ever. for the reasons he had stated. he security iu a paper currency-it ias like a
must give bis support to the measure be- lettery
toxflouse.
Mr. SIMPSON"said effe had the
t.
fore
untris
Hon. Mr. WARK believed the proeut pewer te legislate so that othr
Bill ira a departure frou the systes wuld take our notes as gold, le n gent
heretofere eatablisbod in thia country. mon migit be rigt in the conclusions
The firot $5,000,000 issuod required four tley co e te; but the Clhiese would ne&
millions cf debentures and one cf gold. se us their silks or tes without reyeiving
The second four millions roquired ene cf wiat they considered the tru equivalbnt.
gold mise. Accordingl'y, the issue of nine Hie did net tiuk that the experionca of
millions required seyen cf debeutures, and tho world had found out any curreny
bold
that tlere w ne
tie ef gold. Thn ire had te foller the equal te gold. lie
practice ef tlie Bank of England ad issue safe banking unles theore was a prOPr
evejrý additional dollar on condition tt
equivalent at the bauis of the circulation.
it lie redeemed in gold. 11e believed that [f a bank issued $10 or Ig000, 000:ahey tWd
thse system se far had been profitable te an equivalent in the shape of merobanthe country, but it wa an experiment the dife
True the Gover mont had the
result of which.had hardly yet been ahegn. whole country-tley could impose addiit miglt be compared tt the experInnce tiEn taxes; but, nevertheless, tey héd
n
d
of a noi Insuranco Company; premiums ne truh commercial equivalent t fali biu
came in very rapidly hilat the losses were upon.
e contended that the Birut h
amall; but tlie tim migt arrive iru
breach cf faiTh with the Banks, ho agresed
embarrassment and complications woulçt tomurrender theirrigts on certain co di.
onnue. Ige iras of opinion tIt ire shuld tions, *hi h they bad fulfild on the.

Domù.iwio

[MAT 204 1872.]

Notes

part. He remenbered the time when he case of the Doiinion which was liable for,
and able to meet all its own Iiabilities.
cent discount-when the notes of a people The Government could have no object In
of 40,000,000 were only worth 40 cents on view in proposing such a measure except
the dollar. Hie was afraid that the prim- to meet the requirements of the country.
ile on which we were acting would lead No Ministry would dare to favor one bank
t. a far worse state of things; for the oy giving it the control of the greater
1il was entirely a step in the wrong part of the issue ; the Bank returns were
direction. In 1879 and 1870, the whole of published from week to week, and the
the discounts of the Banks of Ontario and amount of their deposits could be easily
Quebec were about $56 000,000, while seen. He admitted tha there muist be a
they had reached some $94,000,000 at the a basis in gold, but h. did not understand
Present him; but he was unable to account that the Finance Minister was particularly
In a legitimate way for so large an increase. wedded to the amount of reserve. He
lie believed the present measure would had great respect for the opinions of hon.
lead to undue expansion and speculation, gentlemen who had spoken on the ques.
and sooner or laer disturb businer s and tior, and would take the earhest opporbring about a financial crisis. No bank tunity of consulting the Finance Minister
doing a correct butiness would advance on the subject.
Money except for a sufficient equivalent,
Hon. Mr. SIMPSON said that flve genbut here the Government proposed to tlemen,. depated by Banking institutions
issue without givng the country good had waited on a member of the Cabinet
security. He did not see anything in the who took the leading part on this quesmeasure with respect to the disposmng of tion, and had corne to an understanding
the notes-they might favor one institu- with him.
tion to the injury of the others. Under
lon. Mr. BOTSFORD said that a limit
any circumstances the amount of reserve of some kind should be fixed to the issue
should be much larger-at least 40 per of notes.
cent.
Hon. Mr. NORTHUP was inclined to
Hon. Mr. BENSON was of the same the opinion that the measure, on the
Opinion with those who urged that the whole, would be acceptable to Nova Scotia.
Principle of the Bill was not safe. He must Some 80 per cent. of the Dominion notes
bxpreus hie strong objection to a systern would get into circulation, and the curWhich made no restriction as to the rency of the whole country iii that way
amount of issue. He had every confid- benelited. The best security which the
ence in the finances of Canada, but at the Dominion had lay in the prudence of the
same time ho must urge that the amount Finance Minister and ii the standing of
Of reserve be raised to 40 per cent. at the Banks. The Finance Minister would
least, and the amount of issue be lhmit- not issue money except to meet the pubed. '
lic necessities, and certainly he would not
'lon. Mr. CAMPBELL denied that there advance it to any Bank unless he had conIad been any breach of faith whatever fidence in its management and discretion,
wIth the banks. Parliament placed on the and that he could ascertain from the re8tuttte Book a law reserving to the Gov. turns and other means open to him. He
erinent the right to issue notes within a felt that the Nova Scotia Banks, managed
Oteain denomination,and giving the banks as they were by discreet Directors, might
piivilege of issuing notes of a different be safely entrusted with the circulation.
denomination, besides relieving them of Under all the circumstances, having given,
thefr taxes. The necessities of the coun- ,the measure his careful consideration h
tY demandedthat there should be an addi was quite prepared to accept it as devised
tiOnU issue of one dollar notes. It was idie in the interests of the country.
6'Îay that a rule laid down at a certain
The Bill was read a second time.
P«rid was to last for all time to corne. If
The Bouse then a ljourned.
there was really a necessity for 'the auguTuEsDAY, May 21.
tifttation of one "dollar notes, then it
Wa absurd to say we should be tied down
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
by a cast iron rule applicable to different o'clo0ck.
cimstance.
His hon. friends thought
After presentation of petition'
t4re should be an increase of the specie
DIVORCE.
es8erve ; but it should be remembered that
tà i'anks were not obliged to hold a
Hon. Mr. C&MPBELL, from the Slect
8ingle dollar in specie ; and if th it was Committee, reported that one of the witcOnidered safe in the case of those insti- nesses called to give evidence respecting
ensit ogght to· be sQ certainly in, the the divorce case, refused to be som. lie
doald buy Government notes for 20 per

'k»iune

niQÂTE]

then moved that Mr. Lount was guilty of a
breach of the privileges of the Hlouse, and
that he be taken into custody by the
Gentleman Usher under warrant of the
Speaker.
Hon. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. JUST
objected to the manner in which case had
been presented to the House, inasmuch
as the petition and bill had been intro
duced by a member of the Government,
who was also Chairman of the Committee
which was acting as a judicial tribunal.
He aiso objected to having case again
brought up after it had been more than
once dealt with by the Senate.
Hon. Mr. CHRISTIE took similar
ground, referring to Todd's Parliamentary
ractice, Vol. 2.
Hon. Mr. OD)ELL took a different view,
and urged that such an objection ought te
have been made previously, but in any
case that was not the proper stage at
which to bring up such a point.
Hon. Mr. WILM JT exonerated the
chairman from having in any way whatever
attempted to influence the Committee.
Hon. Mr. MACPHERSON said the
House was entirely deviating from the
actual question under consideration-the
assertion of the privileges of the Sen.

äma.

simply charged himself with it àa a nttbr
of duty and in the interests of the Hôuse
for the resne given.
INTERCOLONIAL RAILWAY.

Hon. Mr. BOTSFORD askèd why the
Intercolonial Railway, betweeu Amherst
and Truro, was not opened for traffiò at
the tine stated by the Goverhmant it
would be, and when it is probable Nuoh
portion of the Railway will be .opewed?
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL Ëephed that he
was informed that the road will be proba.
bly opened early in July or Augnit.
Hon. Mr. DICKEY said that the Postmaster General was a níonth eàÏlier than
the Commissioners who sàid Septeinb'ér.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBLLL-Then we had
better say September. (Laughter.)
Hon. Mr. McLELAN alluded to the
heavy bridging, tunnelling, ànd grading
on the line and explainèd that thé î-oud
was rapidly drawing to completion, as it
was nearly ready for the track.
Hon. Mr. MACFARLANE was glad to
hear hopes held out that thé Une wotld
be soon opened.
Hon. Mr. DICKEY said the génei.al expectation of the publie had not been sat.
isfied but the difficulty arose from thé location of the route with Which the Com'ate.
Hon. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. JUST missioners had nothing to do. Hé found
did not intend to say that the least undue by the report of the CommisslionrS that
al the money had been paid W contraetinfluence was used by the Chairman.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL perfectly under- ors six weeks before for #brk *a1th *hs
not nearly completed.
stood that.
Hon. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. JUST
INDEMNITY, &0.
acknowledged the ability of the Postmas.
ter Gieneral to act as chairman, but he
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL moved the fol.
wished to establish a principle in accord.
ance with the usages of the louse of lowing resolution:
That
Cierk be instructed
Lords. He hoped the hon. gentleman Senate, the the commencement to lay before the
at
of every oegaz
Would withdraw from the Cotnmittee.
a statement of the indemnity and mile
d
Hon. Messrs. WARK and Bo L'SFORD Senatois for the lagt session ; and ha
th'er
to deliver to
(Chairman
said it would now be very inconvenient orders, of the House the Comn.oU aaf the ,Oommittee
of
to alter personnel of Committee. though it the audit of the Treasury accoant .aily edw4
of àny
srch statemen whenever he mày dela It némight be well to establish a principle for cessary to appiy itr the same.-Carried.
future guidance as soon as a similar case
arose hereafter.
QUARANTINE.
Qnestion was postponed in order to
On motion of Hon. Mfr. CAMeBELL the
allow the minutes to be laid before the Quarantine Bill was rend s third time.
House, giving reason why witnesi refused An amendment having bèen inadé by thé
to be sworn.
Government with the view of preventji#
Hon. Mr. CAM PBELL said that lie had the introduction of disease by pelrliës,
been guided solely by the desire to assist f urs, &c., as suggested by one of ié memin establishing precedents for the future btrs from Manitoba on a previoui occasion.
in connection with a matter new to the
RAILWAY BILL.
House. He only asumed such a position
On motion of Hon. Mr. FERRIER, thé
temporarily untid the louse came to a
decision as to the proper course to be pur- Grand Trunk Railway fdd IUternatibosl
sued in telstion to such questions here- Bridge Agreement Bill was fesd a- thtxd
after. It was, ho*ever, purely chimerical time.
DOMINION NOT11.
t ade that h could exercise any undue
uénde dn thé Co ittIe. Hé hd
The House thh *Wtt InIW ttOkmite

190,

Dominio*

[MAY 21,1872.]

Notes

Or' the Dominion Notes Bil.-Hon. Mr. they had in circulating those notes you
81AW in. the Chair.
Ron. Mr. CAMPBELL said that ho had
ftpressed his opinion on the previous day
When some hon. gentlemen had argued in
favor of a 40 per cent. reserve, that the
Pinance Minister was not wedded particularly 'o the 20 per cent. lie had said se
because ho had believed from the Finance
Minister's remarks elsewhere that ho did
naot intend to keep only 20 per cent.
but that on the contrary ho would always
keepa larger sum. On consultation with
the Finance Minister, he had come to the
conclusion that 35 per cent. would be a
fair sum.to have, and accordingly ho would
fovie te alter the bill to that effect. Of
Course, the sum in reserve would aiways,
for the reasons ho had given on a previoub
day, amount to very little below fifty per
Cent. It should be remembered that the
larger notes issued by the Banks were
nlever issued except for gold, and the
House was only called upon to legislate
Wifth reference to the small notes ; and as
respect- the limitation of the issue, he did
not think it necessary, for the Government
Would only issue the notes through the
banks and could net go beyond the re
quiements of the country.
Hon. Mr. MACPHERSON expressed the
gratifcation ho felt at the announcement
Of the PostmasterGeneral.
lion. Mr. SANBORN said that it had
been quite manifest to those engaged in
business throughout tlýe country that there
had been a great scarcity of notes of a
sulaU denomination.
The amendment,
however, now proposed, seemed tb him tb
e rather in the interest of the banks than
1n that of the public ; for ho did net sce
that there was te be any security, that the
sialler notes would be put into circulatioi.
Hon. Mr. TESSIER did not consider
t
hat the amen#lment was an improvement,
Op far as the original intention of the Bill
concerned. The $9,000,000 provided
VYaS
for originally would have been quite suf
tiient for general business if the notes had
been circulated, but the banks had kept
them looked up hecause they wished te
1
ZYe circulation te their own notes of four
olOlars and upwards. The object of the
Present Bill was tb remedy this state of
things, but ho did net believe it would be
accomplished tb the extent anticrpated.
t
I the Finance Minister had been allowed
to deposit a certain amount of these notes
With thedifferent banks, for which ho was
1
o receive no interest. thon the banks
Wobid find it te their profit tb circulate
them. On the other hand, if Government
teok away from the banks the interest

defeated the object of the Bill. T*e
double liability of the bank, was a botter
security than the additional 15 per cent.
imposed by the amendmaent
Hon. Mr. WARK made some remarks
but ho was only imperfectly heard.
Hon. Mr. BENSON said that ho had
always been opposed tb the principle of
the Bill-the issue of Dominion notes.
He had every confidence in the present
Finance Minister, but we should guard
against the future in legislating for the.
monetary concerns of the country. He
did not think the bill was much improved,
and regretted the issue of notes was net
limited.
Hon. Mr. NORTHUP reiterated the
opinion that the measure would be beneficial te public of Nova Scotia, inasmuch
as a large amount of notes would certainly
go into circulation.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL said that certainly no one could accuse the present
Finance Minister of a desire of favoring
Banking institutions. He was sure that
smaller notes would get into circulation,
and if any ditliculty should arise on aco
count of the Banks net lending their
assistance -ho did net apprehend thatthon the Government would take stops to
remedy it.
Hon. Mr. blMPSON believed that the
Government had acted prudently in
meeting the views of hon. gentlemen and
would be glad were they also te limit the
issue of the notes.
After a few remarks from Hon. Mr.
WILMOT.
The Bill was passed in Committee.
INSOLVENCY LAWS.

The next order of the day, the Bill to
repeal the Insolvency Laws (from the
House of Commons) was thon takea, up.
Hon. Mr. SANBORN said thati he deemed it advisable te make a few observations
in movmng the second reading of a Bill
which had created a good deal of discussion throughout the country. The Insol.
vency laws, as.they existed in the Domi.
nion of Canada, had been in force for
three years; and substantially they were
in operation since 1864 in the united
Province of Canada. It was urged that a
law regulating the affairs between debtor
and creditor was necessary for the
interests of trade and commerce, and
that it should be of a permanent character.
That was, however, a subject of debate ;
no laws in England or the United States
relative te bankruptcy had been of a
permanent character, but liable te change.
At present the Insolvency lawa of Englend,

95

Insolvency

[SENATE.]

Laws.

of the United States, and of France, were fession. He found that the meM
ile
all widely different fron, one another; community in the cities wâs divid
or
they were based upon different principles instance, he had before him a petiou
and started from a different stand point. frein the largest city of the Domguiçn,
The proposition was laid down in England containing seventy names of whbQsse.1
that the object of a bankrupt law is this, dealers in favor of the repeal of the 1w.
that you should as cheaply and as fairly [le knew from personal intercour;e' wjt.h
as practicable divide the property of the Montreal merchants that many of theim
Insolvent among his creditors ; but there are decidedly opposed te the statutgwas nô recognitiôn whatever of any rights that they have as hearty an aversioú te it
on the part of the debtor. In former as any class of persons in the country. Ae
days we had imprisonment for debt in was aware that some Boards of Tradeâ Iad
Canada; it also existed in England and given an opinion in favor of the' cntinuthe United States; but it had long since ance of the law, subject te ame.riddet,
been repealed and was now regarded but on looking into the matter be saw
as a relie of barbarism. Since the remov- that the Dominion Board of Trade*
.6re
al of that law from the Statute Book, actuilly divided on the question.
e
a very different view has been taken with majority favored theiaw when ama ded,
regard to the treatment which should be while a minority of 13 votéd for its repeal.
meted out to those who are unfortunate He iaintained that the rural dist cta
in busine.. In the United States tbey had a right to speak on a question of
laid down these principles--that the in- kind, for they were the feders of ur
tent of a Bankruptey law is te divide as commerce. The retail business sti;nu ted
fairly and as bpeedily as possible the our tiaide, and acted a ve'ry ii
mOr>nt
property of an Insolvent among his part in working out the prosporty
~of the
creditors, and provide at the same time country. The retailêrs we•e. thé Oiïa1l
for the relief of tihe Insolvent. Our law rills running in the rivers, wh h,«Ow
went further than either in England or steadidly onward and make up the' ggt
the United States, its object, above all ocean of commerce. fie referred to the
others, seemed to be to protect the Insol. evils arising from certain unsçrup
nðOus
vent. The causes that led to its adoption traders who manage somehot' to, get
was the state of the country at the time, goods on credit, and come ipto eriral
on account of a panic which had left many districts te compete irith I
te
persons enibarrassed; and it bedame neces- trade. They wold 'sell theïr goç4â ý a
sary te enact a law te afford relief to such price no' honest ttadèr c66ld pûu tbQirs
individuals, and enable then te start at; and after a Aew years, wpios 'he
anew. The law was really intended te wholesale dealer was becoming imp atiet
deal with a temporary state of things; it for payment, they Would
y-0
ou
reliéved the parties in question, and he do net prt diÉef mill
y yl, i
ut
was net prepared te say that it was net ôtherwise 1 must gb nté bankriuptr.
advisable te legisiate for them.; but it The merchant at 'last waOtild Šë conäg ed
should be remembered that the law was > te force paytnent, woild enter
t,
* intended'for an exceptional order of cir- and the whole matter would gâliu
the
cumatances and ought not te bear general hands of the official assignees, and
pnd
application, when those circumstances no of expense would folioW,
th
o
longer existed. it had been urged in the would be sold at auctiohl4
. t e. inpress and elsewhere that the hostility te jur'y of legitimate tradei
T
r
le
the law emanated chiefly from that much merchant certainly gained no'be
in
abused elass-the legal profession; but such a stato of thlhfgs; en
'è
ry,
mo;far as it was concerned, it was really he would get perhapà 103. t6 tli
nd
divided on the questioh: It need net be or 5s, btit more generaly nithing
he
urged that any rneasure which led te com. flirst object of'legislatioù hld
roplications and disputes, was really an ad. mote the legitimaté trade ô thê ,q
iwantage. te the -profession. Now the In. and in tlïùt way advankè thée
>á sosolveney law was really of a hybrid <ietyat large.
chameter-not calculated te be permanent,
to
The hon. gentleman here wft
net te be incorporated into our jurispru- refer te the experience di
dence., It has been fraught with results respect te Bankrupt Laws, and
il
to the whole 'country
injurrious in thE that arose under the old system. TIie preextreme.-, He denied that the principa sent law, he said, was enacted in 1869 and
opposition came from the rural districts ; dd net recognize the principle ôf
cia
for he found that the, gentlemen who assignment ; but the creditpr could pu$
came from the cities, were as much divided the insolvent into bankrupt' uudïr cerdà opiniOn as member of the legal pro tai citeumàaice. The bànkiýdptuld

97

Insolvey

[MAY- 21,t 1872.]

not get his discharge unless he paid 10s. to
the pound, and tbat, discharges need not
necessarily be final* and in is connection he oited a numLer of facts to illus.
trate the working of the present law in
England. Now, ho continued, it was ur
god that if we swept away the regula.
tions now in force in ths country we
would throw open the door to fraud, and
disorganize trade, and that it was more ex.
pedient to amend the law ; but to that
argument he must reply at once that the

Lams.

A message was brought from the House
of Commons with the followmg Bills:
An Act to amend the Act respecting the
Statutes of Canada.
An Act to incorporate the Canadian
Railway Equipment Company.
An Act to amend the Act respecting the
Civil Service of Canada.
An Act respecting the Publie Debt, and
the raiuing of Loans authorised by Parliament.
The House then acjourned.

law was not susceptible to amendment.

WEDxsAY, Kay 2g.
The experience of the past, here and in
The SPEAKJER took the Chair at one
England, went to show that it -s an exoeedingly dufficult thing to deal with the p.m.
question, and that it is dubious whether a
BREACH OF PRIVILEGES.
permanent bankruptcy law is desirable.
Se far as the present Act was concerned,
it wasjustly complained that it was not
under proper urveiUance, that it did not
eome withm the jurisdiction of the courts
ijsuch a way as to be carried out satis.
factorlly. The fact was, as 4e stated pre.
Viously, that it was a hybrid system ; a
large portion of the law was
aoomplished outside of the courts,

Atter routine,
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL moved that the
Speaker issue his warrant for the arrest of
W. Leunt, the witness, who had refused
to be examined before the Divorce Com
mittee, snd thereby committed a breachb
of the privileges of the House. Car.
ried.

One of the most prominent Assignees of
the city of Montreal, was now bound over
to answer to a charge of forgery ; his
apology is that he has not done anytbing
more than the other assignees have been
acoustomed to do, and that he has been
acting in the Interests of the public.
Under auch c'rcumstances it was easily
seen that there was no security for the
public in the system, inasmuch as it was
not under the supervision of a properly
quatffied tribunal but was carried out by
persons of no responsibility. The law was
not adapted to the circumstances of Que-

On motion of Hon: br. CAMPBEL I
the Dominion Notes Bill was read a MI
time and passed.
i

to the whole Domimon, Inasinuch as it
coUld not be made to work satisfactorily
as; a umform law, it was bet to sweep it
«f the statute book altogether, Then,
if ther seemed to be a necessity for it,
e could endeavor to mature a more satisActory system for the arrangement of
Matters between debtors and creditor,
ho that justice should to be done
%oall parties-a system which would be
iWharmony with the general jurisprudence
of the provinces, and in accordance with
the commercial miteresta of the whole Domdhion.
On motion of Hon. MIr. SANBORN,
secondedby Ron. Mr. LETELLIER DE

e
quire into the operation of the Inmcavenc
Act, and recommend such amendments
may appear necessary ; the same to b
embodied in a Bill to be submitted t
Parliament at its next Session.
e
The hon. gentleman gave a brief revie
of the history of the Insolvency Laws, io
the Province of New Brunswick. Hw
argued that it was the wiest, policy, ncne
to repeal a law because it did not worle
altogether well, but to consider how
might be amended so as to promote tI
public interests. He found that th
public opinion et the country was divided

in

a

very

unsatisfactory

way.

bee ahy more than it appeared to be suited

,u. :JuSi~t was

DOMINION NOTI.

INSOLVENCY LAWS.

Hon. Mr. WARK read the followin
motion, of which he had given notice on
previous day:
That an humble address be presente
to bis Excellency the Governor General a
praying that Ris Excellency will be please
to appoint a Commission of competen
persons, whose duty it shall be under th t
direction of the Minister of Justice, to in

on tue question, tuat bh repeuing IUl
had only passed by a very narrow majority
in the Commens; and under thos cirum-

stances it was not wise to repeal it altoge -

Ordered,-That further debate on the ther. The result would only lead to a

%Mdmotion b. postponed until to-mor. etateofthingsfar worse thmneouldpoussbly
ariseunderthelaw.

Hedidnotwiah to

99

Insolvency

[SENATE.]

see any creditor in a position to harrass

and crush a debtor who was acting honestly.
When a man failed honestly the law
should step in and distribute his property
among his creditors, and then lie should
be allowved to take a fresh start.
Hon. Mr. SANBORN arose to a point of
order. An address was not permissible
with reference to the subject matter of a
bill that was pending before the House.
Hon. Mr. WARK consented to allow his
motion to stand.
The order of the day, the second reading of the bill to repeal the Insolvency
Laws, was then taken up.
Hon. Mr. SANBORN went on to say that
the responsibility which rested upon the
House was of no little moment, and ought
to be exercised. The flouse was calied
upon to consider a question on which
there had been given during two sessions
an expression of the sentiments of a majority of those who represent more directly the people of the Dominion. In
the provinces of Quebec and Ontario the
law had been in force for eight years, and
the vote which was given elsewhere on the
question may fairly be considered to illustrate the feelings of the majority of the
people of those provinces. His hon.
friend who had just resumed his seat had
stated that he had been at the birth and
death of three bankruptcy laws in New
Brunswick ; a very significant fact inasmuch as it showed that in his province, as
elsewhere, such laws are of a temporary
nature and are simply created in the first
instance for the purpose of doing away
with exceptional evils which grow upon
society. he had been surprised to hear
the hon. gentleman, who was generally so
accurate, state that our Insolvency Laws
were so perfect that they had been adopted word by word by the United
States. it was hardly probable that
the law could be adopted word for word
inasmuch as there were certain provisions
in it which could not be very well adapted
to the United States. The Act of 1841
was enforced in the United States, and
that was long prior to the enactment of
our law. He was not prepared to say
what amendments had been made to that
law, but at all events it recognized the
principle of voluntary assignment-it was
incorporated into their system of judicature-all the bankruptcy proceedings
were conducted in the ordinary courts of
justice under the checks and guarantees
wbich the courts are calculated to give.
With reference to our law it was nothing
of the kind. In the United States a person could not make a voluntary assignment unless he made it under oath that

Laws.

100

was to say, he made an inventory of his
assets and liabilities under oath. Under
our law any man who was a tradesmanand it required very little to constitute
that; if he ran a water cart, it would be
sufficient-he had only to go before a
Notary and make an assignment of bis
Estate. Hie had known instances where
that Estate had been so insufficient that
the Bankrupt had been obliged to get a
subscription raised by his friendsto enable
him to meet the fees he had to pay to the
Assignee. With regard to the imperfentions of our law he might say the assignment was made without any other formal.
ity. True the insolvent was called upon
to assist the Assignee in making up the
Inventory. He might be examined by the
creditors as to whether lie has made a
fnll assignment, but that was after he was
in bankruptcy. All the proceedings went
on with the Assigne. and in many instances many of them were extremely informal,
and there was no check upon them.
The result of the present state of things
was shown by the Gazette. So numerous
were the applications for a discharge in
bankruptcy; and in almost al cases those
applications were from the Insolvent The
.Attorney-General of England said in 1869
that under the old law which was very
much like ours, that it had got to be considered necessary for the credit of their
families that some persons should go
through bankruptcy once in six years.
But. we had got far in advance of that-.
many had gone through bankruptcy twice
within six years. Ail this went to show
that the influences of such a law must be
injurious. What lie wished to impress
upon the louse was that this law was of
such a nature that it could not be
amended, but we must proceed to the
basis and re-enact anew a law it it should
be necessary. But he believed that m the
present prosperous condition of the oountry we had no occasion for such a law.
With respect to the discrimination to be
exercised in giving credit, those who sold
had the matter pretty much in their own
hands. A g: eat fault now lay with those
who forced too many goods upon the
market, and he regretted that the system
of trading between the large centres and
the country had so entirely changed with.
in a few years. Formerly the country
traders sought out the goods they wanted,
but now they were waited upon by a clasm
of persons known as " commercial travel.
lers" who forced goods on them. Let
those who carry on business conduct it on
sound commercial principles-then we
would be safer than we are now. Every
man should meet his obligations, and if

Insolvency

[MAY 22, 1872.]

Laws.

102

tIhse was amy 'other principle preferable system of commercial immorslity throghte that ho woulk lik to know It. If those
who were in trada woild take pains to
dad out whether it was fraud or misfor
tune Or reaklessness that had led to
the bankruptcy of a particular man, they

would seon establish in

the

community a

seunthant whieh would give rise to a
whalesome trade in the oountry, and
prventnin. out of ten cases oflnsolvency

that at present exist. Now a man enter-

ed into business as if there was no great
responsibility conneoted with it-no more
4han raiiway oontractors appeared to feel.
If tàére were evils that might arise in
aonnection with preferential assignments,
,et there be a law enacted that would re-more them. When the question before
4he Route came up in the other branch,
last session, thevs was a majority of 31
Ami Ontario and Quebec in favor of repuai. This sson, on the flual vote on
this question, the present Bill was suppoited by the large majority of 36 from,

Ontario and Quebec. It was true the

nritime representatives were, for the
4heles dt had passed successfully. He
read:from a newspaper an advertisement

mat part, opposed to the Biil, but never-

of a trader who announoed that ho had
onnmmacnrd business again, " havmg un.'
dergone repairs, legally md morally;"-

saowinghow callous pe
h. existing stem of

became under

kruptcy-eon.
sideringit-rather a matter for amusement.
^Re- aso read the conclusion'of the memoiafofMontreal merchants, who declare
tha-the law is "injurious to the interests

ofthe couutry generally," that it "is so
Oomplicated by amendments from time, to
tUner that firther einndment hereafter
will only tend to firther embarrassment,"
à"- that it ws botter to enact a new law
%So;that settlements may be arrived at
Without the intervention of Official As.
signee os lthd party." There was, hé
oontinued, amother petition trm Mon.
tasl¿ purporting te be signed by 180; but
h à", reccved two letters from two gena
t

out the country, and that the only remedy now was to repeal it altogether.
Then the Government could take the
matter into consideration between this
and next session, and come down with a
measure which would meet the diffBoulties
of the case and be as permanent as any
such law ought to be.
Hon. Dr. CARRALL said that he rose
with a feeling of much embarrament to
address the fHouse for the first time,
especially as he felt compelled to assume
a position entirely antagonistic to a gentlitnan for whose legal acumen and
argumentative power he felt the highest
respect. Hie need nôt tell the House tI t
there was a time in the history of ee
world-not a very remote time ; when a
condition of impoverishment was one of
obloquy-when imprisonment for debt was
in vogue and the word " bankrupt" was
synonymous with the words rascal and
rogue-or to quote the more expressive
language of his hon. friend-with " commercialimmorality." It must be remembered that there was formerly considerable difference between the proper applications of the terms " bankruptcy" and
" inaolvenoy."
Insolvency covered a
wider range-bankruptcy only extendekl
to merchants and traders; but now the0y
might be considered synonymous. Bas
lon. friend had quoted from Lord Eldon a
statement to show the former experience
of things in England, and alse referred to
the experience of the United States. With
respect to the latter country he fomal
that first they borrowed the bankruptcy

law of England and put it into operation

for a limited term of five years ; but the
law was not oontinued but suffered to go
by default. In 1841 the United States, lu
their wisdom, found it necessary to reenact a new bankruptcy law and tïhut survived a few years. In 1867, the Unitd

Stats still felt compelled to pass a general
bankruptey law for the United States. So
it happened that the experience of the

Iemen who had signed it,' declaring' that great Anglo-maxon family had been in the

hanot understood is natare.' One
hem staud that hehad been induced
oign it by the Offical Ausgnee by the
a$Mtminuthat it wusin favor of the ame.de?
ofthe law. He alto read another
louer *oshow the evil. tht aitse from the
emating-law. In concluion, he apologised
tn4he Souse, for baing tepassed so long
ta·ts attention, but hé lad been opposed
the law'in 1869, and ew that e had
b
@emeeperisce of its pratihn le feltu
Wasu
y justifWin his opposi,
eBAN ~ opposed it zbeduse
Ite believed
It was sanotioning and perpetuatang a
iI

direction of enacting laws fôr the regulation of bankruptcy and in face of facts
like those it was idie for his hon. friend to
say, and endeavour to fortify himself by
quotations from Lord Eldon to trya
pjove that there was no necessity for such

enactments.

When England herself, the

standard bearer in

every progressive

movement, had enforced a -bankp to

law,-when the United States fouiid i ad.
visable to do the same, the hon. gentle.
man woulc erase all laws from the Canadian Statute Book and in that way go con-

trary to the experience of the wisest

oom-

108

Insolvency

morcial nations of the world. He (Dr. C.)
believed that the principal opponents of
the law were members of the legal fraternity, of which his hon. friend was so distinguished an ornament. Re did not think,
however, that the agricultural interests of
which he was as strong an advocate as any
one in the House, approved of the
measure that was now under consideration.
His hon. triend, when referring to the
votes on the question elsewhere, had kept
carefully out of sight the fact that there
had been only a majority of three altogether on the division-in fact, it was amere snap vote. He did not wish to go
back to the condition of things that existed before we had a bankruptcy law in
this country-when people who were
disposéd to act honestly and fairly, had
been actually driven across the border
on account of the harwhness
of
their creditors,
He did not wish.
to see any system in operation, calculated
to harass and oppress any upright man
who had ben simply unfortunate in business. It was said that rogues rushed in
and toôk advantage óf the present law,
but would things be any botter, accordmg to his own showing, if it were. swept
off the statute book altogether. Those
who are engaged in business would have
the same interest as ever ,in disposing of
their goods, and would be as easily deceived as now by unscrupulous traders.
He felt sure that 'the Rouse would pay no
heed to the sophistry and appeals of his
hon. friend, and would give a vote in favor
of the necessity of having at all times an
equitable means ofenabling men to carry
on legitimate business, and to restore
themselves when they have honestly
failed.
Hon. Mr. SMITH said that ho must endorse a very large portion of the remarks
that had fallen from the hon. mover of
the bill with respect to the injurious effocts of the present law. He was in favor
of a hankruptoy law if we can obtaiw one
that" ll not encourage rascality among
the oImnercial community. The law, as
it now stood, had certanly that tendency.
Thete was a timue when où account of the
failure of the rops and Ôver importation
itwamnèoéssary for a number of unfortunatdne to get a bankruptoy law; but
that tisfie hadpassed. The law was intended for' an exceptional order of cir
cumstisees which no longer existed, and
any wid shold happen to get into diff.
culdes would be enabled to obtain relief
even If 'the méasure is repealed. We
were ne« living in a rery prosperous
state weé had a large emount of money at
our dIDposaI and he b0,levie that with'

Laws.

104

the assistance of Providenoe the Dominion bad a long and prosperous career, before it. When we had ,on the statute
book a law which enabled men to takead.
vantage of their position, and become
feltit i his duty to
dishonest, h
He showed how a
vote for its repeal.
diahonest man could corme into a village
and enter into competition with the merchant who had been there for many years,
carrying on a safe and legitimate business,
but who would soon find himself unable to
compote with one who started with borrowed capital which ie would soon refund,
and cared nothing for consequences. Tht
trader would eventually get into- difficula
ies, offer his creditors 20 cents on the
dollar; and if that was refused at the
outset, ho would threaten them with an
assignient, when probably they would
receive nothing. Of course, the creditort
would have to. yield, and a few days, later
ho would come out with. a fiaunimg adver
tisement headol ' Bankrupt Stock for
Sale at 50 per cent. below first cost." The
natural conseqence would be that the
honest trader would find himself under.
sold, and probably in the end irretriev.
ably embarrassed by circumstances arising
from an iniquitous law. The speculators wbo
went into business for the purpose of remaining only a few months were the class
of pesons really protected by. ithe
law. It was understood throughout Ontario that the bankruptcy law will di out
next year, and ho was quite positive that
there would be an immeupo number of
unscrupulous dealers in the interval, who
dintendwould go inth bankruptoy ; and h
ed keeping a list of suôh persons with the
view of showing the Rouse next, sessionin case it was not nowrepealed-the effects
of a. teasure which encouraged rash, die
honest speculatip4. For these aud other
reasops ho would support the Bill now
before the flouse.
Hon. Mr. WILMOT did not believetWê
any man should be opprossed wheni be
was unfortunate in busness, and hat
would in his opirion be the leffogtot:
system wh ich did not give him am oppor.
tunity of, 4viipg his property equitauly
and getting clear of his
aibilitisand
commencing apew. His hen. frienda had
referred to the prosperous condition 0
the countr
but, sfpose o monotasy
criais sboul. opcur ,qndo on ,oount
of a drain of gold to pay the French, debt,
money woqld go up gyorywhene andi ye
would finc ourselves very mucb embar,
rassed in this country. !te had, knows
the price of lum»ber and ships go .dow& to
ruinously low ýaesin noequenoe e a
iUsh
panic stddenly. Nlsrig r 7 t4e

Insolvency

[MAT 22, 1872.1

Laws.

106

Yfloney market, and the people of New of the hon. member who had just sat
Brunswick were guddenly large losers at down.
the -véy moment they thought they were
The debate was thon adjourned,
i a prosperoui condition. In legislating
BILLS FROM THE COMMONS.
for the country, Parliament should guard
A message was brought from the louse
against contingencies and not be carried
away by expeetations that might prove of Commons by their clerk, with Bills
dehisive. If Great Britain had found it intituled. An Act to make provision for
necessary to keep a bankruptcy law on the continuation and extension of the
her statute book-if the United States had Geological survey of Canada, and the
thonght it advisable to do the same, the Geological Survey.
An Act to idemnify the members of
Dominion of Canada certainly sheuld have
somue means by which the mercantile com.n the Executive Government and others,
mnunitr can make arrangements for the for the unavoidable expenditure of Public
settlement of bankrupt affairs. The Board money, without Parliamentary grant,
Of Tasde of SC. John had come to Parlia occasioned by the sending of an expedl.
ment *ith a petition asking tliat the law tionary force to Manitoba, in 1871.
An Act to incorporate the St. Lawrenee
be not repealed, and he believed it would
be pt'ejudicial to the publip interest to Bank.
An Act to incorporate the Thunder Bay
take the steps they were now asked to
Silver Mines Telegraph Company.
pursue.
An Act to incorporate the Mail Printing
lion. MÉ. SMITH again urged the repeal
Of the law, and said that the Official Assig. and Publishing Company (limited.)
An Act relating to the Treaty of Wash.
neée werè a clam of persons very expensive
to keep up. He would trust a bankrupt ington, 1871.
An Act to amend the Act relating to
Stock i i the hands of the Sheriff and a
Banks and Banking.
lawyer, rather than to the Assignees.
An Act to amend the Chapters six and
Hon. Mr. MACFARLANE was anxious
to do justice to the honest trader, but he seven of the Statutes of 1871, relating to
wasnot donvinced by any arguments yet 'Savings Banks.
used by the advocates of the Bill that it
THE TREATY.
Would'have such a tendency. le believed
that viewed in all its aspects it was better
The Bill relating to the Treaty of Wash.
to let the law remin on the statute book ington was made the order of the day, for
than repeal it altogether, and allow our Tuesday next.
business affirs to become embarrassed in
The House thon adjourned.
conàequence of the want of legal regulations. The law had been only in operaI'auaaRrY, May 23, 1872.
t'on-fôr tbree years, and he did not wish
The SPEAKER took the Chair at 3
to seit strangled before the time of its p.m.
legal expiration-a year hence. It apPearéd to him that the country has
THE INSOLVENCY LAWS.
already one of the best safeguards of
The House thon resumed the adjottred
comtaërcial morality, though he was aware
n1ady perfons did not approve of it; he Debate on the lon. Mr. MACFARLANr'
referred to that system by which the amendment, to the Rlon. Mr. SANBOI
Stantiing « ever business man in the motion, for the second eading of Insol.
3ommunmty oul= be ascertained in a Vency Law&repeal Bill, viz: to leave out
"ordent. He did not believe the law was " now" and Insert "this day thre'
by anyimeans perfect, but it was better to months."
1
et it Temaid fbr a few months longer
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL read a telegram
than go bâòk to a state ofunoertainty and from Montreal stating that a deputation
0
oraþlIdations, and fo- those reasons he was on its way on behalf of the Board of
WOul d hoie that the Bill be read that day Trade ofthat city, to ask; the Senate to
threetonh.
reject the Bill for the repeal of the InsolhOuf Nr. TEMIE K followed and spoke vency Laws; and adding that the Toronto
withithfidh enPbasis in French against the Board of Trade concurred in the opinion
adoption of the Bill which had been that it was advisable to continue the pre1noved lby his hon. friend from the Wel- sent law until amended.
lion. Mr. LETELLIER E ST. JUgr re.
'Igtoùt DItisji, and which he believed
WOld4*fr.d th injurious resuits. He com phmed at some length to the argumepta
bated the arguments of the mover, and used by Hon. Mr. Tessier against the Bill
con'OUded thm arguments of the mover, for repealing the láw. lie acknowled
%4deâý*laded Iby seconding the motion that there vwere difficulties in deaing

101

Insolvency

[S11'A1'ý.]

with the beet course to pursue, but he
was nevertheless of the belief that the
sentiment of the great majority of the
people was in favor of striking off the
statute book a law which worked so unequally and so injuriously to the commerintertats of the Dominion. He alluded to
the tendency it had to encourage commercial immorality among the community,
and to benefit the debtor at the expense
of his creditors a principle not encour
aged m any bankrupt system, anywhere.
He wished to see a check imposed on
dishonest bankruptcy, instead of allowing
it to be actually fostered by an imperfect
law. The country was now in a very pros.
perous state and could dispense with a
law which only stimulated a large class of
reckless speculators and dishonest traders.
He did not deny that there was a certain
condition of things when a bankruptcy law
might be necessary; for instance when a
monetary criais arose and persons tound
themselves suddenly embarrassed and
ianable to go on with their business; but
there was no appearanoe now of such a con,
tingency, and he thought A was the wisest

p cy to repeal the law, and take steps to

form a new one hereafter in case it should
be deemed necessary to do so in the pub.
lie intereste.
flon. Mr. DICKEY said that h. had
noticed that the debate bad evolved somae
Not one gentleman
curious features.
who had spoken in opposition to the Bill
had ventured to say one word in favour of
the Insolvency Law which the House was
asked to repeal. Al were in favour of a
bankrupt law of some sort, but no one
attempted to defend the provisions of the
one now in operation. In the facetious
speech of his hon. friend from British
Columbia, who had rather tried to amuse
than convinoe the House, he had stated
that the Bill was promoted and supported
by lawyers. He (Mr. Dickey) believed
that members of that profession were
as fully entitled to hold and express their
opinions on the question as the members
of any other learned profession. When
hon. members discussed a question in the
House they did not do so as lawyers sim.
y, though they would naturally give the
nefit of their legal and constitutional
tore. It could be said with truth at the
presént moment that all the great intereste
of the country were represented in the
Senate-Banking, Commerce, Agriculture;
and after the humorous speech of bis hon.
friend opposite, he muet add Medicine.
He might be excused for saying that the
Senate was a body, as the debate had fully
shown, as fully capable of discussing a
measure like the ohe under consideration

Laws.

10

as any other deliberative assembly in any
part of the world. It had struck him as a
curious anomaly, that whilst the Maritime
Provinces had complained that the law
had been forced upon them by Ontario
and Quebec, those two great provinces
were now askng for its repeal, whilst
New Brunswick and
Nova 8cotia
su'pported it. He remembered the tia»e
when the law was considered one of the
acts of tyranny which lus untortunate Province was obliged to bear as one of the
consequences of union. Now, how was ho
to account for the change of opinion in
Oatario and Quebec withn three sbort
years. He considered he was warranted
in referring to the proceedinge in 1869,
when every amendment was rejeqted by
large majorities, and deducing the conclusion that the popular objections to tbe
measure must have arisen from its imper..
fections. (Hear, hear.) It must be admitted that great diffculty bad always
been found in dealing with the question.
It was only necessary to refer to the bistory of legislation on the subject to mee
that there is an inherent difficulty connected with legislation on the question. The
very number of bills that had been enaet
ed, amended and repealed smince its frst
legislation in England was a proof of the
perplexity and embarrassment that met
al those who had endeavoured to framea
satisfactory law. The regulations that had
been made only served to evade the di5fculties instead of grappling witb them
boldly and plainly. His hon. frieud oppo.
site (Hon. Mr. Wilmot) had said with
reference to the old law of New Brunswick
that so unjust were its provisions that h
knew a case of an old man who had ter
maineçi in jail at St. John for the whole of
bis life. He was bound to say that there
must be some mistake about that materi
the person in question could not have
given an honest statement of his affaira.
ae contended that under the law of New
Brunswick, of which h. had some professional experience, it was not in the
power of any man to keep a debtor in jail
when he gave an honest account o his
property. They had also an Insolvent
law in Nov a Scotis under which a man
who had been guilty of fraud or dishonetyt
might be remanded for a tern not exoSeding one year ; and at the expiration of
that period he was entitled to his
discharge. They had still the lmw of imprisonment for debt, but it was a
qualhfied law. The debtor could not be
arrested under first process, until it bad
been shown to the satisfaction of a Judge
or Commisioner that h wus about to
leave the country for the purpose of evad-

Insolveney

[ov c, 28, 1872.]

Laws.

110

lug bis liabilities. He could well under. should the law pass in its present form.
Stand that in the large commercial centres Therefore he was not willing te see the bill
àke HLalifax and St. John, there might be
tiular reasons why the merchants and
kera might desire to retain the law;
but he was speaking generally of the
0Ountry districts, and was bound to say
that its working bas not been satisfactory se
ferasit had come within bis own knowledge
qither in the mode of its administration or
the effect of its operation. He knew a case
Of a railway contractor who owed a large
sumr to a great many persons-debts
Varying from one hundred dollars up.
Warde-and by ome mysterious process,
IOrne one, net one ot the creditors in
question> put hini into the Bankruptcy
V0urt in Cumberland County; and the reSu1t was an attachment which swept away
the whole of bis property and those debts
temain unpaid up te the present time.
lie might be told that a meeting of the
0reditors oould be called, but had they
4one so they would in all probability have
been met by an overwhelmning number of
Olaianuts, hundreds of miles distant, who
Would out-vote them. Practically it wak in
die power of any perion and his friends to
Prevent those poor men from taking any
t
eps to-ebtain payment for their honest
Olaims. Bo was very much afraid that
sueh law pould never carry eut the real
Object which it was intended to accorm,lIh-an equal division among all the
tredior. It had passed into a proverb
inithe United States that a man can never
Ret ricki until he has failed several timessuch was the effect of the present law in
Pmaetice. It had been said that one
of the
guiding principles
of a
bakraptcy la* should be to enable 1
an unfortunate debtor to get relieved.
lie believed the present law could only
lea to rash speculation, te a species of
Pmbiing. The debtor was enabled to
any te his creditor "-leads I win, tailsyou
lomis' because if he sucoeeded he pocketdthe gans; if he lost he went scot free.
I&did no6 accomplish the object of a pro.
Per division of the property ; it served
?Neher te, enable the debtor to getrelieved
ofhis debts in the easiest way possible
Wth very little reference te the intereste
«f the creditor. The bill before the House
proposed to repeal the existing laws, but
'twent still further, it prevented the reVivaI of those laws which were heretofore
lu force in the different provinces. If it
wtee te pass it would leave* Nova Scotia
Without any Insolvency Law at all as reMtds-traders. Whilst there was imprisonMent for debt in that province, it would
b% la the power of an exacting creditor to
PUt a mm into jail and keep him there

paso without amendment; he would consent te its second reading, and then he
would propose in committee eiiher that
Nova Scotia should be exempt, or that the
laws repealed by the Bankrd* Law of
1869 shall be revived. Atthough the law
would expire in the course of fifteen
months, yet it was best te repeal it at a
time when probably more people than
ever before would hasten te avail thernselves of its provisions. When it died a
natural death it would certainly be " unwept, unhonored and unsung."
Hon. Mr. MoCLELAN said that he had
no very strong opinions on the subject one
way or the other.
He found, however,
that petitions had been sent from Mon.
treal, Toronto, Quebec, St. John and Halifax-the great commercial centres of th.
Dominion-against any interference with
the law now on the statute book. The
hon. member for Cumberland had
stated that lie was net accustomed te
practise in the Bankruptcy Court, and
certainly had ho greater experience of the
working of the law lie would hordly have
said se much against it. He (dfr. MOL.)
had some experience of the statute, and,
indeed, had lost a considerable sum d
money by a person who had availed himm
self of its provisions, but still he'had-lblt
it was an honourable discharge and he
ought net te oppose it; for he was of the
opinion that any man who pursued fils
business in a proper way, and failed
through misfortune, ought not te be kep
Under the control of creditors who may
very exacting and harsh, if not rapacious
under all the circumstancps ho believed a
kankruptcy law was necessary to a coun-

tryengaged in commerce. The only dif-

ficulty had been te frame such a law as
wili meet the interest8 and necessities ft
the country. With respect to New Brungthe
that
mentioned
lie
wick,
had
there
laws formerly passed
been enacted for thé most part
te meet cases of great individual hardship,
and they were hardly intended to have a
general application. One objection taken
to the Insolvency Act was the large ex.
pense it entailed-that the charges were
so really so excessive that the proprty
was largely depreciated before the credi.
tors got anything, and that, on the whole,
the Assignees were the parties chieffy
benefitted; but that had net been his
experience. It appeared to him that the
costs attending abankruptcy case are a fair
subject for examination by the judge who
gives the final discharge; and if they were
excessive there was a mode of reducing

111

insolvency

[SE1 A'E.]

Laws.

119

them to a proper limit. Any result, tunity of restoring bis fortunes. He had
however, was better than the accumulaJ known not a few cases of men who bad
tion of law suits that would probably arise failed and afterwards became benefactors
were we to go back to the old state of of their country. lHoldmg thAse opinions
things. lie felt he would be hardly doing he mut vote against the Bill which h.d
his duty were he to give bis vote in favor been brought so ably to the consideration
of repealing the law, at the present time. of the Senate by the hon. gentleman opAs respects the remark made by the hon. posite He did not believe in breaking
member for the Wellington Division, down the law before we had something
with regard to perferential assignments. better to put in its place.
H 2n. Mr. KAULBACK said that he had
ho must say that it appeared strange to
him that a stipulation bearing on that no hesitation whatever in saying that the
subject had not been incorporated into our present Insolvency Act did not tend to
law; and if the hon. gentleman would set the benetit of the creditor as it ought to be
to work to prepare something which the case. Its whole object was to give
would guard the creditors from bis difficul- relief to Insolventa and to facilitate their
ty, he would find a large support. In release from their obligations. From his
fact, that bon. member would probably own knowledge as a profesional man ho
find himself, before he was done, re en- considered the law has a tendency to deacting an Insolvency Law or something moralize honest traders and work t the
which would have the effect of conferring advantage of those who are dishonest.
those benefits on the Commercial commn He considered it changed the proper re.nity, which there was little doubt the lations that should exist between debtor
and creditor, giving the former a very depresent enactment failed to conter.
Ion Mr. NORTHUP said that he cided advantage over the latter. Numerous
thought it lis duty as the only represen- law suits had arisen. ho could say trom
tative of the city of Halifax in the Senate, experience, from the resulta of a measure
to make a few observations with reference which was so imperfect in its details
to the measure under consideration. Ho The effect of the law was to draw men into
must confes at the outset that they had bankruptcy and croate recklessness in the
received the measure in Nova bcotia way of conducting busmess-in fact deOne of the strongest moralize the whole communinity. The
under protest.
arguments now in its favor was the fact Gazete was now full of notices of assignthat aIl the leadîng merchants, who made mens, and not one of them at the inup the Chamber of Commerce of Lialifax, stance of the creditor, for when a man failhad unanimously asked that the Act ed the creditor knew it was no use for
shouli not be repealed. As respects the him to move in the matter.. If there was
rural districts of the province he had not any part of the Dominion more prosperous
heard any valid objections to its continu- than another it was the Province of Nova
ance on the statute book. He was ready Scotia, and ho hoped this law would be
to admit that it might be amended in repealed and not allowed to continue on
several essential particulars-for instance, the statute book to the m.jury of the comthat no person should be allowed .to put mercial interests and the commercial im,
The old morality of the country. lie believed
insolvency.
himself into
law of Nova Scotia was in many if the present Bill was allowed to pass, the
respects a harsh one-a person doing result would be to bring aboat the introbusiness could buy £500 of property, and duction of another law which would
a few days afterwards could hand it over remedy existing evils and promote the
to some friend, and the rest of the credi- commercial progress of the Dominion.
Hon. Mr. REESOR said that one reason
tors could not get a cent. Hodid not wish
to go back to the old condition of things of the difficulty of legislating on the
which was injurious to the best interesta question was the fact that there was little
of the whole commercial conimunity. experience as to the proper mode of deal"
Those who were engaged in large business ing with it at the time the promeut law
When the law ws
had te a great extent the power of pre. was enacted.
venting rash speculation by exercisng passed, it occupied the attention of
more discrimination with respect to those the best legal minds, and subsequently the
who wish to buy from.them. In bis osame legal talent was required to amend
nion it would not be wise to wait until a it. The fact appeared to be hat while
criais was anticipated, to pass a Bank- the law was very good in theory, it had
ruptcy Law; it would only tend to hasten failed in practice. The general expresthe very crisis which it was intended to lion from all parts of the country, in bis
meet. He was quite willing to benefit the opinion. was in favor of repoaling the
honest debtor, and give hima every oppor. law. lie believed that it was a very diffi-

Routine

[MAY 27, 1872.]

cult matter to deal with bankrupt laws.
la bis opinion, the best course was to
provide as simple mchinery as possible
bywhich the division of the property
should be made. The present law had
been proved on experience to be inadequ'ate to meet the aifficulties, and now the
evils were just as great as they were before its enactment. Under those circumstances he was of the opinion thast if the
louse repealed the present law, the country will be prepared to sustain some measure which will be more just and equitable
in its operation and conduce to the Advàntage of the business community.
lion. Mr. HOLMES hoped that the
flouse would after so lengthy a debate
corne to some conclusion on the subject.
In his opinion, it was better to leave the
maatter alone, ihasmuch as the law died so
soon.
The House then divided on Mr. Macfariane's amendment which was carried.
Coatents 35 - non-contents 24.
The Publie Lands Bill was then read a
third time ard sent to the Commons. A
number of bills were also read a second
he Hlouse then adjourned until Monday.
0venn .
mfoNkYl May 27n.
The SPEAKER took the chair at eight
o'clock.
IN'fECOLONXAL R. A.
En. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. JUST
asked the Government whether the Intercolonial Railway between River du Loup
abd the River Metis, will be opened before, eptember next, if not, wben?
Ifon. Mr. MITCHELL replied that it
would not be open6d during that month,
but probably at an early date after that
timae.
BAY VEJiTE CANAL.
How. Mr. DICKEY asked 'whetht the
Govemrnent, ititend during the present
yea'to take the necessary' prehminary
stops for inviting tenders for the earlv
bonstruction of a canal to unite the waters
,of the Bay of Fundy with the Gulf of St.
'Lawrence ?
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL replied that the
Government mntenlded asking tenders for
the construction of the work s soon as
they received necessary authority frow
Parliaient.

Bills respecting Banks and Banki gi
Savings 'Bnks, 'St. Lawrence Bafik a d

Business.

114

Mutual Life Association, were read a
second time.
Bills respecting Civil Service, Public
Debt, l2demnity in connection with the
Fenian invasion of Manitoba, and Geological Survey, were passed in Committee and
read a third time.
Bill to naturahze A. P. Dodge was also
read a third time and passe.
A large number of Bills were received
from the Commons, and ordered for a
second readmg to-morrow.
The liouse thon adjourced.
TUEsDAY, May 28, 1812.

The SPEAKER took the chair at thiee
p.m.
CLASSIF1CATION

OF MASTERSU

ANI

MATES.
Hon. Mr. FERRIER asked whetheÉ any
and what arrangements have been made
by the Government, for opening schools
of instruction in relation to the classification of Masters and Mates, the numcer
of candidates which have been examined
and passed, stating how many have passed
as Masters and how many as Mates, and
the place where these examifnations were
held? Alsoe, the number of light houses
and fog whistles, estabished by the Department of Marine and Fisheries? In
making the enquiry, the hon. gentleman
took occasion to refer to the efficiency *ith
which the lion. Minister of Marine conducted the affairs of bis department.
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL thanked the hon.
gentleman for the expression of approval
which he had given to the managentent of
the Department, and went on to gty that
it was a great satisfaction to knowthat the
commercial comtannity of Canada appreciated'the éfforts of the Governmniét to
gile every facility for the proaeetition of
trade and commerce. With respect to
the infor:nation asked for, ho stated that
there were sehools now i opethtion at
Quebec and St. John, dnd one would be
immediately opened at Halitax-the gen.
tiemen in chare would feceive $300. The
number of catiddates examined and passed
was 109. since Tst of July last. Eightynine had passed as masters and twenty as
mates. H explained that there were
two classes - one of competency and the
other of service; any person who was a
master or mate prior to the passage of
the Act coule get a simple certificate of
competency, but these certificates did not
give the same rights which the certifcates
of the other class gave them. Thèse cer
tificates were recognized in the same way
as the highest class of Britisht certilicates.

115

Treaty of

[SENATE.]

Washisgton.

116

Bince 1867 the number of light houses passed by this flouse. Hon. gentlemen
constructed or under contract was 82 ; of are all aware that on the termination of
fog whistles 10.
Reciprocity it became the policy and duty
of the Government to go back to the exPILOTS.
clusive iights of fishery which Canadians
On motion of Hon. Mr. FERRIER, the enjoyed within three miles of their ooast.
House agreed that an humble address be It was at the time doubtful whether it
presented to lis Excellency the Governor was advisable to do that absolutely or
General, praying that His Excellency will whether in order to avoid disputes we
bd pleased to cause to be laid before the should limit the absolute use of our unHouse, a copy of any correspondence doubted rights with respect to those fish
which has taken place between the De- eries. The counsels which tended in the
tment of Marine and Fisheries and the direction of giving the Americans admisperial Board of Trade, in London, rer. sion to our waters under some restrictions
lative to the relaxation of the Rules and prevailed, partly on the advice of the ImRegulations relating to the granting of perial Government and partly through
M,.sters certificates of competency to the sense which the Canadian Government felt of the responsibiity involved
Pilotsi of the Lower St. Lawrence.
m seeking to press extreme rights. lu
consequence of these considerations the
THE TREATY OF WASHINGTON.
system of licensing was adopted for two or
lon. Mr. CAMPBELL said-The bill three years. That system had these two
which is now submitted for the considera, merits, it involved a complote acknowtion of the flouse is for the purpose of ledgment of the right of Canada to the
enacting thoee laws in Canada which are three miles' liait; and secondly, it pronecessary to give effect to those portions vented the danger of collision between
of the Treaty of Washington that affect the fishermen of the two countries. Duthe Dominion. The provisions of the bill ring the first two years the American fishare of a very simple character. They pro ermen took out licenses very generally.
vide for the suspension nf all acts which The license fee was small, and the Ameriprevent the inhabitants of the United cana did not attempt to any large extent
8tates from taking fish on the coasts of to evade it. Subsequently we found that
the Provinces of Quebec, New Brunswick, the licenses were not asked for and that
and Nova Scotia; for the free importation the American fishermen did come within
of fiah oil and fish of all kmds except fish the three miles' limait of our shores. (onof the inland lands into Canada: for the siderable feeling was excited among our
transmission of goods, wares and merchan- people by this disregard of our undoubted
dize from one part of Canada to another, rights, and it became the duty of the
while in transit to the United States, Government to consider what was best to
under such rules as the Governor in Coun- be done. It was desirable that, if possible,
cil may prescribe ; also. for the admission we should arrive at
some satis.
of United States vessels into the advan- factory decision between ourselves and
tages of the C0nadian coasting trade pro' the United States with respect to the
vided the articles to be carried pass over a limit of exclusive fishing rights. It was
certain portion of the United States by believed that were the whole question
land. The whole bill i, by the last clause, submitted to an arbitration. api a decito come into force only after the Procla- sion arrivcd at on the subject, there would
mation of His Excellency the Governor be no difficulty in enforcing by means of
General to that effect. It is impossible to our own police schooners, and vessels of
approach the discussion of the Washington the Imperial Government, these enactreaty without being alive to the conscious- ments so far as they were applicable to
néss that everyLhing which relates to it the fishing rights of Canada within the
has been discussed at great length and three miles limits. We approached the
with great abihxty, almost if not quite in British Government with the view of
the hearing of every gentleman present. obtaining that end. We thought our
Cndoubtedly by reason of these discus- object might be attained by referring the
sions, very much interest has been taken question to a commission mutually named
from this subject ; but nevertheless it is by the two countries. The British Gov .
my duty on behalf of the Government in ernment were at that time ready to make
submitting the bill to the consideration of represen$ions to the United States on the
this branch of the Legislature to give an subject and premised to do So. Befor
outline of the circumatances which those representations were made other
have
led ' to
the Treaty and difficulties which exieted between the two
the legislation which is sought to be counties presented themselves to the

Trealy of

[MAY 28, 1872.]

Washington.

118

knperial Government, and demanded also bility of the gentleman who was a member
consideration at their hands. These new of the Commission and also a member of
difficulties were those which grew out of this Uovernment. The objection was urged
the Alabama claims, and had become of that his responsibility was to the people of
Inperiil interest, and it so happened after this country, and that under these cirthe Canadian Government made their re- cumstances he was not justified in signing
quest for the settlement of these fishing the Treaty. The third class of objections
Pights, a proposition was made for the was as to the merits of the Treaty. With
Arrangement of these and other matters respect to the objection-regarding the
between the two countries. Up to this responsibility of Sir John Macdonald-I
ine the Government ot Canada had de. think that has lost all its interest and
sired simply the settlement of the rights need not be discussed inasmuch as the
for exclusive fishing. We had also made Government of which he is the head ha
strong representations as to the losses asked both branches of the Legislature to
Which had been inflicted upon this coun- adopt the Treaty which he signed. At
try by the Fenian invasions.
Those present there is no use in diseussing what
representations
bad also met with is a merely theoretical question. As resattention
at the hands
of Her pects the charge of inconsistency against
Majesty's Government, and *it was the Government, because in the first
aiso understood that representations place we objected to the Treaty in such
Would be mace to the American Govern- strong terms, and suggested afterwards
tuent upon that poinb. That subject ac . the mode by which it might be made more
cordingly passed at that tune I have men. acceptable to the people of this country, I
tioned into the consideration of the Im- thmk that can be easily refuted. That ob.
Perial authorities,and was included among jection is susceptible of easy explanation
the matters which they proposed submit- when one bears in mind the change which
ting to the Government at Washington. took place in the feelings of the country
During the negotiations at Washington an from one period to another. When the
efiort was made to separate those que- Treaty wat originally signed there was a
t
ions which trore immediate'y affected considerable feeling excited againat it,
Canada from those of Imperid interest, arising out of several causes. In the first
but that was found impDssible ; and then place there was a feeling that the right of
the general resuit followed of the adop. common of fishing had been given away
tien by the Commissioners of the freaty, over our heads-that the Parliament of
towhioh this bill gives effect so far as it Canada had not been asked beforehand
ofncerns Canada. It will be seen from the whether they would or would not give up
whole course of the proceedings, the Gov. their fishing rights within the three miles
e'ment of Canada hadi distinct objects in limits. The Government, representig
View which they attempted to have settled the confidence of this Parliament and
ituhout reference to other disputes. They country, had not been.consulted, and woaempted to obtain these objects by sequently there was considerable feeling
having a separate decision in the first in- on the subject in every section. Again,
st ance on the limite of exclusive fishing the people of Canada felt that they had
%d on the Fenian claims, and aeoondly been unjustly treated with respect to the
On those questions whilst the Joint High Fenian claims. Everybody knows that
commission was sitting at Washington, each of the Fenian invasions had been
by dealing separately with those which rendered abortive not by the exertion of
tramediately affected Canada. ,1 do not the United States but by the patriotic
Utderstand from anything that has transo efforts of the people of this oountry.
Pired elsewhere, or from the newspapers (Cheers.) If England appeared to give
that up to this stage of the matter any more credit to the United States than was
ad7eràe criticisma had arisen with refer. their due, it arose in a great measure from
etce to the conduct of the Govern. the fact that the telegraph wires are in
tnent.
After the resulta of the the possession of the Americans, and the
Treaty
became
known
very news of the invasion and movement of the
sorons objections were taken to the
Government to arrest the
conune pursued by the Government. These United States
Fenians reached England simultaneously
objections were ot a three-fold character. and created the impression that ther
IIý the first place, objections were taken as interference was really more prompt than
the inconsistency of the Government it wam. Under those circumstances know.
a'ldeveloped in the minutes of Council ing the great losses which had been
"hich were sent to England with respect, iifflicted upon the country, we were anxious
to the Treaty. Another objection was taken that the Fenan claims should have, been
With reference to the direct responsi- dealt with at Washington and indeed we

119

Treaiy of

[SENATB.]

had the promise of the Imperial Government that they would be considered.
When we found that tbe letters which had
passed between Lord Kimberley and Sir
Edward Thornton were not sufhciently
comprehensive to include these claims, the
people of Canada were exceedingly dissatisfied. They were dissatisfied also because
they believed the consideration which was
gven for the fisheries was inadequate.
ey had been desirous of obtaining Reciprocity, but that was not given in its entirety by the Treaty ; and I think when
the first Minutes of Council were written
they represented the feelings of the people very correctly. Time passed on and
opportunity was given for that sober sec ond thought which often leads to the
safest conclusions on questions. In the
first place, we supposed that those engaged in the fishing trade were against
the Treaty, but we found in the course of
time that the Maritime Provinces were decidedly in favor of the measure ; and that
has now been conclusively proved by the
vote given in the other branch by the re.
ypresentatives of those provinces. When
we found that the feeling of dissatisfaction
was disappearing, that those most affected
by the Treaty were ready to accept it, a
new view of the case was submitted to
the Governmenti and justification afforded
for the language used in the second of
these despatches to which reference has
been made with the view of showing the
inconsistency of the Government. There
remained, however, the Fenian clsima and
we submitted a proposition with respect to
those claims which we hoped would enable us to satisfy Parliament. It has been
said by some English newspapers that the
British Government should either have enforced those claims or refrained from giving us any consideration for them. I am
not prepared to say that I concur in that
view. It is, of course, the bold and mag
nanimous view ; but at the same time
there is a great deal of consideration due
which
topics
great
those
to
nations.
of
peace
the
affect
believed that these
it
was
If
Fenian clains could not be enforced without endangering the peace of the two
countries, it was a wise although it may
not have been a bold thing, not to have
pressed them. I do not think the people
of this country are open to any accusa,
tions or imputations because they accept
this guarantee. We had a fair claim for
compensation for the damage we suffered
froin the Fenian invasion. We had dis.
charged our obligations towards the
United States-we were living quiet,
peacéable lives-showing no disposition

Waskington.

120

whatever to be aggressive, when frem time
to time these Fenian raids took place and
the country was put to a large losa of life
and property. When Great Britain, for
Imperial resons, refused to prese the
c'aims of Canada, there was no reason
either in morals or good sense why the
people of the country should not ask the
Imperial Government to give such compensation as would satisfy us in some
measure for the losses we had sustained.
In the next place, as to the merits of the
Treaty, I apprehend when we look at the
vote elsewhere, we h ve a strong indication as to the feelings of the country at
large. The merits of the measure were
there discussed at leng h, but I think this
is remarkable that thuse members of Parliament who come fron the Maritime Provinces and who are best able to forn
opinions upon that part of the Treaty which
affects the Fisheries, are for the most
part-particularly those representing fishing counties-favorable to it. Amongst
others I was particularly struck with the
speech of one of the members for Halifax,
who spoke with a great knowledge of the
subject-engaged as he has been for
many years in the fisheries-knowing
ail the circumstancez of Lhe trade before
1854 down to the present time; and his
arguments were particularly strong in
favour of the adoption of the Treaty. I
may say here at once that there is no
giving away of Sovereign rights-we have
admitted the United States to a common
tishery for a certain period and eertain
conditions, but when that period expires
we can if we wish have our rights restored.
Under the old Reciprocity Treaty, and the
hcensing system the American tishermen
were givi*ig away our Sovereign rights. It
muet be borne in mind that there is in
the Treaty an acknowledgment of the right
of fishing within the three miles limit to be
exclusively our own. And this right. will
revert to us exclusively at the expiration
of the period of twelve years allotted for
the duration of the Treaty. A good deal
has been said wlth respect to the navigation of the St. Lawrence. By the comity
of nations the St. Lawrence is open to the
world as far as Montreal, and the United
States in consequence of owning the con.try alongside of us have the right of navigating the great lakes as far as St. Regis.
What has been done under the Treaty is
to give them the right of navigating the
river between St. Regis and Montreal ;
they cannot well use it unless they pass
through our canais, and we do wish to see
their ships pass through the St. Lawrence
and our canais, and the wealth and pros perity of Canada in that way enhanced,

121

Treaty of

[MAY 28, 1872.1

In giving up our fisheries we ac.
quire from the United States advantages of very considerable moment.
In the first place they do not pretend that
the fishing rights which they give us are
equal in value to those which we give to
them. An arbitration accordingly is arranged by which the difference between
the respective concessions may be ascertained and paid to this country. I have
no doubt in my own mind that that the
Minister of Marine and Fisheries will be
able to make out a very strong case with
respect to the value of these fisheries.
Then thei e is the boiding system which
is of great value to both countries, and if'
it had not been continued by the Treaty,
Canada would have been seriously inconvenienced. Irrespective of these advan.
tages the feelings of the people of this
country changed very much on account of
the knowledge that great importance was
attached by the Parliament and people of
England to a solution of the difficulties
between Great Britain and the United
States. We felt that the people of Eng.
land were actuated in a great measure by
the consideration that no part of lier
Majesty's Empire had a deeper interest in
the peaceable adjustment of the difficulties than Canada herself. We knew that
the people of England were m tking some
sacrifices of national pride which Englishmen feel as much as any other people
when they agreed te accept the freaty for
the sake of peace, and above all for the
sake of this part of the Empire, (applause.)
Then, there grew up in this country a de.
sire that we should reciprocate the senti.
ments displayed by Great Britain and
make any reasonable sacrifice in order to
carry out a Treaty which was matured in
the interests of the whole Empire.
Since these transactions took place we
have had remarkable evidence of the importance attached to the preservation of
the Treaty both by Great Britain and the
United States. The history of the indi rect or consequential claims is pretty weil
known te us all, and we h ave witnessed
the earnest desire of the people and of
the statesmen of both countries that the
ill-considered advancement of these
claims should not be allowed to break up
the Treaty. We have seen tI:e anxiety
of the Government of Englani whilst refusing absolutely to admit that these
claims could be considered by the Geneva
tribunal to arrive at some arrangement by
Which they could be withdrawn without
Oflence to the sensitiveness of the people
of the United States. We have seen also
the forbearance which the Opposition
in England has shewn during the wbole

Washington.

122

course of the negotiations which we believe
are now drawing to a satisfactory closeAll parties have acted calmly and patient.
ly, and there has been e sacrifice of some
national pride on both aides. It has undoubtedly been very difficult for the United States to recede from the position
which the case su'.mitted on their behalf
had taken up with reference to the consequential damages, and se on the part of
both these nations, sacrifices have been
made with the sole object of giving this
Treaty eflect, and as to the -course that
Great Britain bas taken, 1 think it beyond
doubt, that it bas been very much actuated hy regard to the position which she
occupies on this continent. I am quite
sure that this House fully understands the
magnitude of the interests nvolved in the
satisfactory adjustment of all differences
between the United States and England
and I hope honorable gentlemen will
unanimously agree to pass this bill, the
second reading of which 1 now beg leave
te move.
Hon. Mr. LE CELLIER DE ST. JUST.I must say at the outset that I feel rather
embarrassed in rising to address the
House on a question which bas already
been so fully discussed, but 1 believe we
should not allow the present occasion to
pass without expressing our opinion on a
subject of se much importance. . regret
that I cannot accept as correct the views
expressed by the Hon. Postmaster Generai. I certainly join in the expression to
which he gave uttei ance of the necessity
of securing by the best mode in our power
a lasting and honorable peace between
the two great nations who might have
been embroiled in war by the Alabama
diffimlty. I am nor, however, prepared
to admit that war would arise were the
fishery portions of the Treaty te be
omitted If there were such danger no
Canadian would hesitate to give his assent
to this part of the 'Ireaty. nmyopinion,
this portion of the Treaty does not interfere with the peaceable solution of the
difficulties on other questions between the
two great powers who are parties to the
measure. The real question at issue was
not one of our own -it arose entirely out
of the policy adopted in England at the
time of the American civil war. Ihe
people of the United States felt deeply
aggrieved at the depredations caused by
the Alabama and other cruisers. They
were first laughed down when they'made a
demand for redress, but subsequently the
Johnson Treaty was agreed upon. At that
time the question of the fisheries was not
taken into consideration. When the
Johnson Treaty was passed, and we re.

123

Treaty of

[SEN ATE.]

Washington.

124

member it was afterwards rejected by the
United States they
thought they
could
settle
it
without
going
to
the
Dominion
and
siymg
-You
shall have a share in this
Treaty, you shall grant us your rights over
the navigation of the St. Lawrence. Sub
sequently a demand was made by our
(overnment for the protection of our
Fisheries, and indemnity for the losses we
sustained froi the Feni n raids. When
the Postmaster General went on that mission he must have felt that he was not
treated as a Minister of the Crown ought
to have been. The replies of Lord Kimberly were certainly given with a harshness that this country did not deser-e.
However we had to submit, and then
ensued the proposition to the Washington
Glovernment to renew the negotiations
which had been broken ofF between the
two Governments for the settlement of
the Alabama difliculty. The Minister of
Justice was appointed one of the Commissioners, and I admit that the moment he
accepted the position he separated him.
self from his colleagues and became an
Imperial ollicer; but at the same time I
cannot believe he could divest hiniseif
entirely of his position in Canada, or of the
Ieeling that his Gover»,a ment would be to
a certain extent responsible for his position. Now it is urged that the Treaty is
P good one.
It seems to me that it is a
great deal like the other treaties passed
between (eat Britain and the United
States; we have always had the worst of it.
If we go back a good many years we see a
large portion of our Western Territory
was taken from the Colonies for the sake of
peace. Later we find, in 1842, that a Cornmission was appointed to settle the question of the boundary of New Brunswick,
here again a
and Quebec; and
very valuable section of our territory
was handed over to the United Stites.
That Trety was characterized in the Parliament of England as a sort of capitulation, because the United States obtained
what did not belong to them. It was, besides. the mistake of British diplomacy
that led to the difficulties connected with
the Island of San Juan, and which have te
he settled by an arbitration. I do not contend that we should not be placed in a
position to assist England in her efforts to
ensure peace with the United States, but
[<lo say that when we are paying the full
amount of her debt we should be treated
in a different way. We ought not to see
the Fenian claims disposed of in the way

were net nared i the stipulations and
must therefore be set aside as of no value
whatever. Might it net then be said
with truth that our rights bad been sacrificed and the Treaty was a capitulation? In compensation we are Vo have
a guarantee tor £2.500,000Y, but that
reaily anounts Vo nothing but the endorsation ot avote whach would neyer be
protested on the narket, whilst we con.
tinue te enjoy our present prosperity.
I hen our territorial rights, the tisheries
and the navigation of the St. Lawrence, have been ceded Vo the United
Stîtes witheut acequate compensation.
Ait that we are Vo receive for ail we give
up is the free entrance of fish and fish eil
into the American market. The Hou.
Postmaster General ackniwledges that
there w is a clamer against the Treaty,
but now iL is ail drowned by the votes
of the other llouse. I do noV pretend Vo
say that the resuit of the vote is net te
a certain extent the expression of opinion
of the country, but 1 do say this, if the
Gavornment extLmine titis vote, they
will tind tiiat certain sectional interes
have been predominant.
For instance,
you will see a number of persons who are
trying t geV a fiee market for the only
products of their country; and iL is net
strange (bat Vhey shouid go for the Vreaty;
but they must remember that they do se
at the expense et the other portions of the
Dominion. 1V is true that he majority is
large, but it la formed chiefiy by those
members who are mot anxious Vo obtain
access Vo Vue markets ofthe United States.
We know that ai effort was made for a
larger award; it was proposed by the Arn
encan Commissioners, that fish, fish ou,
ceai, lumber, and saIt should be admitted,
but the result was that the British Cer.
missioners said that they could noV aocept
those terra until Vhey conferred with
thenr Government, and se valuable tire
was lest, for when at a later peniod they
Care b censider thequestion, they found
the Atueric in Commissioners would noV
agree te the original proposition. The
Americans then found the British Cermissieners ready te accept any conditions
that might be iposed upen ther.
The
resuit w45, that instead of obtdninà free
admission for the articles I have mentioned, they had te be satistied with a market
for a single crnnodity. When we cons
sider Vhe famous national pehicy et gentlemen opposite -that it alone was Vo give us
Reciprocîtv, iV is dificult Vo understand
thei present position. If we had aliowed

that was done on the Commission ; for the

Vhings Vo remain aq

they were, and noV

moment they came before it, the reply was nixed up our questions with matters of
that they could net he considered -they ,ep
Imporial impont,he
would bin a

125

Treaty of

[MAY 28, 1872.1

Washington.

126

decidedly better position now; for I re- indignation wilh which the news of iLs propeat my opinions that war would not visions was received at Fredericton, and
have ensued from the Fishery question. the unanimous vote which was passed deIf any disposition h id been shown by the claratory of the opinion that the measure
United States to precipitate war on this was a :rtering away of Coloni:i rights for
country in case we rejected this part of the sake of certain Imperial interests with.
the Treaty, I would believe there is a ne- out Canada receiving a sufficient equivalcessity for our accepting the measure.; ent. As respects Nova Scotia I admit that
but nothing of the kind has been man- there is a certain class in favor of the
fested. We do not see in all the corres- Treaty because it gives them a free
pondence on this subject between Great market for their fish ; but the interests
iBritain and the United States that the of the other Provinces are ignored
position of Canada has been ;adverted to As rnme passes and the country more
in the, least degree. There must be an clearly sees the value of the rights that
instinct of patriotism in the breast of have been sacrificed, Parliament itself
every Canadian which must make us feel will be foi ced to declare that the Treaty is
that our rights have been sacrificed. I do no benefit to the Dominion. I do not
not say it is at present desirable, but I be- intend to ask the lIlouse to divide on the
lieve there must come a time when we question, but 1 am nevertheless compelled
mnust stand by ourselves. If we look at by a sense of public duty to express my
the press of the mother country we see disipproval of a measure which hands
that there is a feeling that we are a source over our most valuable territorial
of difficulty to the mother country, in fact rights at the dictation of a foreign power
a source of weakness. Might not the because England wishes to settle hier
tine then come when the Empire will en- Alabama ditticulties. In connection with
deavor to get rid of the weakness ? If we this question let me give a short citation
are such a source of difficulty I do not see froin a book, which has a bearing on
treaties likethe one now under considerawhy we should not take steps which woul
prevent the Empire from suffering loss. tion. " In 1773 by the Treaty of RecogI do not say it is desirable to become in- nition of the United States. Great Britain
dependent, but it is in the future ; for we did abandon the State of Illinois and other
cannut remiin as we are but we must be valuable territories which had been ceded
come a nation in the course of by France to Great Brit in in 1763. in
The days of our youth have 1818 the fisheries on the unsettled shores
tine.
passed, and when we consider the vast of Newfoundland and Labrador were
extent of our territory, the growth of our abandoned gratuitously as well as our
population, the pros ects of Immigration riglts to a boundary line the Mississippi
in the future, the incalculable value of our In 1842 by the Ashburton Treaty, whicl
resources, we must see tha t the time must was styled by the public men in England,
come sooner or later when we shall be a capitulation Great Britain gave up
called upon td assume a higher position the Maine territory then a possession of
among the communities of the world. 1 New Brunswick and of Lower Canada ; in
do not say the time for this has vet arriv- 1846, by the Oregon Tre.aty the Columbia
ed, but we can see evidence pointing in river and the Oregon territory were surthis direction. Suppose now, to return to rendered to the States, and in 1872 we
the Treaty, we wished to enter into larger surrender the Island of San Juan, the
commercial relations with the United Fisheries, the Navigation of the St. Law.
States, what would we have to offer them rence, and endangerthe exclusive righl's
as an inducement? We would not have the to our canals, and all that for the sake uf
Fisheries, for they would be granted in peace. Are not all these treaties leading
such a way that even when it comes to an to the total sacrifice of the Canadian
end we will have little or nothing to say Territory, piece by piece, and are they
as te its renewal. This is our last chance not tending to diminish and cripple our
Of dealing with the question ; henceforth natural resources and creating a feeling
it will be in the hands of Great Britain. of uneasiness, inspiring ideas of the neces,
If it is not her interest to renew the sity of a ch nge in the relations of the
Treaty we will be deprived of the advan- Dominion with the Mother Country."
tages we formerly possessed ; and then With respect to the navigation of the St.
difficulties and disoontent must arise and Lawrence it is urged that the river is not
Perhaps bring about the very result to navigable, and the Americans must make
Whieh I have been referring. It has been use of our canals. I believe the Treaty in
said that a certain portion of the Domin- spirit gives the Americans the right to use
lOn must derive a great benefit from the the canals just as they can use the river.
Passage of the Treaty, but we know the I have little doubt that if they think it

127

'1eatyof

[SENATE.]

Washington.

128

necessary they will contend that they have clear, noderate, and intelligent manner.
such a right and find means of making There are perhaps few subjects which have
Great Britain acknowledge that to be the been brought under the notice of the p ocase. We know froni the sAd experience pie of this country, that have led to a
of the past that whenever the United greater diversity of opininn than the quesStates wish to obtain any concessions tion which we are now called upon to dis
from England, they are invariably suc- cuss. The hon. Postnaster General has
cessful ; and it would be just the saine rerarked that a great change has taken
thing hereafter should they come forward place in the opinions of nany persons
and put an interpretation on the since this question came to Ue discussed.
Treaty that will give them the My feelings on thesubject havenotunderPerhaps 1 have
use of the canals on their own ternis. gone any change.
for viewed the 1reaty more favorably tian
the Americans asked
When
a portion of New Brunswick, their demand othera from the circumstance that I have
wau resisted in the first instance, a good always held very strong views of the mnideal oc correspondence ensued, and a portance of preserving the connection be-.
Commission was finally appointed with the tween the mother country and this Doresui cf giving the UJniped States ail that minion. I read the Treaty very carefully
they demanded. If there is oge person and for the reason just stated care to the
in this Rouse who s'ould object to this conclusion that it was a measure which
esure, it is the Minister of Marine and cught to be accepted by the people of
h
Fsheries, who lis said that our tisheries tis country. I have no failed tk See
are cf se much commercial importance that one defect in the Treany hp been
that we ought not to give thens up except tha the question cf the right of the Amerfor sufficient commercial concessions. icanis te fish in our bay s, and within our
eeadlands, had not been settled at the
that we have the
Gentlemen need not 'May
same the wita other questions, for we
ike
canais, and the Americ ans cannot m
use cf them exoepo with our consent. If must ail s e the inconvenience of having
open, to be thrown back
sft
this matter l
a questin should arise in connection wi
It is also
them, I repent Great Britain wll decare upon us at some future te.
rather than get embroiled this they are maroer for regret tha whist the pares
within the interpretation of that part of t the Treaty tok s much pains to define
the Treaty, giving the Amercans the right everything in connection wih slips, they
In con- did not deine the duties of Govenment
te navigate the Sc. Lwrence.
clusion, I mu t express my regret that to prevent sud acens as we have witfew years in the
oaft
the righta of Canada have been o nessed during the
egregiously sacrificed for the sake of Im. United States. I believe there is nO
perial inferests. I regret if because I counfry in the world whidh afflords go salle
cannot see that war could be apprehended a refuge t political offenders as EngWe remember a few years
on account of our deciding tm reserve our land.
rght te the fisheries and the Mf. Lawrence, ago when re Emperor Napoleon tade
unfil we obtained the concessions te which certain representations, a great English
we are fairly enfitiea. The question of staoesman-Lord Palmerton-gave waY
the fisheries ought te have been arranged te him, but the clamor that was raised
a
on its own merits-nof mixed up with againt infringing on the rightof asylu
natter of such vital import te the was so grea that le was forced te resigt
do But af the t same ime these poltica
Empire, as the Alabama dificulty.
ou
considered dieloyal to Bi. refugees nust keep within the laws of th
net wish tt
when I objewt to the country. Ift was well known, however
n sonnection,
tis
Treaty, for I arn only actuated by the tht these Fenians orgnized i public
opinion as a appointed generals, raised noney, pur
the detire t express iy
Canadian, anxious te promofe the inter chased ans and supplies under the very
est of Canada nd preserve the honour of enes of the Unied States Governmenttt
England. I havespoken frankly and un and still nog a step was faken to arre
d
reervedly on fie subjecf, and I trust in a their illegal couree until Canada
manner consistent wifh true philosophy subcered heavy ases. I hold fsat sua fe
state of thingt was nosf unfiendly g
and historica facto.
Hon. Mr. WARK-I think the hon. this country, and if oughf0 have bel'
feeling of this considered wit the other questions dis
niember mistake the
fhouse altegether whenhe thinka that he posed of by the High Commsaioners W
as
earnest ail know fiendvnntages we enjoy
does nf at aIL times reoeive et
attention of hon. meimbers when e d- dependency of Great Britain-in the tin.l
b admit of peace our ships are f be found in everY
dresses the ; fur ail of tust
fat lh invariably expreses hinisef in a partof the gorld, and in case of dificutY
e

Treaty of

[MÂTr-28, 1872.]

Wfshington.

180

they have British Consuls, and accredited ways, snd distributed to foreign markets
representatives to consult. On every sea, by 4mërican ships. So the United States
they find aBritish cruiser to protect them aetually derived all the benefit from this
in the time of war. We must remember trade under the Reciprocity Treaty. I
that in time of war we have always been' believe the repeal ef the Treaty has
defended, and we have the pledge of the, injured the Americans more than it
protection of the whole Empire in case of has Canada, and that we have*been learndanger hereafter. If we enjoy advantages ing the benefits of self-reiiance. I do not
like these we should certainly be prepared thmk that it wilil be for our advantage to
to make some sacrifices for the benefit of have a Rleciprocity Treaty immedistelythe Empire; but I do not believe that the we have still a good deal to learn in the
sacrifices which we are called upon to way of mkipg ourselves indeperdent of
make are as great as some persons esti- the United 8%tes in the matter of com
mate them. I am not prepared, howeyer, meroe. Many other points connected with
to admit that the right of sending flsh the question sqggest themselves to my
into the American market when we have mind, but like other gentlemen, i feel
all the nmarkets of the world open to us, that it has .already been sufficiently dis.
is going to be of such great benefit to cussed in Parliament and in the Press;
the fishing interest. The benefit of such but this I rpay say with respect to the
an arrangement can only be seen after a position of Sir John Macdonald that when
tiue, If we find that the price of fish a man acoepta an appointment to negotiate
keeps as high in the United States market a Tre9ty ho cesses to be responsible to
as heretofore then our fishermen will be anyone exeopt the power that appoints
benefitted to the extent of duty exacted, him. ,The Whole responsibility resta on
and it will be a great advantage to us to the Ministry of Great Britain, and the
send our f£sh there. On the other hand, Commissioner had sinply to apt in accordif we find that fish is regulated as to price ance with its instructions and certainly
in Halifax and St. John, by the markets of cannot be held responisble to anybody
the world, and that the fish caught by the else. I think on the whole we owe it to
United States comes down to the same the country tinder whose proteotion we
value, then it will be the consumers in the have énrjoyed so many advantages te raake
United States and not our fishermen who some sacrifices in case she thinks proper
will recoive the benefit. I hope the to ask them at our hands.
Hion. Mr. DICKEY said: It is imposai.
Minister of Marine will keep this point in
view when he goes to submit the claims ble te approach the cousideration of the
of Canada for additionil compensation. I Treaty, which this bill purposes to ratify,
am a free trader, and believe it is gene- without being impressed with the gravity
rally the consumer who pays the duty. I of the suhject. This Treaty bas durhave carefully considered the position of ing the past twelvemonths been the subA
this country in connection with the Reci- ject of anxious and thoughtful delibera.
procity Treaty, and hold strong views on tion by the loadmg stateomen of the two
the subject. The great interest of Ontario for-emost nations of the world, by thé press
is agriculture, and the people of the Pro- everywhere, and by the friends'of -peace
vince considered it a great advantage to in every.cialiàed land. It is not neces
get their products into the United States sary to enter.upon a lengthened discussion
free of duty. It is moat important, how. of the comparative merits of the ptoviever, to obtain a market in a oountry that sions of thé Treaty, and yet it is due to
the Senate ihat so inportant a measure
does not produce itself-there is a gret
advantage in an interchange of different should not be accepted or rejected with,
commodities. I fail to see the benefit of out dîscussion. In this sentiment I entire
sending our agricultural commodities into ly concur with my Hon. friend on my
a country that produces more than it con- left (Hon. Mr. Leteilier), but I differ
sumes. The United States have been from him in the reasons ho gives for op.
always the exporters of flour: where then posing that Treaty. He complains that
is the advantage of sending Canadian flour Canadian interests ha0ê been bartered away
into the United States. It might be they for Alabama claims. Why if my lon. friend
would not export the same article they had read the printed correspondence,
he must have known that the proposal of
got from us, but then the Americans con
sumed less of their own products and ex- the British Minister was only 4e refer the
ported more to foreign markets. The Fishery question and other questions af.
profits of our agricultural interest accord fecting Canada, and that it was ths Ameri,
ingly wentinto the United States, the com, can Secretary of State who proposed that
modities of Canada were carried throughk the Alabama claims should be included
American canals and over American rail - in the reference. Besides, lad the Alaba.

181

Treaty of

[SENATE.]

ma question resulted in war, who
would have been the chief sufferers ?
Would not the people of Canada? (Hear,
hear.) That the Treaty was fair to England or to this country, I am not prepared
to assért, but two important considerations must not be overlooked. lst. No
Treaty agreed to by the American Plenipotentiaries could go into effect until
ratified by a two-third vote of the United
btates Senate. 2nd- The English Com
nissoners were hampered by instructions,
and it was a foregone conclusion scarcely
concealed in Washington that they were
to return with a Treaty of some sort. Englishmen are proverbially frank and outepoken, and it is not surprizing that their
more astute opponents should have profitted by it. Apropos to this, it has
Btruck me as a curious fact, that while
Mr. Fish's proposal of reference is in
terme most comprehensive, "ALL the questions which now unfortunately stand in the
way of an entire and abiding friendship
between the two nations" his Government should have objected that it did not
cover the Fenian claims, while the provision for settling the losses by
the Alabama and other
means of
vessele has since been claimed as
including consequential damages, not
referred to in the Treaty. (Hear, hear.)
Talleyrand's celebrated saying
that,
" language was invented to conceal men's
thoughts," is no longer a governing rule
in European diplomacy. The negotiations
resulting in the Treaty of Vienna, dragged
through several years, while the Conferenoe
at Washington produced the important
Treaty under consideration in a few weeks.
On this occasion that frankness to which
I have adverted was carried almost to the
verge of indiscretion. Many things were
taken for granted, and a loophole was left
for the indirect claims which have since
excited so much bitter feeling. It. is very
much to be regretted that this was left to
understanding, and that the matter was
not placed beyond cavil by the introduc'
tion of a few plain words. Happily we at
last see the silver lining of the cloud that
for the past three months threateined to
overshadow the two countries. It would
indeed have been a sad spectacle for men
and angels had ths first attempt to settie
International disputes by international
arbitrament proved abortive. In the interest of peaceand civilization we must all
rejoice at the prospect of its being carried
to a successful issue, and thus ensuring
lasting harmony and good will between the
two great powers of Europe and America.
(hear, hear.) Reverting to the Washing.,
ton Conference, i have reason to believe

Washington.

13

that but for the tact, ability and firmness
of Sir John A. Macdonald,even less regard
might have been had to the interests of
Canada (hear, hear.) In corroboration of
this, it is only neoessary to refer to the
minute of the Privy Council, 28th July
lest, in which the Ministry have well and
ably reflected the prevailing sentiment of
Canada, and have set forth in the strongest
light the objections to the measure. In
this report strong ground is taken, and
very properly too, on the subject of the
claims
for
losses
by
Fenian
raids.
I
need
hardly
remind
the louse that on every occasion when
this matter has come up I have denounced
the conduct of the United States Government as unworthy of a friendly nation
and contended that there is no principle
on which the Alabama claims could be
contended for that would not apply with
tenfold force to our claim for indemnifica.
tion on accoun&of these Fenian raids. My
hon. friend from New Brunswick (Hon.
Mr. Wark) seemed to make it a subject of
complaint against the Treaty that it laid
down no rule to prevent such raids in
future. Had he referred to the 6th article,
he would have found that the second rule
does provide for the future by stating
that a " Neutral Government is bound
not to permit or suffer either belligerent
to make use of its ports or waters as the
base of naval operations against the other,
or for the purpose of the renewal or augmentation of military supplies or arms or
the recruitment of men." And the third
rule makes this obligatory as to I all
persons within its jurisdiction," So that
this is an additional feature of the Treaty
which should ccmmend it to all Canadians.
Had this been in force in 1866 or 1870 the
incursions from the other side of the
border could not have taken place, and in
future all such raids are simply impossible
while the two countries remain at peace,
(hear, hear.) As a recognition of our
claim for these Fenian losses we have
received the Imperial guarantee for twelve
million of dollars in aid of our contempla ted canals and railways ; the money
advantage of this to us is great and
palpable, but I attach even more
importance to it as a pledge and
token of lasting connexion with
the mother country (hear, hear). My
hon. friend (Hon. Mr. Letellier) talks mysteriously of the future of this country, as
if public opinion in England pointed to an
early separation. I do not propose to go
into that question at large to-day but I
wish to say that I have no sympathy with
those views, and I believe this flouse lias
hone [bear, heari. There may be docir

138

Treaty of

[MAY 28, 1872.]

Washington.

184

l2aires or people of the Manchester school, ex rt coal and gold and lumber and agu

or what my hon. friend calls philosophera, cultural produce to the United Statos in
who talk vaguely of £hese speculative the face of large duties and ould we Ob.
changes, but there is nothing in the utter- tain Reciprocity the export of those
ance of any English statesman or any head articles woutd b. Iargely increased. (Iear
Of a party to'justify the inferences of the hear.) The securing of the bouding system
hon. member. On this point the great by troaty through the United States cannot
heart of England is sound, and there fait to b. of advantage. Cut off as we are
need be no fears of even the suggestion of fro
a wiutor port on the Atlantic and
a separation while we desire, as 1 believe with no land couveyanco tbroughout he
we always will, to remain attached to the year except by ordinary roads or tbrough
old flag [hear, hear]. In considering this a freign country to the great interior of
question it must never be forgotten that the Dominion. Thon the coasting trade
the very essence of a treaty is compro on the lakes must throw a vast amount of
mise. In no other way could a treaty be carrying trade into the hands of Ontario.
negotiated. It is a balance of equivalents It has always been the policy Vo attraot es
[hear, hear]. Although not then in pub- much as possible of the traffie oftheGreat
lic tife i well recollect the storm of indig- West of the grain produciug country on
nation in Nova Scotia in 1854 when the the borders of tho Great Lakos t0 ils
Reciprocity Treaty came up before the As- natural outiet by the artery of the St.
sembly for ratification. Two of our ablest Lawrence and its artificial adjuncts of navmen of opposing parties, Messrs. Ho e and gation. Nay, 1 hope ere nany years 10
Johnston, denounced it as unfair to Nova se. the grains of the noble prairie country
Sootia, just as the Hon. Mr. Letellier and and our owu far west beyond Lake Superiothers denounce the Washington Treaty or brought down this same avenu. Vo the
to-day as unfair to Canada. These gentie- seaboard. Canada ba a deep intereat lu
men have lived to see their prophecies fal. mecuring Vhs carrying trade, and the
sified by the event, and I have no doubt oponing of our canais VO
the Amoricans is
My hon. friend a year or two lien ce wil really in our own interest. 1 have Only
equaly acknowledge his mistake. At glanced at the many obvious advantages
the same time I am
far from of ths treaty. La auy onepropared Vo take
regarding the abrogation of the Recipro- the responsibility of rojocting il? I trust
city Treaty as an unmitigated evil. It has and believe noV. flon, gentlemen I supput us on our mettle, driven us to seek port Vhs treaty, noV as the beat to which
new markets and taught our people the we were entitei, but as the best w. couki
great national virtue of self-reliance. But get. I support it as bringlng a leughen.
does the Washington Treaty bring with it ed peace'with our nearest neigibors, and
no advantages ? The persons most inter- because peac
means prosprity to lie
ested in Nova Scotia are of opinion that land we ail love. The distingulhed
the iree admission of tiali inVo the. Amer- noblernan about Vo
nave shores may
our
Sau markets la a great boon, whle the. weI lok back with satisfaction St
ine
privlege VO
land and carry on trade must rapid strices that Canada lias made under
douud largely Vo the advantage ot the. bis administration. Seldor has it fallent
People along the. coast. Tii. man who the. lot of a representative otih Soverig
launches out from the rocky shores of VO
witness such grathfying results cnfour
Nova Scotia to earn a livelihood for himself short years. Other Govornor (]eneral
ad bis farnily from Vhe bosor of the. deep have oad te proud boast of
adding co know. fuit weII that lie has an ample quered Provinces in e Est, but ours la
miarket lu the.United Slates where ber. a tin prouder boast of a peaceful acquisiafter as of old under tie Reoiprociîy tion in the Westof teiritost equa in sise
d
Treay, ho is eure 0f a romunerative price. Vo the haf of Europe, and rcs in agrcu
My hon. friend (Uon. Mr- Wark) seema VO tural and minerai resources, Our revenue
tiink that our market would b. swImped
has
increasd,
the
volume of our tracte
by fish of Amonican catch, but 1 caui con- lias nearly doubled, and content sud plonsole hua - telling hirm hhat our fishermen teousnesa reign Vhrougliout the. land.
[y
lsad twolve yoars' oxperionce undor the With peoe assured on our bordons, and
Reoiprooity Treaty, aud Vmey are noV our peopble free to devlop the great
trajd of th. competition. The. hon. rm maleniabinterets of thei country, who shau
ber (lon. Mr. Letelier) lias deerned it not sel limita VO s progreas duting
ib
n ite
sxt
unbecoming Vo snoor at Nova scotia as if decade. Lot us thon, if possible pus Iis
L
liai was th. onty article aie bad to export. Bil to-nigt wihout division pi diefrence
Strust my hon. friend wil corne down to VO the. expres d wish of avne Mother
l11e ses-ide and w. wiil show huis Vit we
eountry,
sd w. shai preset ourslv e

135

Treay Of

[SENATE,

before England and the world a loya
happy and strong, because united people.
(Cheers).
Ifon Mr. REESUP-On a question of so
much importance I think it onl fair that
au expression of opinion should be given
by the members of this flouse. The position taken by the former speakers in this
debate appears to me to be one assumed
by a largo number of members in both
branches of the Legislature, and is evidently influenced i a grest measure by a
desire to yield to the express wishes of
the Home Government. I can fully sympathize with those who express thât wish;
but at the same time we must al feel that
this Dominion has certain rights and
privileges which require consideration,
and ought not to be overlooked, notwithstanding our attachment to the Parent State. The responsibility of the Dominion Government in the settlement of
this question, I believe, goes further than
some hon. gentlemen would seém to
think. They appear to tbrow $hé whole
responsibility upon th4. Brtish' Gbernment; but reading over the correspon.
dence on this'question we fiùd that Canada was represented upon the Commission.
As the First Minister of the Crown was ap
pointed on the (omnlission, we have re%son to say that the Ùdterný»et of Canada
had a certain responsibility' in thé actiOn
and decision of that Comtriisgiôn. In all
the despatches relating to the appointment of the Commission we find; it expressly stated that "Canada will be re
presented." And this was carried out by
the appointment of the Premier of Canada, Sir John A. Atacdondld. Now as respects the course púrsued by the Canadian representative upon the C>aion,
I know that it has the approval of a large
majority in one branch, and will probably
obtain the sympathy of this House as well.
The responsibilhty is therefore in a great
measure shifted off his shoulders to
those of the people of this country.
I quite concur with the remarkt
that have been made by previous speakers
as to the injustice that has been doue to
Canada in ignoring the Fenian claims.
Earl Gr4nville in the first of his letters of
instructions to the fligh Comnisoners
tinisates that among the subjets to be
discussed will be "the claims of the
people of COnada on accont of the Fenian
raide." It is to be regretted that not only
have our claims in t4is particular been
overlooked, but that w'e hä e no. sufmcient
guarantee in the Treatitself against like
re. One cannot
occurrences in thi
he being impreob&t with the idea that
l
the Commissionets exhibted half as

Washkington.

136

much determination to have a settlement
of these Fenian claims, as the British Govermment bas shown since the question of
",consequential damages" came up, the
United States Government would have
yielded and adjusted the matter to our
satisfaction. Now it is said that the Maritime representatives sanction this Treaty,
and that their approval shows the merits
of the measure. But it must be remembered that this is a Dominion question,
and cannot be considered in a purely
provincial or sectional aspect. No one
denies that certain interests in New
Brunswick and Nova Scotia are benefited
by the Treaty, but at thë saine time we
see that no adequate compensation has
been given to the whole Dominion for
what it sacrifices under the measure. The
value of the products of the Dominion
that find a market in the States amounts
to something like twenty seven millions
of dollars; and all these commodities, or
nearly all, pay a large duty. If the duty
were removed, we would be gainers probably to the extent of some four o tive
millions of dollars. I remember well'when
the Reciprocity Treaty was repealed, there
was immediately a decline in the price of
certain exporta of Canada, amounting to 25
or 30 per cent. in cattle, sheep, peas,barley,
and other grains that had found a large
sale in the United States. Taking into
consideration ail the circumstances, it
seems to me th tt we concede too much
and receive too little, simply because
England is deeply anxious to have a great
difficulty of ber own immediately settléd.
1 thmk we do wrong if against our convictions of what is right, against the convietis of the Government of Canada as set
forth in strong terms in their Minutes, of
Côuncil, we allowed a measure of this
kind to pass by general assent. We ought
tW express our opinions frankly, and show
that weare not insensible to the wrong inflicted upon us. it is not by conceding
everything that is asked, we can have
justice done to us. It is for Canada to
stand out for lier just rights, otherwise
she will never secure them. The EHome
Government has been considering this
question with a regird to Imperial in.
terests alone. I do not say that it bas
been utterly regardless of Canada, but I
believe it bas not been in a position to
understand what was the best for thé
interests of this country. It is foý us,
when the opportunity is given under this
Bill, to remonstrate stroniy againEt the
injustice that h zs been doÏae, and prove to
Great Britain what sacrifices we are called
upon to make at ber demand an' for Iin.
pkrial consideraione,

137

Treaty ol

[MAT 28, 1872.]

Hon. W. J. MoDONALD, (B. C.)I consider myself in a position to look at
the question now belore this House free
from all local feeling, and free from all
party spirit, not having been hitherto
inixed up with the politics of this country.
'T causes which led to tho negotiations
he
of the Treaty are so well known, and have
just been reviewed by the Postmaster
General. I need not therefore repeat
them [f by the Treaty of Washington
Our territorial rights have been invaded
was tbis clone solely in the interests of
Enghind. Was this done to patch a peace
with America with a view to future complidation in Europe and the balance of
power being destroyed and new alliances
formed?

Such is

not the case - this

Treaty is as much in the interests of Canada as that of England, and were she not
jealous of our rights what difference could
it make to her who fished in our waters.
lt muat be evident to all that there exists
a strong feeling in 1'ngland that this
country should have peace and tranquility
and not be contending for her rights with
ai foreign Sate, rights which she has
always belped us to maintain and will still
do so. The people of this country cannot,
and do not wish to have causes of dispute
and quarrels left open no more than Eng
and does which migat ait any time lead
us into serious complication with a powerful neighbor. and one branch of the Parliament of this country bas sustained
this view of the question, and deemed it
expedient to ratify the Treaty although it
was not all that could be desired. History
shows that Canadians have always held.
their ground against the United States,
yet we are a commercial and not a military
people, and unsettled international questions disturb our industries; unsettle
the public mind periodically; cripple
trade, and retard the general progress of
the country. And this Fiâhery question
unless settled will be a continual bone of
contention, and will have the most dam.
aging effect on the credit of this country
and must intefere with the great public
work now in contemplation. Oui duty
then in the furtherance of all these interests is to give effect to the Treaty, and
should we need further evidence to convince us of this, we have it in the vote
given in the House of Commons by the
Quebec, New Brunswick and Nova Scotia
m1iembers-63 for the Treaty, 21 against.
It has been cletrly shown by members of
both bouses that a great stimulus will be
given to many branches of trade in the
Lower Provinces under the provisions of

the Treaty, and that no Province will be
'e Government of this oountry
injured.

Washington.

188

have given the matter their most careful
consideration, and studied the question in
all its bearings. And all admire and approve of the determined stand taken by
them, and the clear and vigorous way
in which they placed the views of this coun.
try before the imperial Government,and if
finally they accepted a modification of these
views and took all that it was possible to
get they cannot be blamed. I feel that
they have the best interests of the country at heart, and I arn bound to give my
support to a Government that bas ruled
the country so well during the last five
years as shown by the great prosperity of
the country. If under the operation of
this Treaty the balance of trade should
appear against us, a money payment is
provided for equal to such balance. Why
should a money payment be scorned ?
What does all commerce and trade lead
to but money ? But it appears to me
that there is so much sentiment mixed up
with the whole question that si ht is lost
of the reality. The honor of the country
cannot be sullied by the negotiations in
this matter as we are left free to reject the
Treaty. We are free in this as in all
things, yet there are certain ties which
link us to the mother country which it
would not be politic to sever or even to
tighten at this tune, and if hereafter we
have to separate let the responsibility
rest with England and not with Canada.
If we reject this Treaty, and England
withdraws her countenance, withdraws
her protection, and withdraws from arbitration in our affairs, are we in a position
to protect our own fisheries ? Are we
prepared to build, man and equip a navy
capable of protecting our interests. I
contend that we are not able, or in such a
position. The rejection of this Treaty
means more than the simple rejection, it
means a feeling antagonistic to that of
the Empire, it means introducing the thin
end of the wedge of independence, it
means republicanism, it means anarchy
and confusion, and the worst feature in
independence is the form of government
which we would have to adopt. A monarchy we cannot have, and a republic is
the only thing open to us. When we
have this formi of Government I do not
wish to live in this country. Imagine
this country a republic. How insigniticant
we would be, hemmed in on the one side
by an enormous country and on the other
by the North Pole, rent asunder by posi
litical fictions and. a continual struggle
for power, without status as a nation, and
without weight in the council of nations,
As we .;re now I believe th people of
Canada ire the most free, tIb most pros-

189

7lreaty of

[SENATE.]

Washington.

140

perous and the most happy people on the stand point. The fishery interest was very
face of the globe. The very country in successtul during the Reciprocity Treaty,
which we live conduces to vigor, industry and we have ever been most desirous for
and self reliance. We are well governed, its renewal. In the present Treaty we have
the laws faithfully administerec, and civil more, inasmuch as during the old Treaty
and religious liberty secured to all. we stood on equal footing, not so now, as
Therefore if we are true to ourselves, if we we can build and outfit our vessels for 25
are true to this New Dominion let us enter per cent. less than the Americans and are
into closer bonds with the Mother Country nearer the fishing grounds, and these are
the cradle and nursery of freedom, civiliza indeed great advantages, and to compete
tion and justice, who will not suffer us to successfully with us they must either get
be wronged or oppressed ; and if we are their vessels built or outfitted with us,
called upon to give up in her interests a and this would be to our great benefit, or
portion of our inheritance let us do so they must get a very large bounty from
cheerfully, an inheritance which she her- their Government. Our fisheries produced
self has given us. Before sitting down I last year about five million dollars a larger
must say that all English statesmen how- sup2 than any previous year, and under
ever great their talents, however carefully the present Treaty must continue to
they may have looked to Imperial interests, increase. [he hon. gentleman from Riyet in dealing with the United States in chibucto stated that the consumer paid
the matter of colonial boundaries and other the duty on mackerel. I contend it is not
questions affecting the Colonies, have al- so, the Americans largely snpply their
ways manifested too great a wish to accede own market, and their own and our fisher.
to American demands, and have been too men may be said to fish side by side and
much influenced by American bluster and carry them to the saine marketand realize
too ready to sacrifice colonial interests the same price, but our fishermen have to
With regard to San Juan Island that ques. pay a duty of $2 per barrel on their catch.
tion has been left to the arbitration of a Our coal owners hoped to have the duty
disinterested monarch, and altho' the taken off or much reduced ; that trade is
Americans have pertinacity on their side not now yielding a fair return, and they
we have justice on our side. When that think they have great cause to complain of
Western boundary lina was settled the the action of the other branch of this Legisonly ship channel known was the one, lature in sweeping away last session what
claimed by us, the existence of two chan-, was termed " the protective tarifl while
nels was not known. and the tone now negotiations were going on at Wa.hington
claimed by the Americans was not then by the Commissioners upon an offer
used by the only navigators of these waters made by the United States Commissioners
the Hudson Bay Company. In all justice to admit coal, salt, and lumber free So
San Juan ought to belong to us, it is soon as the American heard of the passage
closer to our shores and et more import- that resolution, they withdraw their
ance to us than to the Americans. We have offer. Of this there carr be no doubt, as
occupied it with farm and fishing stations it was clearly stated by the Minister of
from 1851 to the present day and America Justice in his place in the Comminons. We
never laid claim before 1855, and took see that the Americans have taken the
forcible possession of it in 1858. On the duty off tea and coffee, and are paving the
navigation of the St. Lawrence 1 do not way for a cheap breakfast, so we cannot
feel competent to express an opinion, the suppose they will long submit to have the
question being governed by international fuel that cooks the breakfast taxed. It is
law and by commercial policy, but I wish the last article that should be subject to a
to say this much, that whatever brings tax. Lumbering operations are carried on
trade and traffic through this country to a large extent with us, and those mterdeperves our support and encouragement ested hoped to have had the duty taken
as it must contribute to our revenue and off, but notwithstanding the duty, we sell
we largely to the United States and this in.
importance by showing that
have the best route and highway terest never was carried on as successfully
for traffic through
our
country. as now, and new establishments are going
Hon. Mr. NORTHIUP-The question up in different parts of the Province. Our
now before us has already been so farinera expected to have agricultural prothoroughly disoussed in the Legislature of ducts free as heretofore as under the old
this Dominion and elsewhere perhaps Treaty, they found a good market there.
nothing further of interest can be saiti T knew a friend of mine in Cornwallis, to
upn the subject. I will ask the attention have raised 500 bushels of potatoes off one
Sthe House for a very short time to acre of ground, which he sold at one
make a few remarks from a Nova Sootia dollar per bushel cash in his cellar. Is it

Treaty of

[MAY 28, 1872.]

Washington.

142

ay wonder then that they would desire fore and with our coal and iron and other
this market again open to them? But resources we are now looking to a bright
they have found a market in the West future in manufactures. I went across to
indies and otherwise dispose of their pro- Hull a few days ago and visited Mr. Eddy's
ducts, and this interest is doing well. Our esta' lishrment for the manufacture of
ship builders would have been very glad matches, tubs, buckets, &c., and found
to have had our ships admitted to registry that he gave employment to 2,000 people
and the coasting trade opened to us, be- and its growth hm been very rapid for the
cause we can build at a much less cost last six years. This Treaty will help us to
than they. lt is generally believed that build and complete, within the time I hope,
We have among us
there are many British vessels owned by the Pacific Railway.
Americans registered in the names of this session, for the first time, gentlemen
British subjects. This branch of business representing Mantoba and British Colum.
is now, however, very successful, and there bia who would do honor to any Legislative
is perhaps more tonnage now building n Assembly, and judging the people by them
the Province than at any previous time. we may reasonably expect much from that
In the County of Hanta, represented by part of the Dominion. Now, hon. gentlethe Hon. Mr. Howe, there are about men I think with a good Government
thirty thousand tons building, and these such as we now have and with
are good vessels, and admitted to lat well directed energies this Dominion
class for 8 years, and a renewal of 4 years has a bright future The hon. gentleman
under certain conditions, and I may say for Parkerville said the other day that if
that these vessels will be owned in the hc could only see Nova Scotia he would
couDtry, and all their earnings sent home willingly die, but i tell him to come down
from abroad to enrich our people. It is to Nova Scotia we will be glad to see hun,
Well known that Nova Scotia owns more and will flot bury him, but treat him well
tonnage than any other country in propor. and send him back I think better satisfied
tion to population, having more than a than ever with his country. We should
ton of shipping to every inhabitant, and miss his good face and humour from
I may add that the tonnage is increasing among us. Hon gentlemen, you will
rauch more rapidly than the population. always find the Nova Scotians a patriotio
1 nay say in this connection, that as and loyal people, ready to make sacrifiçes
somethng las been said about Indepen for the general good. They believe that
dence, the people of Nova Scotia do not they live under the best systen of
desire it. The sails of our ships whiten Government that prevails in theworld,
every sea, and it is the Flag of Old Eng- and are ruled over by the bestSoverland that gives them confidence and pro- eign that ever swayed a sceptre.
Hon. Mr. MACPRERSON-lt is certain
tects their interests when need be.
The people believe that independence ly rather difficult to continue a debate on
maeans annexation, that we could not a subject on which so much has already
stand alone. It would take a consider been said ; but at the same time the
able portion of our revenue to pay Consuls question is ofso much importance that I
abroad, and where would be the navy to am unwilling to give a silent vote. I be.
back themu up in time of need. In the lieve it will be advantageous te the counLocal Legislature there were four annex- try if there is great unanimity on this
ationists, but not one of them was re-elect- question, perhaps the most important that
ed at the last Election. This shows the feel. has ever been debated in this Parliament.
lugs of the people. I was amongst those I am one of those who connot boat of
Wio thought that the abrogation of the Re- being a recent convert to the desirability
ciprocity Treaty would be an irreparable of this Treaty. I have approved of it from
loss to us, but it has not proved so the first-not that I was altogether satis.
and I now think it was perhaps fied with it-not that there were not
the best thing that ever happened. things in it that might have been more
We used to sel to the Americans the raw favorable for Canada; but I have looked
11mterial at first price and bring back upon it as more or less in the nature of a
2aUufactured articles at the highest prices compromise. It le impossible for every
they having all the advantage of manufac- party in the arrangement of such matters
turing. Manufacturing establishments are to have entirely his own way, and one
now springing up all over the country and feature in its favor to my mind is le fact
Ou a solid basis as we can successfully that it l not altogether satisfactory to
comapete, the taxes are now so much high- either side. In that respect it le like an
er in the States and there is now se much arbitration. I muet eay that I did not
done by machinery that the high price of expect that complete reciprocity would
1bor not so great a difficulty as heretoo have been obtained by the negotiationsis

143

Treaty of

[SEN ATE.]

Washington.

144

the policy, the very necessities of the the first to assert them when there is a
Americans obliged them to reject such a necessity- I believe there is a sutticient
measure so far as concerns agriculturai sense of justice throughout the world to
products. The civil war had entailed assist us in the assertion of our just rights
upon them burthens of the most serious in the time of our need. We must recharacter-it obliged them to impose member that the fishery stipulations are
heavy taxation, internal and external, only to last for twelve years. We gave
many articles produced in the country the Americans the right to fish on the payitself were specifically taxed ; and it was ment of a small license fee, and there was
scarcely to be expected that whilst this at last great difficulty found in collecting
was the case, they would allow Canadian it. Nevertheless we allowed them to fish
products free into their own country. In in our waters without any return whatever
1866 the Reciprocity Treaty was repealed; for a number of years. because we hoped
under it the Americans had about the they would grant Reciprocity ; but now
same rights as we are now asked to give we obtan admission for our fish. and the
them. We gave them the right to Iish privilege (whatever it naay be worth) of
just as freely as they wilI have it from this tishing in their own waters. It is true we
time forward. Then the Treaty having receive no extraordinary advantages under
been repealed we asserted our own sover- the Treaty, but still we are benefitted to
eign rights to the fishing grounds, a moderate extent. The Mother Country
by requiring the people of the United has made sacrifices, she has consented to
States to pay a license tor fishing, but we pay for the depredations caused by the
charged them a merely nominal rate. Alabama as the Conference may decide. I
The question that presented itself to my think that is perfectly right. I have been
mind was whether it was desirable to con- always of opinion that the escape of the
tinue to exclude the productions of the Alabama was a national mistake. No reafisheries from free markets in the United sonable man can deny that our interests
btates, because we could not also obtain in preserving peace on this continent is
admission for our agricultural products greater than theirs. We must remember
into the United States. We were bound too that the whole question has been left to
to accept reciprocity as far as possible, and the decision of this Parliament-the first
the Treaty gives it as respects the Fisher- time we have had such a privilege concedies. I consider the admission of fish goes ed to us. If the interests of the people
very far towards an equivalent for the were sacrificed, Parliament could reject
right given to the Americans to fish in our the measure, but we have had alreadY
waters. The Treaty goes still further, for elsewhere sufficient evidence of the feelit provides if the interchange of fishng ing on this point. With respect to the
privileges is not sufficient, then there is St. Lawrence, a great deal has been said
an arbitration to settle the diterence be- about the surrender of sovereignty-one
tween the respective concessions. I am would inragine imagine that the verY
enough of a free trader to take as much liberties ot this country had been sacrfree trade as I can to begin with, and I ficed, and yet all we give up to the United
believe we can best attain more perfect States is the right to navigate a small porreciprocity by establishing an amicable tion of the river which is actually Un'
state of relations with the United States. navigable. The rapids there compel ves'
canalO
I believe that the continuance of our sels to make use of the
continue
exclusively under
prosperity depends in a great measure on which
the amicable relations we have with our the control of Canada. It has be0"
neighbors. Any one acquainted with the said by my hon. friend from Grandville
trade of the country will admit that the that if we give the Americans the rigbt 1'
moment there was an apprehension that navigating the St. Lawrence, we concede
the Geneva Conerence would break up the canals. Now the fact is the navigatio»
confidence in the stability of our prosperi- of the canals is reserved to us, tor the
ty was disturbed. I would not make Treaty says expressly- Article 27. 6"The
undue or unreasonable sacrifices when our Government ol ler Britanic Majestl
national rights are in question, but I am engages to urge upon the Government
qmite certain that the Parent State would the Dominion of Canada to secure to tb
not ask us to ratify this Treaty were she citizens of the united States the USE f
not convinced that it is consistent with the Welland, St. Lawrence, and other
her honor and the advancement of oui canals in the Dominion." What has bele
best interests. Numerically we are not the the policy of the country with respect t
equals of our neighbors, we are 4,000,00( the Canals? To open them to th
against 40,000,000; but atthe same time we trade of the United btates on the sae
have our national righte, and I would be terms enjoyed by our own people. TheO

Treaty of

[MAY 28, 1872.1

works have been enlarged, and are to be
imiproved, chiefly with the view of attractIng the trade of the West ; they are now
beyond the actual requirements of our
Own internal traffic. Under these circumstances we will continue to ofier every
inducement to the Americans to make
use of these public works. A similar pro
vision was included in the Treaty of 1854,
and that, of course, lapsed when the
Treaty was repealed. We did not then
close our canals, for we believed it wes
the wisest policy to keep them open on
the same terms as before the expiration
of the Treaty. With respect to the river
itself it has been always practically open
to Montreal, and by the Treaty it is to be
nominally open from St. Regis to Montreal. This territorial concessàon is, therefore, virtually a worthless privilege. No
one can urge the advisability of shutting
up the river when it is actually for our
advantage to make it the outlet for the
surplus produce of the great West. I
think the navigation of Lake Michigan
should have been conceded on the same
terms as the navigation of the St. Lawrence. but I have no doubt that the right
we have given to the Americans to use our
canals will always secure to us the right
to navigate that Lake. Then there is
the bonding system secured to us-it is
true it must become of less value according zs our railways are extended ; but
nevertheless it will be always a benefit
to us. Then the trans..shipment privileges
accorded by the Treaty are entirely new.
It is held by the Americans that a voyage
from Portland to San Francisco is a coastifg voyage-it is a most extreme construction of the- regulations; but those
regulations are modified by the Treaty so
far as our inland trade is concerned. With
respect to the Fenian raids I intend le
say very little 1 think the course pursued by the United States with respect to
those marauders has been one most un,
Worthy of a great nation. We have always most strictly discharged our duties
as a friendly neighbor; and therefore we
maust consider their neglect most discreditable to them, and I have no doubt
that it will redound very mu"h to their
dishonor on the pages of history. With reSpect to these claims, our government
could do no more than they did-we had
1o representative at Washington -any representations that we hi d to make must be
through the British Government. Our
1
overnment pressed the claims of this
0
ountry as strongly as they could, and
then their power to effect anything ceased. I think they made the only arrange,
Vient that was open to them. The Bri-

13

Washington.

146

tish Government assumed the cost of the
raids, and I have no feeling against allowing England to bear it when the losses
were not ncurred through any fault of
our own. These expenses were ncurred
because these misguided people thought
they could best injure England by striking a blow at Caiada. 1 have always held
it would not have been an extraordinary
stretch of liberality on the part of the
British Government had they guaranteed
the whole cost of the Canada Pacific Railroad. Such a guarantee would be invaluable
to the interests of the Empire itself-it
would tend to develope her strength
on this Continent, and increase the prosperity of this great branch of the British
lamily. England might have given this
guarantee without a single risk on her own
part, and it would have benefitted ber in
the end to an incalculable degree. So far
from thinking that we are lowering ourselves by taking the guarantee of £2,500,000 we would willingly humiliate ourselves
by taking a much larger one. (Ilear.) I
think the simple question at issue is
whe'her we save anything by accepting
this guarantee. If our bonds can be sold
at as good a rate without it then of course
there is no necessity for the guarantee ;
but we all know perfectly well that we
shall save money and be in a better position to promote great public undertakings
by accepting the guarantee granted to
Canada by the British Government. (Hear,
hear.)
Hon. Mr. IOLMES- I must take advan.
tage of this opportunity of expressing may
unqualified satisfaction with the policy
pursued by the Government in relation to
this important matter. 1 am of the opinion that this Treaty will in many respects
be as great a benefit to the country as the
Reciprocity Treaty.decidedly was, and it is
difficult for me to understand the reasons
that prompt some hon. gentlemen to oppose the measure. We have a prosperous
country, extending from the Alantic to
the Pacific, and abounding in resources,
and I have no doubt whatever that the
results accruing from the Treaty which
we are about to ratify will give a great
stimulus to its progress, and ensure its
peace for many years to come.

Hon. Dr. CARRALL-I nust ask the

indulgence of the House for a few mi

nutes whilst I give expression to some
thoughts on this very momentous luestion. i had quite dismissed the question
frem my mind in fact, I had heard so
much about it, that I was beginning to be
quite nauseated.
Among the elite of
Ottawa, in the hotels, in the House, in the
press, everywhere it has been the Treity.

147

Treaty of

[SENATE.]

Now to-day we have had the leader of the
Opposition in this 1ouse arising in his
place and disavowing his intention of muoving an 'mendment to the second reading
of the bill, and under these circumstances I feel the want of that stimulus
which a fierce opposition to the measure
would give me. Still, unable as I am to
find new ideas to absorb, I feel obliged to
follow the example ot hon, gentlemen and
say a few words with the view of incorpor
ating my name on the roll of honor of
those who vote for the Treaty. I must ask
the incdulgence of the Hlouse. I ask
you to atrain your generosity to the utmost, for the question has been so
thorougnly discussed from the time that
the master hand in another branch ushered it into birth that there is hardly a
particle of a new idea left for me to
evolve. But here I must let you in.
to a secret. I confess that I have
not heard all that has been said on the
subject from the point of view that I occupied in the Senator's Gallery ; for there
are certain attractions sometimes in that
place which ara sadly apt to distract one's
attention from the question of fish and
fish oi. If i should then tread upon
ground that has already been trodden, do
not think that I am an intruler -a trespasser-for I do it unconsciously. t have
been immensely amused at the attitude
assumed in reference to the Treaty by the
gentleman who monopolizes, directs, controls all the political machinery of the
Opposition through the nevspaper lie
owns; if I remember aright, he was only a
short while ago in the Government 1himself, and left it because the Administration would.not obtain Reciprocity. Now,
when for the first time in the history of
the British nation, a Colonist has been
taken into the councils of the country,

Washington.

our interets, and that was our Premier.
I an suffering from a mental debility in
con.equence of the want of vigour displayed by the leader of the Opposition
thternoon, le sai-I so litle that
1 V.ai
take
hold
of,
thit
am really at a loss for new arguments to
n
pi esent to the Hiouse. I deny th-it we
are called upon to mako any sacrifice in
accepting this Treaty. I only wish it was
a sacrifice so that we might place on record our willingness to make any sacrifices
for Lie sake of the glorious Empire to
which we belong Among the points that
have been touched in the discussion of
this question is British connection. i am
arrong those who believe that the best
minds of England are in favor of assuming
a position that will prove that she is desir'

ous of dr twing closer and closer the ties
that now bind together the British Empire.
I believe that this country with its magni-

ficent extent of territory and its invaluable
resources has a great future before it,, if we

are only true to our best interests and
preserve that connection which bas been
so beneficial to us in the past and must
strengthen and assist us so materially in
the career of prosperity upon which we

have now entered.
Rion. Mr. ALLAN-I have no doubt that
the louse will be very much nclined to
think that we have already heard so much
n the Treaty that any lengthy speeches
in this branch of the Legislature will now

be superfluous. I am not anxious to define my own position, but there is a
natural feeling on the part of anyone who
is here in a representative capacity to state

for the information of those whom he represents. the reasons that influence him
to vote for a measure on which there may
be considerable diversity of opinion. i
esire vory heartily to vote for this meas-

tre, bec tuse I consider that it tends to
-when we are through his instrumentality wards establishing friendly relations beto obtain a certain amount of reciprocity, tween two great nations-between the
r. Brown assailing Great uipire to which we belong and the
we find this same
this able and astute Mimnster, who G reat Republic on our borders. lhe hon.
Grandville
stated to
has achieved so much for the Dominion. niemnber for
llouse that he saw no force
It has been said that Colonial interests the
have been invariably sacrificed whenever in an argument of that kind, because it
Treaties have been arranged between wa, not plain to him that if the [ouse reGreat Britain and the Unted States. It jected that portion of the freaty referring
may be that Mr. Osborne sacrificed the to the fisheries it would interfere with the
interests of this country, and when told of rel itions between the two countries in
his error, consecrated it simply by a tear; question. No one supposes that if the
it may be that Ashburton sold some of our i Legislature threw out the Bill there would
territory to Maine, and made a Largain i e war immediately ; but all of us must
which would put money in his purse. [lere, feel that so long as there are subjects of
however, at last we have a Treaty whic.h dispute to cause soreness of feeling beconfers decided advant:ges on Canada; tween these great nations there is (langer
and that it is so, is because we had on the cf nostiîties arising between them. ThereCommission one who was able to guard tore if it is iu our power to do anythiug
and permitted to direct Imperi il interests

149

Treaty of-

[MAY 28, 1872.]

towards establishing a good feeling he.
tween those countries, that is a strong
argument to vote for any measure that
ray have that tendency. It is our duty
as subjects of the Empire to which we be.
long to do ail in our power to prevent
any such contingency as I have foreshadowed. If that could only be done at
the expense of some sacrifices to the
country, Canadians should be the last to
hesitate to make them. With reference
to Canada being a source of weakness to
England, I am convinced that I say nothing more than the truth when I state
that the great body of the British nation is
just as determined as ever, as long as
Canada desires to be connected with the
British Empire, to maintain that tie which
now binds it to its dependencies. When
we look back to the past and remember
ail that Great Britain has done for her
colonies, and consider the many benefits
they receive from British connection, we
ought to feel that we should not
hesitate to make sacrifices when England
believes it necessîry. We have heard it
said that by passing this Bill we are coný
Ceding sovereign rights without receiving
any adequate consideration inasmuch as
We give up the fisheries and the iuvigation of the St. Lawrence. With regard to
the navigation of the St. Lawrence,
1 centend that question has been
fully disposed of. 1t bas been shown
by several speakers that this concession
really amounts to nothing, while we must
benefit our own trade by inducing the
Americans to pass through our own canais.
As respects the Fisheries, when one is in
doubt on a question of that kini, one

desires to hear the opinions of those who
are most deeply interested in the matter.
Uaving unfortunately been prevented
from attending in my place until to-day,
and being naturally anxious to follow the
debates on this question, 1 read the disUoUsion elsewhere with great interest. It
does appear to me that the arguments
used by gentlemen who really understand
the question, show irresistibly that that
Part of the Dominion especially affected
y this Act, is to receive undoubted benefits from its provisions. It bas been said
that the interests of Ontario have been
Sacrificed because one of the means which
We had for obtaining reciprocity bas been

Washington

150

he no question that the Fishery rights
have led to a great deal of controversy
and irritation. I think so long as those
rights were properly exercieed we should
be allowed to enjoy them. At the same
time I conscientiously believe that if this
Bill passes, and the Treaty arrangements
are carried out, the feeling of triendliness
towards us that will be engendered in the
United States will ultimately lead to the
adoption of reciprocity in the fullest de.
gree. Much stress bas been laid on the
Fenian claims, that we were selling our
honor for money- that we ought not to receive compensation for wrongs of that kind.
I have been accustomed t think that as
long as we remain subjects o the British
Empire, the Imperial authorities are answerable for any matters of that charac'
ter; and il they do not deem it advisable
under the circumstances to press these
Fenians claims, it appears to me that no
discredit can be reflected on Canada. If
there is any discredit at aIl, it must be
thrown upon the Imperial Government
for it alone is answerable. If the Imperial
Government, then, in the interest of
peac-, decide not to urge these claims
a l'ourance, let the responsibility rest
upon them and not upon Canada. For
my part, 1 cannot see that there is anything derogatory or offensive to our
sense of national honor when England
chooses to reimburse us for the losses we
have sustained. For those and other
reasons, which I will not weary the
House by ur2ing, I have much pleasure in
voting for the second reading of the Bill
now under consideration.
lion. Mr. GIR&RD followed and made
a few remarks in French, expressive of
the wish of the people of Manitoba to see
peace ensured to the Dominion, so that
it might continue in the career of prosperity on which it has entered. He
stated it was his intention to vote for the
measure.
The question of concurrence in the
secod reading of the bill being put, the
same was resolved in the affirmative, and
the bill was then read a second time
accordingly.
The louse adjourned.
WEDNESDAY, 29th May, 1872.

given away. I have always believed that
The SPEAKEItR took the chair at 3
when the United States repealed the o'clock.
Vtseaty, they were actuated a g od deal by
Bills on the following subjects were read a
their feeling towards this country. In- third time:-Caughnawaga C"anal, Cr. T. R.
Otead of entertaining the, opinion that the and Town of Galt, Detroit River Tunnel
Passage of this measure is to prevent Co., Northern Railway Extension, Martin's
eOmplete reciprocity, I believe that it will Divorce Presbyterian Church Widows' and
have the very contrary effect. There eau Orphans' Fund, Banks and Banking, Ex.

151

Insolvency

[SENATE.]

change Bank of' Canada, Bank of Acadia,
Maritime Bank, Hamilton Bank, and St.
Lawrence Bank.
Bills respecting Quebec Frontier Railway, Canadian and European Telegraph
Co., Savings-Bank of Toronto, Bank of St.
John, Grand Trunk and Montreal and
Champlain Railways, were read a second
time.
The House went into Committee and
passed the Bill relating to the Washington
Treaty without amendment. The Bill was
then read a third time and sent to the
Commons.
FR1DAY, 3lst May.
The SPEAKER took the chair at 3 o'clock.
Two Reports of the Committee of Contingent Accounts were submitted by Bon.
Mr. SEYMOUR, and ordered for con
sideration on Monday next.
The following bills were read a third
time and passed :-Bank of St. John,
Grand Trunk Railway and Montreal and
Champlain Companies, Toronto Savings
Bank, Quebec Frontier Railway Company.
INSOLVENCY LAWS.

Hon. Mr. WARK moved that an humble
address be presented to lis Excellency
the Governor General, praying that lis
Excellency will be pleased to cause an inquiry to be made, under the direction of
the Minister of Justice into the operation
of the Insolvent Law, with the view of em
bodying such amendments as may be
deemed necesary, ii a bill te be submit
ted to Parliament at ijs next session.
lu making the motion the hon. gentfeman urged the necessity of makiug an
amendment in the existing law. Whilst
many persons objected to repealing it aitogether, no one contended that it was
net susceptible of improvement in many
respects. The necessities of the country
required the equitable distribution of a
debtor's property among bis crDditors,
and that the honest insolvent should be
protected froi the rapacity of any hard
creditor.
ion. Mr. MoMASTER seconded the
motion as necessary in the interests of the
country.
lon. M4r. LEVER rose to say that he
hoped notwithstanding the very able and
plausible speeches made on this subject,
a few days ago, a house composed as this
wa, cf gentlemen of long experience in
commercial and legal matterswould gîve the
motion cf
te, on genlleen before them
that wise, amiitoughtful consideration te
which ma kbin
ght it was intitled.g nthe
jmritish North %
inerican Act, gave us thn

Laws.

152

power, and the iîght to have au
Insolvency Law for the benefit of ail
Canada. And here he would say that
the present Law is both an Insolvency
Law and a Bankruptcy Law, or in other
words an Attachment Law, and an 1usolvency Law as under the compulsory
clauses of the Act a debtor not meeting
his liabilities generally as they become
due, or showing signs against his creditors
of fraudulent intentions can be called on
for a statement of his affairs, and if not
found satisfactory to his creditors, a se curng of his assests by an attachment can
be had at once. And this is why the
several Boards of Trade who are good
judges of commercial questions are so de
sirous that the Act should be oontinued
feeling as they do, that it is a much sater
law for general trade, than a mere Insol.
vency Law, whtch would only protect, or
in the miid language ot'the day relieve the
debtor. Re would not say why a is a
good and fair law such as this isand pasa
ed only some three years ago, as a general
law, for the -everal Provinces of this
Dominion is now sought te be repealed
by one of those spasmodic change&
of thought-in a number of gentlemenin the ther brandi oi dûs Legislattire
who take it upon themselves te get up.ail
exitement aanst it, and say it should bd
repealed even btd*0 e it is quite time the
parties most to b- igjuredhad a fairchance
of beceming faihiar with the benefit's
arising out of iLe busineïs men. And
here agtin he would eau the attention of
this use te the fact that the United
b
States ha passe ia smlla t law in Marc
1867. I is intiled, hAn Act te estabhisaf
a uniforni systeni of baukruptcy througheut the United States." This Ac ie now
in force it is w0 el adpted, and paroy.
vides se carefally. that fi-aud shahi be prevented and justie done lu ail cases, and
8e generaly useful that is more than
probable it will be permanent, and
without bein rpealed will
obe amed.
ed from Lime te ime, as experience
shows the need.
t had an ameadment
Passed to iL, in 1869, which. preventsa s
idebter frou getting dscharged unlespa is
assests shahl p.ey tifty per cen of h
t
raims proved bgainst his etate upo
which he shall be hiable, as the. principal
debtor, unless't assent in writing cf a
tie
majerity in number and value of is
creditors be fied in the case at, or before
the Lime of the hearing f the appli
catien for dscoarge.
le would io of
was supicious te
gentlemen who
hate
h ped Le pass )ui law, lu 1869, as a
omini
Law, eek new to get it'repealed of their own
otion, since hê

flotitine

[JU NE 8, 1872.]

Was not aware that even one petition from
the parties who had the best right to be
5udges on such commercial questions, had
not asked (or its repeal; but on the con.
trary nearly all the great centres of business through their respective Boards of
Trade had asked that it miy not be repealed; but that it may [e continued,
and amended if necessary. le would asc
then that this motion may be well considered by this House, au 1 the Government, so that the countr vill not fall
back-by allowing this LLw to expire-to
that state of atffairs which prevail':d in
the Lower Provinces belore the passing of
this uniform Law, whichu so enables the
commercial men of the several Provinces
of this Dominion to understand each
other. Further he would say on the basis
of our commercial credit. lie would ask
that the motion be complied with, and
the Law continued, and thereby confi.
dence given to men of me uns to advance
their capital, and give that credit
so essential for comnercil activity. In
answer to the arguments of some hon.
gentlemen it was only necessary for him
to say that under the sever .1 clauses of
this law, it was utterly impossible for the
dishonest debtor to act as dos' ribed, and
as he could, undter the systei of execu.
tion, because no unequal or preferential
zaking of the assets-where commercial
rnen know their buziness-can be sustained, but every creditor must share and
ahare alike. In conclusion then, le would
support the motion of the hon mover, and
ho$ed every gentleman who loved fair
layfould act similarly, so as to keep a
Soenti# in,
that is no N a Dominion
1
AW in contrast with the c nision the
Cuntry will be in, if this Act he allowed
to expire, and which t> him would be
*ding backward instead of forward-mak
ige agaiii the laws of the several proViries of this Dominion dissimilar in,
Stad of national and uniform.
-ion. Mr. CAMPBELL replied that under auy circumstances the Government
tlttended taking the question of the In
solvenoy Laws into their consideration du.
rug the vacation, and would therefore
Willingly agree to the Address.
The motion was carried.
Bills on the following subjects were
ra 'secon
time:
Xt. Catharine's Board of Trade, River
Nydenham.
•

non. hir. CAMPBELIL introducedl a bill
to amend the act re-pectiing copyrights
The House adjourned,

Businss.,

154

MONDAY, June 3, 1872.
lon. Mr. BOTSFORD, [in absence of
lion. Mr. Cauchon] took the 'hair at 3
o'clock.
THi

RI)

E1PADINGS.

The following bills were read a third
time and passed :
To incorporate the British American Assurançe Company.
fo amnid the Act respecting rivers and
streams so s to apply to the river Sydenn am.
S ECi) ND READINO.
On motion of Hon. Mr. REESOR, the

bill respecting the London and Canadian

Loan Agency was read a second time and

referred to the Committee on Standing
Orders and Private Bills.
COAST NAX IGATION.

Hon. Mr McCLE LAN asked--Whether
it is the intention of the Government to
provide this Session, for the construction

of a steam fog whistle on Cape Enragé, in
the Bay of Fundy, in view of the dangerous character of the coast, and the ina
creasing amount of vessels employed in
sid Bay ? In making the motion, the
hon. gentlem n urged the importance of
the service, and took an opportunity of
expressing his satisfaction with the energy and vigilance displayed by the Department of Marine and Fishpries.
Hon. Mr. MlTAJELL said if the Department deserved the thanks of the com,

mercial community for its vigilance, due
credit must be givea to the subordimnates.
With respect to the enquiry he stated
that the Government, whilst acknowledg~
ing the necessity for the fog whistle, were
unable to provide it this session, but
would certamnly do so next session, should
the country continue to give them its
confidence. The Government were able
to state they int mnded providing a fog
whistle at Machias Seal Island in the
same Bay.
Lon. Mr. WILMOT was glad to hear

the intimation of the Minister on the lat.
ter point, for a steamer, had been lost on
the islind recently, and it was a very
dangerous spot.
CONTINGENT ACCOIJNTS.

Hon. Mr. SEYMOUR moved the adop.

tion of two reports of Committee on Contingent Accounts. The first simply referred to the ClerK's account with the.

Senate fron lst Fe bruary to 31st Decenak

155

Britigh

[SENATE.]

Copyrights.

156

ber, 1871, and reported it to be correct.enjey representative institutions to the
The second report recommends that fullest extent. Several copyright laws had
Antoine Alphonse Boucher, Esquire, the in the course of tue passed the frperial
Senior of the French Translators be pr ý Parlianent, and were ultiiately made te
mated to the office of Chief French Irans- run into ail the colonies. These Liws
lator to the Senate. vacated by Robert prevented the republication of British
LeMoine, Esquire, on occasion of his copyrights in this ceuntry- but subseappointment as Clerk of the Senate. They quently an arr ingement was mide te allow
recommend that Elizabeth Hewson be ap- the importation into tis country of'
pointed and employed as a charwoman, American reprints of British copyright
The Committee also recommend tiat John works on the payaent of a duty of 12.. per
Wingtield be appointed and employed as cent., to be distributed among tbe authors
a Sessional Messenger, said appointment of such works. This system, howevor, had
te date from the first day of this Session, been proved to eperato prejudicially te the
since which day lie lias been doing duty as interests of Canadian publishers; and in
such, and ,n the referencoe made to the effort ha been made for sorne tine past
Committee on the twenty fourth diy ef to obtain from th Imperial Govern ment
April last, of the petition of C. W. Taylor, the right te reprint the werks in questien
the Committee report that they cannot in this country. When the question was
recommend that the prayer of the said last brought up the hon. meniber fer the
petition be granteI.
Wellinton Division (Hon. Mr. Sanborn)
The reports were adopted.
suggested that we inigbt logisiate directly
The House then adjourned, after receiv- on the subject, for he believed we had the
ing several bills from the Commons.
power by virtue ef the B. N. A. Act ant
the fact of eur en.joying representative
TUESDAY, 4th June, 1872.
Government. le (Mr. C.) in accordance
The SPEAKER took the chair at 3 wi, lie promise he nade on that ocahad Urought the subjeýA te the
o'clock.
notice of the Minîster of Justice and his
colleagues in the Government, and it was
PRIVATE
ILLS.
decided te act upon the suggestion et the
Hon. Mr. DICKSON brought in report hon. gentleman just mentioned. The
of Committee on Standing Orders and argument deiining the pe4itien of the GovPrivate Bills, and moved that the quorum ernment was stated in the preamble et
be reduced to live. Also that the petitions the Bill-that there )as ne reservatien
of Boards of Trade of St. Catlerine's. St. with respect W copyrights when repre John, Levis. &c., be referred b ck to the sentative institutions w re granted te this
Committee for reconsideration
country-and that eXresspower was
These motions were adopted.
SECOND READINS.t

given te the Dominion by the Union Act
Some
the subject.
legisate
inight say that the power was only given

On motion of lIon. Mr. McLELAN a te the Dominion in centra-distinction te
bill with respect to the Halifax Banking te pewers given te the Provinces; but
Company was read a second time.
nevertheless, he believed the lanuage
On motion of lion. Ur. BENSON a bill was bred enough te enbrace the power
in reference to Dominion Water Woîks given in the present Bil. Lt was now prowas read a second time.
<~U'ItI~1TM.reuîint

poseI te allow Canadian publishers W
Britisht copyright works on receipt

Hon. Mr. CASIPBELL, in moving the
second reading of the bill to amend the

ot'a licence frem the Governnient rhese
works are te be regi'terod with the
NInister of Agriculture, and thereupon

law with respect to copyrights. expressed

no foreign reprints of such works are te

his regret that two gentlemen-Hon. Mr.

bu alled te be importcd. An excise duty

Ryan and Hon. Mr. Sanborn-who hid ef fifteen per cent on the whlesale price
always taken a deep interest in the ques- of such works is te be collectod and distion were not present.
For some time tiibute(I for the advantage of the authors.
lon. Mr. FENRISR said the Dominion
past addresses had been passed in the
"ouse with the view of bringing gb,it oug t net to ho placed in reference te
Imperial legislation on the subject >f re- such works in a vorse position than it is
printing British copyrights in this coun, now. A duty of 12' per cent. was at
L y. Certiniy very mnany persons liad beîn prcsewoollectedon the wholesale price
of opinion that the Imperial legislation on of Arn.,riotnr4piints, but now there was
this question was an encroachment upon te be ,n excise duty imtpose< te the
te privileges given te these colonies' te extent of .3 per cent. mnore.

British

[JUNE 6, 1872.]

.Hon. Mr. BUREAU was very desiroas
to encourage home industry, but at the
sanie time he saw danger in a Bill which
disturbed the relations we at present enjoyed with the United States. More than
that, he doubted whether we had the
power to legislate on such a subject. The
same difficulty might occur that arose in
1837, when the Special Council passed an
Act to abolish Habeas Corpus. At that
time a very distinguished lawyer, Judge
Valliere, contended that we had no power
to overrule Imperial legislation, and he
suffered tor expressing that opinion, but
lie was subsequently proved to be correct.
We could not be too careful in dealing
with matters of legisiation, where we
might come into conflict with Imperial
authorities. He was in favor of a certain
amount of protection to home industry,
but there was always a danger that the
principle might be pushed to extremes.
He iad no objection to the imposition of
a small duty, but he believed the general
principles of the Bill are antagonstic to
the public interests. lie could not too
strongly urge the advisability of culti.
vating the most friendly relations with the
United States, instead of exciting the
hostile feelings of the publishing interest
of that country. He deprecated any
undue haste in dealing with such matters.
Hon. Mr. CHRISTIE pointed out some
difficulties in the way of our dealing directly with the question.
Hon. Mr. WILMOT expressed himself
desirous of sweeping away our present
anomalous system which is so injurious to
the interests of the publishers of Canada.
ion. Mr. CAMPBELL did not suppose
there is any reason to apprehend that the
passage of the bill will interfère with the
relations between Canada and the United
States. He did not see any analogy whatever between the present question and
the suspension of the Act of Habeas
Corpus by the Council in 1837. He did
lot claim t» be acting contrary to Imperial
Legislation, but in pursuance of the ex.
press authority given to us. - At the same
timne the Government wished to act with
all caution, and had therefore inserted a
clause declaring that the law shall not go
ilito effect until there is a proclamation of
the Governor to that end. The Govern.
ment, however, hopcd and believed the
English law ofticers would come to the
sane conclusion they had, that Canada had
the right to legislate with respect to such
maatters.
lon. Mr. BUREAU contended that the
case he had cited was directly in point,
and again argued we had no jurisdictior
in the matter.
The bill was read a sec uîd time.

Copyrights.

158

M EIS-sAG E.

A Message was received from fRis Excellency the (overnor Generai with respect
to the receipt in England of the Address
erx essive of the grtiîication of Parlia1

ment at the recovery of H. R. H. the
Piince of Wales
Several Bills were received from the
Commons
The flouse then adjourned.
WEDNEsDAY. June 5.

The SPEAKER took the chair at three
o'clock.
1ETITI0N.
Hon. Mr. OLIVIER presented a petition
of Mutual Fire Association of Stanstead
against a bill to incorporate Agricultural
Assurance Company of Canada, and it was
read at the table, and then referred to
Committee on Standing Orders and Private
Bills.
PRIVATE BILLS.

Hon. Mr. DLCKSON presented report
of Committee on Standing Orders and
Private Bills, favorable to recep-ion of
petitions from several Boards of Trade,
and of J. Schultz and others, for railway
objects. Also, on bills establishing St.
Catherine's Board of Trade, and incorporating Inland Marine and Fire Insurance
Company, ant Lond on and Canadian Loan
and Agency, all of which were read a third
time and passed.
The Hfouse then went into Committee
on the bill to amend the law respecting
Copyrights.
Hon. Mr. OLIVIER in the chair.
Hon. ir. CAMPBELL expressed the
pleasure he felt that Hon. Mr. Ryan who
had always taken so deep an interest in
the question was present to give the
Hlouse the benefit of his knowledge of the
matter.
Hon. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. -)UST
doubted the advisability of prohibiting the
importation of books..
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL said it wns the
invariable practice to prohibit importation
of works which were copyrighted in England or the United States.
Hon. Mr. BUREAU contended that
the bil, if passed, would not only
be antagonistic to Imperial legislation
but actually in conflict with a Treaty existing between Great Britaii and France.
The 15th and 17th sections of the imperial
Act expressly stated that the rights of
British copyrights should extend not only
to Great Britain, but to all parts of the
British dominions; and yet it was now
proposed to pass a bill in the face of that
Imperial statute. He oontended that even

159

British

[SBN AT E.]

if the British North America Act gave the
power in question, and lie denied that it
applied to anything except Canadian
copyright works-it could not be retrospectiveHon. Mr. CAMPBELL said the very proamble of the Bill stated the reasons why
the Government believed Canada could
egislate directly on such a question. He
knew the Act referred to was in exist
ence, but it was contended that since it was
passed the British Parliament had also
passed the British North Aierica Act,
giving the i)ominicn power to legislate
with respect to copyrights; aind it was a
well understood piicipie that when the
Legislature expressed opinions at different times, the latest expression was to
rule. The Union Act was broad, and
applied to copyrights generAlly, and
could not be limited as the hon. gentleman argued. As- rcspects the Treaty with
France, it couid have no possible connection whatever with the matter before the
Rouse. That Treaty referred to French
copyrights publislied in Great Britain;
and he was surprised that the hon. gentleman should bring it up. Canada had i epresentative institutions, and it was
claimed by the member for the Wellington
Division, and others that we
had
under these institutions the right
to
deal
with such a question,
and Imperial legislation could not affect
rs with respect to copyrights any more
than it could in the cose of patents.
Under any circumstances, no harm could
arise from the passing of the bill; on the
contrary beneficial results must accrue for
it would direct the attention of the British
Government to the subject.
lion. Mr. BURE AU again urged his view
of the case.
Hon. Mr. RYAN expressed his astonishment that tge hon. gentrcnyan (Mr.
Bureau) should oppose a measuoe which,
shouwd it come intr operation, woued be a
great benefit to a very important branch
of industry, especiaîlly in the city of Mon
treai. lie showed thxt the bill hiad no
reference whatever to the freaty quotHd
by the hon. gentleman, aiid then went on
to say that the Act ot' 1849 was passe<
with the view of benetiting the people of
Canada -for at that tae the publishing
interest here was not able t-) comp
with the sane iriterest acrosl the frontier
in the production o cheap literature.
The state of things, bowever, was now
very diffrento; ann id was febt that the
present systHm was very injurierds to the
publishers and p-inters ofpCanada. As an
illustration of the eneggy with which this
branch of inzstiry is îbow prosecated ho
menisned Me. Lovetl of Montreal emplHy

Copyrig hs.

160

sone 50) persons, many of them females.
That gentleman had recently been ofred
he
very
strong
inducements if
woud remove
his
entire eétab
isbment
to the
United
litates.
lie expressed himself empbatically in
favor of the bi hefore the flouse, and cogtended that it was as just in principle,
and wouid operate most beneficially. -Q
measure was in the interest of thé British
author as well as the Canadian publisher.
Sir C. Treveiy n, backed by the opinionsof
ieadin< English authors, waraily approved
of the policy of Canada iu this particular.
Ilewassati8fied wiih the opinion given on
thesubjeet by eminent legal :indsin
this country, and beiieved that the resuit
of the reference te Engiand would be satiatactory. He trustedsincerelythatevery gen
tieman in ,he flouse wouid do ail i his
power Vo promte the interests of a very
important branch of industuy which w4 a
now iaboring under great disadvantage.
An amendnent was added at the suggestion of the Hon. Mr. RLyan, making
the excise duty not o exceed le" par
cent on the whoiesale value.
The t 'iiinîittee rose and the imendment was a iopted by the Ioose. The
bil was then read a third tue and
sent to the fouse of Commons-tbe
money clauses being first omitted.
SECOND READINGS.
Bille Vo incorporate Canada Agriculturai Insurance Compan
Levis and Sorel
a
Boards of Trade, w>
After reception of several bi
The louse adjourned.
THuRDÂT.

The SEAE~R
o'clock.

June 6,1872.

took the chair aL tbxee
PILOTS.

lion. Mr. AIKINS. presented to the
llou-se a Retui-n to an Audress to Hie Bito
ncy te (sovernsher eneral dated s.
ftt
1872, praying his Excellency te cause io
be laid befcre this flouse,
a
of
dpyany
corespondence which has taken place beta un the Department of the Marie and
Fisheries and the Imperial Board e
Trad
Ste London, relative o the relaxation of
in
the Rules an Reguations relating r the
granting of masterd'
certifioate of competency o Pilotse
the Lower St. Lawrence.
re
si

lion. Mr. DCKrh
fromi the o
eommittee on Standing Orders and
,rivake
Bills
weported
favorably on
Ian At ti an3end
o

181

Canadian

[JUNE 6, 1872.]

the Act to incorporate the Canadian and
Telegraph Company."
Also on •' an Act to incorporate the
Dominion Water Works Company." These
Bills were read a third time and passed.
Hon, Mr. HAMILTON, from Committee
On Banking, Commerce and Railways, reJ rted favorably on Bills respecting Hali.
ax Banking Company and Great Western
Railway. The latter was read a third
time and passed.

European

THE CANADIAN PACIFIC R. R.

lion. Mr. CAMPBELL, in moving the
second reading of the Bill respecting the
Canadian Pacifie Railway, said that its objéct was perfectly familiar to hon. gentle.
Imen,

inasmuch

as

it

carried

out

the arrangement contemplated at the
time the Union was effected with British
Columbia. It was suggested at the time
the resolutions were passed last session,
that a reasonable subsidy in money-some
ten or twelve thousand dollars a mileand a land grant of some 50,000.000 acres
would probably accomplish the 'object we
had in view.
Many membersin both
branches of the Legislature were of opin.
Ion that a larger quantity of land would be
required. Experience, however, had
shown the Government that the object
can be accomplished within the terms
lientioned in the Bill. Those terms were
$3,000,000 in money, and 50,000,000 acres
in land. The interest on the money was
of course quite within the power of the
Iotninion to grant without at all unduly
p'ressing upon the resources of the people.
Fortunately for the Dominion, we were
Passing through a season of great prosPerity, and we had every reason to hope
that this enterprize will add to that prosrity. The other arrangements in the
ill were of a very simple character, and
Provided that the road shall be constructbd by one or more companies. If it were
n1ecessary those compames could amalgailate, and failing that the Government
Could resort to some other means of get,
ting the road constructed The road at
this end was to comtr.ence to the south of
Lake Nipissing. Comparing our line with
the Union Pacific, it would be found more
easily constructed, while the natural
features of the country are in every way
s.uperior. A large portion of the American
lie ran through an arid waste,
While the altitude was several thousand
feet higher than that of the Canadian
Pacific will be. Under these circumstan68 Our road oould be constructed more
advantageously by any company. It would
be df çourse the object of such a company
to settle their lands as rapidly as possible,

Pacic R. R.

162

and in that way become actually immigration agents.
Hon. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. JUST
did not intend to oppose the bill inasmuch as we are bound to construct it
in accordance with the measure pass.
ed last session, but he felt com.
pelled to state some objections ho
had to the scheme of
construc-tion. He admitted that the natural
features, as stated by the Hon. Postmaster
General, were in favor of the Canadian
line, but he thought nevertheless before
we went into such an undertaking the
Governiment ought to have more definite
information than they have now with
respect to its cost. If we compared the
terms now offered with the actual cost of
the American lines, it would be found that
they would be entirely inadequate. He
found that the whole cost of the Union
Pacifie and Central Pacific was some $205,.
000,000. The cost of our road' compared
with the Union Pacifie would be $270,00O,000 ; compared with the Central
Pacific it;woula be $205,000.000. As thé
$30,00000 offered by the Canadian Government was clearly inadequate for so
great an undertaking he was afraid we
would have in connection with the work a
repetition of all the blunders we have had
in the past.
Hon. Mr. AIKINS-What assistance did
the American line receive from the
Federal Government ?
Hon. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. JUST.The (overnment under this Bill intend
giving only some $11,000 a mile. The
Government of the United States, on the
other hand, granted on the whole length
of the Pacific line some $30,000 a mile.
We were actually to build our line for
two-thirds less. It was true we were giving
a largeramount of land, some 19,000 acres
a mile. But the two roads in the United
States had'received the same advantages
from the Government; they got on the
average $32,000 a mile in money, and
12,800 acres of land per mile. When we
compared the distances ot the lines, w.
must see that the Bill did not provide a
sufficient amount et imoney. A large por.
tion of the Central & Union Pacifie roads
ran over fertile plains just as our own
liue would. Of course when we reached
the mountains we would aiso have to con.
tend with difficulties. From the Lake of
the Woods eastward we would find obstacles equal to those encountered by the
Americans«n constructing their two lines.
le would not be surprized to find that the
road would cos t us in the end $200,000,000
instead of $30,000,000. It was easy
enough to make estimates more favorable,

163

Canadian

[SENATE]

Paci/ic R. R.

.164

but our experience Laught us to place The construction of the railway woul de.
little reliance on them, and he preferred velope a noble extent of country ; it
being guided by facts like those he was would divert to the North West that
quoting from the record of American rail- stream of European emigration that had
hitherto been directed to the South West,
way construction.
Hon. Mr. MITCH ELL-Was not the We had now territery enough but no pomoney grant of the American railways pulation and the immeaiate resuit of the
simply a loan?
completion of the lne would be t people
Hon. Mr. LE TELLIER DE Sr. JLUST. that wilderness. lie lid confidence in
That made no difference as respects the the future of this country, and believed
cost, though it might affect the Company. there was ne danger whatever of embar.
The contractors might be inconvenienced rassing our reseurces in connectien with
in the money market, but they would go this lino. Even if it were to cet mucl
on with the road and the cost of its con more than anticipated, the country could
The additional -population
struction would be no greater. Lie did afford it.
not mean to urje we should not build our brought inte the country would soon
line, but what he wished to urge was that enable the Dominion te meet the obliga.
we should not be too hasty in undertak. tiens incurred. le pointed eut the supe
ing what may hereafter seriously cripple rier advantages of the Canadian lime in re
our resources. We ali knew that the In spect te the sou of the country, climate
tercolonial Railway had made very slow and altitude, as compared with the Amenprogress so far. The estimates made by cen bines, He referred te the great sttthe original contractors were too low and mulus the line weuld give te trade with
the contracts had finally to be annubled. the ceuntries of the China ses, and the beNo one knew when the road would be nefit the Dominion woubd thereby receive.
It would develop minerai reseurces new
finished or how much it Would cost.
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL,-The road will entirely dorment, and add immensely te
be completed within the estimates of the the wealth of an .Iready presperous country.
FEngineer.
o.
Mr. LETELLIER DE She. JUST Ton. on. M LETELLIER DE ST. JUS
said that it would be time eneugh te said that calculating the 19,000 acres of
spek positively on this question when land eat $1 au acre, and adding that te the
further pregress was made with the road. $11, 000 ef money we had $.30,000 a mile
As respects the general features ef the as the grantef eur Geoernment againt,
that they required any the $32,000 a mile given by the United
bull, ie did not seW
perticular comments, but he must say that States Govenument.
leon. CARRALLA dollar an acre
Dr.
lie regretted that the Government should
go into se large an enterprise witheut was tee little. He knew that the land
actualby knowing whet it weuld cost. lie would be werth frem hte $30 an acre;
heand lie spoke from hi knowledge ef is
speke earnestly on the matter, because
did net wish t, see the country hereafter value on the Pacifie line-through Ne-fer
braska af instance.
precipittted into difhiculties on accwunt
ieon. Mr. MITCHELL said that thero
our heedlessness 'n the present
Hion. Dr. CARRALL teok issue with the whire jut two peints on which ho fut
hon, gentleman as te the probable cost of compelled te make a few observations.
the Canadien Pacifie bine. Hie ed taken Ail cenfessed that we mu t pa s the Bibn
faith o
some pains te inform huinself on the sub- in order te carry eut in gd
ject, and wes et' opinion that the roed engagements of the Dominion with Britiah
could be conitructed on the teri offerud Columbia. Even if we ined not made thspe
by the Government. The money given engagements publie opinion was fuliY
adlve the neofesity of pening up the
te
by the United St>ates Government was in
the shape of a lcan, wlereas the bii under vet country te the North West. lie conconsideration oib'eced an actual subsidy. tended that the tens offred by the Bii
amply suicient te provide for ts
lie reminded the flouse that te B3ritish were
of the ineo. The naturl
houer et construction
the
Columbia belonged
hempred
oniginating the idea et this grand characteristis of the route, as
continental railway. Il was true the with the Amenican wud,were entireli
matter lied been talked of before, favor of the Canad an road. From seve
miles
aundred eo the Americabut il was net until the schem of union te eiglt
wes mooted th t the railwey rojeot as- railway were through the Amtioef
sumed a deinite shape We il letthat desert. Accordng te the hon member
the Union culd neer be a reality une s from Grandvilhe,e»e American subsldy wu
we
bld the eiway binding the two oceans 32,000 a mile. New lhe Canadien 00V:
tegether by indissoluble linke of irn. rnanent gave as a subsidy-not a

165.

Canadian

[JUNE

a more loan secured by mortgage, 812,000 in money per mile-supposing the
distance to be 2.500 miles.
lion. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST JUSI'The statement wae made elsewhere by Sir
George Cartier that the distance would be
probably 2,700 miles.
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL based his statement upon the best authority, and that
wa the official report of the Engineer.
The Americans gave some 12,800 acres of
land, whereas we
are to
grant
20,000 acres a mile, and there could
ho no doubt whatever as te its
very superior character. Those lands
Were well watered, abounding in mineral
and other resources, and affording every
advantage to a company who wished te
embark in a profitable uudertaking.
Th money grant and land subsidy to.
gether, therefore, amounted te a value of
$32000, or a far larger sum when we consid
er the noey is not a mere loan, and the
land is greater in quantity and more
valuable for settlement. Companies of the
Weathiest capitaliste in the oountry were
naow ready to ceme forward and assume
the construction of the road on the terms
offered te them. American capitaliste
Were also equally ready to embkrk tooeorrow in the same undertaking. In
view of all these fects it was idle to say
that the Government were t6 undergo
any risk in legislating for the oonstruction
Of a work which entailed no undue burthens on the Dominion, and which would
in the future largely increase the wealth
and prosperity of the whole country. As
respects the remarks made by the hon.
gentlemen on the subject of the Inter.
colonial Railway, he explained that it was
a mnistake to say that all the original contractera had broken - down ; for a number
0f them, the Mesars. Worthington among
the rest, had oompleted or were carrymg
On the work in accordance with their fiNt
Coffers. After an experience of four years
the Government were in a position
to gay that the cost of the Intercolonial
Railway would be within the sum originallY estimated by them. The Governaent
had been obliged by publc opinion te
accept the lowest tenders, and hid not
been in the same position that private
companies would be had they undertaken
the construction of the road. On the
Whole, however, the work was progressing
tiost satisfactorily, and nine-tenths of the
ue would
be
completed
before
eighteen months had passed away.
lo. Mr. FERRER said that ho had
boon anong those who had believed from
the tirst in the advantages of Confedera.
t01o, and he was now proud to knew that

6, 1872.1

PacifiC R. R.

166

the resulte had borne him out. He had
now no hesitation whatever in saying that
the construction of the Canadian Pacifia
Railway was absolutely necessary to the
development of our Western territory, and
that Canada could safely enter on its con.

struction under the terme offered by the
The grant of land and
Government.
money together was amply sufficient to
induce reliable Canadian capitaliste to
engage in the undertaking with every
prospect of carrying it out successfully.
He calculated the land at a dollar an acre.
and that would give $20,000 a mile; that
sum together with the rnoney subsidy, of
$12 000 would make $32,000, or £8,000
ourrency per mile. Now he had before
him the figures of the cost of the Grand
Trunk Railway, and he found that the
section between Richmond and Quebec,
(and none of the sections exceeded the
cost of that particular one) including land
damages,-an important item which would
be saved in the case of the Canadian
Pacific -rolling stock, stations, &c., was
£7,000 sterling a mile. In view of this fact,
gentlemen muet see that there could be
no d-fficu'iy whatever in inducing companies to underta ke the construction of
line. The termLs of'ered by the Government were far more favourable than those
given by the United states; for in the
case of the American Pacifie line the lan
granted to it still lay on the road as a first
He maintained that not a
mortgage.
single dollar more will be required for the
censtruction of the road than now offered.
Similar predictions of financial embarrassment were thrown out at the commencement of Confederation, but we were never
in a more flourishing condition than at
He believed the Canadian
present.
Pacifie Railway would be as beneficial to
the development of the Dominion as the
Grand Trunk road had certainly been.
lion. Mr. BOTSFORD expressed his
gratification at hearing the statements
made by the hon. member from Montreal;
for they certainly disabused his mind with
respect to the cost of the Grand Trunk,
and proved that that road had been constructed more cheaply than most colonial
lines. It ws quite clear that after the
legislation of last year we had te pas a
bill to this effect. He believed all the
provisions of the measure were most
favorable te the country, and were quite
sufficient to achieve the object in contemplation. The terms, judging from the
remarks made that day, were far more
favourable than those given to the American lines. He congratulated the Government on thé decision they had arrived at,
te construct the road on a narrow gauge ;

167

Canadian

[SENATE.]

and that fact alone woutd lessen the cost
of construction and working. Under ail
the circumstances lie considered the bill
as decidedly in the interests of the Dorinion.
Hon. Mr. RYAN might refer to some
details of the bill in Committee, but he
must say that he thought with respect to
the cost the best plan would be to strike
an average between the high estimate of
the hon. member for Giandville, and the
very low one of the other gentleman near
him (Mr. Ferrier). The Hlouse should recollect that the road had to be built in an
entirely wilderness country, that sppplies
and labor had to be transported at a large
expense. In the case of the Grand Trunk
it had been built in a populous district.
Iron, too, was vastly enhanced in price.
lion. Mr. LOCKE said there was little
use discussing the question inasmuch as
the construction of the road was a part of
the agreement made for the admission of
British Columbia.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL regretted to hear
his hon. friend opposite (Hon. Mr.
Letelhlier de St. Just) convey the impres
sion that this country had in the past
embarked rashly in railway undertakmgs.
Hon. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. JUST
explained that he had merely said that
there was a tendency to go beyond the
estimates in public enterprizes.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL said that there
was no country which had its rail ways at
a less burthen upon the people than
Canada at the pi esent moment. We had
given a certain sum of moncy to the Grand
Trunk Railway, and a smaller amount in
the case of the Northern Road, but our
total liabilities in connection with railway
enterprizes were insignificant compared
with what they would be had we done as
other dependencies, and guaranteed a
certain amount upon the capital expended in constructing such works
lion. Mr. MoDONALD (British Columbia)
expressed
his gratitude
at
the willmgness displayed by the liouse
to carry out the agreement with British
Columbia in the most perfect good faith
The people of that colony, whilst believing
the railway would be a great advantage to
them, at the same time looked upon it as
a grand national undertaking, intimately
connected with the future prosperity of
the whole Dominion. Looking at the
harbors of the East and West, and at the
vast resources of the country lying be.
tween the two oceans. it was easy to see
that the railway would be of incalculable
benefit to the commerce of the Dominion.
Ue referred to Mr. Fleming's report to

Pacic R. R.

16a

show the strong reasons we had for
building
the
roa.d,
and
then
went on to state he had heard
the remarks of [ion. Mr. Ferrier
with very great pleasure, as that bon.
gentleman was well understood to be
an excellent authority on matters of rail.
way construction. We all knew that in
these days of enterprize and rapid commercial dvelopement, undertakings which
would not have been dreamed of a quarter
of a century ago were commenced and
carried out with remarkable rapidity.
Even if we had only half a day's advanot
tage in our favor, the preference would be
given to our line over other routes,
so great was the demand for despatoh in
the markets of the world. In construoting
the work, we would necessarily bring in a
large population to develope the country
which was now a wilderness, and thereby
increase the wealth of the Dominion from
the Atlantic to the Pacifie Oceans. The
scheme of unting the two oceans had
been talked of for a century, but it was
only now that it had assumed a defgnite
shape, and was likely to become a reahty.
Bon. Mr. HOLMES would not discuss
the question, inasmuch as public opinion
was unanimous as to the necessity of
going on with the road.
The Bill was then read a seoond time.
SECOND READINGS.

The following Bills were read a second
time:
Bill respecting Wesleyan Methodist
Church in Canada.
Bill incorporating Toronto Corn Exchange Association.
Bill mcorporatng Accident Insurance
Company.
The House adjourned, after receiving
two Bills from the Commons.
FRIDAT, June 7, 1872.
The 8PEAKER took the Chair at 3
o'clock.
Bills respecting Canada Agricultural
Insurance Company, Sorel Board of Trade,
ialifax Banking Company, and Levis
Board of Trade, were read a third tine

and passed.

AGRICULTURE.

Senator WARK made the following motion, and urged the necessity of stinulating agriculture by reference to the
stops taken in that direction in otherý
countries. Private enterprize had doue
much to improve farning in Englan*Ÿ
but our circumstances were different, and
it was best tO follow the example of Ihe
United Sates. In eaoe State there

Agriculiaral

[JUNE

7, 18792.]

were local boards assisted by grants of
public money. Some years ago, in 1862,
an Act was passed by Congress to establish a Department of Agriculture, the
duty ot which is to promote the interests
of agriculture by circulating important
information, collecting statistics, distributing seeds and plants, and so on. The
Commissioner had to make annual reports
and direct and control the expenditure of
maoney voted by Congress for the promotion of agriculture. le referred to the
last report of the Department, and showed
how extensive was the staff of the Comilasioner and the value of the work
thait ib accomplished. We could not yet
expect to do all that they were doing in
this particular in the United Stites. For
mntance, an Act had been passed to grant
Public lands for the eatablishment of colleges in each State for the education of
the people in agricultural and scientific
subjecta. In Canada we should expect
the
Minister
of
Ag iculture
to
devote henceforth more attention to an
interest which has never yet received the
consideration it should. Statistios ought
to be oollected with the view of nforming mercantile men and the people gen erally as to the state of the crops. He
would aIso have information, at the same
time, gathered in connection with the fisheries. He would also establish a system
of scientific experiments with the view of
showing causes of exhaustion of the soil,
and otherwise educating the people as to
the beet mode of farming. He was afraid
that unless the syst3m of agriculture is
changed inCanada and the UYnited 'States,
the land in many places will betthoroughly
ruined, and the country impoverished in
the course of time. The exodus of population from Quebec to a certain extent
might be traced to this very cause. The
question was well worthy of the atten
tion of philosophers and statesmen,
Whether we could not arrest this impoverishment of the soil. The fisheries of this
country had received more c.)nsideration
than the agricultural interest at the hands
of the Government. Commerce was as.
sisted by building canals and improving
navigation. Looking at the lkrge number of persons engaged in agriculture, the
capital embarked in its pursuit, and the
Value of agricultural products, it was time
that the Minister of Agriculture should
turn his attention to the subject. lie
Would therefore move
That the importance of the agricultural

In/Bresfs.

170

that great source of national wealth the
leading object of his Department.
Hon. Mr. WILMOT in seconding the
motion, said that there was no doubt that
the Niinister of Agriculture should really
get up sorne return more interesting to
the farming interest than that he annually
issued. He referred to the census of 1861
to show the importance of the agriculturai
interest as compared with other branches
He urged
of industry in this country.
the collection and dissemination of such
information as would promote agriculture.
Hon. Mr. BUREAU referred to the
Agricultural development of the Province
of Quebec and showed that it compared
most favourably with other countries.
ion. Mr LETELUIER DE SU. JUST
quite agreed as to the importance of the
question, but it was a mistake to say that
there was an inferior system of agriculture or an inferior soil in Quebec.
Hon. Mr. WARK explained that he said
that it was not improbable that many
families had been forced to leave parts of
Quebec as well as the New England States
on account of the soil having been exhausted by an injudicious system of agri..
culture.
Hon. Mr. LE TELLIER DE ST. JUST
was glad to hear the explanation, and went
on to say that the motion was not sufficiently explicit and appeared to reflect on
the Minister of Agriculture. He thought
the resolution should be more specific, and
.tefine what duties should be undertaken
by the Department.
lion. Mr. CAMPBELL said that he
agreed with his hon. friend opposite that
no practical object could be effected by
the passage of the motion. He supposed
that the honourable gentleman had
attained his object by drawmng the atten
tion of the House and country to a very
important question, and would not press
his resolution which could at present
bave no practical effect, and seemed to
reflect somewhat on the Department. !
Hon. Mr. WARK only wished to strenghb
en the hands of the present Minister of
Agriculture, who, he believed from what
he heard, would endeavor to mke the
Department beneficial to the Agricultural
interests of the Dominion. He consented
to withdraw his resolution.
TEA AND COFFEE DUTIES.

Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL moved the seâ
cond reading of the bill to repeal the duinterests of the Dominion renders it de- ties of customs on Teas and Coffees.
sirable that such measures should be
Hon. Mr. RYAN said that he had seen
adopted as will enable the Minister of it stated that the United States Govern.
Agriculture to naake the advancement of ment in taking of the duty from tes had

171

[SENATE.]

Routine

excepted teas imported froin any place
eastward of the Cape of Good flope.
lion Mr. CAMPBELL said the hon.
gentleman with his usual accuracy had
stated the fact. The Government were
considering the matter and would be prepared to deal with it.
FRAUDITLENT MARKING.

Business

172

upon enquiry he found
that the
bill not so objectionable in the partiwas
culars supposed.
It was agreed at his suggestion to read
the bill a second time, and refer it to the
Committee on Banking Commerce, and
Railways, who could consider its merite.
PRIVATE BILLS.

lon Mr. CAMPBELL moved second
Hon. Mr. )ICKSON reported favorably
reading of the bill fromi the House of for the Committee on Standing Orders and
Commons with respect to fraudulent mark Private Bills, on the Bills incorporating Ac.
ing of merchandize, alnost a transcript of cident Insurance Company of Canada; inthe English law on the saine subject. corporating Missionary Society of the
Carried.
Wesleyan
Methodist
in
Canada,
PRI NTING.
incorporating St. John Board of Trade Hon. Mr. LOCKE moved adoption of all of which were read a third time and
fifth report of the Joint Committee on passed.
Printing, ordering printing of certain
FRAUDULENT MARKINU.
publie documents, &c. Carried.
rhe louse went into Comnittee of
CANADIAN PACIFIC R. R.
the whole, Hon. Mr. MoDONALD in the
chair, and passed the
fHouse then went into Committee on the fraudulent marking of bill with respect to
merchandize.
Bill respecting the Canadian Pacifie R- R.
The Committee rose and reported
lon. Mr. BENSON in the Chair.
An amendment was made, on motion of progresslion Mr. RYAN having raised 'ome
lon. Mr. RY AN, to the 3rd clause.
doubts as to the operations of the bill.
Committee rose and reported.
The report was adopted, and the Bill
RAILWAY BILL.
was read t bird time and passed.
On motion of the Hon. Mr. OLIVIER the
DUAL REPRESENTATION.
House agreed to the amendmnents made
Bill from the liouse of Commons respect, by the Cornmons to the bill respectrng
ing Dual Representation was made Order the Quebec Frontier Railway. The bill
of the Day for Monday, as it was not print- was then read a third time and passed.
ed in French.
SECOND READINGS.

BOARD OF TRADE.

The following Bills from the liouse of
Bill from the Flouse of Commons incor- Commons were read a second time :
Ontario Shipping and Farwarding Com.
porating St. John Board of 'rade was read
second time and referred to Committee pany Bill.-lion. Mr AIKINS.
Chatham Board of Trade Bill.-Hon.
on Standing Orders and Private Bills
A large number of Bills were received Mr. BEN;SON.
Anticosti Company incorporation Bill.from louse of Commons.
louse adjourned until Saturday even- lion. Mr. PRICE.
Manitoba Bank Incorpo ation Bill- H on.
ing, at half-past seven.
SATURDAY 8th

June,

1872.

The Speaker took the chair at eight
o'clock.
BILLS oF EXCHANUE, &.

lion. Mr. DICKSON moved the second
reading of the Act to ameand the law relating to Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes.
lion, Mr. BUREAU objected to the bill
as in violation of general usage and law of
the mercantile community.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL
explained
that he had conoeived
the saine
idea with respect to the bill, but

Mr. GIRARD.
Polling Districts in Inverness,

Nova

Scotia Division Bill.-Hon. Mr. CAMP.
BELL.
St. Lawrence International Bridge Bill.
Mr. MACPHIERSON.
-HLon.
Montreal Telegraph Company extension
Bill.- Hon. Mr. RYAN.

Superior Bank of Ca2ada incorporation
Bill.-.-on Mr. CAMPBELL.
Coteau and Province Line Railway Bill.Hon. Mr. SEYMOUR.
St. Clair River Railway Bridge and
Tunnel Bill -Hon. Mr BENSON.
Voters Lista fer Elections in Nova Scotia
Revisal Bill.-Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL.

The louse then adjourned.

173

Dual

[JINE 10, 1872.1

Represetation.

174

j ]runswi-k, and Ontario. He wa conMOSnDAY, June 30.
The SPE AKER took the chair at 3 vinced that the members of the Govern.
tent themselves would neyer have
o'clock.
brought in a mneasure of such a character.
BILLS.
It did not effect-a, shoull be thettena
Hon. Mr. HAMILTON, from Committee deiicy of ail legisiation of earliamentan
on Banking, Commerce and Railways, re- assimilation but actually a division of
powers-for i sought t give te some what
ported favorably on Bills: An Act
oiepesenIf
exto be no dty
corporate the River St. Clair Railway thr
Bridge and Tunnel Company.
An Act to incorporate the Coteau and tien, let the Parliament pass a general
Province Line Railway and Bridge Com- law applicable te ail the Provinces, and
wuuld give i a favorable considetion,
pany.h
looked upn the bi as embodying
An Act to incorporate the Superiorbut
a wrong and partial principle. ne wae
Bank of Canada.
An Act to extend the Powers of the even prepared to doubt the constitutionality of the measure, inasmuch as it was
Montreal Telegraph Company.
An Act to incorporate the Anticosti outsideof our constitution te paso an Ac
rlated to arrangement made by
Company.whch
In
fadee
An Act to incorporate the St. Lawrence arliarnent wasake boe
International Bridge Company.
An Act to incorporate the Detroit River gale te an inferior authority the compte.
tien of a law. f he constitution put inte
Railway Bridge Company.
Pariaent the sovereig
An Act to incorporate the Ontario Sip-of power of con trolling the representation of
thepantaiS p
and teiororatg
Ain
ping and Forwarding Company.
All these Bills were read a third time itself but now they were asked te make it
subordinate te the legislation of a Local
and pa-sed.
ICKSN, rom omm~teeLegisiature. In this connection hie rea
DICKSON, from Committee
Hon. Mr. Hon.Mr.
on Standing (Jders and Private Bills, re- show tha the bih wa an inrinethe cons:anin rige
sent cf
ported favourably on Bills:
te
ancleupon
oarta
e
An Act to. incorporate the Toronteo t
nd the uon cae
overment
Corn Exchange Association.
aongil t poeed fure.
An Act to incorporate the Montreal and u ere
Chatham Board of Traie.
An Act to change the name of District He did not wish te see personal or priPermanent Building Society of Montreal. vate legislation introduced into the
These Bills were read a third time and Houses, and il was notorious to every one
the present bill was open te such an
passed.that
Whilst the bi concurred
passed.imputation.
with the local enactments passed in New
DUAL REPRESENTATION.
and Nova Scotia, i did nt
Hon.Brunswick
the
i
the a eg sed
readmng of the Bill from the the House of wre
haco ito
lity
Commons, with respect to Dual Repre- tie e the
non th t
t wali
prtn
sentation in Pai liament. In making the
miotion he said that he thought the prin. object of the bi was to strige a blow at
ciple established by the Legislatures of two pruminent -nen in anoîher brandi,
New Brunswick and Nova Scotia with re- and ne muet express bis strong disapspect to dual representation-that the proval of such personil legislation. When
Local Legislatures should be freed froin three provinces, representng three-fitths
any direct connection with Parliament othe population of Canada, had delared
-was correct and judicious. He was not against dual representation it was the
aware of any change of opinion in the duty ef the Governîent te bring in a
Province of New Brunswick on the measure which will net be personal in its
subject. Under these circumbtances natuie, but general in ise operation. The
second clause was a very extraordinary
he was favorable to the Bill.
Hon. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. JUST one for il gave great pewer to a person
said that he objected to the bill, because who miglit be the mere tool ef a Governit was partial in its operation, and le be- ment and dîsposed te use his authority
lieved unconstitutional in character. He unjustly and arbitrarily. Tie returning
did not understand why the Provinces of oflicer could strike off a 1 tie votes of a
Quebec British Columbia, ind Manitoba candidate, and in tact exorcise judicial
should Le exempted from its provisions, power. Il ho was a strong partisan he
in a
gas position to suit hi party ends e
whist it ap'plied te Nova Scotiab New

175

Dual

[SENATE.]

he wished. This was a bill which ought
to be considered carefully by the Sonate
and rejected as injurious to the public interests. It was for the Sonate, which
should be under the influence ol cool and
moderate counsels, to prevent any unjust
measure which had passed the lower
branch from becoming the law of the
land. It was for Parliament to declare
who shall sit in its own body ; the local
legislatures had the right to arrange its
own representation; but he did not wish
to see Parliament going beyond its funetions and passing legislation, neither equitable in its operations nor constitutional
in its provisions

Representation.

176

seemed to forget that even were it so the
constitutional difficulty would romain.
Hon. Mr. LE-1ELLIER DE ST. JUST
explained that he contended that the
Parliament of the Dominion had a rlght
to declare wh, shah be elected Vo the
louse, by a general law, without intorfering with the Local Legisiatures.
ion. Mr. CAMPBELL went on Vo say
that Parliamena was not gcverned by the
rules which were laid down by the constitution of the United Statos-not by doctrines
applicable to the relations betwoen the
Federal Government and the différent
States-but by the Constituional Act of
1867, which said in direct English that
Parliamient had full power Vo, legisate
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL replied that in upon the subject. He did not understand
approaching the discussion of the question why a man should noV say distinctly before
every member of the Sonate must be ho became a candidate for Parliament,
anxious to take no step which w--ould whether ho had resigned bis sent in the
touch the rights and privileges of the other other legisiature, especially when there
branch of the Legislature. All remember- was an act of that legisiature preventing
ed when a Bill affecting the Sonate had him fron Sitting in both. Why should the
been introduced elsewhere a large major- country be put Vo the expense and inconity upheld the rights and privileges of that venience of what might b. a mers sbm
branch. The mombers of the Senate election ? The hon. member had stated
occupied a very diferent position from thit the bi was aimed a two gentlemen
those in the other Blouse. The Senators in the otier branclh, ani1 tried t) connect
were appointed for life, if a disability thelovernent wi h its initiation. he
lnt Vo make suh an assertion atr
thea it was for life. There ought
attahed VoP
was no reason whatever why a nember the statement positivly made elsewher,
occupying a seat for lif8 shouki be debarr- that tho Bi wa introduce without le
ed from ail offices of honor under the knowledge, or consultation with V e GsyCrown. Le did noV think any membor ernmentr. The me gentleman (Mr.
should be cut off fr um such position; Vute (3ostigan) had brought forward a similar
non. member for Montreal (Hon. Mr. bilhlast session. The on. gentleman opRyan) had acted as Commissioner Vo the posito forgt that the measure would not
affect merely the Seats of two, but ocf seno one surely could say td
West Indies
that ho was Vhcreby disqualitied from con- oral gentlemen in the flouse bo ommons.
tinuing in the upper branch. Ho was IV wa urged that extraordinary power was
the
quite sure that gentlemen in the Sonate given to Returning Officor, but it was
would ho equally reluctant. Vo inVerfère In now the law that the votes f a diquahi
àny way wiVh thP rights and privileges of lied candidate ould be struck off. The
the lower flouse. The presont bill rouerr- bil was only intended Vo apply Vo tho
ed exclusively tw the circumstanchs under Provinces which, by their own fr e wi,
which the Flouse of 'ommons haw decided had legislated on the question, and ho
ho could not see any reason why it shou not
members should sit in that body, andw
be
interfere with ho passet by the Flouse.
for ene was not disposed
beon.WILMO said that ho had
Mr.
legiscation which it wao the exclusive
always been in favor f beual Representapass. If the vo
privilege of that bra7-ch
tion, and had noV seen anything since
suggestion of the hon memb er for rand
ville was adopted and the Sonate should 1867 Vo induce him o change bisopinion.
e vas net in favor of changing the logisinterfe with the rights and qualifications
af
the ommons thon an invitation was ex lation of Ontario-ît would be an improper
pursue the sae interférence with the Local Legimaeure.
wo
toaded Vo the latter
failed
lon. Mr, CHRISTIE said that
su
eourse in relation Vo the Lpper flouse,
Ho did noV consider the constitutional Vo diicover that the Postmater General
Vhs hon. gentleman as sound had answered the argument cf the bon.
argument of
or tenbe. That hon, gentleman had meber from Grandville who had dclare
attacked the bil as unconstitutional and that the bll was unconstitutional becas
thon went ontVo ay that he would noV it made the legisation cfParliament cnobject ifu were made applicable Vo Quet ingent on the action of the Local Logi
be and the other Provinces, but ho laure. The on. geefer-then had ïùd

177

Dual

[JUNE 10, 1872.]

Representation,

178

that the American authorities quoted by for under the bill-a power not given him
the hon. member from Grandville had no by any other statute ever passed. If the
relation to the subject, inasmuch as they returning officer acted unjustly what rereferred to republican institutions. Now dress would the candidate have?
lon. Mr, CAMP BELL said that he
the principles of American legislation were
could peti ion, and have the case examin
based on principles of British legislationthey were essentially the same. The Pro. ed by the Committee on contraverted
v incial Legislatures in relation to the Fe- elections.
RISTIE said that he could
Hon. Mr. CH
deral Parliament might be compared with
the State Legislatures in relation to Con- not appear before the Committee, for it
l'he hon. gentleman here read might be that he was not even reoognized
gres.
from the authorities quoted by hon, Mr. as a candidate-he might not even
Letellier de St, Just, to show that they be nominated. Such a case was very
were exactly in point, and then went on likely to happen, there had been cases of
to say that the precise eflect of the bill returning officers actually returning themselves. le was opposed to dual repreought to be declared in plain Englishthat any persons in New Brunswick, Nova sentation, but he certainly could not sup.
Scotia, and Ontario shall not sit in the port a measure which was at once partial
louse of Commons if they are disqualitied and unconstitutional in character.
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL said that when
by the act of the Local Legislature, but
that nevertheless persons similarly situ- the subject of dual representation came
ated, from Manitoba, British Columbia, up in ihe legislature of New Brunswick,
and Quebec, shall be eligible to ait in the unlike his hon. friend behind him (Mr.
general Parliament. He considered it Wilmot) he had been in favor of the policy
perfectly legitimate for the Senate to which was then adopted by that body. He
reject the bill if it should deem such a was not going to question the propriety
couse advisable notwithstanding what the of the course pursued by the legislatures
Postmaster General had said against of Qaebec, Manitoba, or British Columbia,
any interference with the rights of the but he was clear on this point, that if one
other flouse. The Senate was one of the Province of the Dominion chose to adopt
Estates of the Dominion, and all measures the policy of abolishing dual representa.
had to come under its supervision ; and he tion it was only right that Parliament
for one was not wilng to see that branch should as far as possible carry out the
become a more cypher, a more recording wishes of the majority in that Province.
body. He held it one of the special duties He thought the constitutional point raised
of an Upper Chamber that it should in- by the Opposition to the measure had been
terfere with any measure that was partial fully answered by the remarks of the
and personal in its character. He found Hon. Postmaster General. This legisla.
that there were in the flouse of Commons tion, now asked for, was not dependent
four members of the local Government upon a contingency-upon the legislation
ana thirteen members of the local legisla- of the Province. If the bill contained a
ture of the Province of Quebec. Two provision that the Act -hould not go into
members of the Legislative Council of cperation until something was done by
Quebec were in the Senate. The Speaker the Legislature of Ontario, then it might
of that body was also a member of the be considered a opntingent legislation.
Legialature of that Province. Referring Ie found that in three of the Provinces a
to the Province of Manitoba ho found that policy had been laid down by the legisla.
one member of the Local Assembly was in ture as to the men who should sit in the
the Senate, and two members of the same Assemblies, and the present law was inbody were in the House of Commons. tended toapply to thAt state of thingsThis state of things was not interfered to carry out the spirit and intention of the
with, but when we came to the Province locaL statutes. The hon. member who
last spoke (Mr. Chr.istie) had said thr he
of Ontario, the case was very differentthe members, of the Local Legislature are knew of no statute where a ju:licial power
not to have the right to sit in Parliament was given to a returning officer as was the
So far as Ontario was concerned, the Bit case in the bill. Now by reference to the
went further than the Legislature of thait legislation of New Brunswick it would be
Province contemplated when it passed it! sound that there was a law on the statute
local Act,and that fact of itself showed aon . book, iii which the Returning Officer had
clusively that Parliament was nowasked t o the power given him to declare a candistop beyond its jurisdiction and interferi date disqualified to be voted for or reunnecessarily in local legislation. lie ob turned in case lie did not place his
jected mont emphatically to giving judica l declaration of qualification in the
power to the returning of0icer, as provide d hands of the former within a certain

179

Dual

time, As a member of the Government
he denied most emphatically having
mitiated any legislation with the view of
affecting the seats of particular gentlemen
in the other branch. The Government
had not, directlyr or indirectly, in9pired
the measure, they had simply dealt with
it as they dealt with every question which
came before them, as public men bound
to give every subject their most, careful
consideration. He, for one, would be
sorry to see the gentlemen in question excluded from Parliament, as it was advisable to have in that body the best men
we oould have. As respects the probabihty of an injustice being done to a candi.
date by a returning officer. it must be
borne in mind that he had his right of
appeal to a Committee of the iouse.
Bon. Mr. CIRI[TIE-liow can a per.
son who is declared ineligible to appear
as a candidate come before a committeehe is not recognized ?
Hon. Mr. MITCEI.KLL-Every person
has the right of petitioning Parliament
anti asking for redress. If a candidate
was improperly excluded by the returning offioer he could petition Parliament
Jhe bill was no
and obtain a remedy.
interference with local legislation,

Representation.

[SENATE.]

the

Parliament simply defined its own rights
and expressed its wishes with respect to
its own representation. He referred to
the Election Law to show that the rejected candidate had a right to appear before
the Committee of the House. Under any
circumstanoes, he contended it was not
untoual to legislate for one province dif.
ferehtly from another. The ballot was
still in operation in New Brunswick,
whilst open votiug was retained in Quebec and Ontario.
Hon. Mr. LETELLIER DEST. JUSTThe Government did not find themselves
strong enough to bring in a general men.sure respecting the mode of conducting
elections.
11on. Mr. MITCHELL -The Government
tu govern in acoordance with the
prse
"well understood wishes of the people."
The Government would not .attempt to in
tefere with those rights and privileges to
which the people of a Province professec
an nttachment. No one demed that the
Senate should criticize and deal with every
measure that came up fron the other
branieh but what the Hon. Posturister
General úrged was that the Senate ahould
not interfere unduly with a mesure of a
speelal Character, aflecting the interests
and privileges of gentlemen in the Oomm
mons.
lion. Mr. LBTELLIER !DE ST. JUST
said that whilst the hon. gentlemen op-

180

posite professed a great inditierence, tbey
certainly displayed a large amount ofearn.
estness - in, fact, excitement, - whilst
discussing the question.
Hon. Mr. MKLCHELL said that the Government discused that measure, as they
did all public acte with earnestness; but
they did not instigate the Bill.
lion, Mr. LETELLIER DE SI'. JUST
contended that the Bill was only establishing partial legislation, and that the duty
of the Senate was clearly to reject it. il
did not understand the argument of. the
Hon Postmaster General, that the Sonate
should not interfere with such a, question.
lion. Mr. CAMPBELL had only .eferred
to the expediency or propriety of igterfering with a measure of that kind.
Hon. Mr. LETELLIEU DE $T. JM5£
aid that the apphcation of the elective
principle to the old Legisintive Cquncil
had en mooted in the Hlouse of 48sem
bly. He did not ses why the Senate
should not declare what wu bet for the
general welfare of the country. The.Ipv.
ernment were aware that the bill was
partial and exceptional in its character,.
lion. Mr. (AbMPBELL--The Government know nothing of the kind.

Hon. Mr. LETELLIER DE T JUs.Well the press of the country had revesled
the motive at-the bottom of the measure.
Hon. Mr. McLELAN said that the Logislature of Ontario went as far as it coludito
declare against dual represontation, bu.itjt
could not/ deline the qualifications ,f a
candidate for the House of Comma ,nad
therefore it was left for Parliamena, to
perfect the legilationnm the questi.n.
lie referred to the practical workings of a
similar measure in Nova Scotia to illus.
trate some oithe effeots of the B!W,
lion. Mr. RZESOR said that it was imot
a matter of surprise that the. Ministerof
Justice had not voted for the Bil, for he
muet have had his d>ubts as to its osastitutionality. By reference tpe the Con
stitutional Act it would beseenhat , the
Loosl Legislature baid exclusive ,jurisdiction over the property.. andcivi* rig 4
of the Province. It svas ol4vioue that it
was an interference wkth auqh riAgte to
tell them that they should not aaçl te
candidate they hose to the f4ous of
Commons. A question mnight al
e
raised as to the propraetyjofshig, one
person elected for two en tituenciesr spd
allowing him subsequently 9,t selqet is
seat. Tat privilege whih hadeziptd
from time immemorial ,was more çoegra
ordinary than the one whi"h would<alow
oneperson.bing eleoted for,t"oleg*a-

tures.

ne

hM bmeen salways o ppo4 40

Dual

[JUNE 10, 1872.]

interference with the rights of the people,
and believed they should exercise the
privilege of electing men to both Legislatures; for he >elieved there would be
nany cases where such a provision would
b. benefi3ial te the public interéests.
'the present Bill went still farther
of Ontario, and
the law
than
litited the selection of a candidate by a
constituendy. If a constituency favored a
particutar candidate for the House of
Oommons, he could be elected under the
lâw of Ontàrio as it now stands, but if the
Bill was passed then he must first resign
his seat lu the Untario Legislature. If he
was not returned, then the country would
lôse the bénefit of his services altogether..
Hon. Mr. McMASTER said that the Gov.
ernment repudiated all connection with
the Bil, but it was a remarkable fact that
thé gentleman who proposed the same
mueasure last year was opposed by them,
whiléthis séssion they pursued an entirely
different course. The warmth displayed
by members of the Government in discussing the question showed how much interest they took in the matter. It would be
remeifbèed that the late Premier of Ontario strongly opposed the rejection of the
principle of dual representation, but publie opinion became se strong at last that
he was forced te -yield to the extent of
providing that the members of the Local
Govetiment should not be elected to sea ts
in thé Dominion Parliament. When the
present Premier of Ontario came into
pOwer he brought in a measure stipulating
that dual répresentation should be abolish.
ed, but., was not te go into operation
until the new Parliatnent was elected.
Under that Bill no member of the Local
Legislature, whether connected with the
Government or not, could ait in the Com.
ru6ns, but · ntil Parliament met the members of the Lol Government could retain
their eats in the Local Legilature-they
iight remain there for eue session, in
fati, Now the present bill set aside thit
Qt, ànd he would net vote for it inasmuch
as it was, in his opinion, a most unwarratiraMe interference with the rights of
the Local Legislatires.
Iloi;. Mr. BUREAU only wished te add
a few reiaiks to show the imperfections
Of'the Bill. The provision giving powerto
the returning eflicer was without precedont, andinust have the most injurious
resulte. Power was given te that officer
to) dede, withont appeal, if a candidate ii éligible lor net in the sense of
thé m'ý,.The first section stated that
uepérèon bhall be eligibte te or capable
Of b.tg nôdiinted*fr the ieuse of Comuib)o If -on1the dÈi of nniiation'he is a

Representation.

182

member of the Legislative Council or
Assembly of any Province where dual representation has been abolished. Now
suppose a member of one of these Local
Legislatures should place his resignation
in the hands of the Speaker, as is the
custom, in order te qualify himself te ap.
pear as a candidate for th.e Federal Parliament, and suppose the Returning
Officer thought proper te ignore or pretend,
te ignore such a resignation. Would it
not be possible for an unscrupulous Returninz Officer te deny the authenticity or
legality of this resignation? The expe
rience of the past ought te put us on our
guard. What authority was proposed to
regulate the dispute between the Returning Officer and the candinate in question?
On a matter of such grave moment it was
net even proposed te allow the same preteetion which the humblestr person was
able te demand at the hande of the
tribunals of the Dominien. Yet the Government were willing te assume the re.
sponsibility of such dangerous legislation.
In fact, if we examined the arbitrary pro.
visions of the bill, with the Act providing
for the independence of Parliament, any
one muet be convinced of the truth of bis
assertions. The Act set forth that n.
one shall be eligible or shall take his seat
or vote, if he shali be disqualified nueorde,
ing te the Act. These were als the same
terms used by the Legislature of Ontari&.
during its last session. Is theI Returning
Officer, in either case, constitutca the sole
judge. No. Yet the Government om
the eve of a - general election, sup.
novel an4
a measure se
ported
impolitic. The Hon. Postmaster Gene.
ral hed said the bill would sava
expense, but that was an errer; for sh0oW4
it happen that the returning ofliQera
should be summoned te the bar of th*
Chamber, every day devoted te the neoessary enquiry vould entail a heavy expense, and retard the progress of legisla.
tien. In whatever hîght he considered
the Bill, he saw reason te regret that it
was introduced ; but in any case it ought
te be amended so as te take away fron'
the returning officer a power which ought
only te be exercised by the Législature or
the regularly constituted tribunals for the
trial of contested elections.
Lon Mr. WARK objected te the power
given te the returning officer as extraor.
nary, and likely te lead te abuse&. Re
wished te see our legislation of universal
application, net partial in its operations,
as would be the case with the present
measure should it become law. lie waa
not opposed te dual representation. and
had always entertained the same oiïou.

183

Dual

[SENATE:]

He thought the Parliament should not
deal hastily with the qgestion, but wait
until we had more experience of the prac.
tical results of the working of the new
system. He pointed out the expense
and inconvenience that a candidate
coming from Nova Scotia or New Brunswick would be subject to in case lie had to
appear before an Election Committee. lf
the Government had brought in a bill to
have a trial in the Province itself the case
might be diflerent.
lion. Mr. SUTHERLAND was unwilling
to vote without expressing his opinion
that the measure was objectionible
to him.
It appeared to him that
the

Bill

was

intended

to

steal

a march on the Legislature of Ontario, and
he did not believe that was the proper
time or legitimate way of dealing
with the matter. He was not opposed to
a general measure, but he could not vote
for a Bill so partial in character.
The question of concurrence being put
the louse divided and the names being
calied, for they were taken down as
follows:
Çontents.-Hon, Messieurs Aikins, Armand, Benson, Botsford, Burnham, Campbell, Carrall, Chapais, Cornwall, Dickson,
Dumouchel, Ferrier, Foster, Girard, Ham.
ilton,.(Kingston), Holmes. Lacoste, Leslie,
McClelan, McLelan, Macdonald, Mitchell,
Odell, Panet, Perry, Read, Ryan. Shaw,
-28.
Non-Contents.-Ion. Messieurs Blake,
Bureau, Chaffers, Christie, Cormier, Flint,
Guevremont. Leonard, Letellier de St. Just,
MoMaster, Malhoit Olivier, Price, Reesor,
Seymour Simpson. Sutherland, Wark,

Representation.

184

Charlotte County Comissionners of Pilots
Bill (Hon. Mr. Compbell.)
Hudson's Bay Company Loan amendment Bil. (Hon. Mr. Campbell.)
Hafifax Harbor Master's apppointment
Bill. (lion. Mr. Mitchell.)
Nova Scotia Shipping of Seamen Bill.
(lon. Mr. Mitchell.)
Bridges Bill. (Hon, Mr. Campbell.)
St Lawrence and Ottawa Railway Bill.
iHon Mr Macpherson.)
The flouse went into Committee and
passed :
Fraudulent marking of merchandize
Bill. (Hlon. Mr. Campbell.); also Polling
Districts in Inverness, Nova Scotia Division Bill. (lon Mr Campbell); also Vo.
ters Lists lor Elections in Nova Scotia Revised Bill. (lon Mr Campbell.)
These three bills were passed and sent
back to Gommons.
A number of bills were received from.the
Commons.
The House then adjourned.
TUEsDAY, June 11, I2.
The SPEAKER took the chair at 3
o'clock.
BILLS.

Hon. Mr. HAMILTON, from Committee
on Banking, Railways and Commerce, r.
ported up the Bill with respect to Blls of
Exchange and Promissory Notes, with
amendnent, adopting the law of merchants which prevails everywhere.
Also, bills to amend the St. Lawrenoe
and Ottawa Railway Act.
To incorporate Banque Ville Marie.
To grant additional powers to the Montreal and Ottawa Railway Company.
To incorporate Canada Improvement
So it was resolved in the affirmative, Company.
and
These bills were read a third time and
The said Bill was then read a second passed.
time accordingly.
Hon. Mr. DICKSON, from Committee
on Standing Orders and Private Bills, r&
AFTER RECESS.
ported favorably on petitions of Angus
The following Bills were read second Morrison and others ; and of Dominion
Trust Company.
time :Banque Ville Marie incorporation Bill.
CONTINGE NT ACCOUNTS.
(lion. Mr. Letellier de St. Just)
Hon. Mr. SEYMOUR presented a report
Inmigration Act Amendment Bill.
from the Committee on Coatingent Ac(Hon. Mr. Campbell.)
Canada Improvement Comf any Bill. counts. Adopted.
[lion. M.r. Ryan.)
WEIITS AND MEASURLES.
North Western Trading Company Bill.
(Hon. Mr. Benson.)
Lion. Mr. RYAN made the motion of
Ottawa Vaudreuil, and Montreal Railway which lie had given notice on a previous
Eil. (Hon. Mr. Flint.)
day : That an humble Address be presentCanada Central Railway amendment ed to His Excellency the Governor
Bill. (Hon, Mr. Benson.)
General, praying that (during the interval
Public Works Act deubts removal Bill. between the dissolution of the presént
Hon. Mr. Campbell.)
and the assembling of a new Parlianient),

Routine

[JUNE 11, 1872.]

Business.

186

steps may be taken by the appointment of time before the meeting of Parliament

a commission of enquiry or otherwise, to
Obtain such full and correct information as
maay enable the Government to submit to
Parliament at its next session, a Bil or
Bills, providing •
lat. One uniform system of weights and
maeasures throughout tne Dominion.
2nd. The purchase and maintenance at
convenient places of accurate and reliable
standards of length, weight and capacity,
including standards for the measurement
of gas.
3rd. A zegular and general inspection
of all weights aad measures throughout
the Dominion.
The hon. gentleman stated that the sub
ject had occupied the attention of the
liouse for some time. In 1870 a special
committee was appointed to make enquiry
into the subject of coins, and weights
and measures throughout the Dominion.
That Committee made a report which was
adopted by the Senate, and after detailine
certain circumstances stated that they were
" of opinion that no time should be lost in
establishing by law a uniform system of
weights and measures throughout the
Dominion. The duty of initiating legis
lation on a subject of such importance
necessarily devolves upon the Government, and the Committee are of opinion
that another session should not be allowed
to paso without a measure being submitted
to Parliament.'' Two measures were subnitted to Parliament, one of which estab.
lished the metric system. Another measure dealing with the general subject of
weights and measures, and approaching
the organization of a uniform systein was
also submitted, but when it came to be
considered, it was not considered suffi,
Ciently perfect, and the Governtment accordingly withdrew it. He did not think
that the country had lost anything by the
Wthdrawal of that measure inasmuch as
since that time great progress has been
Made in Great Britain towards establishing
the best system of weights and measures.
A Royal Commission had been sitting now
for tive years, and their measure was about
Complete. They had already publishe<
fivevolumnous reports, including also the
Suject of measurement of gas. The meaSure, however, was not yet before the
Inperial Parliament, though there was no
doubt it would be there during the present session. Under these circumstances
it appeared te him that when the subject
ws considered of such importance, that it
demxianded the attention of a Commission
CompOsed Of the most eminent men, iiicluding the Astronomer Royal, the Gov.
ernment in this country ought to take

to prepare a measure which will satisfy the
people.
Hlon. Mr. CAMPBELL replied that
the Government would consent to
the
motion.
The question
had
already occupied the attention of the Ggvernment, but there were considerable
difficulties in the way arising out of the
different practices in the different Provinces. A new Parliament, no doubt,
would be called upon to deal with the
question.
The motion was amended, at the suggestion of lion. Mr. Letellier de St. Just,
to add water metres.
SECOND READINGS.
The following bills were read a second
time :Dominion Trust Company's Bill-( lon.
Mr. Aikins.)
Manitoba Insurance Company Billlion. Mr. Girard.)
Western Assurance Company Amendment Bill-(lon. Mr. Macpherson.)
Patents of Invention Bill-(Ron. Mr.
Campbell.)
Imperial Guarantee and Loan Society
Bill-(ion. Mr. Macpherson )
DUAL REPRESENTATION.

The House thon went into Committee
on the Bill with respect to Duai Reprosen.
tation,
Hon. Mr. BENSON in the chair,
lion. Mr. LETELLIER DE 8T. JUST
moved an amendment, making the Bill
applicable to aill the Provinces.
don. Mr. B!) JSFORD said that this was
intended as a side wind to destroy the
bill. The New Brunswick members had no
desire to interfere with the other Provinces-they should be allowed to deal
with the question as they should think
proper.
Hon Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. JUST
said that the intention was only to give
a wider scope to the bill.
Hon. Mr. GIRARD contended that the
principle embodied in the amendment was
unconstitutional; the people of the Provinces'in question ought first to be allowed
to express their own opinions on the sub.
ject.
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL, 'n reply to the
statement that the legislation was personal,
stated one of the gentlemen in the other
branch who were to be affected, had else.
where suggested the amendment which
made the Bill applicable to Ontario, and
actually voted for it.
the question was put and the motion
lo-t.

17

Routine

[SENATE.]

lion. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. JUST
proposed another amendnent. That after
the flrst clause the following proviso be
added: Provided that the Act will not interfére with or invalidate in any way whatever with the provisions or enactmnents of
an Act paissed by the Legislature of
Ontario at its last 2*ession, chapter 4, entitléd, " An Act to render inembers of the
House of Commons ineligible as members
of the Local Legislatures of Ontario."
Hon. Mr. BOTSFORD said that he must
oppose the amendment, and expressed his
surprize that an attempt should be made
to defeat'the wishes of the louse of Commons wth respect to a matter concerning
their own rights and privileges.
The motion was lost on division.
Hon. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. J UST
proposed another amendment against the
cla e respecting Returning Officers.
Te Committee rose and reported the
Bill without amendment.
Hon. Mr. BUREAU moved that the Bill
be referred back to committee to amend
it seo as to provide that the Returning
Officoers shall have under it only the same
duties and powers as are now imposed
upon them.by law.
Hon. Mr. CHRISTIE seconded the
amendment.
On a division the amendment was lost
by the following vote : Contents 13 ; Non
Contents 25.
The Bill was then read a third time on
division.
IMMIGRATION.

Hou;e again went into Committee on
thqemmnrigration Bill,
oen. Mr, MoItASTER in the chair, and
passed it with an amendment. Committeo rose and report was adopted.
The Bill was then read a time and pass.
ed.
BILLS.
Following Bills also went through Committee, and were read a third time and
paseid :
Nova Sootia Shipping of Seamen Bill(lion. Mr. Mitchell.)
Briiges Bill-(iion. Mr. Campbell)
Tea and Coffee Duties Bill-(Hon. Mr.
CapoelL.)
Anticosti Incorporation Bill-(Hon. Mr
Price.)
Halifax 1barbor Master's Bill-r Hon. Mr.
Mtchell.)
liudson's Bsy Co. Loan Bill-(ion. Mr.
Carmpbell.)
Immigration Act Amondment Bill- (lion
Mr. Campbell,)

Business.

188

Public Works Act doubts removal Bill(lion. Ur. Campbell.)
Chirlotte County Commissioners of,
Pilots Bitl-(Fon. Mr. Campbell.)
SECOND SITTING.
NEW BRUNSWICK SCHOL SYSTEM.

Hon. Mr. WARK-I feel that nothing
but the importance of the subject about
which I am about to ask a question can excuse me for trespassing on the attention
of the House at the present time. Those
who have read the discussion in the proe
and elsewhere on the Educational Act of
New Brunswick must feel the conviction
that there is a prevaleut opinion ttiat -the
Legislature of that province has been
guilty of an act of injustice to a portion of
the people. i am as conversant with the
whole legislation of that province as any
person in this Parliament, and, therefore,
I feel, reading these articles and speeches,
that I should explain the real facts of the
case. I would refer especislly to one
paragraph, a translation in the Witnes
from La Minerve, which contains these
words :-"

The vote of Wednesday affects

in a serious manner the feelings we have
entertained towards men who owe to us
almost all the positions they occupy. Wb
cannot forget that these men of New
Brunswick and Nova Scotia, at present
Ministers by favor of the Conservative
party of Ontario and Quebec, belong to
the so-called Liberal schooli and their
present conduct forces us b consider
their alliance as the saddest of political
necessities. They have inflicted on us an
odious injustice at this time. Lot, them
rest assured that henceforth we shall look
for revenge to the day when We shall is
them out of the door." Now I believe
this extract is taken from a respectable
paper, those words certainly could only
have been penned under the infiuence of
wounded feelings, under the belief that a
deep injury had been done to the writer's
co-religionists.
It is understood that
what we oalled special grants have been
made for educational purposes f1ir a great
number of years, but the origin of those
grants is not generally known. In the
province of New Brunswick, whei firt established as a separate province, as was
the case in most colonies, the governing
class was chiefty, or almost exelusively,
members of the Church of England . I
could not give a better proof of this fthà
by referring to the fact that when I 4mit.
ered public lite, 30 years ago, the whole
Executive Council, the whole Legislatife
Council, with two exceptions, :Uid the
niembers of the House of Assembly *ith'

N. B. School

[JUNE

11, 1872.]

thirteen exceptions, members of that
church. In the province the necessity of
education for the better classes was
A college
felt at an early period.
was incorporated by a colonial charter
about the berinning of the present century. It had grants of lands for its endowment as well as grants of money. in 1828
a royal çharter was granted, and provided
that the Bishop of the Diocese, and for
the time being should be the Visiter. The
Archdeaoon was the President, and the
Council was to be composed of persons
who should subscribe tW the 39 articles of
the Church of England. This state of
things was not satisfactory to many persons,
but at, that time the friends of the institutiowoaontended that the Legislature could
not alter or amend a royal charter. In the
course of time denominations commenced
te eome in and ask for grants to provide
for education for those in whom they were
interested. The Baptists got a grant of
£200 which was subsequently increased te
£1,000, and latterly tW £1,200. The We.loyans got £360 for a Male Aoademy, and
subsequently for a Female Academy, they
obtained £1,200. At a later period the
Congregationglists and the Presbytmrians
came in and got grants. In connection
with the University there was another in.
stitution, but for a different object, and
that was the Madras School for the education of the humble classes. The Bishop,
Rector and Churchwardens of the Trinity
Churih, were at the head of this institution
which aso held a royal charter. The only
person oonnected with il, who waa not a
iember of the Church of England, was
the Presbyterian clergyman of St. John.
.His successor, howeVer, was not provided
for. This matter gave the same cause of
complaint to the humble classes that the
to those
given
had
University
education.
higher
in
intrested
Th. fist grant, that was made was in 1841,
and 1 give the exact words- iTo the
Justices of the Peace for the City and
CoRmty of SL John, £250, towards the
support of a free sohool established in the
said city .unconneoted with· the Madras
Boar'd." -p 1842 the grant was continued
tn exactly the same words. At that time
no denomination is mentioned. In 1843
the 4ct rçad-" To the Justices of the
eior, the City and County of St. John
Pea6
In aid of individual subécription toward
the supuorl
ré
the Roman Catholic 1ohool
estabM in the sai4 City, and now in
ostefficient operation, the sum of £150."
in i64 tse firat year I entered the House
semby, a petition came up from
Of ;s
Porgaund, whicis i. almost a part of -St.
Joh, "fro, the Rev. Mr. Dunphy, whch

Systen.

190

was referred to a Committee on $àhool
Petitions of which I was a member. I
may observe as a proof of the kindly
feeling which existed at that time towards
the Roman Catholics that though there
was not a member of that body in the
House of Assembly, the five individuals
who were on the Committe W.ecommended
the grant, and it was made in these teins:
" To the Rev. James Dunphy, of St. John,
in aid of the individual subscription te
establish a free school in the pa;rish of
Portland." This is a grant similar to that
made two years before to the Justices of
the Peace. The object was to establish
free schools where the teachings shold
not interfere with their religious convic.
tions. The Madras Board had a number
of schools scattered over New Brtns*dk.
at important points, and other schodS1
gradually sprang up in the sarne'neighborhood, and was supported by the grant%
'n question. These began gradually t, be
school grants to Roman Catholios, and
they went on increasing from the ttme t
have mentioned. In 1856 the amounts
stood on the statute book as follows:-The Baptist Academy £150; the Wes.
leyans £700; Madras Schoo · £400,
and
there was a grant nade - to
a very worthy clergyman in St. John
of £50 more. The Milltown Academy in
oonnection with the Congregationalists
had £200. At that time the Roman Catholic grants stood thus: Chatham, £50; St.
John, £150; Portland, £30; Memramcook,
£150; Fredericton, £150; St. Stephen's,
£100; St. Andrew's, £75. These grants
of 1856 are the last that apper on the
Statute Book of New Brunswiôkls e
tW any particular denotnination. After
that the moneys were granted for %ddca.
tional purposes ànd the Goverfirnent 'ditributed them. There is net a lie n the
Statute Book to show that there was' Étiy
grant for religious objects up to the
present time. In 1870 the Baptists received $1,200; the Wesleyans, $2,800; the
Milton Aoademyý $600; the Nadius
School, $1,600. Tbe Bishop of Fredericton had $200 for a free school; and there
was one Church of Englandfree tehoolin
St. John that received $200. and an<ther
that received $70. The grants t tthe
Chumh of Bngland, therefore, amotnted
to $2,070. The Presbyterian school ut St.
Stephen's had $150; the Academy t
Chatham, $500, and $500 at Nyoodstock.
The grants to the Roman Catholiosiad
raised, for they were receiving $300 I a
school at St. Andrew's, $000 at Fredeiricton, $600 at St. John, $400 at Miton,
$24) at Carleton, $600 at Ohathmm, $400
for the Madawaska, $300 at Woodtobk,

191

N. B. &hool

[SENATE.]

System.

192

$200 at Portland, $400 at Bathurst, $400 part of il as a poi tax. The amount thug
at Newcastle, $100 at St. Stephen.
raised is distributed amon% the achools in
Hon. Mr. BOTSFORD-You must add proportion to the ciass of the ochQois.
Memramcook, $400.
Thn i is also provided that eech sehool
Hon. Mr. WARK-I have not been able district shah elect its own truste«, and
to verify that, but I will add it These that they shal raise what they eau afford
sums make a total of $4,840. This is a for a teacher. The trustees are bound te
fair statement of the state of thing at the get a share of the county assessinent, and
time the New School Act of New Bruns. if it is a poor district there is a provision
wick came into operation. With respect that they shall receive something more,
to the University I may mention that in about oneiifLhI think. Thoeffeeto! tbis
the course of time the Legislature began legisiationisthis-we.hadg927 schools in
to insist upon a change in its constitution. 1871, and they were ail free. Thon the
It is now divested altogether of its college was placed on sucha liberal bapis
denominational character, and is govern that nobody could object to it. Under
ed by a benate consisting entirely these circumstauces the causes thaI led te
of laymen. That Senate has been so en- denominational grants had ceaed te exist.
larged as to leave roorm for each dono. The Goverument were then i a position
minatipn of christians in the Province to be b say-we can t continueThese grants;
represepted. When young men enter the w have established free
schools,
he
University, they have to inlimale
Through is placed on a liberal footing,
University
their parents or guardians what church and there is no necessity for any
fperde
they wish te attenda Al the churches standing aloof. We were in the sane po
are within a mile of the University, and sition te say to the Madras Board,-Vau
therefore there is no diffLulty on that were incorporated te educate the indigent
pot. Tii. people of New Brunswick feit and have pent your grants on 14 fre,
that they were behand other Provinces schools-we are prepared te give libersl
with respect te Common Sehool Education, school education in 927 to both poor ind
and therefore they passed laws now iu rich. W could say
e the Roman Gathequestion to establish free schaols through- lies,--We have given you grauts by way i
eut the whole Pi ovince. It lias been al. relie!' froin the. leachings of wbich you
eged that the present law is less favor. coiplained, but now a i this i. swept
able to lhe Roman Cathhies than the e
away-it is ne longer necssary t provide
se
in existence previously. Now 1 wish te achools fer you, for we have provided 'tbat
state very brietly the leading fealures ef The oesnhoots are fren.if those 9
both laws. u the first place the principles
chools, there were 239 Roman Cathoijo
were laid dewn tha in order te have ei- teachers, whe wauld be
enough for everY
cient achools the teachers ought t b school
thrat tie require in t a Province
trained, and we established a rcdel Under ghese circuaf
etonc
the Iouse pil
sahool for that purpose. Another feature see that the present lawrsflot le s favrof the law was the uniformity of bookt in able te any particular clats than tat
troduced into ail the schools. Another wich ba been repealed. As an illusrea
feature was this-thiat when the leachers tien ef the. kindly spirit in which botb
got trained, they were exected te go and Protestant and Roman Cathoi worked
introduce the new systein wherever they iu loinmer limes 1 niay mention tint wbenl
were employed, and Inspectors were
was a Shool Truste
was asoianed
gter
employed te foylow psem and se. hat with Rev. clr. Paquet-he lok
they discharged their duties. These the rench scheols
and s collagU
features were arse contained in
new attended te lt. English- isand id tue
,e
we
panr
dAY
law. The great diflerence between the moat pefet confidence i hi,
iwo systems is this-the teaches were jiel
bin iu fgo
nie
atechervidrtha
cls
ed lu first, second, ad third cass
ctes Weh l a ilol ore trkig
e92
and according te the clas they recived amples t e
ibherality3
and dty liDg
a gratd mal or large,
trom lhepublie when Dr. Dollard ws
oishp te whee
et
lunds. They receive exactly 1h. same Province of New Brunswick. Soon atter bis
Fredri.
now, but formerly theteacher had te go appoinme t he et te reside uin
bargain wilh ton, le acceptedthe olice oTrustée if
and make hea wn
thoo employers,
and
ad l colle t &hools his collaues wer eev. rthe anhurch Of
could Brook d a clergyman lsof
salary as best o
is ow
Under the present system i s protder Enlasd, b think le.
A n. ithua
tfat a tax s
-hil levied on the who e These bre gentlemen met fro t e thO
be
shooliswor, th
county, ameunting te 30 cents per head of lime and examin d aae
the total population, t b. levi ed on ral ciy. The. utMrst crdialty lexited e
and personal property, and income, ned tween theo, e n
gli
t e bhe0aOP

193

MV. B. Sc&hool

[JUNE 11, 1872.]

found in those schools the children of hie
church receiving their education aide by
aide with Protestants he was, doubtless,
sati-fied that they were not suffering either
religiously, morally, or intellectually by
this contact. I regret that the same kindly feeling does not exist now, but with
that I have nothing to do. I have simply
endeavored to state as succinctly as possible the circumastances connected with the
school grants, with the view of dispelling
a large amount of prejudice that appears
to exist on the subject. Without further
remarks I will now ask the Government
whether in preparing the case to be submitted to the Law officers in England they
intend consulting the Government of New
Brunswick.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-I am quite certain that the hon. member has done good
service by dispelling a considerable misconception that exista on the subject to
which he bas drawn attention. I have
no doubt that the statement which he has
made is perfectly accuratefor he las been
in a position to know all the facts of the
case. With reference to the question
asked, I beg to say that in preparing the
case the Government will be anxious to
have it aocurately given on both sides, and
therefore they will take care that the
Government of New Brunswick is consuited in reference to the matter.
Hon. Mr. LETELLIEU DE ST. JUbT-I
would not have arisen to make any re.
marks had I not felt the speech of the
hôn. gentleman could not be allowed to
pass in silence. I regret that this ques.
tion bas been brought before this House,
sud that we are obliged to protest against
the assertions of the hon. member. I
muat say that justice has not been done
to the minority in New Brunswick What
was granted to the minorities in Ontario
and Quebec has not been conoeded to the
Roman Catholics of New Brunswick.
When the hon. gentleman would have us
infer that the New Brunswick law is in
aceordance with the constitutional Act,
then I say that he as not exanined the
case thoroughly and seen what is the result of that Statute. The members ot
that particular church are excluded from
being teachers among their co-religionists.
lion. Mr. WARK-There were 239
Roman Catholic teachers in New Bruns.
wick, teaching under the present law.
Hon. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. JUSTOne of the features of this Act is such that
it enabled those who have care of the educational system to make regulations to
determine who shall be the teachers of
the Catholics. By these regulations they
have said that no priests, no person de-

System.

194

voted to religlous instruction, shall be
recognized as capable of becoming teachers amaong their co-religionists. Under
these circumstances we would be wanting
in our duty if we did not protest against
the remarks of the hon. member. I regret
that the legislation of New Brunswick
was not vetoed by the Governor General,
for such a course would have allayed great
irritationthat now exists.
Hon. Mr. WA RK-I simply stated what
led to the legislation of New Brunswick,
and the reasons they had for abandoning
the special grants.
Hon. Mr. CBIAPAIS-I have heard with
a great deal ot displeasure the words that
hve fallen from the hon. member who has
just sat down, and it would have been a
reat deal better in the interests of New
unswick if he had not stated what he
has to-day. We knew very well before
that New Brunswick had been liberal toward the Catholics ; we knew, too, that
since lat year they have changed their
views in that particular. The hon. mem.
ber bas just succeeded in putting before
this House and country in the most open
manner, at one and the same time, the
liberality and irjustice which has been
shown to the Catholices. He has proved
that for %31years the Cathelics received
grants from the CatholicS in order to teach
their children ; but since lat year all this
has been changed. He has proved that
before last year the people of New Bruns,
wick were free to support education in
uliar views, and
acoordance with their
the Government help their efforts. HÎe
has proved that since lat year all this has
been altered, and now the whole people
are bound to pay taxes for éducation that
does not suit the wishes of the Catholics.
The subject then dropped.
PATENTS.

The House went into Committee on the
Bill respecting Patents, lion. Mr. OLIVIER
in the Chair, and some desultory discussion arose, in which Hon. Messrs. RYAN,
FERRIER, LETELLIER DE ST1.
J.UST,
and CAMPBELL took part.
The Committee rose and reported the
Bill with amendments.
Hon. Mr. itYAN expressed his regret
that so important a measure should come
up at a period of the session, when it was
impossible to give it that full consideration
which it ought to receive at the hands of
the Senate.
The House had already
amended it in Committee, but he had
little doubt that whilst the measure might
be on the whole an improvement
upon the existing law, still it would be

Routine

195

[SENATE.].

found to coatain imperfections which
would have to be removed next session.
lion. Mr. CAMPBELL said that it was
inevitable that measures should come up
at a late period, and he had no doubt that
the measure would be found most advantageous to the public interests.
The Bil was then read a third time and
passed.
ADDRESS TO LORD LISUAR.

A message was received from the louse
of Commons, informing the benate that
they had passed an Address to His Ex cellency the Governor General previous
to his departure for England, and asking
the concurrence of that honourable body
in said Address.

Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL said that he was
quite sure that the Senate would cordially
unite in expressing the views set forth in
the Address of the other branch. All
those who knew His Excellency would be
sorry to hear of his departure, and would
always entertain a grateful recollection of
his services to the Dominion. He then
moved that the blank in the Address be
filled up by " The Senate."
Hon. Mr. LETELLIER DE ST. J UST
said, in seconding the motion, ,that he
must cheerfully endorse the remarks that
had fallen from the hon. Postmaster General. All would willingly confess that
His Excellency had discharged his oneroue and delicate duties with impartiality
and faithfulness to the interests over
which he presided.
The motion was passed.
WEDNESDAY, June 12, 1872.
The SPEAKER took the chair at 3
o'clock.
BILLS.

Hon. Mr. DICKSON, from the Committee on Standing Orders and Private Bills,
reported favorably on the following
bills :
An Act to incorporate the Imperial
Guarantee and Loan Society.
An Act further to amend the Act incorporating the Western Assurance Company.
An Act to incorporate the Gananoque
and Wiltsie Navigation Company. '
lon. Mr. FERRIER, froni the Committea on Banking, Railways and Conmerce,
reported favorably on the following
bills :
An Act to incorporate the Quebec Pacific R. R. Company.
An Act to incorporate the Interoceanic
R. R. of Canada.

Business

196

An Act to incorporate the Thunder Bay
Silver Mines Railway Company.
An Act to incorporate the Canada Pacifie
Railway Company.
An Act to amend the Act of incorporation of the Ontario and Erie Ship Canal
Company.
An Act to amend the Act to incorpo.
rate the Queenston Suspension Bridge
Company.
An Act to incorporate the Pacific Junction Bridge Company.
An Act to incorporate the Canada and
New York Bridge and Tunnel Company.
An Act to amend the Act inoorporating
the Canada Central Railway Company;
An Act to explain and amend the Sault
St. Mary Railway and Bridge Act.
Al these bills were read a third time
and passed.
PRINTINU.

Hon. Mr. GIRARD, from Joint Com.
mittee on Printing, presented a report
respecting the printing of certain rpublic
documents.-Referred back for amendment.
SALARIES.

lion. Mr. ARMAND moved that the
Clerk of this flouse be instructed to pay
the Employes of the Senate :on the .et
July for that month, and the month of
August, and that on the 1st day of August
and each and every month thereafter, he
pay them one month's pay.
Hon. Mr. MoDONALD (B. C.) seconded
the motion.
lon. Mr. CAMPBELL hoped the hon.
gentleman would not press his motion at
that late period of the session, as it would
necessît-ite, if passed, a revisal of all the
salaries in other departments of the public
service. He acknowledged the cost of
living had largely increased of late years,
and that it would be necessary in a new
Parliament to take up the whole question.
The motion was dropped.
SECOND SITTING.

lon. Mr. FERRIER said that since the
louse adjourned that afternoon a resolution had passed the other branch with res
pect to the salaries and emoluments of its
employes, and he would therefore ask the
louse to pursue a similar course in relation to its own ofilcers and servants. He
proposed the following resolution, sec
conded by the Ron. Mr. ARMAND:
1hat whQreas this House, during the
fiast session of the present Parliament, in

197

Routine

[JUNE 13, 1872.]

order to economize its expenditure, reduced the salaries of certain of its officers
and clerks on the Department, a"d no in
crease has since been made to the said
salaries or emoluments.
Resolved,-That in the opinion of this
flouse, such of the officers and servants of
this flouse as His Honor, the Speaker, the
Honorable the Postmastef General and
the Honourable the Receiver General may
consider entit!ed from length of service or
capacity should have such reasonable addition to their salaries as will compensate
themr faiily for their work, for the current
Year and until their cases may be considered by this House.
lion Mr CAMPBELL said that ho was quite
ready to accede to the resolution in view
of the action taken elsewhere. Undoubt.
edly the House would not wish to see its
oflicers and servants conside ed less favorably than those of the other branch-a
due regard being had to efficiency and
service.
The motion was adopted.
BILLS.

Hon. Mr. FERRIER, froni Committee
on Banking, Railways and Commerce,
reported favorably the following bills'
An act to incorporate the Lake Superior
and Manitoba Railway Company.
An act to incorporate the Lake Superior
and Winnipeg Railway Company.
An act to incorporate the Central RailWay Company of Manitoba.
An act to mcoporate the North Western
Railway Company of Manitoba.
An act to incorporate the Manitoba
Junction Railway Company.
The foregoing bills were read third time
and passed.
The following bill was received from
the louse of Commons and passed through
the necessary stages.
An act to amend the act respecting
Copyrights (wiih amendments.)
An act further to amend the act 31 Victoria Chapter 33.
The said bill was read for the tirst time.
The H1ouse then adjourned-

Business.

198

A large number of Bills were brought
up from the House of Commons, and
passed throigh their various stages.
MAIL SERVICE.

On motion for the second reading of the
Supply Bill,
Hon. Mr. REESOR called attention to
the contract made in 1>69, between the
Canadian Government and the Messrs.
Allun of Montreal, for the performance of
the steam service across the Atlantic.
According to that contract, it was agreed
" the service shall commence on the lst
day of April, 1869, and shall continue up
to and until the 1st day of April, 1872
and shall not then terminate, but shal
continue in force thereatter in all its pro.
visions until either party to the contract
shall give to the other party 12 months
previous notice of a desire to terminate
the same." He mentioned the fact of
there being other efficiently managed
steamship imes sailing from Montreal, and
asked the Government whether they had
given notice in accordance with the terms
of the contract or intended doing so.
lion. Mr. CAMPBLL replied that the
Government were quite satisfied with the
manner in which the Messrs. Allan lad
carried out the very important service
they had engaged in 1869 to perform.
Their steamship line was not excelled by
any others for despatch and safety and
was an admirable illustration of the enterprise of the commercial men of the Dominion. The Government had, he continued, given notice on the 31st of March
last, of their intention to terminate the
contract in April, 1873, and they had
done so in view of the completion of the
Intercolonial Railway, and the advisabihty
of revising all present arrangements in
connection with the mailservice.
The Supply Bill was passed.
The House then adjourned.
FRIDAY, June 14, 1872.
L>ROROGATION.

At three o'clock His Excellency the
Governor General came down to the SeThe SPEAKER took the chair at three nate and having assented to a number of
Bills, prorogued Parliament with the foioclock.
lowing gpeech:
ttfna
GRARTt
tSQ
SPEECH.
report of the Joint Committee on Printing.
Adopted.
Hon. Mr. MITCHEhL was added te the
Gentlemen of the Iouse of (ommors:
Committee appointed under resolution of
1 have much satisfaction J' relieving you
the previous night to consider saltries
and emoluments of the employes of the from an attendance in Parliament which
Senate,
cannot fail to be inconvenient to many of
TauasDiY, 13th June, 1872.

199r

Governor's

[SENkTE.]

yon at this season of the year. I thank
you therefore all the more for the timei
and attention which you have diligently
bestowed on the discharge of your public
duties.
The interest and importance of varions
questions which have been discussed and
decided will render the Session memorable in the annals of the country.
Your adoption of the Articles of the
Treaty of Washington which affect Canadian interests, has placed in a clear light
your determination to share the fortunes
of England. The generous disposition
evinced under the trying circumstances of
the fime has added strength to the honourable position of Canada, both as regards the British Empire and the United
States.
Te vast project, of which you have so
wisely matured the conditions for carrying
a Railway to the shores of the Pacific, will
open a new pathway for England as well
in peace as in war, to the East. and will, I
trust, be productive of the most essential
benefits to this Dominion by giving facilities to traffic of all descriptions, enhancng
the value of the public lands, promoting
their settlenent, and drawing closer the
ties which bind the sister Provinces toge.
ther by easier access and multiplied intercourse.
Few who have not considered the subject
have any adequate conception how large
an extent of economical advantage, the possession of great navigable rivers like the
St. Lawrence and its tributaries comprises.
The outlay you have sanctioned on their
improvement, and on that of the auxiliary canals, is a safe investment. It will
be amply and speedily repayed by the
augmented volume of trade flowing down
all the channels opened to its course, for it
will be swollen by the confluence of your
own accumulating productions with those
of your Western neighbors.
It is highly aatisfactory that the condition of the revenue is so prosperous as to
enable you to advance the interesta of the
Country by commencing the construction
of thesé works at once, withôut delay or
misgiving.
Gentlemen of the House of Obmmons:

Speech.

200

Honorable Gentlemen of the Senate,
Gentlemen of the Bouse of COmmoRs,
The joint address with which you have
honored me on the eveof my departure la
most agreeable to my feelings.
1 shall I assure you hold -i grateful re.
collection all my life the expression of
your respect and esteem.
i have watched with-deep interest in my
official capacity the proceedings of four
sessions, and made myselif othgrwise acquainted with the views and wishes of the
Parliament and people of Canada, and I
earnestly hope that the good intelligence
which prevails between them a 1 d the
people of England may last constait and
unimpaired for generations to oore.
I have now the honor to bid you ftre
well, with those seripus thoughts which
the word farewell naturally awakens, with
every acknowledgment of the many
courtesies and the effective assistance whic,
I have received at your hands and with
the most cherished and ardent w*shes for
the welfare of the Dominion, with which
I rejoice to think that my humble name
has been connected by an honorable tie
for more than three years.
The following Bille received the Royal
Assent:
An act to repeal the Duties of Customa
on T ea and Codes..
An act to amend the act respecting the,
Statutes of Canada.
An act to confirm an agreement made
between the Grand Trunk Raiwdy Com.
pany of Canada and the international
Bridge Company; and for other pur.
poses.
An act for the avoidance of doubts
respecting Larceny of Stamps.
An act further to amend i an act" respecting the security to be given Officers
of Canada.
An act to correct a Clericai error in the
act respecting Malicious Injuries t>
Property.
An act to make provisioilor the one.
tinuation.and extension of the GeologicSl
Survey of Canada, snd for the maintnen
ance of the jeological Museum.
An aot to- naturalize Anson Greene
Phelps Dodge.
. An act to amend the aot regulating the
issue of Dominian Notes.

In Her Majesty's name I thank you for
An act rspecting the Public Debt and
the supplies which you have so cheerfully the raising of Ioans authorized by Pairgranted.
1 heartily congratulate you on the prosAn aot to amend,the act respecting the
perous condition of :the revenue, and on Civil Service ofCaada.
your having been enabled by the repeal
An act to amend the aet ofincorporation
of the duties on tea an4 coffee to diminisih of theCaughnawaga 8hip Canal Comppay.
the burdens of the people.
Au act to amend anact to inoorporate

201

Assent to

[.UNE 15, 1872.]

Bilh.

209,

An not to incorporate the Doimnion
the Detroit River Tunnel Company, and
Water WorKs Company.
for ather purposes.
An st to incorporate the Inland Marine
An act to amend < An act to licorporate
the anagers of the Ministers' Widowis and and Fire Insuranoe Company of CanadaAn act to incorporate the St. Catherine'a
Orphans Find of the Synod of the Presbyeria Church of Canada in connection (Ontario) Board of Trade.
An act to amend the act toe incorpoe&st
with the Church of Swotland.
An act to incorporate the Canada and the Canadian and European Telegraph
Newfoundland Sealing and Fishing Com- Company.
An act to incorporate tha Bank of Saint
pY?
act relating to the Treaty of Wash. John.
An act to incorporate the Maritime
ington, 1871.
An act to indemnify the Members of Bank of the Dominion of Canada.
An act to incorporate the Bank of fi&the Executive Government and others
or he unavoidable expenditure of Public milton.
An act to incorporate the St. Lawrence
Money without Parlaientary grant, occasioned by the sending of an expeditionary Bank.
An act to inoorporate the Exohange
force W Manitoba in 1871.
Bank of Canada.
An act relating to Quarantine.
An act to amend the act relating to An act to incorporate the Quebec Fron,
tier Railway Company.
Banks and Banking.
An act to incorporate the Canada Agri
An st respecting the Grand Trunk
Railway and the Champlain Railroad Com cultural Insurance Company.
panies.
An sot to moorporate " The Saint John
An act to inoorporate the Bank of Board of Trade."
An set to incorporate theBoard ofTrade
Acadia.
An act respecting the Toronto Savings of the Town of Lâvis.
An act to inoorporate the Missionary So.
Bank.
An act to imend the act, chapter 47, of ciety of the Wesleyan Methodist Church in
the Consolidsted statutes for Upper Caria- Canada.
An act to inoorporate the Sorel Board of
da, entituled, "An act respecting Rivers
Trade.
and Streams."
Au act to amend the law relating to the
An sot to amend the act inoorporating
the British America Assurance Company Fraudulent Marking of Merchandise.
and the subsequent acts affecting the said
An act so provide for the Revisal of
Company.
Voters' Lista for Elections to the House of
An act to incorporate the Anchor Marine Commons in a certain Revisal District of
Insurance Company.
the County of Victoria, Nova Scotia.
An act to amend the chapters six and
An sct to incorporate the Detroit River
seven of the Statutes of 1871, relating to Railway Bridge Uompany.
Savinge' Banks.
An act to inoprporate the River St. Clair
An act to incorporate the Thunder Bay
Raiway Bridge snd Tunnel Company.
Silver Mines Telegraph Company.
An act to incorpoate the Coteau and
An st to incorporate the Mail Printing
Province LUe Rai[way and Bridge Com.
and Publishing Company. (Limited.)
An act to incorporate the Canadian Rail. pany. act to incorporate the St. Lawrence
Au
way jquipment Company.
Company.
An act to amend the act incorporating International Bridge
An act to inoorporate eThie Bank of
the Mutual Life Association of Canada.
An act to legalise a certain agreement
entered inte between the Grand 1runk
itailway Companyof Canada and the Cor.
poration of the '1wn of Galt, and for other
purposes therein mentioned.
An asc to legalize andconfir.m the Lease
to the Northern Railway Company of Ca.
niada of the Lines of Railway of the North.
ern Jbtension Railways Cooipany.
An act to amend the act inoorporating
the Lomdon and Canadian Loan an

Manitoba.1t

An act to change the name of the
"Diatriot1 Pernanent Building Society of
Montreal' to that of the " Loanand Land ed Credit Company," and to grant certain
powers to the said Compaay.

An act to extend the powers of the
M4ontreal Telegraph Comapany, and- for
other purposes.
An act to incorporate the Superiorank
of Canada.

An act to inoorporate the Tosonto Corn
Agency Company. (Limited.)
An se te entbl*; the i*1at Western Exchange Association.
Railway coapny to extemamad ifprove
An st to divide certain polling disa
iti amànodas.n
tricts in the County of Inueme, ir the

203

Assent to

[SENATE.]

Bills.

204

An act to incorporate the Central Rail.
Province of Nova Scotia, and to provide
way Company of Manitoba.
for votera' lista therefor.
An act to incorporate the Lake Superior
An act respecting bridges.
An act to amend '' The St. Lawrence and Manitoba Railway Company.
An act relating to the Central Bank of
and Ottawa Railway Act."
An act to remove doubts under the act New Brunswick.
An act to incorporate the ''Quebec Pacirespecting the Public Works of Canfic Railroad Company."
ada.
An act to incorporate the Imperial GuarAn act respecting the shipping of seaantee and Loan Society.
men in Nova Scotia.
An act to incorporate The Canada Pacific
An act respecting the appointment and
powers of Commissioners of Pilots for the Railway Company.
An act to incorporate the Canada and
coasts and harbouars of the County of CharNew York Bridge and Tunnel Company.
lotte.
An act further to amend the act 31 VicAn act to provide for the appointment
of Harbor Master for the Port of Halifax. toria Chapter 33.
A act to expiain and amend the ''Sault
An act to amend the act, 34 Victoria,
chapter 3, respecting the Loan for paying St. Mary Railway and Bridge act.
An act to amend the act to incorpoa certain sum to the Hudson's Bay Com.
rate the Queenston Suspension iridge
pany.
An act to grant certain additional Company.
An act to amend the act of incorpora.
powers to the OttawaVandreuil and Montion of the Ontario and Erie Ship Canal
treal Railway Company.
An act to incorporate the " Dominion Company.
An act further to amend the act incoro
Trust Company."
An act to compel members of the Local porating the Western Assurance ComLegislature, in any Province where dual pany.
An act to amend the act incorporating
representation is not allowed, to resign
their seats before becoming candidates for the Canada Central Railway Company.
An act to incorporate the Thunder Bay
seats in the Dominion Parliament.
An act to incorporate the "Banque Ville Silver Mines Railway Company.
An act to incorporrte the Pacifie JuneMarie."
An act to incorporate the Canada Im. tion Bridge Company.
An act to incorporate the Gananoque
provement, Company.
An act to amend the Immigration Act and Wiltuie Navigation Company.
An act to incorporate tne Inter-Oceanic
Of 1869.
An act to inoorporate "The Accident In- Railway Company of Canada.
An act to amend the act 32 and 33
surance Company of Canada "
An act to incorporate the Ontario Ship, Victoria, Chapter 8.
An act to amend the Law relating to
ping and Forwarding Company.
An act to incorporate the Board of Advertisements respecting Stolen Goods.
Trade of the Town of Chatham.
An act to amend an act of the present
An act relating to bills of Exchange and Session, and to enable the Governor in
Promissary Notes.
Council to impose a duty on tea and c9ffee,
An act respecting the Canadian Pacific imported from the United States, in the
Railway.
case therein mentioned.
An act to amend the St. Francia and
An act to amend the Criminal Law relaact.
Megantic Railway
ting to Violence, Threats and MolestaAn act respecting Platents of Invention. tions.
An act to incorporate the Halifax BankAn act respecting Trade Unions.
ing Company.
An act to
the Manitoba In. Cap. 40, andextend the Acte 32, 33 Vic.,
An act to incorporate
33 Vie., Cap. 20, to the Port
surance Company.
of Collingwood.
An act to provide for the incorporation
An act to extend certain Laws relating
of Immigration Aid Societies.
to matters connected with Navigation to
An act to re-adjust the Representation the Province of British Columbia.
of the House of Commons.
tkn act for imposing Tonnage Dues and
An act to incorporate the Manitoba Wharfage Rates to meet the cost of imJunction Railway Company.
proveing the navigation of the St. LawAn act to incorporate the Lake buperior rence between Montreal and Quebee.
and Wmnipeg Railway Company.
An et to extend the Canadian Tariff
An act to incorporate the North West- of Duties of Customs and Excise, and
ern Railway Company of Manitoba.
certain acts relating to Customs and the

205

Assent to)

[JUNE 14 1872.1

Revenue to the Province of British Columbia.
An act to incerporated the Anticosti
Cempany.
An act to amend the Interim Parliamentary Elections Act, 1871.
An act respecting the Public Lands of
the Dominion.

Bills.

206

His Excellency the Governor General
was pleased to reserve the following Bill
for the signification of Her Majesty's pleasure thereon.
An act to amend the act respecting
copyright.

