Technical and Bibliographic Notes / Notes techniques et bibliographiques
The Institute has attempted to obtain the best original copy
available for scanning. Features of this copy which may be
bibliographically unique, which may alter any of the images
in the reproduction, or which may significantly change the
usual method of scanning are checked below.

El

Coloured covers /
Couverture de couleur

[J

Covers damaged /

El
El
El

ri
ri
El

Couverture endommagée

Covers restored and/or laminated I

Couverture restaurée et/ou pelliculée

El

Coloured maps /

Cartes géographiques en couleur

E

Coloured plates and/or illustrations /

z

Pages restored and/or laminated /

Pages restaurées et/ou pelliculées

Pages detached / Pages détachées
Showthrough / Transparence
Quality of print varies /
Qualité inégale de l'impression

Encre de couleur (i.e. autre que bleue ou noire)

El

Includes supplementary materials I

E

Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur

Blank leaves added during restorations may

Bound with other material /

Relié avec d'autres documents

Only edition available /
Seule édition disponible

Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion

along interior margin / La reliure serrée peut
causer de l'ombre ou de la distorsion le long de la
marge intérieure.

Additional comments /
Commentaires supplémentaires:

Pages damaged / Pages endommagées

Pages décolorées, tachetées ou piquées

Le titre de couverture manque

Coloured ink (i.e. other than blue or black) I

E

Coloured pages / Pages de couleur

Pages discoloured, stained or foxed/

Cover title missing /

E

E

L'Institut a numérisé le meilleur exemplaire qu'il lui a été
possible de se procurer. Les détails de cet exemplaire qui
sont peut-être uniques du point de vue bibliographique, qui
peuvent modifier une image reproduite, ou qui peuvent
exiger une modification dans la méthode normale de
numérisation sont indiqués ci-dessous.

Comprend du matériel supplémentaire

appear within the text. Whenever possible, these
have been omitted from scanning / Il se peut que
certaines pages blanches ajoutées lors d'une
restauration apparaissent dans le texte, mais,
lorsque cela était possible, ces pages n'ont pas
été numérisées.

Pagination is as follows: p.[1], 735-1486.
Pages 1070, 1291 & 1295 are incorrectly numbered pages 070, 1295 & 1291.

DEBATES
-OF-

THE

SE NATE
-0F

DOMINION

THE-

OF CANADA

A885.
R EPOR TED

EDITED, AND

PUBLIS HED

BY

HOLLAND

BROS.,

O#îcial Reporters of the Senate of Canada, Ottawa.

VOL. IL.

THIRD SESSION-FIFTH PARLIAMENT.

OTTAWA:
PRINTED BY A.

S. WOODBURN, ELGIN STREET,

1885.

THE DEBATES
-OF

SENATE

THE-

0F

CANADA

OF

SESSION

1885.

VOL. Il.
THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Tuesday, April 28th, 885.

The Speaker took the Chair at

three

o'clock.

Prayers and routine proceedings.

PUBLIC AFFAIRS OF THE
MINION.

DO-

ORDER POSTPONED.

The order of the day having been read,
that he (Mr. Alexander) will call attention
to the present state of the Public Affairs
of the Dominion, and will ask the Government how they propose to remedy existing
evils ?

the English version-in the eighth clause
in the tender of the Messrs. Holland-it is
stated that for every page after the 6oo
pages they are to receive $2.50; in the
French version it is stated as being $3.50.
The arrangement actually made is for
$2.50. Therefore, this error must be
corrected.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
French is to be corrected.
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEWe propose an increase in the rate to be
paid to the contractors ; but on the other
hand, we have arranged that instead of a
minimum of 500 pages, it will be 6oo.
Instead of paying $3.50 for every page
extra it shall be only $2.5o, and, in addition, the reporters are to arrange with the
proprietors of the Citizen and Iree Press

ALEXANDER said: At to report and publish a synopsis of the
the request of different hon. members of Debates in this House in their daily issues.
this House, I would ask permission to I simply move the adoption of the report.
postpone this motion until Friday, 1st
The motion was agreed to and the reMay.
port was adopted.
The motion was agreed to, and the orTHE COX DIVORCE BILL.
der of the day was discharged, and fixed
for Friday next.
HON.

MR.

THIRD READING.

THE SENATE DEBATES.
THE REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ADOPTED.
HON.
MR.
DEBOUCHERVILLE
moved the adoption of the first report of the
select committee on the reporting of the
Debates and Proceedings of the Senate.
He said : Before proposing the adoption

of the report I wish to call the attention
of the House to a difference in the French

and English versions of this report.

In

HON. MR. READ moved the adoption
of the report of the select committee to
whom was referred Bill (H), "An Act for
the relief of George Brantford Cox." He
said: The evidence is now before the
House and it is so conclusive that I think
there can be no doubt in anybody's mind
that the conclusion arrived at by the committee was a proper one. If necessary,
the adoption of the report can be postponed for a day or two, as the evidence

736

Pawnbrokert8' [SENATE]

Biü.

HON. MR. GOWAN-I cannot exactly
vas only distributed to day; bu: if hon.
gentlemen have looked over it-it is very say the rate ; it requires some computa-

short--they wilI see that there could be
no doubt at all in the minds of the committee. I may say the committee were
unanimous ; they did not occupy over an
hour, or an hour and a half in examining
the witnesses, and it is the most conclusive case that has ever been presented to
the Senate, so far as I ain aware.
The motion was agreed to on a division.
HON. MR. READ moved that the Bill
be read the third time presently.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the third time and passed.

WEST

ONTARIO PACIFIC RAILWAY CO'S BILL.
SECOND READING.

HON. MR. O'DONOHOE, in the absence of Mr. Plumb, moved the second
reading of Bill (94), "An Act to incorporate the West Ontario Pacific Railway
Company,"
The motion was agreed, to and the Bill
was read the second time.

PAWNBROKERS' BILL.
IN COMMITTEE.

The House resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole on Bill (R), "An Act
to make further provision respecting
Pawnbrokers."
In the Committee.
HoN. MR. GOWAN-The first and
only clause in this Bill is very short. The
House is already in posession of the
principles upon which this Bill is based,
and the enactment is short and simple,
and will provide a- remedy which has
been suggested by the court and judges
as necessary in order to secure those who
are very open to fraud aud impositions
from being defrauded and imposed upon
by persons who are disposed to do so.

tion. It is five-sixths of a cent per month
on sums not exceeding four dollars, and
I think, so far as I can state without computation, it is equal to about 17 per
cent.
HoN. MR. DICKEY-The Committee
«ill be entitled to some further information on this Bill. It evidently refers to
some existing law. As far as I know there
is no law applicable to the whole Dominion at present on our statute book. There
is the proposed consolidation of the statutesof the late province of Canada,andthe
acts passed in the province of New Brunswick, but this is an act that applies to the
whole Dominion, and the reason I call my
hon. friend's attention to it is that this
Bill provides that -"Every
pawnbroker
who charges in respect of any goods
pawned any higher rate than is authorized
by law shall, on conviction be fined, etc."
Now, as regards the application of this in
parts of the Dominion where there is no
existing law respecting pawnbrokers, it
would be nugatory and would introduce
rather an element of confusion into the
statute. I also submit to the Mnister of
Justice that, with regard to this Bill, it
would very properly be an amendment to
the Act, or a clause to be introduced in
the consolidation of the laws, if there is a
chapter relating to this subject of pawnbrokers brought in-I suppose on the
idea that it is within the purview of the
Dominion Parliament-and this, certainly,
would be a proper matter, if at all to
be dealt with, to be included in that
section.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLShould it pass both Houses, it will form
part of the consolidation.

HoN. MR. DICKEY-I do not know
exactly about that. Looking at the Bill
in its present form, and without knowing
whether the other chapters are to be
passed, it is very confusing and incomplete, because it speaks of charges now
entitled to be made by law, and at the
same time there is no law particularly applicable to that subject except the general
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLWhat is the rate of interest authorized by law of interest, and the law of interest
would be the one, in the absence of any
law ?
HON. MR. READ.

Pawnbroker.s' [APRIL, 28 1885] Bill.

73 7

law

on the subject, that I presume would not see myself any practical difficulty to
regulate this matter.
arise.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-In
the absence of any other law. As to the
provisions of the Bill, I leave the hon.
member from Barrie to defend his own
measure ; but should the.Bill pass both
Houses of Parliament, the provision we
propose to put in the Act for making the
consolidation of the law would embrace
it, and would embrace any other change
which is made during the present session.
They would be included in the consolidation and formn part of it.
HON.

pass.
HON.

HoN. MR. ALMGN-I may state that
there is no pawnbroker's place of business
in Halifax, and I doubt if there is in Nova
Scotia. My hon. colleague will corroborate this; whether he attributes it to the
National Policy which has taken away
poverty and distress, I do not know, but
that is the facc; there is no pawnbroker's
establishment in Halifax.

HON. MR. POWER-I do not think
there is any regular pawnbroker's establishment in Halifax.
MR.
thec S
MICKEY-Should
ohN. MR. READ-That is the effect
Nathe National Policy.
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Ies.
do not knot

liN.M.GOW\AN--I think my hon. any before the National Policy.
friend
find that the provision with
arill
regard to the remuneration to he taken by
HON. M. ALMON-The hon. gentieyawnbrokers is to be found in the consoliONi
is .mistaken. I remember when there
dated statutes of Canada, and applies to was.
Ontario and Quebec. It is also found
iin
the revised statutes of New Brunswick. I
HON. MR. POWER-That was before
an.ot aware that it is in the statutes of I as born perhaps. There has not been
the other provinces. It is the present law any within my recollection. I took the preof New Brunswick, and is so treated by caution to inquire into this subject, as
the consolidators.
said I should yesterday, andbo have satisWith regard to the power of the fied myself that there is not anything
Dominion to enact aws respecting pawn- ultra vires in the Bill.
brokers, it is quite clear ; it is a matter of
I rise now, in addition to corroborating
interest, and has been so treated by the m hon. colleague, for the
of
consohidators, in the consolidation.
If suggesting that a few words might be
there is no law in force in the
trovinces to added to this Bill, which I think would
which it will extend no doubt it would improve it. The object of the Bill is to
not apply, but I rather think there is. I remove a defect in a chapter of the conhave no objection to meet the views of my solidated statutes.
That chapter does
hon. friend to sat "by any act or acts not provide any penalty for a violation of
relating to
tawnbrokers if that would the regulations which it makes as to the
help it at al, but I do not know that that rate of interest to be taken by a pawnwould iake any diffrence. The Bil is broker.
his little Bil provides a
framed with a view to be worked into the punishment for violating that provision of
consolidation, should it pass both Houses. the statute, but I think it would be well
The consolidators propose to eake this to add a few words. A party is able to
law general. In treating of the subject a penalty
myot
exceedng $5o, and I think
they thought it as a valuable law, and we should add, "or in default to iruprisonthat there should be one law for the whole ment for a period ot exceeding 30 days."
Dominion, as the Dominion as powerto I think there should be that alternative to
deal with interest, and they have consoi- enforce the payment ofthe $o.
My hon.
fdated with a view to applying it to the friend probably thinks that is provided
whole Dominion of Canada, and this Bil for by other statutes. I looked into the
is in keeping with that. 0f course if it matter this forenoon, and I think it would
iasses it ill be engrafted with it. I can- puzzle the proverbial Philadelphia lawyer
it
W

738

The Indu8tries and [SENATE]

to find where that provision is, and what
its exact meaning is when found ; and I
think it would make the law a great deal
clearer, and remove difficulty, if that
addition was made to the Bill.

Manuf're of Canada.

ed at present, at the expiration of this
session, under a Bill that has been
introduced in the other House, then
this chapter of the consolidated statutes will apply to the whole Dominion, and this Bill to amend that
chapter will apply in the same way, and I
do not think that the difficulty is quite as
great as my bon. friend supposes. There
is a good deal of force, however, in what
the hon. gentleman from Amherst says,
though I do not think it is a very serious
difficulty.

HON. MR. GOWAN-I have not the
slightest objection to accept the hon.
gentleman's amendment, but I think it
would be covered by the clause to convict summarily. I may say that I showed
the Bill to the Minister of Justice, and
that he thought these words would be
sufficient ; at the same time if there is the
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
slightest doubt on the matter there can be
no objection to adding the words suggest- was read the third time and lassed.
ed by my hon. friend.
THE INDUSTRIES AND MANUFACTURES OF THE DOMINION.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It seems
to me there is some doubt An appeal
THE DEBATE cONCLUDED.
has been taken, that I know of myself, in
the last year, in a matter very similar in
The order of the day having been called
character to this, where the offence is not
enumerated under the Summary Convic- for resuming debate on the Hon. Mr.
Macdonald's motion, viz.:
tions Act.
That he wili cal attention to the Report of
HON. MR. GOWAN-I am very much. the Commission issued by the Govern ment
obliged to my hon. friend from Halifax for last year to enquire into the effect of the Tariff
assisting me to perfect the measure, and I of 1879, on the industries and manufactures
of the country, and will ask the Goverumant
accept his amendment.
whether the report will be turnished to mem-

The amendment was agreed to.

bers of the Senate and a certain number to
the country ?

HON. MR. ARCHIBALD, from the
HON. MR. MCCLEIAN said:-The decommittee, reported the Bill as amended. bate on this question has been so protracted
andthere have been so many adjournments
The report was concurred in.
of the discussions, that anyone undertak-

ing to address this Chamber nowmust labor

MR. GOWAN moved that the under very considerable disadvantages.
Bill be read the third time presently.
The interest in the subject, I suppose, has
considerably flagged. When I was interHON. MR. DICKEY-I think this rupted some weeks ago in my remarks
Bill ought to be further amended, unless I was then referring to the extraordinary
we are to pass our legislation in a very exodus of the people from Canada, and esslip-shod manner. This is an Act to pecially from the lower provinces. I promake further provisions respecting pawn- pose, with the permission of hon. gentlebrokers, and there is no provision now by men, to return to that question, and to
law with regard to pawnbrokers which ap- complete my remarks on that branch of
plies to the whole Dominion. It appears the subject; but before doing so I would
to me that the Bill, as it stands now, is an like to refer to a matter, in my remarks on
absurdity on the face of it, both in the which I was somewhat interrupted by the
enacting clause and in the title, when junior member from Halifax, and in which
there is no provision for pawnbrokers in he made some reference to the character
the Dominion, except in three provinces. of the petitions that have, of course, become
HON.

a

matter of history, and which were

HON. MR. POWER-If the consoli- gotten up in the principal cities of Great
dated statutes become law, as it is intend- Britain, with a view to bringing about a
HoN. MR. POWER.

The Industries and [APRIL 28, 1885j .Ranuf'rsqf Canada. 739
change in her trade policy with other
countries. A good deal has been said
about the condition of trade in England
prior to the repeal of the corn laws.
Inasmuch as my hon. friend has mentioned
that as petitions are gotten up in a very
loose kind of a way, and that perhaps
they were not properly authenticated, or
deliberately signed, it may be well
to refer to "The History of British
Commerce," by Leone Levi, a copy of
which I hold in my hands :
" The experience of France and of all countries which followed lier policy, might, indeed,
have deterred England from relying with any
confidence on the broken reed of protection
but no intelligent opinion was formed on the
subject, and the great works of Adam Smith
Iarerained sterile of
and otber econonhists
results, when, in 1820, the London merchiantQ
entrubted Mr. Baring, afterwards Lord Ashburton, with the fanous petition prepared by
Mr. William Tooke,which enbodied a distinct
enunciation of Iree-trade principles, and
pra ed that every restrictive regulation of
tra e, not imposed on account of the revenue,
including all duties of a protective character,
might at once be repealed."
I might say that the William Tooke
abovereferred towas a prominent merchant
in London. I think he was engaged principally in the Russia trade. He was a son
of John Horne Tooke, a gentleman of
considerable celebrity, and he himself, on
account of his great literary attainments,
and his contributions to the literature on
trade and commerce, was subsequently
honored by having the endowment of a
professorship in the London University,
in his name, made up by contributions
from bis admirers. Levi continues:« As this is the first practical step in the
way of commercial reform, initiated by the
mercantile classes, it is well deserving of a
conspicuous place in any history of our mod•
•
a
ern commerce.
" The London merchants started from the
first cardinal principles of trade-.that foreign
commerce is eminently conducive to t e
wealth and prosperity of the country, by enabling it to im port'the commodities for the
production of which the soil, climate, capital
and industry of other countries are best calculated, and to export in paynent those articles for which its own situation is better
adapted; that freedon trom restraint is calculated togive the utmost extension to foreign
trade, and the best direction to the:capital and
industry of the country ; that the maxim of
buying in the cheapest market and selling in
the dearest, which regulates every merchant
in his individual deahngs, is strictly applica-

ble.as the best rule to the trade of the whole
nation ; and that a policy founded on these
principles would render the commerce of the
world an interchane of mutual advantage.
and diffuse increasel wealth and enjoyments
among the inhabitants of each state.
" The petitioners complained that the very
reverse had been and was more or less adopted and acted upon by the Government of this
and every other country, each trying to exclude the productions of other countries with
the specious and well-meant design of encouraging its own productions; thus inflicting on
the bulk of its subject, who are consumers,
the necessity of submitting to privations in
the quantity or quality of commodities, and
thus rendering, what ought to be the source of
mutual benefit and of harmony among states,
a constantly recurring occasion of jealousy
and hostility.
" The London mnerchants.further argued, as
respects the numerous protective and prohibitory duties of our commercial code, that while
they were all operating as very heavy taxes
on the community at large, very few were of
any ultimate benefit to the classes in whose
favor they were originally instituted, and
none to the extent of the loss occasioned by
them to other classes; that among the other
evils of the restrictive or protective system,
not the least was that the artificial protection
of one branch of industry, or source of production against foreign competition, was set
up as a grouud of claim by other branches for
similar protection ; so that, if the reasoning
upon which these restrictive or prohibitory
regulations were founded, were followed out
consistently, it would not stop short of excluding us from all foreign commerce whatsoever.

•

•

•

a

"The petitioners then added that whilst
declaring their conviction of the impolicy and
injustice of the restrictive system, and in desiring every practicable relaxation of it, they
had in view only such parts of it as were not
connected, or were only subordinately so,
with the public revenue. As long as the
necessity for the present amount of revenue
subsisted, the petitioners could not expect so
important a branch of it as the customs to be
given up, nor to be materially diminished,
unless some substitute less objectionable be
suggested. But it was against every restrictive regulation of trade, not essential to the
revenue, against all duties merely protective,
and partly for that of protection, that the
prayer of the petition was submitted to the
wisdom of Parliament.
" The Chamber of Commerce of Edinburgh,
in that petition, attributed in a great measure
the existing depression to the straightened
condition of foreign commerce, the heavy
duty on imports tending directly to lessen the
demand for the produce of this country.
They treated as erroneous the doctrine that
weaith is promoted by an excess of exports,
but alleged that, on the contrary, the profits
of trade are realized by an excess of imports."

Thw Indus.trie8 and [SENATE]
With reference to these petitions, I might
notice that from that time forward the continued amount of pauperism, idleness and
depression of trade existed in Great
Britain, and Levi in his remarks on the commercial distress of that period, says :" In June, 1837, a large meeting was held
in Birminghan, to consider what measures
should be adopted, calculated to relieve the
appalling state of commercial distress. At
Nottingham a similar meeting was held,
thousands of operatives being there employed
on the roads by public subscription. At
Manchester there were 50,000 hands out of
employment, and most of those employed
were working only half time. In Scotland
there were many failures, and in Ireland the
state of trade was still worse."
I refer to these extracts as having a
bearing on remarks which were made
in a former stage of the discussion, and in
reply to the reasons alleged by Protectionists why, in the Mother Country, protection
was abandoned and free trade inaugurated.
I was speaking the other day of the
very great exodus from the Maritime
Provinces during the last four years,
though in many respect they were years of
prosperity--an exodus which has been unWe are all perfectly aware
precedented.
that a great many people are restless, and
shift their abodes from one country to
another without exercise of careful judgment, but during my experience I have
never noticed so much unrest, and so

many people, not only single men and
women who are attracted perhaps by
larger wages in the United States, and
some of whom may return, but many
Freeholders with their famiothers.
lies, many of whom have managed to sell
their properties at a sacrifice, have gone to
settle in the United States. This is a sad
condition of things, and I speak only of
what has come within my own observation.
Wherever I could persuade persons against
making such a change, I have, of course,
done so, but the removal of these people
from the land of their birth to a foreign
country to live under a foreign flag is
something which the Government of the
country should always endeavor, as far as
A great many evils
possible, to prevent.
may afflict the country, evils that may be
considered very grave at the time, which
are after all only a passing cloud from
which the country can soon recover ; but
when the old residents Icave their homesteads to settie in a foreign land, the loss
HON.

MR. McCLEILAN.

Manuf"i's of Canada.

is irreparable.
We are losing a portion
of our population which has been the
pride of our country, and when such a
population is once destroyed it can never
be supplied. In support of my view as to
the unprecedented number of people who
have left Canada during the last three or
four years, I shall quote some figures.
The condition of Canada is different
from that of an old country such as
England. We possess a large area of
undeveloped soil, and we are not running
the risk of being over-crowded, as the
hon. member from Lunenburg remarked
in his speech, or of over-crowding
the houses with families. There is no
danger of that in Canada. But the other
result is what we particularly dislike-the
dispersion of our people. In order to
corroborate my views with regard to the
decrease of the population by removals,
I may refer to the school statistics of New
Brunswick which it appears to me are a
pretty safe guide. The school system of
New Brunswick of late years has been
one under which every opportunity has
been afforded to build good school houses
and furnish accommodation sothatchildren
can be sent to school without having to
travel a very long distance. Within a
few years past there have been grants
made to the poorer districts out of the
provincial treasury, and that to a very
large extent has helped to provide school
accommodation for the poorer settlements;
and, therefore, we would naturally have a
right to conclude that the registration of
pupils in those schools would increase
very rapidly, provided there was only the
natural increase of population, even without any influx of foreigners ; but any gentlemen who will examine the school records
of that province will find that in 1879
there were registered on the rolls 71,764
pupils, and in 1884, the registrar's report
shows only 68,928, or a decrease of
2,836 upon the school registers of New
Brunswick. This con firms the conclusion
at which I had arrived from my own observation, and though it has been denied by
the newspapers in some cases, I amsorry
to say the denial bas been incorrect.
There has been a continual stream of
emigration to Wisconsin, Washington
Territory, Michigan, and even to the
orange groves of Florida. We find in
many parts of the United States, New

The Industries and [APRIL 2S, 1885] Manuf'i'8 of Canada.
Brunswickers who have left the land of
their birth during the last four years. I
have not been able to place my hands
upon the school returns of the other
lower provinces, but I believe, from having
noticed them last year, that they will
indicate the same result. I believe the
result in Ontario is still more apparent.
In the province of Quebec, by a departmental report presented to the legislature
of that province, by the deputy-registrar only a few weeks ago, that the value
of real estate in that province in 1883, was

741

members are in the United States, the census
made by the Federal Government gives the
full number of the family, while the municipal census gives onlv that of the members of
the family who actuatly reside in the country."
Elsewhere, he adds, that on the whole the
municipal statistics lie furnishes are as exact

as officia] statistics can be, and that the information they contain can be relied on, and
that trom the reports sent in to hîni,

it

appears that the value of taxable real estate
in this province has decreased hy $2,203,412,
or 1.13 per cent., that is to sav. that it decreased from $197,230,170 in 1882 to $195,026,758 in 1883, this decrease being unquestionably attributable to emigration from the
$2,ooo,ooo less than it was in 1882, and country, as was also the decrease of 34,468
that officer attributes this decrease to the acres, or 0.22 per cent in the number of
acres of land subject to assessient in 1883,
emigration of the people.
as compared with 1882, the latter being especially explained by the abandonnent ot
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLE-Is Crown lands occupied by settlers.
that a report by the deputy-registrar ?
So that the returns of pupils registered
HON. MR. Mc CLELAN---Yes ; one in Prince Edward Island, New Brunswick,
laid before the legislature. I found the Nova Scotia and Ontario, so far as I am
extract in the Montreal WVitness of April mnformed (I can only give figures from
2nd. I will read what the TVitness says :- New Brunswick), indicate pretty clearly
that the great object of introducing a high
A very interesting departmnental report was protective tariff, in the way of keeping our
distributed here to-day. It bears the title of young men at home, and filling up the
" Municipal Statistics or Municipal Returns country with industrious settlers, has not
for the year ending the 31st of December,
been attained.
1883," and is especially valuable as showing
how utterly inisleading as a reliable enumeHON. MR. KAULBACH- -Have they
ration of our population was the dejure sysnot gone to the Jorth-West ?
tem insisted upon by the Dominion Government in taking the census of 1881. The comHON. MR. McCLELAN-There is conpiler is the Deputy Registrar of the Province,
and, in his introductory report to his depart- siderable evidence to show that there has
mental head, the Provincial Secretary, this not been anything like the number of
efficient and independent officer, conscientious- people entering into the N orth-West that
lv and boldly puts the case in its true light. has gone from the south-east. More people have moved away from the Maritime
Hie says :"1 have already called your attention to Provinces than have entered the Norththe great discrepancies which exist, with re- West.
gard 1to population, between the figures contained in the municipal reports and those of
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-There is no
the census made by the Federal Government proof of that.
in 1881. Since that date I have devoted my
special attention to investigating these disHON. MR. McCLELAN-The population
crepancies, and the correspondence which I
have carried on with the secretary-treasurers of the North-West is not definitely known,
on this subject clearlv shows that their but in the whole country there is not over
figures giving the num 6 er of population are 13o,ooo or 140,000 people, and judging
correct. The difference between these figures
and those of the census arises from the diff- from the small percentage of the local
erence in the systen followed in making the volunteers who are armed, and who would
enumeration. The census gives the popula- be the most efficient troops to subdue the
tion de jure, that is that which is considered unfortunate insurrection in that country,
as having its domicile within the province, one would naturally suppose that the
while the municipal reports give the population de facto, that is the number of persons population had not reached beyond that
actually residing in the country. Thus, in estimate at any rate. When one looks at
the case of a family, three or four of whose the appliances for settling that country it

The Industries and

[SENATE]

seems remarkable that so few have entered
there. One cannot help reverting to the
arguments used, the statements made, and
the prophecies uttered as to the immense
population that would flow into that
country from the inauguration of the
Pacific Railway, and the discussion
which took place during the passage
of the Syndicate resolutions. One great
reason that was given why we should
not haggle with this wealthy syndicate was, that they had foreign agents,
foreign capital and great influence abroad,
and that, having retained alternate sections
of land and having an interest in the profits of the road, they would bring their
powerful influence and appliances to bear
in a way that would strengthen the hands
of the Government very much in filling
that country with population.
Then,
again we have the interest and influence
of the Hudson Bay Company, which
retained one-twentieth of the whole of
that country. It was stated that they
would assist in peopling the territories,
and we know very well that subsequently
the Colonization Company boom was inaugurated.
In fact every facility was
given for the formation of wealthy companies in Germany, England and this
country, and colonization companies were
formed ; there were companies organized
by different Christian denominations, by
the press association, and all through Ontario.there was more or less of this fever
for being connected in some way with a
colonization company. The Government
possessed all these means of settling the
North-West, which we were told, was our
great western heritage, but with all these
advantages combined with enormous expenditure, and with the National Policy to
aid them, the settlement of that country
has not, I am sure, met the expectations
of any hon. gentleman even in this House.
The policy of rapid construction was, in
my humble judgment, against the
proper organization of a settled and
contented population in that country,
Unless you have a contented population
no government can succeed in their efforts
at colonization.
If a settler has been
boomed in, if he has been brought over
by an assisted passage, if he has been to a
certain extent pauperized in the beginning
and made dependent, he goes there with
a false impression of the country. He
HON. MR. McCLELAN.

Manuf'rs of (anada.

goes there to find that he has no immediate neighbors, and it is impossible for him
to have any within a reasonable distance,
and the discontent thus created is the
beginning of troubles, and difficulties, and
petitions of right, and claims of all kinds
set up, and difficulties arising which would
not arise if the colonization had been kept
within closer bounds-if the settlement
had been confined within narrower limits
-until such time as further area was
required for settlement.
The rapid construction of the railway, it appears to me,
was not calculated to produce a useful
result. It is well known that a judicious
expenditure of money on a public work
will aid settlement, but a rapid expenditure of money necessitates bringing in a
transient population from the United
States who simply work for gain and leave
for their homes when the work is over.
There was not that steady expenditure which
would have taken place if the road had
been pushed on in accordance with the
requirements of settlement only; hence
the occupation of the North-West is not
at all equal to our expectations. If it had
been according to our expectations we
would have been saved a great deal of the
difficulties which have occurred since, up
to the present time, and untold difficulties
and expense which may be entailed upon
us in the future.
HoN. MR. KAULBACH--Wait until
the road is finished.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-In addition
to the statement which I have brought
forward to prove the diminished population of the country, I might make a passing reference to the increasing rate of
emigration of Canadians to the United
States, as shewn by the Bureau of Statistics. In connection with this subject of
immigration, I was referring previously to
its effects upon values. We all know very
well that when more people are leaving a
place than are coming in, when there are
more sellers than there are buyers,
property will very greatly depreciate, and
that depreciation has, with some few exceptions, existed in almost every district
in the province from which I have the
honor of coming; and not only has depreciation taken place with regard to
farming lands, but it has also taken place

The Industies and [APRIL 28, 1885]

JanufJ'rsof Canada. 743

with regard to ships, and to some extent of our mercantile marine has been, by the
in the lumber trade, although not so high tariff, cut off from return freights, and
much. The price of lumber has not de- they have found it unprofitable to invest
preciated to the same extent as it did in money in ships, in which they have always
1878 and 1879; but considering that taken a lively interest; and hence, having
investments in land have become unpro- no way of making their investments profitfitable, it was natural enough that a great able, in their judgement, they naturally
many people in casting about for places to 1laced it in governrent savings banks, at
mnvest the surplus money they night have, 4 per cent. Speaking of this savings bank
should put it in the savings bank.
That question, 1 would eau attention to another
is not a point which any one need allude fact, taken from the London Mail of
to, because it proves nothing one way or February i9 th, 1883, which I will read to
the other.
seems to be
and the House:hecessary
st
proper to make some *reference to it,
Il"The total increase of deposits in the
eavhowever, owing to the fact that it has ings banks
Ireland for the year ending
araybeen alluded to ; but in~ m Decemiber 3lst, 1880, over the in Ireland year
hublrep
wa £1,732,503. The increase previous jut
humbe jdgmetis o poof f pos-now (1881) has a peculiar 8ignificance, the
i
perity or the reverse.
aiounts exceeding by £138,500 the total of
the previnus year placed in the savings bank.

KAULBACH-Sir Richard Ten thousand newv depositors 'vere also
Cartwright said it vas.
enroled; every county in Ireland contributhng
its quota, and the increae in the ei ht
counties scheduled as distressed, arountedto
HON. MR.
cCLELAN-I am not £8,448 over and above the rowth of the
speaking in any lay for Sir Richard Cart- previcus year, viz: £33,866 against £25,618.
bad for a starving country."
vot
wright. I am endeavorin to exnress me
own sentiments. Of course a large amount
So that the conclusion which some hon.
of money in the banks of the country is gentlemen have attempted to arrive at
no indication of a surplus of money in the from the fact that the deposits in the
hands of the people. I think, if my hon. savings banks have increased, must be
friend will examine the amounts, he will considered by this evidence, which cerfind that many of them are to the credit tainly cannot be gainsaid, as utterly
of individuals, the large proportion of whom refuted, and must fall to the ground.
have deposited up to the full limit of
HoN. MR. HOWLAN-Can the hon.
$3,ooo, and if he makes a close examination-I am speaking now so far as my gentleman give us the particular classes of
observation extends-he will find that people - whether servants, mechanics,
often more than $3,ooo has been de- laborers, or agriculturists-who deposited
posited by one individual in the names of this money ?
his sons and daughters.
I have myself
deposited money at the request of some
HoN. MR. McCLELAN-If my hon.
persons in that way. They were not the friend turns to his own speech he will find
poorer classes; they were the wealthier a classification.
people, and many of them farmers, and
shipowners. With us there is a class of
HON. MR. HOWLAN-I gave a classipeople to whom I have already alludedfication of the deposits made in the
young men who have become commanders savings banks in this country; but we
of ships.
They are men who, it is well want to know the classification of those
known by hon. gentlemen from the lower deposits in Ireland.
provinces, command very high wages.
Although the profits of those ships have
HON. MR. McCLELAN--I am unable
diminished, the rate of wages paid to to give the classification of the deposits in
officers has not materially diminished, and Ireland. This extract from the Mail
their earnings, consequently, are consider- shows that the increase in the deposits in
able. A very large amount of the deposits the savings banks has been greatest in the
have been made by that class of the com- distressed districts, and that ought to satmunity, for the reason,as I said in my former isfy my hon. friend, so far as drawing any
remarks, that the smaller vessels, the nursery conclusion about the amount of deposits
HON. MR.

744

The Induetrie8 and [SENATE]

in the savings bank being an indication of
the prosperity of the country is concerned.
It simply indicates that in many instances
the state of the country is such that no
other kind of investment is profitable.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-It has no
bearing whatever on our case. I an very
glad to hear that my countrymen had so
much money to deposit.
HoN. MR. McCLELAN-I would not
refer to the question of savings bank deposits at all, but having heard it spoken of
so very often as being a matter of proof
of the prosperity of the country, I thought
it was only fair to make a passing reference
to it. Having got through that branch of
the subject which had reference mainly to
the savings bank argument, and having
referred to the relations of trade with the
prorperity of different countries, I beg
leave to make some reference to the opinions of prominent men upon this question:
because, while one hon. gentleman may
express one opinion, and another hon.
gentleman may express another opinion,
very little result comes from it, as we may
be more or less moved by our political
antecedents, or by our political proclivities,
or by other considerations ; but the opinions of distinguished men, who are not influenced by any personal or party considerations, ought to have some weight. I
would not refer to this branch of the subject if it had not beern that previous speakers have made similar references, and
therefore I am sure the House will excuse
me if I quote from the remarks of some
gentlemen of distinction. In doing this,
I do not intend to refer to such writers as
Adam Smith, or to great reformers like
Cobden, Bright or Gladstone, or to such
a great authority as Beaconsfield. All of
them had very strong views on this question of free trade.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Beaconsfield was
not a free trader.

HoN. MR. McCLELAN-I will not
refer to remarks of prominent politicians
in the United States, although my hon.
friend from Niagara thinks that the intelligence of the public men of the neighboring republic is of a higher order than that
of the public men of England, and their
HON. MR.

McCLELAN.

Manuf'r'8 of Canada.

opinions would no doubt be listened to
with more attention than the opinions of

the British statesmen whose names I have
mentioned. It is not necessary perhaps
to refer to such prominent men as President Cleveland or Mr. Wells, who have
written so much on this great question,
and whose opinions are so well known ;
but there is one gentleman to whorn reference has been made in the debate-Sir A.
T. Galt-I wish to refer to a speech which
he delivered some vears ago to the merchants of Toronto.
Hox. MR. READ-He has changed
his opinions since then.
HON. MR. McCLEL.AN -In that speech
Sir A. T. Galt said If we are to succeed in getting immigrants
into Canada, we must not lose sight of the
fact that it must be made attractive to them.
It must be a cheap country; immigrants must
not find that it is as dear as other countries,

which perhaps offer more advantages. That
leads me to a consideration of the question of
the high duties on imports. High rates have
unquestionably made the United States a dear
country, and Canada is a comparatively cheap
country because of its moderate duties, which

afford perhaps the most directcompensation for

the natural advantageswlhich the adjoining Republic possesses over the Dominion. (Hear)
I do not believe there is any advantage whatever in the doctrine of extreme protection.
I do not believe it is
(Renewed applause.)
possible to develop manufactures on any large
scale by high duties.
Our market is too
limited, we have only four millions of people
to supplv, and it must be perfectly clear that
the result of high duties would be to create
an artificial industry which does not rest on
its own intrinsic merit. It is to be observed
that protection-high duties-enhance the
cost of every other article, as well as that
in which a particular manufacturer may be
interested. It renders it more expensive for

every
goods.

manufacturer

to manufacture

his

If everything the boot and shoe

maker uses is protected by high duties it is
evident that his goods must be dearer. The
result would conseq uently be that the exportation of our surplus goods to foreign countries would hecome absolutely impossible.
We cannot have an export trade if the goods
are artificially made dear in this country.
We have in the United States a most complete example of that. That is a country
which ought to be the cheapest country in
the world, which has the largest amoutnt of
available land and -every material advantage,
and yet by a wrong system of legislation and
economie policy the people have succeeded
for many years past in making it one of the

lhe Indu8trie8 and [APRIL 28, 1885.] .Manuf'rs of Canada. 745
dearest countries in the world instead of the going out of the country, is having the
cheapest. (Applause)."
opposite effect. It was set forth in the
of
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It has got opening speech, and in the resolution
the hon. gentleman's own leader, that one
cheaper since then.
of the objects of the National Policy was
to keep the young men in the country.
HON. MR. READ-He has lived long
enough to see the error of his ways.
HON. MR. KAULBACH -So it is.
HoN. MR. SMITH-I would ask the

hon. gentleman a question. He say s that
the policy of our Government is driving the
people away from this country. I want to
know what country they are going to that
is less protected than the Dominion? He
says that they are going to the United
States. If they are going to the United
States, they are going to a country where
the industries of the people are protected
to a niuch greater extent than ours are,
and therefore what country can they go to?
If they go back to England they will find
a worse condition of affairs prevailing
there under free trade-every mechanic
has been impoverished by the free trade
policy, and they are beginning to find
their mistake ; the time is not distant
when they will have to come back to protection. The people who are leaving
here are going to the North-West.

HON. MR. McCLELAN-It was also

to bring about a reciprocity treaty between this country and the United States,
but we have seen very few steps taken by
the Government since that policy was
inaugurated to bring about reciprocity,
which the people of the Lower Provinces
anxiously await. When the ist of July
comes greater anxiety will awaken that
some steps be taken by which reciprocal
trade relations can be secured with the
country with which we must trade, if we
continue to exist as Maritime Provinces of
this Union. It is impossible to cut us off
from that legitimate business to which we
have always been accustomed. But the
hon. gentleman asks why people are leaving the country. I cannot undertake to
explain the reasons that actuate people to
leave one country and go to another.
Some, I trust very few, leave their country
for their country's good ; but the greater
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-The hon. part of then who leave the country are a
gentleman from Toronto, instead of inter- loss to the country, and the Dominion is
rupting the debate, is making a speech.
vastly injured by it. We lose our best
settlers. There is one thing which, it
HON MR. McCLELAN-I am always strikes me, might be considered by my hon.
glad to hear the hon. Minister express his friend in connection with the answer he
views, but I may say to him that his speech has compelled me to make, that the
on this occasion is rather inopportune-it United States, although inflicted with an
does not come in at the right stage of my enormous, and disastrous, and cruel civil
remark, and it is not original, as that war, by which their debt had largely inquestion was put to me before by the hon. creased, are greatly reducing that debt.
member from Niagara.
HON. MR. READ-By a protective
HON. MR. PLUMB-And was not an- policy.
swered.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-The policy
HON. MR. McCLELAN-If I under- of our leading men is to increase the pubstand the hon. Minister he says that it is lic debt, and under that policy the debt
very strange that people leave this coun - of Canada to-day, per capita, is greater
try because of the high protective tariff than the debt of the United States. They
and go to another country that is more have many natural and other advantages
highly protected. I cannot account foir over us; we have had some advantages
the people going there. Of course I arr k over them, and I trust that we will have
sorry that they are going, but I am only? advantages still, which, in the future, will
stating the fact that the National Policyi be more developed ; but one of the adthat was intended to keep them fromi vantages which this country possessed

74A6

The Industriesand (SENATEJ Mannf'r8 of Canada.

over the neighboring Republic, was that it
was a cheap country to live in. Another
advantage, which I think we do possess,
is, that we are living under a flag which our
people were taught to revere, and we are
proud to look to the prestige of old England, to her laws and institutions, to
follow her example in protecting the
liberties of the people, which she has so
well inaugurated ; and I trust we will yet
be glad to follow her example in her trade
policy.

that line, I will refer to a manifesto that
was issued in the year 1849, and largely
signed.
HON. MR. READ-That
some of us were born.

is before

HON. MR. McCLELAN-I am not
going any further back than the hon. gentlemen who preceded me on the other
side-I am not going so far back. If

they undertook to go into history to
prove the relations of one country with

HoN. GENTLEMEN-No, no!

another-the trade relations, and give

the opinions of prominent men as far
HoN. MR. McCLELAN-We have back as Henry Clay-I think he was
failed to follow the example of England, quoted by the hon. gentleman from Belle-

and is it not natural that, having infringed
upon the principles of freedom, which
British statesmen have laid down, and
having abandoned every principle of trade
that is free and open, and increased the
burden of public debt to some $250,000,ooo,-and, according to present appearances, before we meet here again it will
be $300,ooo,ooo-until we are more
heavily in debt, in proportion to our population, than are the people of the United
States to-day, while ours is being in
creased, and theirs is being reduced, is it
any wonder, therefore, that it has resulted
in alienating the people, and sending them
from the country ? I say that when
these things exist, and when this policy
exists, it is natural that many of our
people will say to themselves, that
of two evils we will choose the less.

ville himself, who said that Henry Clay
had been a free-trader, and had changed
to be a protectionist-I am justified in
referring to the manifesto of 1849, which
was signed by a great many prominent

individuals in this country, and that is the
reason why I shall give their opinions now:
it is quite relevant to the discussion of
this question. I am not finding any fault

with those gentlemen for the opinions
here expressed ; I merely refer to thern as
a matter of history. It was a tine of
depression ; it was a time at all events at
which a number of influential. prominent, and astute people (the burning
of the Parliament Buildings at Montreal
happened under the sane regime I believe)
apparently had a large public meeting, at
which a manifesto was drafted, by which

they were proposing to revolutionize this
country altogether, and in doing it they
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE - Hear, went about it very systernatically, and
hear.
debated one plan after another. It no
doubt went very much against the grain
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I have re- of some of those hon. gentlemen at any
ferred to the speech of Sir A. T. Galt, rate to cut themselves adrift from the old

which I think is conclusive.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-He
changed his opinions since then.

has

HON. MR. POWER-He had ten
thousand reasons for changing them.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-Yes, while
occupying his position as High Commissioner at $1 o,ooo a year and a mansion.

It is necessary, since it makes it more
interesting, to refer to the opinions of
other prominent men, and n pursuing
HoN. MR. McCLELAN.

flag. They had no doubt a considerable
amount of the sentiment of loyalty in
them, and although the times were hard
and they were not making so much money
in those years as before or since, still they
felt thac if they could recoup thernselves
in any other way than by a severance
from England they would be glad to do
so, but they could find no other way, and
finding no other way they were prepared
to take the step-cross the Rubicon, and
unite with the United States. Yet my
hon. friend says that he wonders now at
individuals leaving this country for the

The Industries and [APRIL 28, 1S85] Xlanut're of Canada.
United States, when on the occasion I
refer to nearly one thousand prominent
men said over their own handwriting
that they were prepared to come under
United States jurisdiction.

747

nor in the slightest degree remedy many
of our prominent evils. The sixth proposition sets forth :

"Of ail the remedies that have been suggested for the acknowledged and insufferable
ills with which our country is afiicted, there
HON. MR. SMITH-Things are in a remains but one to be considered. It propounds a sweeping and important change in
very different state in Canada to-day.
our political and social condition involving
HON. MR. PLUMB-How man years considerations which demand our most serious
examination.
This remedy consists in a
ago was that ?
friendly and peaceful separationfromBritish
connection, and a union upon equitable terms
HON. MR. McCLELAN-They under- with the great North American Confederacy
took to discuss the question of protection of sovereiqn states."

-the revival of protection in the markets
of the United Kingdom; secondly the
protection of home manufactures. In the
remark on this they say that although this
might encourage the growth of a manufacturing interest in Canada, yet without
access to the United States market there
would not be a sufficient expansion of that
interest, from the want of consumers, to
work any result that could be admitted as
a " remedy " for the numerous evils of
which they complain. That was a sensible
and reasonable view which those wealthy
and intelligent men entertained at that
time.
In the third place, discussing " a
federal union of the British American
provinces," they came to the conclusion
that it would be no remedy, and it was
therefore abandoned.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-We hadonly
half the population then that we have
now.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-- -My hon.
friend does not pretend to say that that is
the feeling in Canada now.
HON. MR. POWER-Did not the
late High Commissioner sign that manifesto?

HoN. MEMBERS-Read !

Names!

HoN. MR. McCLELAN--The signers
arranged alphabetically are very numerous,
but I will give you some of them.
First
there is Abbott, J. J. C., (hear, hear),
Anderson, J. B., Grant, Glassford, &c.
Among the Macs is observed the name of
Macpherson, D. L., and others equally
prominent representing all shades of
politics.

HON. MR. KAULBACH -We had not
Confederation then and we had not a
Does my hon. friend
HON. MR. McCLELAN-The fourth National Policy.
proposition was the " Independence of the say that the feeling in the country now
British North American Colonies as a is in favor of annexation ?
Federal Republic."
That was discussed
and found not to be a panacea. The fifth
HON. MR. McCLELAN -I am merely
proposition was "reciprocal free trade referring to the opinions of public men
with the United States as regards the upon a former occasion, when this maniproducts of the farm, the forest and the festo was produced. I did not intend to
mine." This they concluded " if obtained bring out so prominently the sixth propowould yield but an instalment of the many sition in the manifesto, as others which
advantages which might otherwise be were rejected. They were opposed to prosecured."
The free interchange of such tection, and thought that it would not in
prcducts would notintroduce manufactures the slighest degree remedy many of the
into our country.
It would not give us existing evils. At the risk of being conthe North American continent for our sidered tedious, I wish to refer to the
market.
It would neither so amend our opinions of some other prominent men. I
constitution as to confer stability, nor will now read from a Prince Edward
insure confidence in its permanence, Island newspaper of September 14th,
nor would it allay the violence of parties, 1878, the report of a meeting at Alberton :

748

The Inidustrie8and [SENATE]

HoN. MR. PLUMB-What paper is it

from ?

Manuj"rs of Canada.

ionist argument, and fortified his position by
many telling illustrations. Mr, Howlan spoke
forcibly, and vas frequently interrupted by
bursts of applause."

HoN. MR. McCLELAN-The Patriot.
HoN. MR. POWER-He always does.
HON. MR. PLUMB-It is a bad au-

thority.
Hox. MR. McCLELAN-It is from a
report of a meeting held at Albertoa, 5 th
September, 1878. It says that Senator
Howlan made a telling speech; that he
said he was always a free trader, and is
one yet. " Like others, he supposed, he
had a right to change his opinions on this
question, but he had not changed his.
(Hear.)"
A further and fuller report of the meeting at Alberton, published on the 7 th September, 1878, states :-

" After others had spoken, and in answer
to loud and repeated calls, Senator Howlan

took the floor, and upon stating that he had
only cone to listen, proceeded, amidst loud

Hox. MR. McCLELAN continuing" After a live
passage at arms between
Messrs. F. F. White, and Mr. Hacket, the
following resolution was proposed by Benjamin Rogers, Esq., seconde by Captain M.
Foley;-" Whereas this meeting having confidence
in the trade policy of the Government, therefore"Resolved that this meeting will support
the two government candidates--Messrs. Yeo
and Perry at the coming election, and will
use every legitimate means to secure their
return to the'bominion flouse of Cominons.
" On the vote, two only were found to oppose the resolution, out of an audience of
about 150, and with three cheers for the free
trade candidates, and three more for the free
trade Senator, the meeting which was well
attended and renarkably orderly adjourned."
The report was signed S. P. Fielding,

applause, to declare limself a free trader. He
entered briefly into the state ot affairs in
Canada, showing that absolute free trade, as secretary.
understood in England, was not possible in
Canada, and nu pn blic mien thbought of it.

HoN. MR. HOWLAN-With regard
to the report of that meeting, I have
HON MR. P>LUMB-Hear, hear!
always denied its accuracy and repudiated
the statements attributed to me.
But
HON. MR. McCLELAN, continuingsuppose I had entertained those opinions,
" He considered the tariff as already suffi- there is no good reason why I should not
ciently high, and deprecated meddling with it, change them from the logic of events.
as tending to destroy the confldence needed to No public man should be bound by a
encourage commerce."
newspaper report like that.
HON. MR. POWER-Hear, hear!

Hox. MR. DICKEY-In an election
campaign.

HON. Mr. McCLELAN, continuing" He considered protection a curse to any
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I remember
country. He had alvays been a free trader, reading his remarks at that time, and I
and was so still, although this was the first
recognized

opportunity he had to declare his views dur-

him with delight, as being a

ing this campaign. He expected to be called champion of the principles I maintain.
to account for these remarks in another place, I quite conceive the applause which greetand he was prepared for it."
ed my hon. friend on that occasion.

According to the old Latin proverb, the
HON. MR. SCOTT-This is the place. hon. gentleman, upon his own ground,
ought to have made an excellent fight. I
HON. MR. McCLELAN, continuingknow from his ability, from his fluency
" While Mr. Pope and others had changed and his eloquence, the meeting was electritheir views, he had not done so. Mr. Howlan fied, as is evident from the enormous vote.
ridiculed the notion of reciprocal free trade It is a compliment to the hon. gentleman's
and said we might as well talk musical free
trade, or any ot ber free trade ; the phrase was power of persuasion and the force of his
meaningless. He entered at length into the argument, and his ability,'at any rate upon
question, exposing the fallacy of the protect- the stump, that such a remarkable result,

The Industries and [APRIL 28, 1885] Mangf'r8 of Canada. 749
such a unamimous result ensued
that speech.

after

HON. MR. POWER---When was that
letter writt n ?

HoN. MR. KAULBACH-The hon.
HoN. MR. McCLELAN-I have not
gentleman says it is not a correct report seen the letter, but I see it referred to in
of his remarks.
an English paper.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-It is the reHON. MR. KAULBACH-What is
port of the secretary of the meeting.
good for an old country may not be suitable for a new country like Canada.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It is a partizan report.
HoN. MR. McCLELAN-The letter
from which I have quoted, was written to
HON. MR. McCLELAN-For the pur- a conservative meeting held quite recently.
pose of varying the matter a little, I will With the permission of the House I shall
refer to an English authority, and will now read the opinion of Sir Wilfrid Lawshow that now, on the eve of an election son, on fair trade, I quote from a report
in England, when so much has been in the London Mail of September 23rd,
attempted by certain parties to get a share 1881 :of the loaves and fishes, a great deal has
Yesterday evening a new Liberal club and
been said there about fair trade with a
view of seducing the farmers and hum- association, which has been founîded at Penrith, was inaugurated by a public meeting,
bugging them and leading them astray on held in the market-hal of t hat town. Mr.
this matter of trade. On the eve of a new Henry Howard, of Greystoke Castle, presided,
election, when they have had this plank and among the speakers were Mr. E. Stafford
in their platform of fair trade, the Tories Boward, M.P., Mr. George Howard, M.P.,
the Hon. A. D. Elliott, MP., and Sir Wilfrid
of England are in full retreat on the ques- Lawson, M.P.
tion, and are most ingloriously backing
Sir Wilfrid Lawson, who on rising was
loudly cheered, said there lad been a great
down on the fair trade policy.
The farmers and the workers in all many conferences and congresses of late, but
lines in England are unwilling to take the a meeting such as they were holding that
night for the promotion of Liberal principles,
bait. They know full well how to count was more useful than any of them. The late
the cost of any duty on food and the Lord Beaconsfield had explainied some ten or
other necessaries of life. They remember fitteen years ago what great trouble he had
some of them the terrible times prior to had to educate his party; but now that he
it seemed
the repeal of the corn law. Higher rents, was gone them, wereas if the Conservatives,or
some of
slipping back to some of
dearer bread, more costly products, and the practices of the old-world Toryism. Some
consequerntly keener competition in the of them were crying for a returi to the protection of British industry. They lid not call
markets of the world.
Now, I come to the point I wish to it protection, they called it " reciprocity," or
who had
make, and I will give the opinion of a a policy of retaliation. A of man character.
aliases was generally a man bad
very prominent gentleman, I think the (Laughter.) Here was protection skulking
leader of the great Conservative party of about the country under the aliases of reciEngland-I speak of Sir Stafford North- procity and retabation, and that ought to be
cote. At a great political meeting in enougli to put people on their guard against
such dangerous characters. (Cheers and
Somersetshire, to inaugurate the campaign lauglter.) It did not do to put this thing
in the Conservative interest, Sir Stafford down by brute force and cal! these people
Northcote was invited to attend, and re- fools because they were going in for protection.
plied by letter, in which he advised them Mr. Briglit, in his rigliteous zeal, was vexed
with
and he was
to disclaim the "Protection Heresy." with them,but instead not going to find fault
him,
of callin g them fools
Said Sir Stafford
they should argue with them. That was the
The Tory Premier, Peel, abolished the only way to treat anybody who you thought
corn duties, and a return of the protectionist held erroneous opinions. In the first place,
policy is impossible while the Conservative did they know what was the state of the counparty lives to combat it. The idea that any try forty years ago, when the industry of the
Tory Government would return to the tax on country was protected ? There pre'vailed a
cereals is groundless. Teach the English peo- state of degradation and misery which were a
disgrace to the century and to the country,
ple that.

T/he Industrie8 and [SENATE] Manuqf'r8 of Canada.

'i50

and who benefitted by it ? There was hardly National Policy.
The junior member
a session of Parlianent in which a squire or from Belleville is not very happy
in his
noblenian did not move for a commission to
inquire into the distressed state of agriculture, memory of the history of this National
which was the result ot protection. Agricul- Policy, because he did not refer to what
tural laborersiwere in a state of degradation was called the National Policy which
and misery, and in the towns the weavers, was introduced and carried in
1870.
spinners, and mannifacturers were in a state There was a very close vote
upon it in the
of pauperisn and wretchedness horrible to
look back to. (Cheers.) All this was under Senate. That National Policy did not go
the system of protection which these wise men so far in the way of protection as this one

wished to return to. The danger of such a does. It provided for the imposition of a
state of things was that it would produce dis- duty on coal, flour, salt, rice and a numcontent with the institutions under which we ber of minor articles.
live.

The country had only been saved from

revolution by sweeping away the system of
HON. MR. PLUMB-And Sir Charles
protection, monopoiy,and cruelty. (Cheers.)
The result had been an enormous increase of Tupper said it was "the thin edge of the
trade, a prodigious increase of shipping, and
an amazing increase of national wealth.

(Cheers.) In support of this view lie quoted
Sir Stafford Northcote's book, "Our Financial
Policy," published in 1862, to the effect that
although there had been seasons of temporary
local and partial suffering, and the changes
had sometimes pressed hard upon particular
districts, yet, on the whole, the condition of
every portion of the community had been
greatly improved by the new policy. (Cheers.)
It was a pity the principle which had proved
so beneficial should be swept away because it
had begun to rain.'

wedge," did he not ?
HON. MR. McCLELAN-He
may
have said so. In the discussion which
took place in the Senate on that question,
the hon. Senator from Saugeen, who is
now the Minister of the Interior, moved

the resolution in amendment, which was,
practically, a three months' hoist, and, in

the discussion on that, he took very
strong grounds against the thin end of
the wedge of protection, and that seemed
to be the danger which pervaded his

HON. MR. KAULBACH-It shows mind-that it would lead to higher prothat there is an agitation for fair trade in tection, and that the whole principle of
England.
protection was wrong.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-Yes, and he
HON. MR. KAULBACH-A wise man
is speaking against it. His whole speech may change his mind.
is interesting, but I do not care to take
up the time of the House reading it, beHON. MR. McCLELAN-Certainly,
cause I have other speeches to which I and I trust that my hon. friend from
wish to refer.
Lunenburg may change his ; it is perfectly
legitimate ; I am not imputing any imHON. MR. KAULBACH-My hon. proper motives to anybody. I am merely
friend might see that we are in a new quoting the opinion of public men-discountry and that we ought to adopt the tinguished men-upon this question. In
policy which England followed when her this connection I will refer to expressions
industries were in their infancy, too.
from a speech delivered by the hon. Senator to whom I have just made reference,
HON. MR. McCLELAN - My hon. inter alia :friend referred four times, in the course of "l e believed it to be exceedingly unsound
his speech, to the enormous crowding of to impose a duty on coal and bread stuffs, or
families in London, but I think it will be any natural products that were now free."
That is exactly in accordance with the
a long time before the chief city of his
province, Halifax, is so over-crowded views some of us entertain to-day. Then
under the National Policy. I had occa- he continues" Then the duty would be a great obstrucsion to refer, the other day, to the fact
that in 1870 some opinions were expressed tion to trade all through the country, which
with
in this House on the subject of protection. should, in accordance left asthe true principle of commerce, be
unrestricted as
At that time there was a measure brought possible.
forward to impose a tariff called the
" Not only would the tariff be worthless to,
HON. MR. McCLELAN.

Tie lndustries and [APRIL 28, 1885] Manuf'r8 of Canada.
the people of Ontario, but most burthensome
to the other sections, to the fishermen and
the great masses ofthe people of Nova Scotia
andçewv Brunswick as well as Quebec, for it
was a well-known fact that a large quantity
of breadstuffs were yearly taken in the latter
province from the United States. Tihen as
a part of this great National Policy, a duty
was imposed on foreign coul, as a means of
propitiating Nova Scotia. Nova Scotia, New
Brunswick and Quebec taxed to satisfy
Ontario! Quebec, Ontario and New Brunswick were to be burthened to please a minority in Nova Scotia! Nothing could be more
calculated to create dissention and disturb
the barmonious working of Confederation
than such legislation."
Almost prophetic.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-He
lived to see his error.
HoN. MR. McCLELAN-His

has
words

were almost prophetic, if one reads this in
the light of the present day. Both in the
west and in the east, even in the province
from which my hon. friend from Lunenburg has the honor of coming-that province which he was kind enough to assure
us the other day, was reposing in content-

ment, peace and happiness-

HON. MR. KAULBACH-Hear, hear!

751

tariff was revenue, and in order to protect
the manufacturers sufficiently it was necessary
to interfere with revenue.
* * He considered it a most unsound principle to diminish
the num ber of articles on the free list. The
policy of the country hitherto had been to
follow the example of England, &c.
" Was the House readv to subsidize everv
little enterprise that might be established in
this country, without reference to the masses
of the people? If it was the wish of the
Governîment to encourage the salt interest
artificially, it was better to give it a direct
subsidv than to increase the cost of the
article by a tax on consumers; and the
saine argument would apply to the coal of
Nova Scotia."

Just as my hon. friend from Ottawa
made the observation the other day, which
I have no doubt was very correct. The
hon. gentleman from Saugeen continued:
" If it is the intention to encourage monopolists at the expense of the eople, then let
it be done directly out of the consolidated
fund, and we wouldsoon know what it would
cost.
" Far wiser to subsidize the few monopolists directly out of the publie revenues.
eA benefit to a few non-residents-coal
mine owners of Nova Scotia-would not be a
benefit to the great mass of the people of Nova
Scotia. * * The tariff, therefore, so far as
it touched salt and coal, was only intended to
benefit monopolists to the injury of the great
mass of the people.
masThe inland shipping of Ontario would
also be injuriously affected
'
and the
result generally injurious to our marine.
".Yet this was called a great " National
Poliey, which was to protect all interests
and please all sections, an lead to the renewal
of reciprocity with the United States 1"

HoN. MR. McCLELAN-Even in the
legislature of that province, a resolution,
having for its object the dismemberment
of the Union, was introduced and adopted.
The sentiments expressed by the representatives of that province, one reads
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It has done
with sadness, but yet I have no doubt all that.
they were largely the sentiments of the
people of that province.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I was not
aware of it. It continuesMR KAULBTACHT-t
.....
"What was more absurd than to suppose
from an effete Government that would not tbat an additional taxation of ourselves 10 the
allow the question to be decided at the anount of $200,000 was going to have the
polls.
effet of forcing the Americans b renew free
trade with Canada. If true, that a mutual
HON. MR. MCCLELAN-I hope the interchange ofour products would be the best
for required from we untaxed, or ah that
hon. members of the Administration will we botli countries,themshould receivein other
listen to the wise sayings of their col- words at the lowest possible rates for ourselves. (hear, hear.)
leagues
HONi'

lq

" He believed that a protective duty was
unjust and could not be supported on true
principles. He was also convinced that there
was nothing more illogical than that incidental protection which some said was one of
the objects of the measure. The objeet of a

Il'

"What cdIf or illoi
tan woay j
consumed by your people, we shah impose
a tax on what is consumed by our own."
"If we could make the Americans pay he
taxes, then there would besome reason in the
arguments of gentleen opposite; but so long

752

The hIdustries and [SENATE] Manuf'r8 of Canada.

as we pay them ourselves, there could be tion. When people pay duties on articles
nothing advanced in favor of the tariff."
of consumption, like tea, the money goes
Those, I think, are very sound words. into the revenue of the country.
does flot inform theni, however, that when
HoN. MR. SCOTT-Whose views are he puts a duty on articles which enter into
those?
the manufactures of the country, not only
is a revenue derived froin thein by the
Hox. MR. McCLELAN-Sir David Government, but the people are comMacpherson's.
peiled to contribute to the building
up of factories for the advancement
Hox. MR. SCOTT-Not the Minister of factory men and manufacturers, and
of the Interior, surely!
the resuit of it is to produce a spasm in
trade, and so much competition in sorte
HoN. MR. McCLELAN-The present unes that over-production, inflation, bankMinister of the Interior. The hon. gen- ruptcy and ruin, and ail the regular train
tleman fron Toronto, Mr. Allan, on the of resuits which naturally flow from the
same occasion said
cause, are witnessed in the country. The
" He had nio desire to see the doctrine of resuit is that while the revenue is being
protection revived in Canada, and more duties maintained by taxation, a large portion of
necessary for
impoed
han ereabsolutely obecedsr ori the money that the people are compelled
imposed than were
11slue
the purposes of revenue. He objected to the
policv because it would not answer the pur- to pay does not go into the revenue, but
pose itS promoters claimed for it. He spoke gocs temporarily to assist men who are
of the great injury that would be done to ultimately injured by it. Lt proves to bc
the shipping and commercial interests of the an utter failure in its results in a great
country.

"1He believed the ineasure was in itself nany cases. As a consequence, the
inaugurating a mischievous systeni of legis- money of the country becores exhausted,
circulation decreases, and resuits follo
lation.e'
which are usually witnessed in ail very
Ho.-. -'\R. KAULBACH-It shows highly protected countries, and to sonie
that the logic of facts has changed those extent in ail countries, through changes in
gentlemien's mdnds.
the nature of trade ; so that the expression
of opinion from a manufacturer-I do not
HON. '-\IR. McCELAN-i
have also refer to the opinions expressed by Mr.
the views of some gentlemen of Nova Hewitt, and others in Congress last year,
Scotia, which are equally strong, as well as though they were very tronounced, but

more forcible and eloquent.

I have given another gentleman, whose expressions are

the opinions of several prominent individuals.
could go on and give a number
more.
1 could give also the opinions of
leading manufacturers of the United
States, because they, like the manufacturers of England in i83r, and later on,
have corne to the conclusion that even
they are not benefited by protective duties.

of very recent date-will be interesting.
Mr. Hewitt is a manufacturer, and he
thought the trade polcy was a mstake,
and would be very glad to inaugurate a
very diffrent one; and it is necessary
that I should make some reference to
American authorities, because I understood some speakers to say that they were

They are carning that very much to their
cost. We are getting a line of experience
in Canada %vhichindicates that the wage
earners of the country are being taxed professedly for their benefit, -but that even
they are injured by the imposition. The
Finance Minister, when hie makes his
Budget Speech, says that a tax, whether
levied on one article or another, produces
revenue-that if he does not tax cotton
Ngool, sugar, and other things which enter
into manufactures, he will have to raise
revenue from other articles of consump-

a unit there.

HON. MR. McCLELAN.

Hox.

MR.

KAUL,1bACH--Hear, hear.

HON. M . McCLELAN -My belief
is that if a 1ati were takel on the question in the United States, the miajority of
the people would adopt free trade as far
as their circumstances would permit.
HON. MR.
tMcCLELAN- will now
quote from a report of a speech recently
delivered in Detroit

The Indit8trie8 and [APRIL 28, 1885] 1ianuf'rs of Canada. 753
A verv fine audience assembled at the De- and proving that even in the United States
troit Opera House last evening to listen to
the address of J. B. Sargent, of New Haven, they are subject to the same difficulties
Conn., upon free trade.
The auditorium that ve find here.
proper and the dress circle were thronged
vith people, and the audience overflowed into
HoN. MIR. PLUMB-And in England,
the gallery. Prominent free traders occupied too.
seats on the Platform.
Hon. W. G. Thonpson presided and introHON. MIR. McCLELAN-Mr. J. B.
duced the speaker. He was greeted with ap
plause upon his appearance, and frequently Sargent then addressed the meeting and
said :interrupted with cheers. He said:
While the injury from the maintenance of
I vas born into a manufacturing family
the war tariff to Detroit is in a sense local, the and in a manufacturing community. The
injury to the best business interests of the settled policy of the whole civilized world
ivhole country is general, and has grown to then was to collect the revenue for the supsuch alarming, proportions as to challenge the port of governments largely through taxes on
attention of al. The commercial failures of importe, under the claim that it was protect1884 exceeded by far in amount those of any ing manufactures, and that the revenue really
previous year. Bradstreet has recently pub- came fron the foreign manufacturers or proliehed the result of an investigation of the ducers--ascheme of tyrants togetfrom the peostatistics of unemployed labor in the United ple more money than the people would have
States, which shows that there were in De- been willing to pay by any kind of direct taxacember, 1884, 350,000 fewer operatives at tion. I became familiar with manufacturing
work than were employed in 1882, a loss of life in the manufacturing village of my birth14 per cent. The rates of waa'es are compared place, near which were tactories for the manwith those of 1882, which sTiows that the in- ufacture of cotton and woolen goode, the
dustries protected by the highest tariff duties operators being nearly all immigrants from
are those in which the heaviest reductions in the manufacturing districts ofEngland. The
wages have been made, and that these reduc- manufacture of supplies for cotton and woolen
tions are generally in proportion to the mills was the business that I, in part, inheramount of protection afforded to them. In ited from my father. I well remember the
cotton and woolen mills the reduction has discussions of manufacturing and business
been from 25 to 30 per cent., while there has men in my boyhood days concerning the
been no reduction in the wages of the unpro- hazards of the manufacture of woolen goode,
tected carpenter, mason, plumber and stone the sales of which were confined to the one
cutter. The reduction of iron-mill workers market-the United States. The course of
has been from 15 to 22 per cent., while the the business was often described, and it ran
pay of butchers, bakers, millers, tanners and like this: The manufacturers started with
prmters, has not declined at all, thus emphat- their business in good times and with only a
ically controverting the proposition that a moderate capital, because wealthy manufachigh tariff makes high wages for the work- turers were scare and interest high, and
ingman.
loans to manufacturers were hazardous.
John Bright, in a letter written the 12th of
Business would be brisk for about three
last March, says the price of labor in England years from the previous hard times, and by
bas advanced fifty per cent. since the free trade that time the market was fully supplied and
movement commenced there, while the hours sales became few. It was expensive for the
of labor in many trades have been reduced.
nianufacturers to stop, and therefore they got
. The tariff bas destroyed the foreign carry- all the advances they could from their coming trade of the United States; our flag bas mission merchants. Then, sales were made
disappeared from the ocean. We pay a tribute at a reduced price to force the goode upon
of not less than $400,000,000 annually to the market, then reduction of wages, then
foreign vessels and are supporting 100,000 short time, then suspension of work, then
British sailors, every one of whom would be failure and bankruptcy. The villagers were
an enemy in time of war.
almost dead for about three years till the
The tariff prohibits importe that might pur- overstocked market became bare of goods.
chase the producte of American labor. It bas Then the mille, under a new owner, were recut down the sale of American manufactures paired. The card clothing and delicate parts
at home and abroad and depleted the returns of the machinery that had been spoiled by inof American agriculture,an industry followed activity and rust were replaced with new.
by more than haf of our people. It bas given Workmen were gathered into the mills and
the absolute control of the commerce of Can- manufacturing was started with a rush again ;
ada, Mexico and the republics of Central and and after about three years of business prosSouth America--.countries which by reason of perity the dullness of an overstocked market
their contiguity we might easily control-to, came again, and then the failures.
trans-Atlantic nations.
I was raised in business as a merchant in
This is interesting to me, as showing the dry goods business in Boston, and went
the course of things in protected countries, to Georgia as a merchant in 1843, that is
more than forty years ago. My teachings on
Xi

754A

The Industrie8 and [SENATE]

Manuf'r8 of Canada.

the tariff question were of the highly protec- ware and machinery used in this country. I
tive doctrines of the manufacturers of Massa- found that our woolenm goods manufacturers
chusetts in the comparative infancy of manu- sustain about the same relations with the wool
factures, and the same doctrines as so fully growers that the metal goods manufacturers
set forth in the New York Tribune. In 1849, do with the producers of metals. The wool
t, sold out my business in Georgia and re- growers rob the manufacturers of woollen
moved to New York, and in 1850, became a goods and permit the woollen goods manufacmanufacturer in Massachusetts, with a store turers to rob the people.
Provided the mannfacturers were relieved
in New York for the sale of my goods.
I had noticed how busy and prosperous from the tariff on raw materials, they would
were the manufacturers and people of Eng- need no protection on their manufactures and
land since the adoption of free the tradepolicy would be able to relieve the people engaged in
there. I had noticed that the English-born other employments from contributing to their
operators of the cotton and woollen mills of maintenance and protection throughi forced
my earlier days were missing, and their places tributes by means of high tariffs on importations.
filled with the people from other countries.
What the manufacturers need is simply to
I had noticed that emigration, since some
time prior to the war, had been very little from be let alone, and be leit, each for himself, to,
the factory work-people from free-trade Eng- work out his own success or go under. They
land, an 4f large from high-tariff Germany; do not need any favors through tariffs for prothat there was almost universal content in tection nor through tariffs for revenue, if
free-trade England, and almost universal dis- relieved from the burdens of tariff on their
content in all the high-tariff countries of the materials.
Who are the workers for wages in this
continent of Europe. The more I thought
upon the subject, the raore I could not see country? Of what are they composed ? First,
why the people should be much interested in of the native stock, originally coming largely
paying us manufacturers from 35 to 100 per from the Puritans of the Anglo-Saxon race,
cent. more for goods made by us, than the ready to dare and do anything for success,
foreign price-especially as the great West willing to undergo any hardship and suffer
and South could pay in exports of produce of any privation on the road to success, and comtheir ownt raising. I knew that free-trade pel led to use to the full extent all their powers
England was our severest competitor; but I of mind and body in trying to exist and mialso knew that we got but very littte emigra- prove their condition. Other, and allied races,
tion from the manufacturing districts of Eng- but with sonewhat different characteristics,
land, compared with that fromi the manufac- came at the same time and soon afterwards,
turing districts of high-tariff Germany. That; nearly all in vigorous condition of body and
looked as though the " pauperism" was in mind, and all imbued with the determination
the high-tariff country rather than in the free- of achieving success. Their descendants are
trade country. I concluded to investigate in what we call our native stock.
They constitute a sort of reservoir of force
Europe for myself. I spent four months of
each of the years 1873 and 1875 in Europe, and a balance wheel and regulator in lactory
and looked up the protective theory with my labor. As inventors and mechanics they are
own eyes, in the light of my own experience nowhere excelled. They know how to sucand observation as a merchant, and especially ceed and need no protection. Later, partly as
as a manufacturer. I became thoroughly the cause and partly as the effect of our great
convinced that instead of my having been for increase in agriculture and manufactures,
so many years a genteel and aristocratic internal improvements and inter-state compauper, living and prospering upon the chari- merce, we have added to and made a part of
ties of the people, I real ly had been one of the our working force an immense immigration of
deluded and oppressed victims of the Penn- the same and of somewhat different races.
sylvania, Ohio and Lake Superior coal and Much of this immigration has been converted
metal oligarchies, who, in order to pile up into workshop and factory labor. We have
illegitimate wealth, had so managed Congress largely the Irish race in all its various charas to acquire, through high tariffs, substan- acteristice. Much of it erude, but muscular,
tially a monopoly of supplying us with coal honest and ambitious. That race has well
and metals, and at a price very largely in ex- done its share of the hard labor. The Irish
cess of the prices paid by our foreign competi- race is a large and almost indispensable
Lors. But in order to iucrease the demand for element in American factory labor.
The German race, often dissatisfied or irretheir coal and metals-not that they care anything for the manufacturers' good, only so far pretssible at home, hard worked on a poor
as we can be used to enrich then-they rob us soi], or unskilfully managed in factory labor,
manufacturere at wholesale, and allow us to for years of their early manhood forced into
rob the people at retail. They take over sixty the army, their labor always largely reduced
per cent. on pig-iron from us foundrymen, and in the fruits to them by the taxes necessary
allow us to rob the buyers of our hardware to support royalty, nobility, and standing
from twenty-five to forty-five per cent., when- armies ; has come to us bountifully and in
ever we can combiue to keep up prices, so that increasing numbers since the high German
they feel tolerably secure in their monopoly tariff on raw materials of 1879. n thejears
of supplying the metal in nearly all the hard- 1875-9 there landed in the United States
HON. MR. McCLELAN.

§lke Indu8trie8 and [APRIL 28, 1885.] Manuf'r8 of Canada. 755
120,919 Gernan immigrants. In the years
1880-4 920,215 were landed. The Danes and
Swedes have added largely to our working
force. This admixture of the most vigorous,
intelligent and anbitious of the workers of ail

other civilized nations with our own native
stock, and by the skilful management of
employers combined into one harmonious

and homogeneous whole, has produced a
working force nowhere equalled for intelligence, skill, industry, willing endurance and
ambition. There is no tariff on imports of
European labor and never can be. Here every
workmngman knows he is a part and parcel of
the community in which he resides, and of
the nation, with equal rights to advise, and
help direct in the Focal and national welfare.
He can take a part in deciding who are to
make or change the laws. He can take a
part in decidin, the amount of revenue to be
collected and in indicating the purposes for
which it shall be expended. He can take a
part in shaping the pobîcy in regard to educational and religious questions, and in ail these
matters he knows that his vote is as weighty
as that of any man. He knows that ail
avenues leading to education, to wealth, to
high social, civil or mîlit.ary positions, are as
open to iin as to the proudeat in the land.
**

*

Farming in this country is

the great regulator of the rate of wages. 'actory wages will not long remain below what
can be earned on the cheap and fertile lands
of the great and seemingly ever increasing
West. Employers of mining or factory labor
rnay cut down wages and hold them down
temporarilv in dul times, but soon so many
will go to farms of their own, or to farns
owned by others, that the ranks of the factory
worker will be so thinned out that wages will
return to or above their normal rate. Till
our lands are aIl occupied in farms and worn
out, till our forests cease te grow, till our
mines are exhauisted, till inte[ligence ceases
in the land and the People cease to rule, labor
in this country will enjoy advantages over
European labor so long as Europe remains
politically and seocially as now. Labor here
needs no protection and gets none.
Of European labor with which American
laber would have, under free trade, to compete,
Mr. Sargent said, it was physically inferior
by reasons of wars and immigration ; European chimate, in the manufacturing belt, is not
go favorable; there is no land held by the
poor, and European workmen are kept on
scanty subsistence, ofnecessity, because wages
are low. These are the competitors that protectionists warn Anierican laborere against.
They warn giants again8t trials of strength
with pigmies. I would rather have one average
immigrant worker from continental Europe,
after beingcombined into our American laborforce and practiced in our methods, paid with
our psy, fed with our food, and filled with our
freedom, than an average three of those who
remain there under all conditions in which
they exist, and will exist, probably, for inany
generations. We can afford to pay them here

twice as much per day as they got at home,
and then get rich out of their labor, provided
we can have raw materials, free of duty, to
enable us to sell our surplus merchandise in
the non-manufactuaing countries of the world.
The pauper labor ot high-tariff continental
Europe nay need protection from us. We do
notfromit. There are other classes ofinferiority in the quantity and quality of the product
of labor in Europe. The management there
is less energetic and less exacting; work is
not pushed forward with so much zeal and
constancy, and more resting time is taken
during the hours of employment. The condition and efficiency of labor in England are
much better than on the continent. Many
causes that stimulate it here, do so there.
Wages are thirty to sixty per cent. higher per
day than on the continent, and workmen do
more and better work, making them cheaper
to their employers than on the continent.
This is the opinion of a disinterested
manufacturer in the United States, a very
intelligent gentlemen living in a country
where information is so generally diffused.
He has examined carefully the condition
of the laboring classes in Europe; he was
a master mechanic himself, and his conclusion is that not only are the English
workmen better fed, but the wages paid
in England are higher.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Higher than in
the United States ?
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I am speaking of wages in Europe, and the hon. gen.
tlemen who is clear headed certainly
ought to follow the line of my argument.
Mr. Sargent continues:"In some departments, we are hardly up
to the English in cheapness and quality of
machinery and in economy of management.
But free trade in iron and textiles would
remedy both these. American factory labor
produces more in proportion to the wages paid
it than any other factory labor in the world."
Mr. Sargent then discussed the cornmon fallacy that low wages are cheap.
wages. He then turned to the wool tariff,
of which he said :The wool raisers with their high tariffs,
averaging on clothing and combing wools
over filty per cent., represe the manufacture
of the better qualities of woolen goode, by
prohibiting the importation of the better and
necessary woole of Australia, except at more
than fifty per cent. higher price to the American manufacturers than the English or
Belgium manufacturers pay for them. The
American manufacturers would use only a
portion of Australian wool in their mixture,

756

The Industries and [SEN ATE] Ranuef'rs of Canada.

sufficient ouly to give the necessary strength, exports of breadstuffs, provisions of all kinds,
elasticitv and softness ; but the selfish and cotton and petroleum. and all exports and
short-sighted American wool growers try to imports. Manufactures increased five-fold.
arbitrarily prohibit the importation of Austra- Prior to the passage of any tariff-reform
lian wools, and thus thev lose the opportunity measures in England, the working population
to supply any of the wool used in the ianu- werý kept so much in idleness, and their
facture of most of the good woolens worn in earnings were so small and irregular that there
this country. Because of the lack of Austra- was much suffering, among even the ablelian wool or its equivalent here, at a reason- bodied, temperate and frugal, from the want
aple price, most of our better woolens are of the bare necessaries of life, which were
made in Europe, and imported here. Yet kept at a high price by protective tariffs. But
the wool growers pay no higher wages to the the circumstances of the workingmen were
little human help necessary to raise wool gradually but rapidly improved by the tariff
than the same or any other farmer pays to reform measures; and at the end of the first
those who help him raise wheat or corn or twenty-five years the yearly earnings doubled,
hogs. The protection that the wool tariff at and the cost of a better living had decreased
first gave to the wool growers, caused theim to half what the poor living had cost twentyto be independent and negligent in the feed, five years previous. Pauperism had diminshelter and care of their sheep. The breeds ished more than half. Convictions for crime
and their wool deteriorated, and east of the bad diminished from one in 800 to one in 1,800
Mississippi river, the number of sheep has of the inhabitants per year. Under free trade
steadily decreased since soon after the adopt- in vessels and navigation, the merchant
ion of the high tariff of 1856. The state of marine increased in tonage a million tons,
Michigan had 4,028,707 sheep in 1867; in and changed largely from sails to steam. Edu1882, only 2,320,752. It is not always the cation has kept pace with the material
robber class that is the most prosperous in prosperity of the people. England bas no
the long run. The wool growers with their advantages over us except in the enlighten
high tariffs, may be conpared to the average ment of her statesmen. We have many
easy-going young man born with a silver natural advantages over lier which we supspoon in bis mouth-often an unfortunate press by high tariffs. We are able to cope
circumstance that does not prompt to any with England in manufacture and commerce,
energetie effort except to get more of the if on the saine free trade basis, and would get
spoon. The wool-growers instead of improv- our share of the present commerce of the
ing their breeds of sheep-as the free-trade world, and of its enormous increase under a
Australians are obliged to do-are now band- rivalry between the two nations.
ing together for more of the tariff spoon.
They want more pay for the sheep's labor in
HON. MR. McCLELAN-These are
walking about and eating grass. There is the opinions of Mr. J. B. Sargent.
certainly very little human labor in growing
wool. * * y Michigan has gained little if
HON. MR. PLUMB-Who is J. B. Saranything by the high tariff on wool, but she
has lost her natural position as a great com- gent ?
mercial state by forced disuse, under tariff
conditions. The great lakes that almost surHON. MR. McCLELAN-He is a
round her are but little more of value to her
now than a Chnese wall. In consequence prominent manufacturer in the United
of tariff protection, commerce, except with States who addressed an audience in Dethe States, is substantially barred out. Free- troit the other day. The hon. gentleman
trade, that has made this country what it is must know where Detroit is ?
(I mean absolute free-trade among the States),
is only at the south and west of Michigan.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Yes, I know
If good when coming from the south and
west why not from the north and east-from where Detroit is, but I do not know who
Canada ?"
Mr. Sargent is.
Mr. Sargent touched upon a number of
HON. MR. McCLELAN-He is a manother protected industries, treating them
in an equally forcible manner. He then ufacturer, and expressed his ideas very
gave a history of free trade in England, clearly and to the point, and I am sure
that they cannot be controverted by the
and concluded as follows:England's foreign trade (exports and im- hon. gentleman from Niagara. I have
ports) increased, in the first twenty-five years produced facts here in the same line with

of free trade, from $30 per each inhabitant of
England to $90; an increase of three-fold.
'Fbe foreign trade of the United States is now
almost exactly, per inhabitant, what England
was, per inhabitant, at the beginning of free
trade. Ours is $30 per inhabitant, including
HON. MR. McCLELAN.

those referred to by Mr. Sargent, as to
the trade relations of the different countries as Vo he expressions of opinion of
promnent men, and as to deposits in savings banks not being evidence of prosper-

Thie Indu8tries and [APRIL 28, 1885J .Manif'rs
ity in the country, and I have adduced
the best possible proof of the position I
have taken, and I think the hon. gentleman from Niagara will find it very difficult to controvert my statements, or the
statements of that Detroit manufacturer.
To show that there is not very much in the
arguments of my hon. friends, who give as
a reason why English statesmen were induced to adopt a free-trade policy, that
the country had grown rich under a protective policy, I refer to Molesworth's history of England, vol. 1, page 51.

qf Canada. 757

gentlemen have made, as to the cause of

England adopting free-trade, are not correct.

HON. MR. MACDONALD (B. C.)That is fifty-five years ago.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My

hon. friend seems to take a melancholy
pleasure in reading of this distress.
HON. MR. POWER-I rise to a question

of order.

There are not more than a

dozen members on this side of the House,
HON MR. KAULBACH-We do not and there are some sixty on the other side,
and although hon. gentlemen on the other
want any book theories.
side are allowed, as a rule, to go on
HON. MR. McCLELAN-Am I not without interruption, when three or four
permitted to refer to history, to the stand- members speak on this side they are
ard authors ? This historian remarks :
interrupted continuously, and in a most
discourteous way.
" Nor were these discontents without reason.
The people of this country had for some time
THE SPEAKER-With regard to the
past been suffering cruelly, and had been
point of order raised by the hon. gentleforcing thenselves on the attention of their
law-givers in an altogether unpleasant and man from Halifax, the hon. member who
unsatisfactorv manner. Statements of agri- has the floor has taken it so good-naturedly
cultural distress, mining distress, and manu- that I did not care to interfere ; had he
facturing distress, were made, echoed and re- complained of it, I certainly should have
echoed. Somnetimes they were met by unqualified assent ; some~times by vehement called hon. members to order.
contradiction ; but still they continued to be
made. But let Governments and members of
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-1 do not
Parliament say what they would, there was think my hon. triend from Halifax has any
distress, and very serious and terrible dis- right to say that those interruptions are
tress, too. Agricultural laborers were found
starved to death, having tried in vain to discourteous, so long as my hon. friend
support nature with sorrel and other such from Hopewell has not complained.
like food. In vain did landlords abate their
rents, and clergymen their tithes; wages con
HON. MR. PLUMB-When we ask
tinued to fall, and had at length reached such
questions we do so to get information. If
a point of depression that they did not suffice
my young friend, the senior member for
to support existence."
" The simple tact was, that wars, national Halifax, had been in some other body, he
debt, increase of population, corn-laws, mal- would have been taught something on
administration of the poor-Iaws and other rules of order.

legislation or hindrance of legislation, had re-

duced the great mass of the people, and esTHE SPEAKER-These remarks are
pecially the agricultural laborers, to the
verge of starvation and despair. They were certainly out of order.
gong mad with misery; and in their midness
they did mischief by which they themselves
HoN. MR. McCLELAN-It must be
were sure to be the first and greatest sufferers."
That shows-

HoN. MR. PLUMB---What does il
t
show? That the condition of the agri cultural classes of England was exceedinglyr
distressing.
HoN. MR. McCLELAN-I can show
r
by history that the statements that hon .

remembered that there are very few in
this Chamber who advocate the views
which I hold, and of course it can scarcely
be considered that all public men must
think alike on this subject. This question was not imported into this House by
the Opposition, but by a supporter of the
Government, and in the discussion hon.
gentlemen have gone too freely into the
subject.

758

TUe Industries and [SENA TE] 3anuf'r8 of Canada.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I did not
HON. MR. McCLELAN-Yes, I am
read from a book.
very much obliged to my hon. friend. 1
have heard it running through the
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I will remind speeches of hon. gentlemen on the other
my hon. friend of a story that I have read, side from the beginning-through the
of a scene down in the eastern country. speeches of the hon. gentleman from
It was that of an unfortunate fellow who Lunenburg, the hon. gentleman from
was up on a charge for murder, and who Quinte, the hon. gentleman from Hamilhad employed a lawyer of some local cele- ton, the hon. gentleman from Belleville,
brity to defend him. After the lawyer and, I think, the senior member from
had spoken for six hours in defence of Belleville, particularly, told us, in advocathis client, the prisoner became weary, and ing the high protective system, about the
asked his counsel how long he intended cheapness of goods, leaving people to into continue his address. The law yer re- fer that the very cheapness of the goods
plied that he was going on for five hours to-day was the result of the National
longer, when his client was ready to ex- Policy. Hon. gentlemen who use that
claim, with King Lear, "oh, torture me line of argument in their addresses, cerno more, I will confess !"-he offered tainly are not complimenting the intellithat if his lawyer would stop the argument gence of the people whom they expect to
he would acknowledge his crime. The read their speeches, when they suppose
poor culprit had to undergo the punish- that that will be a forcible argument, or
ment of eleven hours speaking, and suffer- that the people will not be able to see
ed capital punishment in the end. I was through the flimsiness of such statements,
reminded of that story the other day, after as having any bearing at all upon the
the hon. gentleman from Lunenburg had issue, and hence I would refer here to the
reached the fourth or fifth day of his reasons-to the great reduction of rates,
remarks. I had hoped that the same in the old countries, upon articles of coneffect would be produced here-that the sumption, and the reasons for that reducGovernment would have admitted the tion of rates. The author of the article I
enormity of their policy, and would have refer to was Mr. Fowler, M. P., and he
thrown themselves upon the mercy of the compiles these figures from a legitimate
country, if the hon, gentleman would dis- channel. He says :-" A comparison in
continue his address.
figures of the prices as given in this table,
and of the prices of the same articles six
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We years later, will bring before the reader
will now, if the hon. gentleman will give the present situation more impressively
up the five hours.
than any other mode of statement. It
will suffice to give the most important
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I admit that article of commerce-prices in Jauuary,
there might be some application of the 1879, and in January, 1885 :
story if I were to go on for five days. But
1879. Jan. 1884. Jan. 1885.
I am not defending the government in Coffee, per
this case. I stumbled upon the Contemt- cwt.(C ey65s.
70s.
57s. 6d.
Ion) ....
porary Review the other day, andCoals, per
198.
17s. 6d.
ton.....
178.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Another
Wheat, per
book?
32s. 6d.
qr...... 39s. 7d.
398.
Sugar,
icwt.
(.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-Yes, another
book, and I am sure that the opinions ex- India)... 17s to 20s. 16s. to 19e. 9s. 6d.to 128.
And yet the inference would be that
pressed by the writer here are very much
more forcibly put than any remarks I can the cheap rates of sugar in Canada now
make. It is a lot of tabulated information. all comes about through the National
Policy-that is if the hon. gentleman's
HON. MR. DEVER-I think the hon. speeches are to be considered of any imgentleman has a right to be respected; portance. He goes on to discuss the
reasons of those enormous reductions, and
he speaks " by the book."

Jndustriesand [APRIL 28, 1885] -fanuf'r8 of Canada. 759
ITe
among other reasons he shows the differ- and transported more cheaply than in previence in rates of freights, which is certainly ous years; hence it is natural enough that
enormous.
He gives the rates from they should be purchased at lower rates.
Chicago to New York as follows:HON. MR. KAULBACH-Competition
AVERAGE FREIGHT OF WHEAT FROM
in trade has done that.
CHICAGO To NEW YORK.
Year.

By Lake
nId channel.

1868....24.54
1873....19.19
1879....11.60
1880
12.27
1881
8.19
1882
7.89

1883
1884

8.40

Jan. to Sept. 6.60

By Rail.
and Lake

By.All Rail.

29.
26.9
13.3
15.7
10.4
10.9

42.6
33.2
17.3
19.7
14.4
14.6

9.75

13.

11.5

16.5

The charges as to shipping are equally
remarkable. Freights for wheat sent from
New York and San Francisco to England
fell 50 per cent. between October, 1883,
and October, 1884. They have also
fallen heavily between India and the
United Kingdom. Since i88o, it would
be safe to say that freigh'ts have fallen
generally from 30 to 40 per cent. The
following rates were given last year from
Calcutta to the United Kingdom:

HON. MR. McCLELAN--I have given
the opinions of some of our public men on
this question, and I would now suggest an
adjournment of the debate before going
into the other branch of the subject.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL said
he would prefer that the debate should be
continued after six o'clock.

HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLE-I
understood the hon. member to say that
one effect of the depression in New Brunswick, is that the attendance of school
children in the public schools has diminished, and I remarked in a low tone of
voice, that it was not so in the province of
Quebec.: to which the hon gentleman
replied by quoting from a copy of the
Montreal Witness, in which the rates for
1881.
1882. 1883. 1884. municipal taxation are shown to be lower
ViatheCape, Wheat, 62s 6d 30s 25s
20s 6d than the rates set forth in the census, in
I am going
Via the Canal "
7le 3d 35s 268 3d 17s 6d which there was no taxation.
to prove that I am right in saying that
HON. MR. KAULBACH-That shows such was not the case in the province of
the depression of trade in England.
Quebec. I hold in my hand a copy of
the report of the Inspector of Public
HON. MR. McCLELAN-It shows the Schools for the province of Quebec, for
remarkable reduction in the cost of trans- the year 1883-84.
portation in the great productions of the
-world whicl are required for consumption,
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I did not
and it is no wonder, therefore, with such refer to the province of Quebec in my
largely diminished freight rates, and such remark as to school returns. I referred to
reduction in prices in the beginning, that the Witness, and to the Deputy Registrar's
many of our staple commodities should report.
,run so exceeding low. Hon. gentlemen
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEmay think it very absurd of me to allude
to such a reason as that, because the The hon. gentleman showed me a paper,
people ought to understand it ; yet hon. and I took it as an answer by him to my
gentlemen will seriously persist in uttering remark. Here is what the report of thq
such speeches, which are only calculated, Inspector says. I will take a comparison
if they are meant for anything, to mislead from the year 1881 .-the people and teach them that under a
Increase of
Average
Pupuls on
the shool Rolle. Attendance School Sec's
high protective tariff the prices of sugar,
cotton, and agricultural implements are 1881-82
236,699
180,463
501
242,723
lower. There is a tendency of that kind 1882-83
185,892
424
.going on continually in the world, owing 1883-84
110
192,852
250,000
largely to the introduction of improved showing an increase every year. Thé
machinery and new appliances by which same remark applies to the number of
.commodities can be grown, and produced, schools; the last increase was 110, there-

The industries and [SE NATE] -Aanuf'rs of Canada.

760

"No necessaries of life are dearer; but
fore the hon. gentleman was not right in
saying that in Quebec there was a de- rents, meats, and farm produce are higher, &c.
crease in the school attendance as well as
I recapitulate those in crder to give
in New Brunswick.
hon. gentlemen a general notion of what
the remarks are. My hon. friend says
HoN. MR. McCLELAN-I did not that " depression
exists, but prosperity
refer to the school attendance in Quebec, abounds."
The meaning of that I do not
as I had no returns.
exactly understand.
BILLS
Bill (31),

INTRODUCED.

"An

Act

amend and con-

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I will explain it if my hon. friend wishes.

solidate the Civil Service Acts of 1882,
1883 and 1884." (Sir Alex. Campbell).
Bill (61), "An Act to further to amend
the Acts incorporating the Richelieu
Navigation Company, and the Richelieu
& Ontario Navigation Company." (Mr.
Pelletier).

HoN. MR. McLELAN-I remember
the apostle Paul spoke of knowing how
to be abased and how to abound, but I
fancy he did not wish the Phillippians to
understand that he was both hungry and
full at the same time ; and therefore the
address which my hon. friend makes to
the Canadians must have a different signiIt being six o'clock the Speaker left the fication. He says the exports of the farms
chair.
and fisheries have largely increased, and
AFTER RECESS.

the factories have developed. By the exports from the farms, I fancy he means

the exports of cattle, to a large extent. I
conceive why hon. gentlemen
speech.
He said: I cannot close the should allude to these exports as being
remarks which I have felt called upon to influenced by the protective tariff. The
make upon this important question, after products of the field are the mainstay of
hearing so many eloquent addresses, with- the country undoubtedly; only for that
out making a few observations in reply to the effect of the National Policy would be
the remarks which fell from the hon. more disastrous than it has been. They
member from Lunenburg. The hon. gen are not favored by the National Policy,
tleman in the course of his speech, made and neither is lumber. The Finance
Minister said, in one of his speeches, that
the following among other observations:" Depression exists, but prosperity gener- it was impossible to aid the lumber trade;.
hence there is no possibility that any
ally abounds.
" The exports from the farms and fisheries argument can be made out of the increashave largely increased, and factories have ed exports of lumber and farm produce in
been developed.
beeThe taxes are not imposed on the neces- support of the protective system. One
saries of life, but on the luxuries, and the cannot see how the National Policy would
niasses do not feel them. They are no bur- make a large catch of fish.
den on the people.
" The people of England are suffering from
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-By the proa free-trade policy, and rushing in thousands tection of our fisheries.
to the United States.
"Savings banks deposits show faith in the
HON. MR. McCLELAN-One cannot
Government.
"A reciprocity treaty would be of question- see how the fisheries could be made more
able advantage.
productive by high taxation.
I am sur" The West Indies trade bas been largely prised that these things should go
forth
promoted by the National Policy, and our
from this hon. body as the matured sentiships have been employed.
" The fishermen and ail industrial classes ments of the hon. Senator. They must
HON. MR. McCLELAN resumed his cannot

are less taxed than ever before.
be misleading, or they cannot possibly be
N
The increased imports are due to the recognized as arguments on the question.
National Policy.
presented to us for discussion. He says
"Coal is cheaper to the consumer.
"The fisheries have been developed by the that the taxes are not imposed on the
necessaries of life, but on the luxuries,.
National Policy.
HoN. MR. DEBOÙCHERVILLE.

The Industries and [APRIL 28, 1885) .Manqf'rs of Canada. 761
and the masses do not feel them, and they
are no burdens on the people.

fishing interests-excepting fish-hooks, 1ines

and nets,
He says the duty as they come from the machineson everything else the fisherman

the fishermen and all industrial classes
are less taxed than they ever were before.
The fishermen's needs (meaning, I suppose,
the requirements of their industries) are
not taxed.
My hon. friend from Lunenburg dwelt
very considerably on the favor with which
the Government had dealt with the fisheries under the National Policy. The
bounty system is not part of the protective
tariff at all. I fancy that that boon was
given to the fishermen largely because of
their share of the fisheries award, and no
doubt in that way it was some benefit to
them. But if given to them as compensation for the losses they sustain under
the high protective tariff, they are not at
ail recompensed, and I question whether
it is a fair compensation for their share of
the award. So, taking it either way, they
are scarcely recompensed by the small
bounty which they have been in the habit
of receiving.
I have been favored with
letters from fishermen in Grand Manan,
and I hope I will be pardoned for giving
the expressions of practical men rather
than my own opinions on these subjects,
because those engaged in those departments of trade know more on subjects
with which they have to deal than we can
know, and when the hon. gentleman from
Lunenburg rises in this Chamber, and says
that the fishermen are more contented because their requirements for the fishing
industry are not subject to taxation, and
also from the consideration and favor
shown to them, I am satisfied that he
does not speak the sentiments of the fishermen of Lunenburg.

uses has been gradually increased in almost
every case. Lines, nets and hooks, if duty
was 25 to 35 per cent., would not add a great
deal more to the burden, as the cost of them
is very small now-a-days. The poorest fisherman, the one who needs it most, gets somewhere about $2.60 bounty trom our Government; the one rich enough to own vessels
gets more, of course. The man getting $2.60
will wear out tvo pairs of rubber boots in the
year, at least, and more if lie fishes in the
winter, which cost in the States $3.50; duty 25
per cent., making 871 cents ; traders' 20 per
cent. profit on cost, 174 cents more, makes
the boots cost the fisherman $1.05 per pair
more than they should, which, it he uses two
pairs of boots only, will leave him 50 cents
out of his $2.60 so kindly given him by the
paternal Government.
Tfhree gallons of
kerosene oil will swallow up the rest, by the
increased cost fron the eflects of duty on it.
Then lie stands square with the Government.
After that, all the rest is one way-the manilla
cordage, sails for his boat, pork, lard, etc.
There is no use enumerating. Everything lie
uses is increased in cost by the protective
tariff, whether made abroad or at home.
" It is a Government that evidently is trying
to conciliate the proprietor of what they expect will be their home in the next world, as
they tax Bibles and prayer-books, and admit
Brimstone free.
"The incorrigible Sabbath-school scholar, if
lie persists in it, must pay 30 per cent. on the
cards lie or she uses : but the meek and holy
gambler, the devotional whist and euchre
player (if lie buys a bang-up article), only
pays from 6 to 12 per cent. for his cards.
Thoughtful fathers of our country l On free
liEst are: Fish-hooks and diamonds, agates
and fish-nets, emeralds and cod-lines, rubies,
pearls, sapphires, garnets. and pure-bred
dogs; opa e, fur-skins-but not oilskin clothing for the poor mariner.
But I won't
enumerate further.
HON.

MR. PLUMB-Why

does

he

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I have a not buy his rubber boots in Canada, where
he can get them cheaper ?
large interest in the industry myself.
HoN. MR. HOWLAN-Canvas and
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I have no
duck are manufactured at Yarmouth, in
doubt the hon. gentleman has and finds it Nova Scotia.
remunerative, so far as he is concerned ;
but if these correspondents are correct,
HON. MR. KAULBACH- am surpristhere must be some discrepancy between ed that my hon. friend would take up the
his views and theirs. These correspond- time of the House reading such nonsense
ents are reliable, respectable fishermen. as that letter contains.
I will read an extract from a letter from
one of them, dated Grand Manan, FebHON. MR. MCCLELAN-I will read
ruary 22, 1885 :another letter which perhaps will be more
" As regards the tariff, no one can say there pleasing to my hon. friend. This is datis one redeeming feature in it, as regarde the ed I7th February 1885 :-

762

The Indu8tries and [SENATE] Manuf're of Canada.

" You ask how the bounty works ? Now
it works well enough for those it suits. I was
always opposed to it. Where do you think
the benent is in giving a boat fisherman two
dollars bounty for fishing all the season in a
boat, clad in oil clothes and rubber boots, the
duty on which will cost him at least five dollars for the year's work. You may say buy
'Canadian goods-that is where the shoe
pinches. They are made and sold under
Government protection. consequently poor
goods sold at a profit. If they had to depend
on the quality to sell them, better goods would
be made. The sum of $1 per ton helps very
little on a bad voyage-a good trip does not
need it. Government had better spend bounty in providing boat shelters, coast improvements, &c."
Now, if the fisherman of Lunenburgh,
about whom the hon. gentleman speaks
so freely, are as intelligent as these-they
will, without doubt, come to the same
conclusion, and will feel surprised to find
themselves so misrepresented by the

Hon. Senator in this Parliament.
I refer to those letters in answer to what
the hon. gentleman has said with reference
to the fishermen being remunerated for
all their taxes. Then the hon. gentleman
asks what benefit has the Dominion
gained by the expenditure of the present
Government in the way of aiding emigration ? This is a very pertinent question
which he does not answer himself, and no
one else does. This country, in my
judgment, has gained nothing, but the
United States has gained. It has to a
large extent done more harm than good ;
It has provided for a lot of Government
favorites and there has been a large expenditure, considerably over half a million
of dollars, and I should like to ask the
question which the hon. member from
Lunenburg has asked-what possible
benefit has the Dominion gained by it?
The savings bank deposits have already
been referred to. Then the hon. gentleman says reciprocity treaties are questionable advantages. My hon. friend knows
very well that that was one of the professed
objects of the Premier in inaugurating the
National Policy. It was advocated chiefly
on that basis. I am sure my hon. friend
knows that that was one of the arguments
used in favor of the National Policy.

HoN.

MR. PLUMB-You are mistaken

in saying that the National Policy was

advocated on the basis of reciprocity.
HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentleman is mistaken when he says it was not.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I know what I
am talking about.
HON. MR. POWER-I doubt it.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I will read a
resolution which was adopted in the
H ouse of Commons, in 1877 :-Moved by
Sir J. A. Macdonald,' That the Speaker do not leave the chair,
but that it be resolved that this louse is of
opinion that the welfare of Canada requires
the adoption of a National Policy, which, by a
judicious readjustment of the tariff, will benefit and foster the agricultural, the mining, the
man'ifacturing and other interests of the Dominion; that such a policy will retain in
Canada thousands of our fellow countrymen,
now obliged to expatriate themselvee in search
of the employment denied them at home, will
restore prosperity to our struggling industries,
now so sadly depressed, will prevent Canada
from being made a sacrifice market, will encourage and develop an active interprovincial
trade,-and, moving, as it ought to do, in the
direction of reciprocity of tariffs with our

neighbors, so far as the varied interests of

Canada may demand, will greatly tend to

procure for this country, eventually, a reciprocity of trade."

HON. MR. PLUMB-Through a reciprocity of tariffs.

HON. MR. McCLELAN-The hon.
gentleman from Niagara must understand
that, while his ability is recognized, his
memory is not always above reproach. It
is sometimes defective-notably so in this
instance-and like other people, he has
his failings, and therefore, I think he might
let me proceed. But my hon. friend from
Lunenburg differs from his Premier and
from almost all the gentlemen in the
Lower Provinces of his political stripe,
that I have heard discuss this question of
protection.
Almost ail of thern have
assured our people-the farmer and others
who are interested in this reciprocal trade,
and who are exceedingly anxious, I may
HoN. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentle- say, to secure reciprocal trade relations
with the United States, if possible, on
man is mistaken.
reasonably fair terms-on every occasion
HON. MR. McCLELAN-In what way? I have heard them claim for this National

HON. MR. McCLELAN.

The Industries and [APRIL 28, 1885] Manuj 're of Canada. 763
Policy, that it was devised to bring about
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Have not
that state of things, but it has not brought our Governments given intimations that
about reciprocity.
they are ready for a reciprocity treaty ?
HoN.

MR.

KAULBACH-I

advocated to the contrary.

never

HON. MR. McCLELAN-I have never
had the pleasure of listening to the hon.
gentleman on the stump, and consequently I do not venture to contradict
him. I simply say that the opinion to
which he has given expression is different
to that entertained by his party, and
differs entirely from that of another distinguished gentleman, Sir Alex. Galt, and
entirely from the opinions of those who
have changed from free-trade to protection. All of them advocate, so far as I
know, a reciprocity treaty, and therefore
the opinions expressed by my hon. friend
from Lunenburg are exceptional. I hope
his opinions will not prevail. There is
nothing visible on the surface of anything
being done during the last six years to
procure this boon which .is foreshadowed
in this resolution, but I do trust that in
future some steps will be taken. We see
every evidence in the case of negotiations
favoring Newfoundland, which is unfettered by this Confederacy, that Mr.
Bayard, one of the Cabinet Ministers at
Washington, is quite in accord with that
view of things, that closer trade relations
should exist with bordering countries,
and in fact, according to Sir Ambrose
Shea, he indicated that while the Government were prepared to consider the question, they preferred considering it in its
relations to the whole British dominions
on this continent.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-Sir Ambrose
Shea was not acting for the Newfoundland Government.

HoN. MR. McCLELAN-I have not
said that he was.
HoN. MR. HOWLAN-That was the
impression conveyed to the House.
HON. ML McCLELAN-I am giving
his expression of opinion in favor of
negotiating reciprocal trade relations
towards which we are all so favorable.

HoN. MR. McCLELAN-They may
have given a great many intimations of
their readiness, but I do not see many results from it. Another observation was
that the West India trade was largely developed by the National Policy, and that
our ships are more employed, and my
hon. friend repeated it several times in
order to give it more emphasis. I feel inclined to take issue with him as to the
correctness of his statements. As far as
I have heard from that province, I would
come to the conclusion that the West
India trade of Halifax is greatly impaired
by the National Policy.
HON. MR.

POWER-It is ruined.

HON. MR. McCLELAN-The hon
gentleman from Lunenburg then refers to
the fishermen, to which reference I have
replied. He says Halifax is prosperous,
and has largely increased its exports; that
coal is cheaper to the consumer. That
was not the argument used by the gentlemen from Nova Scotia in 187o, a number
of whose speeches I did not quote from
to-day; some of them unfortunately have
departed from us, and others are yet in
this Chamber. That is not the argument
of Sir Alexander Galt. That is not the
statement, as far as I know, of anyone else
who discusses these trade questions. I
think the hon. gentlemen who represent the city of St. John would be able to
throw some light on the question, whether
the duty has increased the price of coal.
I think the people of New Brunswick
have some reason to feel that their taxes
are very considerably increased in consequence of the amount of coal they are
obliged to use that is increased by the additional duty. And then my hon. friend
says that no necessaries of life are dearer,
but meat and farm produce are cheaper.
His argument is peculiar in this way; that
one end of his sentence differs from the
other, and therefore one end of it must
always be right. Then he goes on to say,
on several occasions, that bread is not
dearer at all-that the duty on flour and
corn meal does not tend to make any difference in the price.

764
HON.

The Industries and [SENATE]
MR.

KAULBACH-I did not

say corn meal.

Manuf'rs of Canada.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-Separate the

flour.

HON. MR. MCCLELAN-I will separ
HON. MR. McCLELAN-My hon.
friend said that bread was not made any ate it ; the statement is as follows:dearer by the tax on flour.
DuTY COLLECTED Indian Corn, Corb Meal and Wheat
on
Flour, 30th[June to December 81, 18S4.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-Your leader

in this House took the same view, in a
speech which he made a few days previous
to mine.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I have not
observed it. I differ altogether from my
hon. friends, and I differ from the Minister of Finance, and I think the Minister
of Finance differs from both of us, because he admitted in his speech of last
year, and his speech of the year before,
that the duty did increase the cost of flour,
but only in a limited way.

KAULBACH-The hon.
member from Ottawa thought differently.
HON. MR.

HON. MR. McCLELAN-I have not
been able to find any statement of that
kind from him ; but from my own experience-and I have been somewhat connected with the flour business-I know
that the effect it has on flour is very peculiar. There are generally two or three
periods in the year when we can buy
very much cheaper than at other times.
There is a drop in the price of flour, and
having a class of small vessels running,
we can buy flour cheaper in New York
than in Canada. The effect of this duty
is to remove from us largely that option,
or, if it does not deprive us of it, we are
taxed more by having to pay the duty.

INDIAX

PORTS,

Amherst...............

CORN.

$ 15 90

Annapolis ............
12 45
Antigonish ............
......
Anchat ..... ..........
......
Baddeck .......... ...
......
Barrington ............
83
Bridgetown ............
2 41
Cornwallis ...........
3 38
Digby ................
7 50
Guysboro.. ............
......
Halifax................ 4,268 90
1 05
Liverpool..............
2 55
Lockeport ............
15 00
Londonderry ..........
Lunenburg ............
......
Margaretville ..........
......
North Sydney ............
Parrsborough ..........
15 30
Pietou ................
......
Port Hawkesbury......
......
Port Hood ............
......
Hort Medway..........
.....
:helburne .............
68
Sydney ................
......
Truro ................
......
weymouth ............
2 78
Windsor..............
.90
Yarmouth ............
25 50
$4,375 05
Wheat Flour...... 834,088 50
Corn Meal........ 17,707 20
Indian Corn...... 4,875 05

$56,170

WFEAT
FLOUR.

CORN
MEAL.

$ 232

786
186
180
16
513
110
384
729
78
1,475
994
562
231
1,422
42
787
526
431
168

00
60
00
40
80
80
f0
00
00
20
20
80
80
60
40
00
60
00
60
00

à. ý4)
284
455
230
1,592
1,442
3,799

80
20
00
80
80
20

$17,707 20

8 338 50
1,288 50
87 50
860 00
145 00
1,693 65
347 00
1,257 60
709 25
334 50
6,876 50
1,637 00
801 50
605 00
2,919 00
301 75
1,907 50
413 00
406 50
1,108 50
5 50
114 00
631 00
653 50
653 50
2,062 50
2,428 75
4,160 50
34,088 50

75

Therefore, my hon. friend will see that
he is mistaken in the statement which he
made.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I say I am,
not mistaken, because when there is a
surplus of flour in the United States, and.
it is very cheap, they go and buy there.
HON. MR. POWER-Order! Order r

THE SPEAKER-While the gentleman
HON. MR. KAULBACH-If you get
the flour in Canada, you have no duty to who has the floor is not displeased with
pay on it. You can get Canada flour in any interruptions, no question of order can
be raised ; but if an hon. gentleman, when
the United States.
speaking, objects to an interruption, of
HON. MR. McCLELAN-But we are course I must rule on the question of
virtually compelled to pay duty on imports. order.

HoN. MR. McCLELAN-The hon.
gentleman f;om Lunenburg in his speech
HON, MR. McCLELAN-I have a remarked that the excuse made by the
statement in my hand showing the duty War Department in England for sending
collected on flour, corn' meal, etc., at diff- to America for their pumps for the Soudan
was that they could get them more quickly
erent ports in the Maritime Provinces.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-No.

The Industries and [APRIL 28, 1885] .Manuf'rsof Canada. 765
and with greater facility in the United
States than in free trade England ; and
further on he remarks that France has to
go over and buy from a free trade country, England, the ships used in their own
trade. In one case the hon. gentleman
points to the deficiency in pumps as a
proof, and in the other case to the surplus
of shipping as a proof that British trade is
decreasing under free trade policy.

at all events, it is not more than one-sixth
or one-fifth, at the outside, as much per
mile per ton as is charged for transporting
farm produce. I have not got the figures
here to substantiate that statement, but I
believe it to be correct nevertheless. I
believe that the owners of the Spring Hill
Mines, some of whom I believe have
become rich, do not pay more than oneeighth of a cent per mile per ton to transport their coal for 700 miles-from Spring
Hill to Montreal-and I believe it costs
HON. MR. KAULBACH-And both
a farmer for his cattle, his hay and grain,
are correct.
and the lumberman for his supplies or
products, five times as much for any
HON. MR. McCLELAN-The hon. transportation done for them. And why
gentleman remarked that he believed is that ? Simply because the farmer is not
farming to be the basis of all industries, in a position to come up here, like the
and without it we could not get along and president of a large corporate body, or the
prosper. The hon. gentleman is right at manager of a factory, and demand " prolast ; he is in accord with that distin- tection," as they call it. The farmers are
guished gentleman, Daniel Webster, who simply at the mercy of the other interests.
spoke of commerce, agriculture and manu- Their interests are handicapped and
factures as being the three great pillars on injured by the demoralizing effect of
which is based the prosperity of a country a protective policy, and yet there is money
-the greatest of which is in the centre; in the savings bank ; still the farmers are
the greatest is agriculture, and there progressing-the cheese industry is proscomes in the great evil of these high perous ; but that state of affairs has not
protective duties with which the farmers been brought about in any way by the
are handicapped, and which hinders National Policy. It has been brought
the development of the cattle trade in about, and is continuing in spite of the
the Lower Provinces. My hon. friend National Policy, and the disadvantages
must know that to carry on stock feeding which that policy has created for the
successfully in Nova Scotia and New agricultural interests. Agriculture is the
Brunswick, the farmers must import industry that is developing and sustaining
corn or other produce to feed their immense the country ; it is the central pillar which
herds. It would be well perhaps, if they is maintaining and keeping up this Dohad a level country, to raise this produce minion, and when the time of depression
themselves; but they do not do it, and comes, as perhaps it has come to a limited
they h.ave to import the corn which, to a extent at present, the farmers will have to
great extent, they use in fattening thei bear the burden, and the poor operatives
stock, and which is subject to this vexatious who are turned out of doors without a
duty. He spoke of the great facilities knowledge of any other business will be
that were given for the transportation olF dependent upon the farmers for subsistcattle by shipping to foreign markets. I ence. Such has been the case in al] highly
understood him to say that there has beei protected countries, as the hon. gentleman
a reduction of freight. I do not know well knows. So it is with the lumber inthat anything of the kind has beer i terest. The lumber interest is not prosecured by the action of the Govern tected ; no one pretends that it is. The
ment ; I do not think they have in Finance Minister himself stated that it
terfered with the shipping rates in thai was not-that it could not be protected ;
way, or that they have done anything that everything the lumberman buys for
to facilitate transportation ; but what theyr his business-his plant, his supplies, pork,
have done, in order to have an argumen flour, beans and everything which he refor putting a duty on corn and flour, the)r quires in the way of supplies and clothing
carry the coal from Nova Scotia tc for his men, is naturally advanced in price,
Montreal at a nominal rate-almost free ; and notwithstanding this drawback the

766

The Industries and [SENATE] .Manuf'rsof Canada.

lumbermen of New Brunswick last year gination to roam so as to attach responsiexported a large amount of lumber.
bility for such contingencies upon anybody,
he can indulge it at home without referHON. MR. KAULBACH-Our farmers ring particularly to Mr. Gladstone, who is
provide the lumbermen with nearly every- at the present day the most distinguished
thing they require in the way of supplies. man in Great Britain, if not in the world.
Referring to the cotton industry, the hon.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-By the ex- gentleman contended that the duties on
ports of the farm and the forest, and 1 cottons were not a burden on the people.
dare say of the fisheries also, it will be A correspondent of the ManchesterExamseen that those three lines of industry iner and Times, seems to understand the
have developed, and to that extent the cotton business of Canada pretty well, and
country has certainly prospered, but not replying to another correspondent who had
because of the National Policy. The writtenover the signature of "Verax," says :
hon. gentleman from Lunenburg contends
" No one knows better than ' Verax '
that cotton is cheaper in Canada now than protection also robs the Treasury, but that
few
it was when this country was a slaughter perhaps of the general public know to how
market for the manufacturers of the great an extent this is the case. Of certain
United States. We all know that; but classes of cotton goods the Canadians import
is not far to
cotton goods would be cheaper anyway. none; and the reasonthis calculation, seek. A
cotton spinner made
namely,
They are cheaper all over the world; the that their protection would pay all the wages
raw material is cheaper; the production of the mill hands. Here, then, the Treasury
of the raw and manufactured material is is completely robbed, and the people of Canaas
it they paid these men
cheaper ; transportation is cheaper, and if da would be(the rich hands) their full wages
and wonen
mil]
it were not for the duty imposed by the for doing nothing. And this is not all the
National Policy, we could get twice as case against these high duties. The millmuch cotton, twice as much sugar, and owners have ruade no money, but have lost
twice as much of many other articles to- heavily, and if one could only now ship the
machinery
day for our money as we do. Yet my mills and had cheap, to Lancashire, they
could be
even for Lancashire
hon. friend and other hon. gentlemen who prices. No doubt there are other classes of
hold the same views are accustoming the goode no longer imported into Canada. The
people of this country, through their high protective duties in great part, pay for
speeches and through the press, to con- the wages of the workpeople. Thisis the way
burden themselves
sider that it is all through the National our friends in Canada hands, tax the conwith a poor-rate for mill
Policy that goods are cheaper to-day than sumer, and rob their Treasury."
they were five years ago. The hon.
In answer to another observation of my
gentleman, departing from the subject
before the House, referred to Mr. Glad- hon. friend, in which he spoke of the instone as an able man and leader of a great creased imports from England, and the departy in England ; he referred to his creased imports from the United States,
policy as being "a shilly-shally policy;" the following figures taken from the trade
and but for the vacillating policy of Glad- and navigation tables of the Dominion
stone, Gen. Gordon might have been alive show how our trade is shaping-they give
to-day. What has that to do with the the value of goods from Great Britain and
National Policy ? That was a contingency the United States entered for consumption
that might have arisen in any country, and during the last five fiscal years, and the
it was a very hard accusation to make amount of duties paid on them:
GREAT BITAIN.
UNITEi STATES.
against Mr. Gladstone, and had no conDuties.
Imports.
Importa.
Duties.
nection with this debate whatever. If the
hon. gentleman wishes to indulge in that 1880-34,451,224 6,737,997
$29,846,948 4,521,311
8,772,950
86,704.112 5,667,293
kind of reference, I think there are 1881- 48,583,808 10,011,811
1882- 50,593.841
48,289,052 7,082,722
1888- 52,062,486
9,897,785
55,082,333
8,158,628
events occurring in our own country; the 1884- 48,418,015
8,001,871
50,492,826 7,420,462
blood of Canada's sons is crimsoning the
snows of the western prairies, they also Total 224,112,858 48,421,914 1%20,86,211 82,889,811
Now, I arn reluctant to state this as
are entitled to the commiseration of the
hon. gentleman ; and if he wishes authentic, because it is exactly the reverse
to indulge this fancy, and allow his ima- of the figures given by my hon. friend in
HoN. MR. McCLELAN.

The Industries and [APRIL, 28 18S5] .Manuf're of ùanada. 767
his speech, and one or the other must be moved to the North-West a short time ago.
He was a very strong supporter of the Govwrong.
ernment, and of their general policy, and
«HON. MR. KAULBACH-I must be especially of the National Policy, with all its
right.
embellishments. He says:" I first have to Ray I did not make a genHON. MR. McCLELAN-The article eral slaughter of the National Policy. la
in which I happened to notice this state- speaking of the National Policy, I said that
many articles were cheaper, including cotton
ment, further says :and woollen goods, and that living to-day
" How completely our fiscal policy has fail- was cheaper in Canada than at any former
ed in its professed objects, is shown by two period."
tacts: (1) that there is a decrease in the
Hon. gentlemen must see he has the
amount of English imports, and an increase same sound that they have; he must be
in the amount of American imports; and (2)
true blue."
that taking the totals of the five years the average rate of duties on English imports is
19.37 per cent., and on American imports of
HoN. MR. HOWLAN-What is the
only 14.80 per cent.
date of that paper ?
with our
The marked tendency to trade
neighbors is here shown so clearly that lie
HON, MR. McCLELAN-It is the 17th
may run who readeth it; and with such a
palpable tact before us, who can doubt that March of this year. He continues :the real interest of both Canada and the
It is true I did take exception to the tariff
United States lies in cultivating the freest
on agricultural implements as being ao-ainst
possible trade relations between them ?"
the interest of the settlers in the North"'w est,
and I am firm in that opinion, Mr. Wright
My hon. friend from Lunenburg twice, notwithstanding to the contrary. If my
in his address, remarked that agricultural memory serves me aright, I did not ask for a
implements are no more expensive any- change in the tariff, however desirable such a
articles. I
where in Canada to-day than they were in thing might be on some as we were only sugnot, and
gested that inasmuch
I will read to never could be, a manufacturing people, that
1878. If he will allow me
him something that I think will convince we should have some consideration given ua
him to the contrary, as well as other hon. in lieu of the high tarift on implements. Cergentlemen who alluded to the same sub- tainly, there could be nothing radically wrong
ject, and who mentioned particularly that in that.
they were not dearer in our NorthFurther on he remarks
Western territory.
I shall read from a It is said there is a great deal in a name.
newspaper published in the North-West. These men who had to pay the larger price
were " small farmei-s." In the naine in this
HON. MR. HOWLAN-What is the connection the matter is reversed, the big
farmer paying the small price and the small
name of it ?
farmer vice versa. Implement firms put a
premium on big farmers' patronage, and the
HoN. MR. McCLELAN-The name bi farm policy was the policy that got Mr.
of it is the Regina Leader ; and the editor, Wright his binder so cheaply. Nlow, the
I see his name at the top, is Mr. Nicho N. P. as a national policy for the Dominion
always have
I am in
las Flood Davin. That ought to be a of Canada I do not favor of, and advantageous
think it is
been; but
good authority for the hon. gentleman.
to the North-West, and I am at a loss to see
how any man can think it is. We can't manHON. MR. HOWLAN-I am glad tha ufacture a single article, not even an axe
handle; we are left entirely at the tender
you are pleased with him.
mercies of the Ontario manufacturers. I

have always been under the impression that

HoN. MR. McCLELAN-The articl the N. P. was to encourage home industries,
in qestion is in the form ot a letter, bu t and in the Eastern Provinces it has done so4
given in the editorial column. It is fron 1 hence my remark that it was life to the east.
a gentleman who was formerly a residen t
HON. MR. PLUMB-Hear, hear!

of New Brunswick, and who was standar d
bearer for the Conservative party in thý "I am aware that no country canihave two
I do think,
county of Sunbury, at the last general elec separate and distinct tariffs ; but implements
inasnuch as the high tariff on
tion. Being unsuccessful in the contest, h e and several other articles we are compelled to

768

The IPdu8tries and [SENATE] Manuf're of Canada.

purchase largely of, must necessarily make
those articles dearer, that we should have
some adequate consideration given us for it.
Many are the opportunities in 'which the
Government could assist us, which would be
taken kindly by the people. Forty-five cents
is the highest price paid to-day for the best
of wheat, and it takes, on an average, about
six bushels of the best wheat that nine out of
ten farmers have to sell, to buy a bag of flour.
I saw a fariner yesterday who had brought a
Joad of wheat in here (Wolseley) for sale, a
distance of fiteen miles, and lie sold it for $10.
He said it would make sixteen bags of fiour.
His complaint was loud and bitter. Now, as
bonuses are the order of the day, I would sug.
gest that the Government bonus some grist
milis in this country, and save the munici.
palities from incurring a debt that will be
oppressive on them, as they have enough to
be taxed for inthe ordinary course of things."
Of course, that is the order of the day,
that the Government should bonus the

grist mills of this country ! And why not ?

alone there are 6o,ooo families to-day

that have only one little room or garret
for each family, and all the high moral
feeling of that hon. gentleman seemed to
well up in describing the unhappy, the
unsatisfactory, and the degrading circumstances under which those families are
huddled together. I have made some
reference to this statement before.

The

area of the country being small,and the city
of London of immense size, with a concentration of people there, growing out of the
enormous trade that they have, and largely
made up of people of all nations in the

world, it is not suprising under the circumstances that tenements should be so
crowded, and I have no doubt that benevolent people in London are constantly
trying to alleviate any distress which may
prevail; but under the high tariff and
with the enormous exodus of people fron
Nova Scotia, it will be a long time before
that complaint of overcrowded tenements
can be made by the hon. member from

Why should they not bonus the grist inills,
when they give a bonus on pig iron and
other things? Mr. Perley concludes his
letter by saying:
Lunenburg, as far as Halifax is concerned.

"in conclusion, I have to say, that.while Then he says the people of the United

I am free to confess that I ara a party man, I States are a unit in demanding protection
am, nevertheless, free to defend th'e rights
and best interests of my country, or rather for their industries. Does my hon. friend
,my home. And my politics are-first my still adhere to that ?

country, the North-West; next, the party.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-Yes.
Ho. MR. KAULBACH-I arn afraid
my hon. friend cannot get much comfort
HoN. MR. McCLELAN-I am surfron that letter.
prised to hear it. Then he says that there
were i ,ooo miles of railway under conHo-. MR. HOWLAN-It is a very struction or projected in the United
good letter. Were there any comments States last year. How far he may be
!by the editor of the paper, on that letter ? accurate in that I will endeavor to show by
referring to an article from the London
HoN. MR. McCLELAN-That would Mail of January ioth, 1885, headed
come better from your side if there are " New Railways in the United States,"
any.
which shows that the number of miles of
railway built in the United States last year
HON. MR. HOWLAN-Give us the was 3,729.
.editor's opinion on that letter.
HON. MR. KAULBACH - That is
HoN. MR. McCLELAN-1 am willing constructed-I did not say constructed;
to give the opinion of a supporter of the I said under construction or projected.
-Government on the question of the duty
on agricultural implements, and I am
HON. MR. McCLELAN-The article
willing to pass the paper over to my hon. in the Mail is as follows:friend from Alberton, and let him see
what the editor says. The hon., gentle- " According to the Railroad Gazette, the
man from Lunenburg gives as an instance total mileage of railways constructed in the
of the depressed state of trade, and the United States during 1884 amounts 3,129
This is not much over half the
poverty of the working classes in Eng- 1883, and a little over one-third mileage of
of that of
land, the fact that in the city of London 1882. There were constructed during the

Hox. MR. McCLELAN.

T1he ldustrie8 and [APRIL 28, 1885] Kanuf'r8 of Canada.

769

HON. MR. MACDONALD-Does the
previous twelve years :-1883, 6,130 miles;
1882, 9,922; 1881, 7,870; 1880, 6,139; 1879, hon. gentleman know what the taxation
3,801 ; 1878, 2,263; 1877, 2,019; 1876, 2,278;
1875, 1,333; 1874, 1,844; 1873, 3,630; and is per head of New South Wales?
1872, 7,160 miles. These figures include
main track only, no account being taken of
HON. MR. McCLELAN-No.
second tracks or sidings."
HON. MR. MACDONALD-It is $35
The point which my hon. friend must
have intended to make was that their or $40 per head there.
business was flourishing, and that they
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I am speakwere imcreasing theconstructionof railways.
That, however, is not correct, according ing of this letter from the clergyman. He
to this, because the mileage of railways supposed his views on political questions
constructed during 1884 was not much differed from mine, and he thought that
over half the mileage of 1883, and only a I was wrong,but when I answered him I was
little over one-third of the mileage of able to concur in his opinion. He is a
1882. I do not see that he can draw any clergyman and not a politician at aIl.
conclusion in favor of his view that a
HON. MR. MACDONALD-NewSouth
highly protected country is progressing
more rapidly than a free trade country. Wales is prospering although the taxation
My hon. friend said that the New South is high.
Wales bonds are higher than ours. In
HON. ML McCLELAN-The hon.
that he is correct.
gentleman referred to the great expansion
of the coal trade in Nova Scotia, as a
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I showed result of the National Policy, of course. It
the reason why. .
was in that connection that this statement
was made. Now, if my hon. friend will
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I think he revert back to the history of Nova Scotia,
said it was because they had an agent in say four decades-4o years-and look at
London.
the output of coal during each decade, he
will observe that the increase was greater
HON. MR. KAULBACH-An agent during former decades than during the
in London, to boom them.
period in which this National Policy has
been in operation. I have a report of the
HON. MR. MCCLELAN-It is well mines of Nova Scotia, according to which
known in England that New South Wales the output was one-third more inthe decade
is one of the Australian colonies that ad- ending 186o than in 185o, and in 1870 it
heres strictly to free trade, and hence they was a little more than twice as much as in
have laid the basis of a large prosperity which 186o. In 188o it shows only an increase
Victoria, Tasmania and surrounding colon- of about 50 per cent. over 187o, and for
ies do not possess, and I can inform the the last four years it has not come up even to
House that there is a marked difference in the same average.
the development of their trade. I was
favored with a letter from a clergyman of
HON. MR. KAULBACH-My hon.
the Church of England-I am sorry I have friend must see that during the five
not it in my possession now-a very intelli- years that his party were in power it went
gent and well-written letter, describing the down, while during the last five years it
trade policies of those colonies, and the has gone up.
better position in which New South Wales
stood in consequence of their trade policy
HON. MR. McCLELAN-But the conas compared with that of the adjoining tention of the hon. gentleman is that it
colonies, and with how much more rapid has increased latterly at a greater ratio
strides they were progressing and increas- than ever before, and I think the figures
ing their wealth and commerce, and that which I have furnished do no bear out
there was no disposition in New South that conclusion. Then my hon. friend
Wales to recede from the English plan of referred to the great contentment which
free trade.
exists in Nova Scotia. I would again

1170

The Industries and [SENATE] .Manuf're of Canada.

mention the debates in the House of
Assembly, during the late session of the
legislature, and also a resolution condemning the action of the Dominion Government a year ago-the session before last
-couched in very strong terms. I have
not the resolution here, but my hon. friend
from Lunenburg must remember it, and
therefore I think the statement that perfect
harmony prevails in Nova Scotia, is
scarcely a correct one to make. My hon.
friend from Belleville who is not in has
place-it is exceedingly difficult to make
references to those speeches when my
hon. friends refuse to listen, and I am
very sorry to do soHON. MR. PLUMB- Do not stop on
that account.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-The hon.
gentleman makes a reference to the fact
that he had a good deal to do with the
first inception of the National Policy. It
turns out that there are others laying
claim to it also, but I suppose he is like a
good many inventors of patent medicines
and other devices for extracting money
from people-they run very well, but
come to grief sooner or later. St. Jacob's
Oil was very well to trade with for
a while, but old St. Jacob himself, like the
inventor of the National Policy, remained
in obscurity. The hon. gentleman from
Belleville spoke about the export of
cheese. He says that it is greater now
than in 1877. In 1877 there was 81,834 lbs.
of cheese imported from the United
States, and the duty paid on it was $2,455 ;
in 1884 the imports were 104,240 lbs.,
valued at $17,560, and the duty paid on
it was $3,127. So the statement of the

hon. gentleman is simply erroneous. My
hon. friend from Lunenburg says that this
country once sold cows to the United
States and we bought their cheese; but.look
at Canada now, he says. Well, we are now
purchasing more cheese than we did then.
HON. MR. KAULBACH -We
better able to do so.

are

HON. MR. McCLELAN-Of course
we are; but why should the hon. gentleman make such statements ? It must be
apparent to himself that they are not
borne out by the facts.
HON

MR.

McCLELAN.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-Do we not
consume more cheese?
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I am not
speaking ofthat. Myhon. friend from Belleville speaks of there being no clamoring for
work. Well, if the Ottawa lumber trade
was depressed and the Chaudiere mills
were shut down, and two or three influential gentlemen with prospects of promotion-and who subsequently were promoted-if they, with the desire of pleasing
a strong party, chose to adopt the course
which is open to them, I venture to say
that any Government in Ottawa under any
circumstances would find a crowd of people gathered in the streets demanding
work. Those individuals who participated
in manipulating that gathering, have gone
to their reward-I mean their political
reward, of course. The hon. member
from Belleville might have referred to another crowd, to a number of people better
dressed than they were perhaps-but after
all, probably, no better in many waysmany of them very good and respectable
men, and they were not content with coming once, or twice, or thrice, but they are
coming every year. They are in a position to come with power, to demand that
the people shall be taxed to benefit them
and fill their pockets, and their prayers
are heard. According to their judgment
they get what they fancy will benefit them
because it will hurt somebody else-because it restricts other people's liberty of
trade, and compels them to buy their products and stocks. It is a great delusion ;
it is a manifest delusion. I am not glad
for their misfortunes, but I do hope that
experience will teach them, like the manufacturers of Lancashire, where 10 per
cent. of the mills were shut down, to come
to the same conclusion, that after all it is
better to let trade run in its own natural
healthy channel, and not undertake to
force others-the lumbermen, the farmers
and fishermen-to build up vast concerns
only to be tumbled down in times of depression. It is an act of legalized injustice.
Those are the crowds of people to whom
the hon. gentleman might well have directed his attention. My hon. friend from
Hamilton spoke about sewing machines,
and he explained how it came to pass that
the makers of sewing machines in the
United States, since the adoption of the

lhe Industries and [APRIL 28, 1885.] Manutf'rs of Canada.

771

National Policy in Canada, reduced their
HON. MR. MACDONALD-But labor
price-that they sold lower by $6 apiece is dearer in England, you told us.
to Canadian customers than they were
willing to sell to their own customers. If
HON. MR. McCLELAN-No; I said
that practice is pursued by them, one dearer in England than on the contin.
would Suppose that their own customers ent. So, my hon. friend if he was a freein the United States would find it out and trader in Scotland, will come to the connot be too well pleased. It is just an in- clusion that he should be a free-trader in
stance of making their own people pay Canada, too. But he says we have commore than what is fair for their manuf'ac- menced to develop our North-West. We
tures, in order that they may be able to in the east have had a most glowing desupply them to foreigners at a lower price. scription of that country and that is one
In this way the hon. gentleman explains reason why there is so much unrest,
why it is that the sewing machine manu- because young people become dissatisfied
facturers of Hamilton are doing a less with their own farms and homesteads and
profitable business under the National come to the conclusion that they must go
Policy than they did before under free trade. west, but unfortunately they do not go to
the North-West, but they go to the WestHox. MR. TURNER-I explained ern States.
how the increased importation was.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Oh no.
Hox. MR. McCLELAN-There are
more sewing machines imported into than
HON. MR. McCLELAN -- My hon.
friend says, " Oh no," but I am aware that
exported from Canada.
they do to a very large extent. I know of
Hox. MR. TURNER-No.
few families in the North-West who have
moved there from New Brunswick. It
HON. MR. McCLELAN-My hon. would be much better for Canada if we
friend remarked that if he was in Scotland, could keep our own people for our own
he would be a free-trader, as he was country. I have no doubt, we have a very
before.
good soil in the North-West, and that it is
a very desirable country to settle in, but
HON. MR. TURNER-I did not say so far as launching out into the prairies
that. I said I would be a free-trader and developing the North-West is conunder the same circumstances.
cerned, and in two decades hence seeing
a population there which will astonish the
HoN. MR. McCLELAN-I was struck world, I only hope it will be true, but it
with that observation. It may not have come will not come to pass under the railway
to the notice of my hon. friend that some policy, protective policy and land policy
of the largest concerns engaged in manu- of the present Government.
facturing sewing machines in the United
States have invested immense sums in
HON. MR. KAULBACH-That is just
putting up establishments in England for what will do it.
the manufacture of sewing machines.
Why?
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I do not believe that it will be so under the policy
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-Because pursued by the Minister of the Interior,
they make so much in their own country and the Minister of Railways and the Govthat they can afford to do it.
ernment of this country. We had statements made on the resolutions for the
HON. MR. McCLELAN-It is simply union of British Columbia by gentlemen
because they find the materials and labor whose faces I do not see in this Chamber
cheaper in that free-trade country, and this evening. They said by the time the
they can manufacture the sewing machines railway was constructed there would be
more cheaply than they could in their 7,000,000 of people in Canada. I am
own country, and thus are enabled to very sorry to say that our country is not
supply foreign markets.
keeping even natural increase. There is

772

The Industries and [SENATE] -Manuf'ryof Canada.

no income of people into Canada; they Lunenburg is constantly interrupting the
have gone away as fast as they have come hon. gentleman from Albert.
and I have adduced proof which, to a
large extent, confirms that statement. I
THE SPEAKER-It is altogether out
say it with iegret, but because it is the of order for any hon. gentleman to interft'ruth, I do not see why it should be with- rupt another who has the floor.
eld. Therefore, I say that the prophecies
HON. MR. DEVER-I should like to
which have been made by gentlemen representing the Conservative side of the see this debate finished to-night, and we
House during the time I have had the could do so if it were not for the interhonor to occupy a seat in this Chamber, ruptions, and interjections of people who
have not been fulfilled. They have not only want to be prominent.
told us the truth. They have not fulfilled
their own expectations in any degree, and
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I admit that
the country to-day, from one end to the my interruptions have been out of place,
other-from British Columbia, which has but from what I heard from the hon. genformed a vigilance committee to drive out tleman himself I was under the impression
the Chinese, to Nova Scotia which has in- that he did not object to them. He said
he was going to confine himself to the
troduced resolutions for disruptionquestion before the House, and that he
HON. MR. KAULBACH-That is the would have done so, if hon. gentlemen on
the other side had set him the example.
work of a few discontented Grits.
I merely remarked that if he referred to
HON. MR. McCLELAN-And Prince me, I had confined myself to the question.
Edward Island, which petitioned the
HON. MR. PLUMB-I wish to say on
Queen against the policy of the Dominion
the point of order that in other places it is
Parliament.
quite common to interject an objection to
HoN. MR. HOWLAN-Prince Edward a statement made in a speech. If the
Island has not petitioned against the policy hon. gentleman had himseif objected to
of the Government; it has petitioned the such interruptions, nobody of course could
Queen to have the terms of Confederation say a word.
carried out.
THE SPEAKER-The point of order
HON. MR. McCLELAN-Part of the was raised, and I have stated my opinion.
policy of the Government is to provide
HON. MR. McCLELAN-Before reincreased accommodation across the straits.
That has not been done, according to the ferring to the commissioners' report, there
Legislature of the Island, and hence they is one other subject to which I wish to
have appealed to'the Queen. That, cer- refer. When the hon. gentlemen who discussed this question on the other side,
tainly, is a fact.
became exhausted for statements, they inHON. MR. HOWLAN-They endorse variably fell back on the assertion that the
the policy of this Government.
popular verdict had been in their favor.
The electors-those public committees to
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I wish to make which the hon. member from Alberton rereferences now to the question which is ferred-had decided in favor of the present
more particularly under the consideration condition of things. That is an argument
of the Senate, and to that I would have to which it is much more difficult to reply.
confined my observations if the hon. gen- I only make a reference to it now, because
I do not wish to entirely pass it over. My
tlemen on the other side had done so.
hon. friends are entitled to any consolaHON, MR. KAULBACH-I did so in tion and benefit they may get from it, and
I dare say they may get a good deal of
my remarks.
consolation and benefit. There is this to
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE--I rise to a be said about it, that during the boom
point of order. The hon. gentleman from that came on as a result of this National
HON.

MR. McCLELAN.

The Industrie8 and [APRIL, 28 1885] Manuf'r8 of Vanada.
Policy, no doubt there was a great deal of
delusion and strong feeling evinced, stimulated, as it was in high quarters, by
the staternent that there was a great deal
of money to be made by investments in
North-West lands, and new industries ; a
good many were deluded and were unwise
or wise enough to make such investments,
and the consequence was that there was a
good deal done in the way of building,
and much stimulus given to manufacturing
industries ; there was an undue and unhealthy stimulus given to certain lines of
industries. In the midst of all this, the
election was held, and the issue was not
fairly put before the people-I am
speaking of the last election. The liberties of the people were largely taken from
them, and a fair and honest expression of
opinion could not be got in consequence
of the Gerrymander Bill. That was an act
of the Government which savored of despotism. It restricted the liberties of the
people still more than any policy they had
inaugurated, and yet the time for
holding the election, and the manner in
which they guarded against the free action
of the people in the matter indicated that
they themselves were skeptical as to the
result of their policy. There were a great
many other considerations and influences
in the progress of events in this Canada of
ours, which certainly placed in the hands
of the Government of the day a great deal
of power, provided they chose to use it in
an unscrupulous manner. The arrangement with the Canadian Pacific Railway
and the enormous allowances made to it,
and the perquisites which belonged to it,
practically yielding up the country to that
corporation, in some degree made us
all subject to its behests. Then the subsidizing of a number of other railways,
usng up the large revenues of the country,
which the people are compelled to pay in
addition towhattheycontribute to the manufacturers; using up the revenues which
this very restrictive tariff has enabled the
Government to secure; they have subsidizedrailroads and appointed officialseverywhere. With our small population, the percentage of officials, place-hunters, contractors, etc., is very large relatively to the number of voters. Then of course there is in the
hands of the Government the great public
domain, the timber limits,the land grabs, as
they are sometimes called,colonization com-

773

panies, which I believe have been denounced by the organ of the Government as being
composed of fools ; the cattle ranches, the
coal limits and the contracts in connection
with public works, the enormous amount
of money in Dominion notes-$r,ooo
notes available for any special purpose
-bribery brigades, commissions, negotiable and non-negotiable; there is also the
mighty influence of all those protected
magnates who have an idea that they not
only have got a lot of money out of the
policy, but may get more. It is not surprising, looking at all these applianc es, that
the Government are maintained by a system
which is like a despotism-a species of
bossism or one-man power. We can see
every day whit is passing around us, and
the leaders vainly imagine that they can
so dam up the liberties of the people that
there can be no outbreak; but there will
be an outbreak certainly, and all this will
come to an end. They may use their
resources in such a way as to restrict the
liberties of the people; but in the end it
will surely result in their overthrow, or if
not I despair ot the future of Canada. I
wish now to make some reference to the
report of the Factory Commissioners about
which the inquiry was made by the hon.
member from Victoria, and the speech
which he made I must say was confined to
that particularly and was an able and proper one, about which I have very little to
observe; but he says in one part of his
address "that some of the newspapers of
the Liberal party 'have endeavored to
impugn the accuracy of the report and
neutralize its effects in the country; but
that they had not been able to place their
finger on one figure, or group of figures,
and say that it is wrong." With reference
to that particular statement of my hon.
friend I take issue most distinctly. His
enquiry relates to the circulation of this
book, which purports to be, on the back of
it, a report on the manufacturing industries
of Canada. That is not the fact, because
a very important province, British Columbia, is not mentioned in it at all. Surely
in the province of British Columbia under
the National Policy there should be some
manufacturing industries.
HoN. MR. MACDONALD-The commissioners say that they have not gone
over the whole country.

T74

.The Industries and [SENATE]

HON. MR. McCLELAN-Then the
title is wrong. The last page of the work
shows that the commissioners have received $3,ooo and upwards, and expect
considerably more ; that no doubt is correct, but the parts between these two extremes I think are exceedingly inaccurate.

Manuf'rs of Canada.

should be employed for this special purpose to assure the people that they are
doing well, whether they are or not. In
his general remarks, he says:
" Taking a note of the work done, the indications are plain that there has been, on the
whole, a marked advance in industrial pursuits, and in material progress generally.

Even in St. John, notwithstanding the excepHON. MR. MACDONALD-Will the tional circumstances which surrouind the year
some of the inac- with which 1884 is contrasted, evidence of
hon. gentleman name
fair progress is not wanting, thiough the busicuracies?
ness stringency of the year just passing away
makes it difficult for persons
HON. MR. McCLELAN-Ves, I will with industrial methods to give unacquainted
full credence

I have not read
refer to some of them.
through the report on the Ontario and
Quebec factories.
It only takes up 35
pages anyway, while the report on the
Maritime Provinces takes up all the rest,
In Mr. Blackaby's report
or 167 pages.
I see he refers to the Kingston locomotive
works, and says that the manager of these
works was unfortunately not at home, and
therefore he could not get correct data.

to the statement."
That sentence

certainly expresses a

great deal, and much of it is no doubt
true, or as nearly true as " the exigencies
of party " admit. He continues :
" Anything which sheds ligh t on the subject

in a fairly accurate forn and the statements
furnished are as nearly correct as anything of
the kind can well be made, must prove useful,
at least to those who appreciate at its proper

worth the value of statistical information."

That is a very good preface. He says,
HON. MR. MACDONALD-And for
however, of the lumber industry, in two or
that reason it makes the report less.
three places, that it has been a losing one,
HON. MR. McCLELAN-It is a pity and that the evils which have come upon
he could not have got the information other industries have been brought about
through that cause.
from some of the clerks. He says:-

" The Kingston Locomotive Works emHON. MR. MACDONALD (B. C.)ployed in the neighborhood of 150 hands Which cause?
in 1878, and is now only furnishing emhploy-

ment to about 30. The manager of these
HON. MR. McCLELAN-Heattributes
works was, unfortunately, away from home
during the time the Kingston works were to the low prices for lumber, and the de-

being visited, and for that reason no reliable pression in that trade the troubles which he
data was obtained with reference to the speaks of, and if my hon. friend will read
works."
the tabular statement showing the number
I have no doubt at all that there were of hands employed in and about St. John,
other manufactories where the managers he will discover that the commissioner
or proprietors were not at home at the states that there were more hands employtime. I merely read this because there ed in and about the mills, and in connecare many gentlemen in this Chamber who tion with the lumber business in St.
know more about the Kingston locomotive John last year, than there were in 1878.
and car works than I do, and I daresay Then again he says it is not the hard
they will understand better than I can, times that has brought about depression
why the manager was not in. Hon, Mr. in the lumber trade, but it is the fact that
Willis, formerly editor and proprietor of the ship-building industry has gone down.
St. John Morning News, a strongly Lib- If my hon. friend will examine the tables
eral and Free Trade paper up to 1878, be- again he will find that there were more
came slightly readjusted in his editorial men employed in the ship-yards last year
opinion about that time, and his old than there were in 1878. He says, speakpatrons not appreciating so rapid a change ing of the industrial life of the city of St.
çf base, the iiewspaper became a " waning John :industry," and ultimately was abandoned.
" Compared with its state a quarter of a
It was quite a proper proceeding that he century ago, the shipbuilding interest except-

'h industrie8 and [APRIL 28, 1885] .Manuf 'rs of Canada. 776
-ed, it contrasts as does the giant oak with the will require a great deal of study in order
saphng junhper."
to understand it. He continues:" Thirdly, to the large sameness in the
Now, this is a metaphor I do not understand. Which year represents " the giant cotton product of the Dominion, and the
shortsightedness of usually shrewd
oak "and which year represents the "sap- overlooking the variety requirementmen, in
when
lîng jumiper ?" This must be understood taking advantage of the stimulating influence
to know what the commissioner means by of the tariff; fourthly, to the too great de
this paragraph. While he is disposed to pendence placed upon special centres to dismanufactured
and the
attribute ail the difficulties to the depres- tribute the efforts to secure goods, extended
inadequate
more
sion in the ship-building and lumbering markets ; fifthly, to the high price ruling for
interests, he actually sets forth in his raw cotton, due to the shortness of the cotton
statement the fact that there are more crop of the past year or so, and the brisk demand for raw cotton by producers,
men employed in those industries than blind to a state of facts with which who,
they
there were in 1878. Then he speaks of should be familiar, kept glutting the market
the bad crops of the past two years. In and burning their fingers ; and lastly, to the
the speeches put into His Excellency's depression in trade generally ail over the
hands the past two years, at the opening world."
The tariff is not blamed for anything.
of Parliament, we are told what fine crops
we have had; but the commissioner sent Then, referring to the boot and shoe inout by the Finance Minister to report on dustry, the commissioner reports :ail those things, says that the crops have
"The boot and shoe business in New Brunsnot been good. In his remarks on the wick and Nova Scotia is not so flourishing as
in soine former years. The general depression
cotton industry the commissioner says:has retarded its progress, and over-production,
" This industry has for some time been in which gives rise to keener competition, has
rather an unhealthy condition. The decline cut into prices. Employers and workmen
is due to a number of causes. First, to the suffer in consequence, and the general public
failure of certain important crops for a couple enjoys only a see.ming benefit. Complainte
of years, and to the depression in the lunber among employers as to the National Policy
trade."
are neither very numerous nor very serious'
It is a singular fact, however, and I
wish to call the attention of the hon.
gentleman from Victoria to it, that the
lumber export last year has been very
large. It was not very remunerative, but
the freights were very low, and spruce
logs sold at about $7.50 per thousand
feet at St. John, whereas in 1878 they
were only worth $5 per thousand feet. I
mention that as a very significant fact,
and yet we are told by the commissioner
that the decline in the lumber trade is the
cause of the depression in the cotton
industry. That cannot be the cause, because the lumber exports have been large,
according to the return, and the number
of hands employed were larger last year
thanin 1878. The commissioner goes on
to give a second reason for the depression in the cotton trade, as follows " Secondly, to the miscalculation of manufacturers as to the consuming powers of the
world's cotton centres in a time of short crops
.and general business depression."

The boot and shoe industry was a
healthy, prosperous business before the
National Policy was introduced, but our
province has been made a kind of sacrifice market for the surplus stocks of the
Montreal manufactories, and the New
Brunswick manufacturers probably suffered thereby. The complaints among
the employers, he says, are neither very
numerous nor very serious; but he admits
enough to show that the manufacturers
are not satisfied with the result of the
tariff. Referring to the clothing industry,
he says that that trade "is affected
injuriously by the general depression, and
to a very considerable extent." Commenting on the bread, biscuit and cake
industry of St. John, the Commissioner
says :" The bread and biscuit bakers, in soine
few instances, object to the National Policy
in toto; but, in the inajority of cases, they
only look upon it with disfavor so far as it
affects the iprice of the material used in
bread-making, for which it is alleged, they
Some of my hon. friends who have in- realize no adequate return from the convested largely in the cotton industry, will sumer."
ýexamine this statement with great care ; it
The hon. gentleman from Lunenburg

776

The Indu8trie8 and [SENATE]

says that the tarif does not increase the
price of bread. The baker says it do
and the commissioner confirms it. Pe
sing on to the lumber trade the commsioner reports ' The lumber trade has been passing
-onger
critical period than alinost
through a
any other. The glutting of the English markets, upon which our spruce deal manufacturers have largely depended, by our own
manufacturers as well as by the manufacturers
of other lumber producing countries, and the
under-onsumption to which the world's business troubles have given rise, have brought
r producing countries
down upon the lu
unpleasant results. Depression in this industry means depression in every branch oflabor
to the sustaininent of which it contributes,
and for a year or two this condition of things
has prevailed."
Now, I venture the statement that the
Trade and Navigation Returns will show
that there has been a large export of lumber for the year 1884, and I stated a
moment ago, myself, the prices which prevailed for logs in St. John, in the years
1878 and 1884. Then, in the execution
of his duty, which under his commission
was
ITo procure information as to the manufacturing industries in existence in the maritime provinces of the Dominion of Canada, as
regards the number of persons employed, the
amount of capital invested, the output thereof, the date of establishment, and the progress
of the several tactories,"
he goes on to particularize, and in
order to make a good showing, he drags
into his tabulated statement of the industries in the city and county of St. John, the
"artists, barbers, bakers, butchers, blacksmiths, florists, fishermen, horse-shoers,
ice-dealers," as benefiting by the National
Policy. The ice business is not an
industry that has been injuriously affected
by the National Policy, certainly not this
winter. He goes on to give, amongst the
rest, " joiners, jewellers, laundrymen,
milliners, painters, photographers, printers,
shipbuilders, shipsmiths, sawfilers, stone
cutters, sausage makers, seamstresses undertakers, umbrella-repairers, barbers,"and
so on, as new industries which are benefited bythe National Policy. Amongst others
he includes saw-millmen. The Finance
Minister said that the millmen were a class
that he could not reach at all with his
National Policy, but the commissioner
brings them all into his list of the industries and manufactures which have develHON.

MR. McCLELAN.

Manuf're of Canada.

oped in consequence of the adoption of a
high tarif. I am sure that my hon. friend
from Victoria would have eliminated from
the report, if he had seen it, the men emSpeaking of
ployed in the saw-mills.
Sackville-I shall give the commissioner's
own story, because the style is rather
unique, he says:" Sackville, the only other lace in Westmoreland county which, in tb e time at my
disposal, could be visited, is unquestionably
a town of great length, great resources and
much wealth; the abo
of a taculty of
learned professors, the resting place of some
illustrious dead. the birth lace of a noble
educational institution, the one of a happy
and contended people, and last, but not least,
the headquarters of one of the most sticcessful
stove foundries in the Lower Provinces.
Well, that stove foundry is a good thing,
and was prosperous many years ago.
HON. MR. MACDONALD (B. C.)What is false about that statement ?
HON. MR. McCLELAN-Nothing; I
am merely reading it as a matter of information. He says that milliners are in
good request in Moncton. No doubt it
is a good advertisement for milliners who
are in search of situations.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It shows
the prosperity of the country, or the people would not be able to indulge in such
luxuries.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-Referring to
Amherst, the leading town in Cumberland county, the commissioner says, it is
quite a manufacturing centre, some dozen
or more factories being in active operation
within its limits. He adds :" There is about the place a smart business-like appearance, and abundant evidence
of the well-to-do condition of its people. It
is famous, among other things, as being the
place around which political gladiators, in
the olden time, delighted to hover, its rostrum
furnishing the battlefield for many keen oratorical encounters. The most prominent of the
town's industries are the stove foundry of A.
Robb & Co., the sash, door, blind and wooden-ware factory of Rhodes, Curry & Co., the
coffin and casket factory of Christie Bros. &
Co., and the spacious works of the Amherst
Boot and Shoe Company."
Although the scene of another battlefield, Amherst does not seem to have any
illustrious dead like Sackville, a notable
example of the survival of the fittest andc

The Industriesand [APRIL 28, 1885] Maanuf'r8 of Canada.
most illustrious. That isallvery useful infor
mation no doubt, for which the commissioner should be well paid. He also made a
small circuit of Prince Edward Island,
and Of one of the towns there, he says :« There is not much doing; however, the
people of Summerside are not apprehensive
about the future.
" They cultivate a cheerful spirit, and look
hopefully ahead. They will always be able
tO claim for their own town and vicinity
preeminence as a pleasant summer resort."

777

" Business not 8o booming as in 1878, nor as
good as last year. The general depression
and diminished work for the laboring classes
causes business to languish. Confederation
hasn't helped our business. It enables the
Montreal and western dealers to overload our
market with the goode of the same description
as we make, and at prices below competing
figures."
Edward Hayes, a biscuit baker, says:-

" The National Policy is not helpful to
my business. I use about two-thirds Americai flour. The American article is preferred
That is cheerful at any rate, and is because of its strength."
calculated to console everybody from that
Then there is quite an interesting report
beautiful island, whether it flourishes under from Mr. John Parks, of the Park's, or

the National Policy or not. Further on New Brunswick, Cotton Mills, who
he quotes the opinions expressed by some says:of the gentlemen on whom he called" Business this year is the worst Phave seen
" Mr. N. Powers, undertaker, reports the in my experience, especially during the last
general health of the city good, probaly better
than in 1878. He adds, with grini good
humor:-Times are somewhat tough, but
then this toughness is not common to St.
John; it affects the world at large.
My
business, like most other trades, is affected
as people call for
by hard times, inasmuch
cheaper work than in prosperous times."

Then he calls on Mr. John J. Munroe,
who owns a trunk factory, who reports
"business this year is very good-better
than last year, and better than 1878."
Of course it is ; people are going away

from the province, and I can well understand that trunks are in demand everywhere. I have no doubt at all that the
trunk factory is flourishing.
Then he
gives a statement of Messrs. Stewart &

White, furniture manufacturers. Those
gentlemen report that trade is dull now,
and add :" The tariff is unjust to furniture manufacturers who use fine goods, for the manufacture of which there is not now, nor likely
to be, any provision in the near future."
I have marked a number of passages
that have a certain degree of interest, but
time does not permit of my referring to
I think the commissioner has
them all.
tried as far as the "exigencies" of the
circumstances have allowed, to make as
complete a statement as possible; but it
is a very confused report, contradictory in
its parts, and fictitious in some particulars,
though I have no doubt not through any
bad intent.
McNichol & Russell, merchant tailors,
are reported as saying in reply to the
commissioner's inquiries :-

three months."

At Fredericton, McFarlane, Thompson
& Anderson's foundry, started 13 years
ago, is reported to be prospering. They do
not know that the National Policy hurts
them much in a general way. In one
respect, however, it operates to their prejudice. They say. their market to buy is
in the United States ; but the tariff forces
them to go to Ontario for malleable castings, at a much larger first cost, and much
higher freight charged than they formerly
paid to foundries in the Republic. They
add :" The Londonderry Iron Works make very
good iron, but at present there is little or
nothing being done there. We find it better
to import our pig and bar iron from the old
country. Most of the iron we now use is
Scotch pig."
When the commissioner comes to report
on the Londonderry Iron Works, he makes
out that there are a large number of hands
employed, and I do not see how that compares with the statement of the foundrymen above alluded to, who say that

"there is not much doing there."

The

Londonderry iron is protected by a high
duty in the first place ; then there is an
additional bounty put upon the pig iron,
and after that they had almost nominal

rates for the transport of coal, and after
that they had the credit of the Government for the transport of the coal
-and a long credit, too, I think. I might
go furtber on through this report, but I
do not propose to do so. I an sorry to
weary hon. gentlemen, but this subject has

718

The Industries and [SENATE] Manuf'rg of Canada.

been very ably referred to by my hon.
friend from Victoria, and he mentionsi
this report as being very exact and accurate in all its statements. He will find,
however, that the tables are totally unreliable. I will call his attention to page 74
and page 134. He states on page 74 that
the town of Woodstock has 14 new industries, started since 1878, employing 113
hands, whose yearly aggregate of weekly
wages amounts to $510,010. That would
be an average of $4,513 a week. for each
hand, and yet my hon. friend says that
the Liberal press is entirely wrong when
it says that this report is inaccurate.
HoN. MR. MACDONALD (B. C.)-

It is a printer's mistake evidently.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-The same
statement appears in two different places,
and if a typographical error the totals
would not correspond, but they do in the
report, and it requires a great deal of
exertion sometimes to counteract the
effects which such statements produce. I
have been trying all the evening myself to
correct palpable errors of the hon. gentlemen opposite. To send the report all over
the countrywith such mis-statements would
be positively delusive and misleading, and
therefore the statement of my hon. friend
that the newspapers were wrong in their
criticisms is not justifiable. This report
would be about as useful and reliable, so
far as the information which it professes
to contain is concerned, as the Arabian
Nights, or some other work of fiction. It
is not exactly what the Government or
anybody else wanted, but if it is reprinted
I would suggest that it be printed in the
Chinese language. Many of us will
remember the legend of the old piper
of Hameln. When that ancient city
was infested with rats, which the people
heartily desired to get rid of, they agreed
to pay the old piper a certain surn of
money to do so. The piper by his music
and charms, and the grotesqueness of his
dress, induced the rats to follow him, and
they were destroyed.

HON. MR. MACDONALD-That has
been the effect of the hon. gentleman's
speeeh on the House. It is decidedly
.thinned out.
HON. MR. McCLELAN.

HON. MR. McCLELAN---No, the
miembers did not come in, and I am unable, like the piper, to attract them. What
I was going to say to my hon. friend is,
if it is proposed to re-print this report it
should be printed in the Chinese language,
with his additional endorsement of its
absolute correctness, in figures and groups
of figures-and I can imagine my hon.
friend, leading the way through the defiles
and canons of the Rockies, with the entire
following of the Mongolians wending their
way to this Mecca of high wages in Woodstock, N.B., where they would each earn
$4,5 13 a week for wages, and I am sure
if my hon. friend would adopt that course
he would be favored by the extermination
of the Chinese of British Columbia, and
then the occupation of the Vigilance
Committee will be gone. I trust that my
hon. friend will be very much better rewarded if he adopts the suggestion, than
the piper to whom I have just alluded as
indicated in the sequel to the old story.
I am satisfied, however, that my hon.
friend will undoubtedly receive proper
consideration for the ability which he has
displayed in bringing this important subject to the notice of this Chamber, and
seeing to it that this report is re-published
and circulated everywhere, even in British
Columbia; but I say, notwithstanding all
the credit which I am disposed to give
the commissioner who has been employed
to go round and make those inquiries and
compile this report, it will scarcely answer
any practical end that I know of, unless it
reaches the hands of the Mongolian in the
manner I have suggested.
I have to apologize again for trespassing
so much on the time and attention of this
honorable Chamber. I felt that it became
my duty, as a representative from one of
the Maritime Provinces, and knowing the
evils that are springing up amongst us by
the inauguration and continuance of this
pohicy, which I know to be invidious and
hard to be borne, to state its effect not
only there, but in Nova Scotia and Prince
Edward Island, and in fact throughout the
Dominion of Canada. Whatever hon.
gentlemen may say, and whatever a
majority of this House may say, and whatever they may reiterate, it is a policy
which is contrary to English precedent ;
it is a policy which is calculated to degrade and injure, and lower the interests

'e industrie8 and [APRIL 28, 1885] Alanuf'r8 of Canada. 779
of this country. It is a policy which is
not suitable to this progressive age. It is
a policy which properly belongs to feudal
times and a past age-one which the
Government, when they come to consider
the iil-effect of it, and cast aside those influences by which they surround themselves with power-when they take a
patriotic view of those things, and work
more for the country and less for
their party, will see is not in the
best interests of the Dominion. The
Minister of the Interior, in reply to my
hon. friend from Ottawa, spoke about that
lucky star that guides this Government.
He spoke of the sunshine in which
they are basking. I may say to the Minister of the Interior, that I hope the time
may speedily come when the sunshine
will not alone fall upon this Government
entrenched as they are on the treasury
benches, that the dark clouds will break
and the whole people of this country will
get the benefit of that sunshine ; when the
laborers and farmers, and the lumbermen
and fishermen of this country will reap the
full advantages of their toil, and will not
be compelled to contribute from their resources further than is necessary for the
purposes of government.
HON. MR. DEVER-I am sure after
the long and labored debate that has taken
place on this great subject it would be the
height of bad taste on my part to desire
to continue it much longer. It must be
a matter of pride to all to see the manner
in which the debate has been conducted.
It must show to the country that it was
the desire of the Senate that a subject
affecting the true interests of this country
should be debated in the most intelligent
and able manner. I feel, myself, notwiihstanding the length of this debate, that
after all, the jury to determine this question will be the country. Whether one
party or the other may fancy they get the
victory in this House matters not ; it will
not have the slightest influence on the
people, The arguments pro and con as
affecting our commercial nterests and our
true prosperity will be sifted thoroughly,
and I think an accurate judgment will be
arrived at by the people. Notwithstanding the great ability displayed on the part
of some speakers who took part in this
debate, I took notice of what may be

called a heresy in political economy, that
has been indulged in by both sides in debating this subject. I could not help
feeling somewhat surprised that statements
should be made that vast quantities of
money had been lost to this country by
investments in manufacturing industries.
It was said that the stockholders had lost
their stock and that factories which had
cost some $26o,ooo or $300,ooo

were

a total loss and that business was
crippled in consequence of this capital
having been taken out of its legitimate
course and virtually lost to the country.
I take exception to this statement at
once. I think I have studied some of the
laws of political economy. I think I have
been taught to be lieve that when money is
taken from the banks or taken from private
individuals and put into actual labor in the
country, that instead of its being lost to
the public it is simply displaced and put
into circulation in the hands of the laboring
classes. It enters the business of the
shop-keepers, the tradespeople, doctors
and lawyers and various citizens who
dwell in our country. It is true it is taken from one and goes into the possession
of another, but still not one dollar is lost to
the country. A gentleman who took the
opposite side of the argument seemed to
think that that proposition was a fair one ;
he did not think it was wrong. Men go
into business and lose their capital. He
took it as a matter of fact that the capital
was lost, and that men in the lumber
trade, for instance, lost their money in
the woods, and went into bankruptcy.
Now the two cases, according to my view
of the strict rules of political economy,
are not similar. In the first place, if
money be invested in getting lumber, it
has to go to a foreign country; and if the expenses incurred are not met by the amount
realized by the sale, then of course there
is a loss to the country of the difference
between the cost and the amount received
from the sale ; but in the other
going
is
case where the work
on in our own country and the money is
paid for labor, I think it will be found on
reflection that the statements of hon.
gentlemen on the other side are not correct. I do not know that it is necessary
for me to go much further into the question ; in fact I do not know that I could,
if I tried, go over the grounds that have

780

The Industries and

[SENATE]

already been covered. The subject has
been ably discussed in all its branches.
We have a grand future before us, if
we be true to more than our own private
interests, and not be like the Roman
guards, who sold at auction, to the highest
bidder, the throne of their country.
My own views on the tariff question are
steady, and ever have been since I had
the honour of a seat in this Chamber.
But desiring to bow to the will of the
people, I sink them, and acknowledge
that the present policy was sustained at
the polls.
Until the same people give me to understand that they have changed their
minds, I will carry out their views right
loyally. Instead, though, of playing
" Vicar of Bray," I would rather point
out that there is danger ahead, and that
the people here, like the people of the
United States, are not going to be ridden
to death by politicians. One stroke of
the pen would let go the whole excise
goods of the United States. I would like
to know what would become of the frontier of Canada if we had to watch the
flood of snuggled goods that would then
come in at half the price ours would cost.
But, gentlemen, I have no desire to go,
or appear to go, deeply into these matters.
The problem of political economy, as
applied to the wants of the different
countries, is an exercise for statesmen, not
for every pretender to tariff making.
I think it is perfectly safe to leave the
operations of the present tariff and policy
in the hands of the Government. There
is a man at the head of the Government
who is a statesman as astute as any or
this continent.
When that statesman
considers that the true interest of this
country demands an alteration in the
tariff, he has sagacity and patriotism
enough to adopt it. I think it is perfectly
right and safe for us to wait until we see
the necessity for a change in our systern
before making one. I may, perhaps, be
ii¡clined to think that a change will take
place by degreesin the near future; but until
a change shall take place in public opinion I
am satisfied to bow to the will of the people.
HON. MR. TURNER-In the absence
of the hon. member from Belleville, I
should like to say a few words in reply to
the hon. member from Hopewell, on the

HoN.

MR.

DEVER.

Manuf'ra of Canada.

cheese question. Before the National
Policy was adopted as a general principle,
there were to my knowledge three articles
to which the protective principle had been
applied. These were vinegar, tobacco
and cheese, in all of which articles we control our own market, and, as regards the
latter, we are now large exporters. I can
recollect-it is not very long ago-when
there was no merchantable cheese made in
Canada. There was a duty of 3 cents
put on cheese, and from that time the improvement dates. Prior to that the duty
was nominal. This increase in the duty
was followed by the establishment of
cheese factories, and an extraordinary increase in the production, and I now say it,
and assert it boldly, that the basis of the
improvement in the production was this
increase in the duty imposed.
HON. MR. MACDONALD-I do not
know that it is worth while for me to
discuss the question any further. The
debate has been a long and a tedious one,
and the hon. gentlemen who have fired
their shots and spoken in trie negative on
the question have left the House. Many
of their arguments I should like to review,
but as they are not present I shall refrain
from doing so ; however, I will say a very
few words. I will take New Brunswick
first, as from that province cornes the
deepest and loudest howl.
We have
heard of the condition of affairs there ;
but the assertions to which we have
listened are not borne out by the facts ;
anyone who looks at the imports and
exports for the last five years will see that
the condition of trade in that province is
not as bad as it has been represented.
The hon. gentleman from Albert made
some allusion which I did not understand about the Chinese in British Columbia. He imported that question into
this discussion, though I cannot see what
bearing it has upon the trade policy of
the Dominion ; but I will say this that
there are Chinamen fully as intelligent
and as well informed as he is, in many
parts of British Columbia and in China.
The hon. gentleman did not confine himself to the question at issue, the trade
policy of the country, but went beyond it
into abstract questions which it is perfectly impossible to answer, and if it were
possible, would be of no benefit to any-

The Indutriesand [APRIL 28, 1885] .Manif'r8 of Canada. 781
one. I have no intention to answer the lines of trade had to be originated. A
long arguments of the hon. gentlemen new line was struck out and has brought
from St. John and Albert. Whenever prosperity. Hon. gentlemen have not
they approached the question at issue been able to say that the National Policy
what course did they pursue ? They has not succeeded. The hon. member from
merely tried to asperse the reports of Prince Edward Island (Haythorne) did
the commissioners, but they have failed not contend that at all. He did not say
to show in what respect they were defec- that the country was not more prosperous.
tive.
Even the hon. member from He could not say so, and, therefore, he
Albert had to pay a tribute of respect to wisely let it alone. He confined himself
the commissioner for New Brunswick. chiefly to a long dissertation on abstract
He could only discover a typographical questions. The hon. gentleman from
error, which was apparent to everyone. New Brunswick made a great handle of
The New Brunswick commissioner gives the increased prices of manufactured
both sides of the question, and makes a articles up in the North-West.
As a
statement which may, therefore, be taken matter of course that must be the case.
as more credible than if it had been a The transportation to that country must
party report altogether. The hon. gen- add to the cost of those articles, and if
tleman from New Brunswick said that they are dearer than in Ontario and
the National Policy was driving the young Quebec, which are nearer hand, it is only
people from that province, because their what we must expect as a matter of trade.
trade relations were hampered. How The hon. gentleman from New Brunswick
can that be the case if there are more also said when arguments failed that we
people employed in 1884 than there was remarked we have the people with us.
in 188 ? It shows that there is more We are proud to have them with us; they
employment in the country, and if young have twice over ratified the policy of the
men are leaving the province, it is from Government and have sustained the
other causes than the National Policy. National Policy. If the hon. gentleman
The hon. member from Albert says that had that argument on his side what would
the National Policy interferes with the he say ? What has he brought forward
farmers. I deny that it does. Nearly when argument tailed him ? He has
all the goods that our farmers use are brought forward two or three letters from
manufactured in the country ; so that the obscure fishermen ; he has taken the stateNational Policy can in no way interfere ments of different people in the United
with them, unless it is to benefit them, States and other parts of the world ; he
because it gives them a larger home has read history 55 years old about the
market than they formerly had, on ac- trade of England; he has told us about
count of there being more people employed the low prices of sugar, coffee and tallow
and getting higher wages in thé different in England, and he has quoted from
manufacturing establishments, than they speeches made by free traders in the
did formerly, Hon. gentlemen laid great United States, and speeches made in
stress on the duty on flour and Indian Toronto many years ago which have nothcorn brought into the country. What ing whatever to do with the question at
does that duty amount to ? One-fifth of issue. Our contention is that the trade of
a cent on the pound for Indian corn. the country has increased and improved
Suppose a family were to use 5 pounds in in every way, comparing 1884 with
a day, the duty upon that would be only 1878 ; that was the question that
i cent a day.
The duty on flour is a was brought before the Senate. Now
quarter of a cent per pound, and these we will take the revenue derived
are the infinitessimal taxes to which from New Brunswick during the five years
he has referred as grinding down from 1875 to 1879 and the five years from
the people. , He says that trade should 188o to 1884. The figures show a wonderbe conducted on the old lines. The ful evenness over the whole ten years.
old lines have fallen to pieces. The difference amounts to about $84,ooo
From 1873 to 1879 the trade of the a year for the last five years. From 1875
country was ruined. There was a howl of to 1879 the duties collected were $6,o66,despair all over the country, and new 274, and from 188o to 1884 $6,489,o56.

782

The Indu8tries and [SE N ATE] fanuf'rs of Canada.

The highest point reached by the revenue
during the Liberal administration was
$1,454,ooo, and the highest point under
the present tariff was in 1883 when it
reached $1,52o,ooo. a difference only of
$66,ooo.
Then the exports are wonderfully even also for the ten years, $28,059,736, under a Liberal Government, and
$30,6oo,702 under a Conservative Government, showing an excess -during the last
five years under the Conservative Government of $2,54o,966. Now a country which
has exported that much over the previous
five years under the Liberal Government
cannot be in a very bad condition. These
figures relate to articles the produce of the
country, and in 1884, in addition to the
produce of the country, $1,000,ooo worth

more was exported of imported goods ; so
that whatever the hon. gentlemen from
New Brunswick may say for party purposes, the condition of affairs in their
province is not as bad as they try to make
out.
HON. MR. DEVER-I beg to differ
from my hon. friend.
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-I rise to a
question of order. The hon. gentleman
has no right to interrupt.

of any of the colonies; but comparisons
are made between the taxation of the two
countries, and such comparisons are very
favorable to Canada. The taxation in
England is $3.25 per head higher than the
taxation in Canada, and with regard to
the large accumulation of trade in England
it has been chiefly or largely due to the
civil war in the United States. That war
threw the whole shipping trade of the
world almost into the hands of Ergland;
and the manufacturing for 42,000,000 Of
people besides, and English manufacturers
reaped immense fortunes from that war. It
sweptthe UnitedStates commerce from the
seas, and all the ressources of the United
States were taxed to the utmost in the
struggle with the rebellions states, so that
they could not manufacture for themselves.
That is one reason of the great prosperity
of the free-trade England, between 1861
and 1873; but since the latter date things.
have been very different. Trade has been
in a very depressed condition indeed, and
thousands of men are starving; hundreds
of mills are closed, and manufacturing
could not be in a worse condition, I am
sorry to say. Allusion has been made to
the Mother Country, and her prosperity
and her wealth, but her poor manufacturing people are anything but prosperous.

THE SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman
HON. ML PLUMB-I should like to
has the floor and should not be interrupted. remind my hon. friend that he is speaking
entirely under the indulgence of the
HoN. MR. DEVER-I simply wish to House. There is no affirmative motion
explain that these exports are the natural before us, and as it is getting late I would
products of the province, and not increased remind the hon. gentleman that he is.
by the National Policy.
entirely out of order.
HoN. MR. MACDONALD-The hon.
gentleman referred to the exodus from
New Brunswick. If that hon. gentleman
and others continue to decry the country
in which they live, and to old up the
United States as a more desirable country
than ours, people, of course, will leave
Canada. The leaders of the party to
which the hon. gentlemen belong continually extol the United States, and decry
their own country. The hon. gentleman
from New Brunswick also alluded to the
wonderful wealth which England had
accumulated under a free-trade system.
No one doubts the wealth of England, and
no one would think for a moment of comparing the wealth of that country with that
HoN. MR. MACDONALD.

HON. MR.MACDONALD-Iamaware
that I am speaking with the consent of the
House; we have been speaking all along,
under the indulgence of the House. If I
am called to order I will at once sit
down.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentleman is making a speech.
HON. MR. MACDONALD-1 am only
replying to the arguments of other hon.
gentlemen.

HON. MR. PLUMB-The honigentleman is keeping us here to a late hour.

The Industries and [APRIL 28, 18851 31anuj'rs of Canada. 783
HON. MR. MACDONALD-The hon. party whose policy had caused the im-

gentleman is not obliged to remain.
HON. MR. PLUMB-If I did not remain there would be no quorom, and I am
sitting here as a matter of courtesy to the
hon. gentleman.

HON. MR. DEVER-The hon. gentleman is out of order, and I wish to make
an explanation about New Brunswick.
HON. MR. MACDONALD-The hon.
gentleman from Ottawa, who I am sorry
to see is out of his seat, discussed the
question with a great deal of warmth and
excitement. He accused me of taking an
unparliamentary advantage of this House
by referring to a report which was not in
the hands of members. The hon. gentleman should not have made a charge of
that kind. What has been the custom of
this House? Has it not been to move
for papers and speak of them before they
are brought down? The hon. gentleman
said also that I had not given sufficient
notice. I gave five days notice on my
motion, and delayed it five days further,
and what is the fact ? The papers were
not in my hands five minutes before they
were being perused by the hon. gentleman
from Ottawa, which gave him the opportunity to prepare and deliver a very able
speech, though it was one with which I
did not agree. The hon. gentleman also
said I had chosen a very inopportune
time for bringing this matter forward.
I think it was a very opportune time ;
it was a comparison with one's year of
depression, 1878, with another year of depression, 1884. If I had compared 1878
with 1883 I would have been told that I
had taken a special year and that the comparison was not fair. The hon. gentleman
said also that I was away from the country and therefore could not have known
what was going on. In reply I can only
say that if the hon. gentleman was himself
in the country he must have closed his
eyes and made very poor use of his time
if he could not ascertain what was going
on and see the progress of the country.
The hon. gentleman from Ottawa made a
very ungenerous speech ; he could not
deny the progress and the increased production of the country, and yet he would
not give one single iota of credit to the

provement, although on the other side we
are prepared to allow the hon. gentleman
and his party credit for all their acts, good
or bad. The hon. gentleman alluded to
the importations and exportations of the
country as being in excess of what they
were in former years. Is not that an evidence of wealth ? If we have been able
to consume the increased importations
and the large home manufactures that is
surely an evidence of increased wealth in
the country. I will just tell hon. gentlemen what the difference has been in
exports. It is something wonderful.
MON. MR. PLUMB-Oh, no, it is too
late ; hand the figures in to the reporter.

HoN. MR. MACDONALD-The
statement shows an excess during the five
years that the National Policy has been
in operation of $85,15o,292.

That is no

evidence of poverty, and the imports have
increased as well by $43,ooo,ooo in the
five years.
Total exports for the five
years under Liberal Government .................... $392,681,o48
Total exports under Conservative Government for
five years, 1880 to 1884. 477,831,340.
DOMINION
1875 ...

...

1876...

...
...

1877...

1878...

...

1879... ...

IMPORTS.

$123,07o,283 00
94,733,21g oo
96,300,483

00

91,199,577

00

81,964,427 0O
$487,267,988 oo

1880 ...

71,782,349

1881...

105,330,840

1882 ...
1883 ...
1884 ...

112,648,927
132,254,022

108,180.644

$530,196,782 oo
Anincrease of$42,92 8 ,794.ooimports in
five years, under the National Policy,
compared with five years under a revenue

tariff.
- As hon. gentlemen are so impatient, I
will merely say, that those who have taken

184A

Ofence8 Against [SENATE] the Per8on Bill.

THE SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman
the negative side and have chosen to be
unbelievers on the question, have not is certainly out of order in what he is saysucceeded in disproving any one of the ing now. That is not an explanation.
statements made by these commissioners,
HON. MR. DEVER-I may not have
or in refuting the arguments they have
taken the proper course to make an extrought forward.
planation, but my object is to say that
HON. MR. PLUMB-I think it is due while the hon. gentleman from British
'to the hon. gentleman who has just taken Columbia is entitled to our thanks for the
'his seat, to say that his opening speech manner in which he has brought forward
was compiled with great care, and contain- this question, I cannot agree with him.ed much useful information. It has given
HON. M. KAULBACH-I rise to a
rise to a most interesting, even if somewhat
prolix, debate. I hope he will not con- question of order. This is not an ex-sider that, because at this late hour we planation.
have become a little restless after hearing
HON. MR. SMITH-I move that the
a very long speech, and many tedious readïings in another quarter, and because I drew House do now adjourn.
his attention to the fact that he had no
The motion was agreed to, and the
right to reply, and was speaking entirely
with the indulgence of the House, that I Senate adjourned at i i p.m.
had not full appreciation of the value of
the information which he has given us.
For one, I thank the hon. gentleman very
THE SENATE.
sincerely for having brought the question
before the House. I declined to speak
upon it, because it has been a subject of Ottawa, Wednesday, April 29th, 1&8.
exhaustive discussions in another quarter,
THE SPEAKER took the Chair at three
and in those discussions I took an active
part there and on the hustings. There o'clock.
was nothing, and could be nothing, new
Prayers and routine proceedings.
in the general argument, to one who had
watched very closely the whole of the
National Policy debates and speeches for OFFENCES AGAINST THE PER.
SON BILL.
the last eight years. For that reason I
did not feel inclined to take any part in
IN CoMMITTEE.
ithe discussion here, but I was perfectly
willing to listen, and I have remained, not
The House resolved itself into a Comwithout a trial of patience, here this evening to listen to arguments which contain- mittee of the Whole on Bill (S), "An Act
ed nothing that I had not heard quite as to amend an Act respecting Offences
forcibly stated often before ; but I felt it against the Person."
due to the hon. gentleman, as I had
HON. MR. GOWAN--I beg to move
suggested to him that he was making a
speech which was a little out of order, to the adoption of the first and only amendmake this explanation, which I trust he ment that I have to propose to this Bill,
will accept.
to strike out the words " and compellable "
in the i 1th line. I do so in deference to
HON. MR. DEVER-I wish to make the strongly expressed opinion of my hon.
.an explanation. The hon. gentleman friends opposite, who consider that it
from British Columbia is, certainly, en- would be better not to compel the
titled to our thanks for the manner in wife under such circumstances to give
evidence. I myself am not very strongly
which he has broughtstruck with the force of the objection, but
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I rise to a I do not think I would be justified in
question of order. This is not an ex- pressing it in the face of their opinion.
Every member owes a debt to the pro-planation.

HON. MR. MACDONALD.

Ofences Against [APRIL 29, 188-51 the Person Bill.
fession to which he belongs, and my hon.
friends opposite and myself are endeavoring to repay it by placing on the statute
books, good laws and proper amendments
to the existing laws and if there is not a
complete accord between us on all points,
I think we should always be prepared to
give way.
HON. MR. DICKEY-May I be allowed to ask my hon. friend if that is the
only amendment he proposes to make ?
On a former occasion, I suggested the
desirability of permitting the husband to
give evidence.
HcN. MR. GOWAN-I myself did not
propose to make any other amendment,
but if hon. gentlemen desire to discuss
the point, I should be happy to consider
it. That is the only amendment I would,
without hesitation, assent to.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
not think the amendment suggested by
my hon. friend from Amherst is necessary,
because the Bill only relates to cases in
which the husband fails to provide for his
wife and family. There is no probability
of an action being taken by the husband
against the wife, so there is no room for
such an amendment. I do not see how
the husband could come in, in any way.
HON. MR. DICKEY-It rnay be a
prosecution against the husband and the
question is whether he should be allowed
to be a witness. My hon. friend who has
charge of this Bill is perfectly aware of
the general rule with regard to the husband and wife-the general rule in criminal matters is that the husband and wife
are not allowed to give evidence either
for or against each other, for the reason
that if they testify for each other their
interests are identical. They are not
allowed to give evidence against each
other, on grounds of public policy, for
fear of creatng distrust and sowing dissensions between them, and occasioning
perjury. That is the rule of the law. We
have been pointed to an exception made
by this parliament in 43 Vic., an Act respecting summary proceedings for common
assault. In that Act there is a provisI:n
that the husband or wife shall be allowed
to be a witness in such action. In analo-

Zi

785

gous proceedings to this the husband is
allowed to be a witness, and there is a
provision also that the wife of the defendant shall be a competent witness on behalf of her husband, but there is no
provision in that Act, as I read it, to
make her a competent witness against her
husband. In this Bill it is proposed, for
the first time, to make the wife competent
to give evidence against her husband.
Now, that is a point very well worthy of
being considered, because we had it up
the other day. We should proceed very
cautiously in these criminal matters. This
is the first instance of this kind,
as far as my experience goes-I
may have overlooked some instances
in our criminal legislation-except those
cases in which the wife's evidence has
always been allowed (such as adultery, or
proceedings where the husband had used
violence to her, where, from necessity, she
might be a witness), on the ground ex
necessitate. This Bill is contrary to all the
previous precedents of our legislation, and
I think the committee should pause before allowing such an enactment as this to
make the wife a competent witness against
her husband. I refer my hon. friend to
the Act 43 Vic., where it is stated that in
any such trial the wife or husband shall be
a competent witness on behalf of the defendant-not against, but on behalf. In
this Bill, it is stated that the wife shall be
a competent witness in the prosecution on
her own behalf ; but it does not allow the
husband to give testimony in his behalf.
Surely he should be allowed to defend
himself if the wife is allowed to be a witness against him. The precedents have
only gone so far as to allow the wife to be
a witness for her husband ; if we allow
her to give evidence against her husband,
I think the husband should be allowed to
be a witness on his own behalf.
HON. MR. GOWAN-I think my hon.
friend is mistaken in supposing that it is
the only case in which a wife may be
called upon to give evidence against her
husband. However, that scarcely touches
the point in this case. The offence that
this is intended to cover relates to an act,
certainly not of violence against the wife,
but of cruelly witholding from her the
necessaries of life. There is a distinction
between acts of feasance and of non.

786

Ofences Again8t [SENATE] the Person Bill.

feasance, and it was on that ground that
the court held she was not a competent
witness, the majority of the court differing
from one of the learned judges before
whom the question came up, who held that
she was a competent witness, and that the
Act would be futile and valueless-as 1 have
already observed in moving the 2nd reading of the Bill-unless her evidence is
admitted. I do not myself think the suggested amendment of the Bill is necessary.
There is this, however, to be said in favor
of what the hon. member from Amherst
has referred to, and perhaps the only point
to be said in its favor ; it may be that the
husband is not in a position to procure
the necessaries of life for his wife, and he
may be the only person who could give
full evidence on that point. That, it
seems to me, is the only point in favor of
the contention that he shall be allowed to
give evidence on his own behalf. I do
not myself think it necessary, but I am
quite in the hands of the House. I do
not desire to press any point that may not
be thoroughly well founded. I am making an humble effort to improve the law in
points where it has been pronounced to be
quite defective by the highest judges in
the land, and I am always glad and gratified to receive any assistance that can be
given to it by those who have, as I have,
only a desire to place on the statute book
the best and most suitable laws for the
circumstances of the case. If my hon.
friend chooses to move an amendment in
the direction he has indicated, he can do
so, but I do not myself feel disposed to
place it on the statute book.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I hore the
hon. member from Amherst will not move
in the direction of allowing the defendant
to give evidence in a case of this kind. I
think we have gone far enough in allowing
defendants in cases of assault and battery
to give evidence. If we go further we
may be in the position to which the hon.
member from Halifax objected, with
regard to a bill introduced the other day.
It is rather going in that direction. I
think the bill should be amended this far,
that the evidence of the wife herself should
not be sufficient alone to convict the
husband. There should be some corroborative evidence to find the party guilty.
But to allow the husband to give evidence
HON. MR.

GOWAN.

in a matter of this kind, when he neglects
a duty which is imposed upon him by every
law, human and divine-to provide food
and lodging and clothing for his wife and
children-I do not think he is a right
person to give evidence. As regards his
not being able to provide for his wife, I
think that fact might be easily proved
apart from himself altogether. If he is a
pauper, there are many means by which
evidence of the fact could be given to the
court, but I really hope the hon. member
from Amherst will not move in the direction of allowing the defendant, in a case of
this kind, to give evidence on his own
behalf.
HON. MR.. ALMON-The profession

of which I have been long a member does
not give me much knowledge of the law,
but it gives one a knowledge of human
nature.
I am convinced that a woman
bringing a case before a court against her
husband, the moment she is allowed to
give evidence, will give it in her husband's
behalf. When he is charged with failing
to provide her with clothing, she will be
ready to say, " I have plenty of good
clothes at home, and a first rate dress at
the dressmaker's to be taken in or let out,
as the case may be." I am not a chief
justice, but I once saw a case which would
serve as an illustration of this-that of a
man who had shot his wife with a rifle. The
ball had gone through her, and she ought
to have died, but did not.
He was
prosecuted for the crime, and she came to.
me, asking me to try and get him off. I
said, " he is a scoundrel, and ought to be
punished." She said, " I know he is, but
suppose he is sent to penitentiary for
seven years, who will provide for my
family ?" I think the punishment provided by the Act which this Bill is intended
to amend is irr.prisonment for three months.
in a workhouse. Will that enable the
husband to give his wife better clothes, or
is he more likely, when he is discharged
from the workhouse, to supply them ? I
think not. If this Bill is passed, the poor
woman will be worse off than she is, and.
I think it should be thrown out. If the
hon. gentleman wishes to improve the
laws, I will suggest an amendment.
In
the case I have mentioned I was examined'
as a witness ; I had been the medical
attendant of the prisoner, and I was askedî

Ofences Against [APRIL 29, 1885] the Person Bill.

787

from Amherst has put it, because it is not
a complaint of the wife alone, but it is
the wife and child, or children. Those
children may be of such tender years that
they cannot be examined, and I am disposed to believe that there are not many
cases in which the wifecomplains against the
husbandwhere there are nochildren As far
as my own observation goes, when women
who have no children to support are abandoned by their husbands, or their husbands refuse to support them, they generally rely upon their own exertions, and
are able to support themselves; but when
there are minor childern, perhaps it becomes an unfair tax on the wife, and she
naturally appeals to the laws of the country
to enforce the obligations which her husband assumed to support his family. I
think, therefore, the suggestion of my hon.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I do not concur friend is a very proper one, that no proaltogether in the view of the hon. gentle- secution should be permitted under this
man who has just taken his seat. The Bill on the unsupported testimony of the
hon. member who introduced this Bill wife, but that her evidence should receive
does not speak as an advocate or counsel, such substantial corroborative evidence as
but from a much higher standpoint-as a the courts may think necessary. With
judge who has been for 40 years entrusted those words added I think the danger
with the administration of the laws. During would be averted, and this very useful
a long and very active life, in which he has provision, removing the question of doubt
acquired a very valuable training for as to whether the wife is a competent
making the laws of the country, he has witness, might become law. There is no
discovered that there are certain defects one so well fitted as the wife to explain
in the laws, which shouid be remedied. to the court and jury, if necessary, what
No one supposes that our laws are perfect, the neglect complained of has been. Very
even when they are consolidated.
The often no neighbor is cognizant of the
laws of the country are perpetually chang. facts. Take the case of a family who live
ing, as experience dictates, from time to isolated from neighbors. How can they
time, and it is really only from experience know whether the husband turns his wife
that one can judge what is best to be out of doors or fails to provide her with
adopted. I feel that it is not wise to de- food ? In such cases it is extremely
part from the maxim festina lente, particu- difficult to procure a conviction. A father
làrly in laws of this kind, but, no doubt, may be guilty of acts of tyranny whichl
experience is the most valuable educator should subject him to punishment, but.
in furnishing improvements, more particu- unless there are grown up children there
larly in the criminal laws. The suggestion are no witnesses.
Where they are of
made by the hon. member from Lunen- tender years, say under eight or nine, they
burg, is, I think, the correct one-that is, are not eligible as witnesses, and therefore
that no conviction should be complete on this sort of treatment may go on for years,
the evidence of the wife alone. It should and be utterly incapable of proof unless
be.supported by corroborative testimony. the evidence of the wife is admitted. We
It is the invariable practice of judges to know the tendency of all judicial minds,
hear the statement of the husband in such and in fact of every fair mind, is to heal
cases. He does not make it under oath, up domestic difficulties. It is not debut he is allowed to make it to the court. sirable that a wife should have resort to
He is always catechised as to why he has an action of this kind, and it is the ex
failed to support his wife or child, and perience of courts that it is infinitely better
the case is not exactly as my hon. friend in such cases to postpone the hearing. I

if he had told nie why he had shot his
wife. I refused to answer, on the ground
that any conversation I had with him was
as a medical man. The judge said, " you
are wrong; a medical man is bound to
relate all he knows, and more than that, a
priest or clergyman is obliged to relate
what is told him, even in the confessional."
Whatever the law may be, I knew that
common sense was against it, and I was
not afraid at all of being compelled ; but
I asked the judge on that occasion, and I
ask the hon. member from Barrie, why, if
a lawyer cannot be made to tell what his
client has said to him, the same privilege
is not extended to clergymen and doctors ?
I trust that the hon. gentleman will give
them the same privilege that the law now
grants to the lawyer.

788

Ofences Again8t [SENATE] the Person Bill.

know that the feelings of judges,
who have had such cases before them,
is to suggest that some other reference
should be made, and that the wife
and husband should not quarrel, at the
same time intimating to the husband what
his legal responsibilities are, and what
would be the consequence of a continuance
of refusing to support his wife and children.
Therefore, we need not be at all uneasy
that the judges will hastily punish the
husband unless there is such strong testimony as makes it clear that he should be
punished-having the means at his disposal
to support his wife and minor children,
and wilfully refusing to do so. For these
reasons, I would be disposed to believe
that the amendments proposed by the hon.
member from Lunenburg would remove
any objection that otherwise would be
made to the Bill.
HON. MR. POWER-The principle of
the Bill was adopted at the second reading,
I take it, and it seems to me that the
committee have agreed upon one point,
that is that the wife shall not be compellable to give evidence. I think it might
be as well to make the amendment which
has been suggested by the hon. gentleman
in charge of the Bill first, and then consider the other question as to whether the
husband should be a competent witness or
not. I agree with the hon. member from
Amherst that he should, but we might
make the amendment that we all agree to
first.

The amendment was adopted.
HON. MR. GOWAN-Having heard
what my hon. friends on the other side
have said, I must say I do not think that
I would be justified in resisting the proposition made by my bon. friend from
Lunenburg, that some testimony in corroboration of the wife's should be heard,
but beyond that I do not feel disposed to
go. I think it would be unwise to allow
the husband to be admitted as a witness
in the matter, and I think it would be
opening the door to a very objectionable
practice. My bon. friend, the junior
member from Halifax (Mr. Almon) seems
to consider that members of the profession
to which I belong are utterly incapable of
forming any judgment whatever with resHON. MR

SCOTT.

pect to the matters on which he touched ;
that we have no opportunities of doing so,
and that we are incapable, in fact, of
forming an opinion upon them had we
such opportunities.
No doubt he is
thinking that as certain trades render men
liable to certain diseases so a certain
course of life renders men liable to fall into wrong impressions on various subjects;
but with respect to the profession to which
I have the honor to belong, I beg to inform him that he is quite mistaken.
Lawyers have very nearly, if not quite, as
good opportunities of forming a judgment
as medical men. The hon. gentleman bas
constantly referred to matters touching
members of the profession, and perhaps
he bas not quite studied some of the peculiarities of his own profession-an honorable profession of which, I believe, he is a
distinguished member-but they occasionally fall into errors like other men. Now,
I know as a fact, from reading and from
my own observation, that they form certain theories-they receive a little light and
get enamoured of their own conception;
they form theories and generalize them
and apply them to every case. I remember, it is not long ago, that a physician
pronounced every disease which came
under his notice was suppressed gout. If
a man had a pain in his elbow it was suppressed gout ; if a man had a boil on his
back itwas suppressedgout. Myhon. friend
the junior imember from Halifax, is not
exactly, perhaps, in favor of that view, that
suppressed gout applies to every case, but
he is quite a believer of the view that suppressed Scott Act applies to every Bil.
His remarks to-day, and on the motion
for the second reading of this Bill, pointed to the Scott Act, so, really, he bas a certain moral disease-I say it with all respect-which is suppressed Scott Act.
HON. MR. ALMON-I wish it were
suppressed.
HoN. MR. GOWAN-I should like to
hear the amendment, if the bon. member
from Lunenburg will kindly formulate it.
HON MR. KAULBACH-I move that
the following be added to the end of the
clause, " In all such prosecutions, the
evidence of the wife alone shall not be
sufficient as against ber husband."

(fences Against [APRIL 29, 1885] t/e Per8on Bil.
HON. MR.

GOWAN-I accept that.

HON. MR. POWER - Before that
amendment is moved, I propose another
which would render that unnecessary if it
carried. The section of the Act of 1869,
which my hon. friend proposes to
amend, provides that whoever, being
legally liable to provide for any person,
wife. child, &c., necessary food, clothing
or lodging, and without any lawful excuse,
refuses or neglects to provide the same,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, &c.
Now, hon. gentlemen will see that the
offence set out here is not in the nature of
what is commonly regarded as a crime ; it
is simply the neglect of the husband to
perform a duty which, as a husband, he is
bound to perform ; and it is really, as I
said when the Bill was at its second reading, to all intents and purposes, a civil action
to compel the husband to do this, and, in
addition, to punish him for not doing it.
Where the husband and wife fall out, and
their relations become such that the wife
brings a criminal prosecution against her
husband for not providing for herself and
her children, the woman must have lost the
feelings which ordinarily actuate wives towards their husbands, and, instead, probably feelings of bitter hostility fill her mind
and her heart, I think that the wife
in such cases is very likely to be an
exceedingly unscrupulous witness. Now,
here is the husband accused of having neglected to supply the necessaries of life for his wife.
It may be
simply that he and she have had
a quarrel and she is very angry and bound
to make him suffer. She comes into
court and tells her story under oath. If
you allow her to tell her side of the story,
the husband should be allowed to come
in and tell hibs. I think that is a perfectly
fair and reasonable proposition. Where a
man is charged with adultery his evidence
is admitted, and I think that as this is a
case of failure to discharge his duty as a
husband in another way, his evidence
should be admitted also, as it is in the
other case. I propose by this amendment
to strike out all the words after " child "
in the ioth line, and insert the following
instead : " the accused and his wife shall
be competent to give evidence either for
or against the accused."

789ý

HON. MR. KAULBACH-My hon.
friend will see that by the amendment
which I have proposed the evidence of
the wife will not alone be sufficient.
That will accomplish what he wants by his
amendment. There must be other evidence besides that of the wife, and, really,
if the facts are I said before, that the
husband is such a brute as to refuse to
supply his wifeHON. MR. POWER-My hon. friend
has prejudged the case, as a jury might
do. They make up their minds that the
husband is a brute before they have heard
his story, and that is why I think he should
be allowed to state his case.

HoN. MR. KAULBACH-They come
to the conclusion from evidence in addition
to the statement of the wife. I should be
sorry to go any further to allow the defendant in a prosecution to give evidence. I
think it is dangerous legislation.
TION. MR. DICKEY-I am very glad to
find that the suggestion which I made
to the hon. member in charge of this Bill has
been received by him in a proper spirit.
My object, equally with his, is to secure
good legislation. The only Act that has
been referred to which has made an exception to the rule I have mentioned is
the 43 Vic., which applies to cases of
common assault and battery. In such
cases you allow the wife to be a witness
for the husband and the husband to be a
witness for himself, but there is nothing
said about the wife being a witness against
her husband. Now, as far as that goes, I
stated the only ground upon which it
could be allowed, as I thought, was from
the necessity of the case. If, ex necessitate,
that provision is required that the wife
shall be allowed to be a witness against
her husband with regard to this matter
for not providing food and clothing,
let it be so. For my own part, I
am willing to give way on that point if the
hon. gentleman will put the two parties on
the same footing-in the same position that
they occupy in the Act 43 Vic. That is all I
ask,and Ihave not asyetheard asinglereason
whythe husbandshould beplaced in a worse
position than the wife. It is quite true,
as the hon. member from Lunenburg explained, that his amendment does, to a

790

Temperance Act, &c.,

[SEI ATE] Amendment Bil.

certain extent, meet the difficulty, because
it requires corroborative evidence, but at
the same time my hon. friend will see
that the mouth of the husband is shut by
this Bill. He allows the wife to tell her
story, but will not allow the husband.
There is no fair play in that, and there is
no reason why we should not legislate in
exactly the same lines as we did on assault and battery, and allow both parties
to tell their stories. I really do not see
why that should not be done. If my hon.
friend will take that course I for one shall
be perfectly willing to abandon the objection I have to the wife giving evidence
against her husband. That is met by the
amendment of my hon. friend from Lunenburg, but the husband should be put,
as a witness, on exactly the same footing
as the wife.
HON. MR.

GOWAN-I must say that

I think the amendment moved by my
hon. friend from Lunenburg completely
meets the whole case, and I should be
unwilling to allow the entering wedge of
permitting a party liable to be indicted
for a misdemeanor-because it is a misdemeanor by the statute for which he is
liable to three years imprisonment-to
give evidence on his own behalf. It is
true there is a distinction between this
and other cases, the charge being one of
omission and not of commission, but still
the principle is the same, and the same
rule which would apply to one case
would also apply to the other. I accept
the amendment of the hon. member from
Lunenburg, and I think it will really
cover all that is necessary to provide for
the security of a person indicted on such
a charge. He requires that the evidence
of the wife shall, in effect, be corroboratedthat no man shall be convicted on the
unsupported evidence of his wife.
The amendment to the amendment
(Mr. Power's) was declared lost, and the
original amendment was adopted.

would be better to postpone concurrence
in the report of the committee until tomorrow, in order that members may have
an opportunity of considering the Bill in
its present shape.
HON. MR. GOWAN-I move that the
amendments be taken into consideration
to-morrow.

The motion was agreed to.
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES AFFECTING ANIMALS BILL.
SECOND READING.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved

the second reading of Bill (41), " An Act
respecting Infectious or Contagius Diseases affecting Animals." He said : This
Bill is to make some changesofno very great
importance in the Act respecting contagious diseases affecting animals, amendments which have been found by experience to be desirable in the interest of the
protection of the general flocks and herds
of the country, against infectious diseases.
HON. MR. POWER-After the very
lucid and elaborate explanation of the
provisions of this Bill made by the Minister, there can be no hesitation on the part
of the House in adopting it.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
will explain it all in committee.

The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
CANADA TEMPERANCE ACT AND
LIQUOR LICENSE ACT
AMENDMENT BILL.
ORDER OF THE DAY POSTPONED.

The order of the day having been called
HON. MR. DEVER, from the commit- that the House resolve itself into a committee of the whole on Bill (92), "An Act
tee, reported the Bill as amended.
further to amend the Canada Temperance
HoN. MR. GOWAN moved concurrence Act 1878, and the Liquor License Act
in the amendments.
1883 "
HON. MR. VIDAL said: I have just
HON. MR. DICKEY-I would suggest
that as the amendments are material, it I received from our colleague, the Hon.
HON. MR.

DICKEY.

Treaties with the [APRIL 30, 1885] Indians in the N.- West. 791
Mr. Flint, whose interest in this matter
The motion was agreed to and the
we all appreciate, a request that, if possi- order of the day was discharged.
ble, the putting of the House into committee on this Bill be deferred until toThe Senate adjourned at 4.20 p.m.
morrow, and I therefore move that the
order of the day be discharged, and that
the Bill be referred to committee of the
whole to-morrow.
THE SENATE.
HON. MR. POWER-I would like to
Ottawa, Thursday, April3o th, 1885.
suggest this; that the amendments of which
I have given notice, should be moved
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
when the order of the day is called, and it o'clock.
may be there will be some discussion on
that, and after that discussion we will go
Prayers and routine proceedings.
into committee on the Bill, and the hon.
gentleman from Belleville will then have
BILL INTRODUCED.
an opportunity of being present when the
Bill is being discussed in committee.
"An Act respecting the North-West
Mounted Police Force."
(Sir Alex.
THE SPEAKER-I take it for granted Campbell.)
that the calling of the order of the day
means putting the question before the TREATIES WITH THE INDIANS
House. There is no motion before the
IN THE NORTH-WEST.
House now until the order of the day is
put before the House by motion.
INQUIRY.
HON. MR. DICKEY-That has been
the usual practice, I think, to make a
motion, but really after all it is not of
much consequence. I put it to my hon.
friend whether under the circumstance of
the committee being put off, as that has
been so cordially responded to on this side
of the House, he will be ready with the
Bill, in its future stages, to have a full consideration of it. He has met us in the
same spirit from the beginning in this Bill,
and I should certainly support him in this
rmotion to postpone the order of the day
under the circumstances. I do not understand my hon friend from Halifax to
object to that at ail; he merely objects to
.the mode of proceeding.
HON. MR. ALMON-I do not think it
is wise to postpone the consideration of
the Bill. I shall be very happy to pair off
with the hon. member from Belleville, as
far as the voting is concerned.
HON. MR. VIDAL-It is not the mere
pairing off on the vote; the hon. gentleman
from Belleville wishes to address the
House, and I am afraid that my hon. friend
opposite will hardly represent him in that
respect.

HON. MR. READ rose to call the
attention of the Government to the treaties made with the Indians in the NorthWest, and ask if it is the intention to
make any further treaties of the same
nature ?
He said: I have been led to give notice
of this motion from certain discussions in
the public press of the country, in relation
to the Indians and the troubles in the
North-West. After the able address that
was delivered to us by the hon. gentleman from Winnipeg, lately, I suppose
there is not much to be said as to the
condition of the Indians ; but we must
be quite aware that our relations with the
Indians in the North-West at the present
time are engaging the public mind to a
very great extent. I was led to look into
this matter from a statement of a very
extraordinary nature that appeared in one
of the leading journals of this country, the
Toronto Globe. I thought it was not
possible that such a statement could have
been made by the gentleman to whom it
is attributed; and for fear that I should
not do him justice, I wrote to him on
Monday and have his reply. I think it is
as well to read what he is reported to
have said and then give his answer. The

792

Treaties with te

[SENATE] Indians in the I.- TVest.

gentleman is the Rev. E. R. Young, and
the statement to which I refer appears in
a report of a lecture delivered by him in
the Bloor street Methodist Church,
Toronto. Vhen we see in a paper like
the Globe, a statement purporting to have
been made in a Wesleyan Church, in
Toronto, we are likely to believe that it
was made as represented. However, I
could not conceive that it was possible
such an assertion could have been made,
and I will read for the information of the
House what Mr. Young is reported to
have said:" Those men who liad been sent out to deal
witli the Indians had tried to niake as good
a thing ont of it as possible for theiselves

he stated the number of Indians there were
in the North-West, or about the number,

Allowing that there were 33,000Indians in the
North-West, this amounted to about $30 per
head. But the Indians only received $5 per
head, and the country had been paying $25 a
head per Indian to the officials who distributed this allowance."

receive the sum of $170,749-50.

and he also knew the amount of money
the country was expending. It amounts to
$33.50 per head for each Indian man,
woman, and child that receives assistance
under the treaties.
HON. MR. DEVER-In what

Per annum ?

way

?

HON. MR. READ-Yes, $33-50 per
head is the amount paid by the country
per annum. This gentleman states in his
letter the amount of money which is expended. He has evidently taken it from
the Public Accounts, because he says the
while there.
" Within the past few years the country lias actual figures are $1,025,605.8o, and of
spent over a million dollars on the Indians. this large sum he says the Indians only

This quotation

is embodied

in

an

editorial based on the report of the lecture, published the day before. I asked
myself, can it be possible that such a
statement was made? I am well acquainted with the gentleman who is said
to have made the statement. He is a
minister of my own church, and he has
lived eight or nine years in the NorthWest. I wrote him a letter asking him if
the statement that I had seen in the report
of his speech in the Globe of Friday was
substantially correct. His reply I will
read to the House; it is as follows :" In reply, I beg leave to state that the
report of my lecture in the Globe of last
Friday is about as correct as such reports
generally are, which is not saying a great
deal. The leaving out of a great deal, and the
putting of such a sentence as that about the
Indians only getting $5 per head, and the
country paying $25 a head per Indian to those
who distribute this allowance,is very misleading."

That is all he said on that question. I
have looked into the papers since to see
if over his own signature he has denied
the statement, and I have not been able to
find that he has done so through the press.
If he did not make the statement that

was published in the Globe, I think he
ought to deny it. The rev. gentleman
knew what he was talking about, because
HoN. MR. READ.

I cannot

find there is any truth in that statement. I
cannot charge him with saying anything
more, only when people lecture in a church
where their statements cannot be confronted it is well that they should at least know
what they are talking about, especially
when they are dealing with such subjects
as this ; because if this report in the Globe
were read to the Indians in the NorthWest in their present excited state, and
they were told that the press of the country was saying that the distribution of the
Indian money cost $25 a head, while the
Indians are only getting $5, it would be
very apt to excite them, especially if there
was any truth in it. It would be well to
consider where this money goes. I think,
from everything I can gather, having taken some pains to look into this matter, it
has been rightly expended. If there was
any dereliction of duty, or if any direct
charge could be brought against any of
the officials under the Government, it
would be the duty of the Government to
investigate it at once. But these statements go abroad and people are led to
think that possibly there may be some
truth in them, unless they are denied. I
think that is a sufficient reason, if there
was nothing more, to bring this
matter before the House and the
country, because, before I am through,
I will show where this money goes and
will prove that this $1,ooo,ooo money is,
not thrown away upon officials, but that it
is honestly distributed amongst the ludians.

Treaties with the [APRIL 30, 1885] Indians in the N.- We8t. 7M
INDIAN EXPENDITURE, 1884.
Annuities.........................
$170,749 50
Agricultural Implements .........
22,172 69
Tools .............. ... ......... ..
3,589 28
Cattle
...........
15,459 75
Seed grain........................
10,786 45
Ammunition and Twine ...........
7,770 70
Provisions for use during annuity
payients ....
............
48,269 20
Provisions for destitute Indians....
499,325 50
Clothing .....
...............
4,906 50
Schools ...........................
12,133 40
Surveys...........................
19,443 09
Farm W a es......................
44,023 95
Farn Maintenance................
27,007 12
Scow ..............................
459 63
General Expenses.................
117,314 34
Commissioners, House and Office ....
10,135 67
12,018 93
Industrial Schools.................
$1,025,678 68

We have entered into seven treaties with
the Indians since we acquired the NorthWest Territories. The first was made
with the Ojibways and Swampy Crees by
Mr. Simpson, Mr. Dawson and Mr. Robt.
Pether. By that treaty each family received 16o acres of land, and the Government agreed to maintain schools, to prohibit liquor on the reserves, and to give
an annuity of $3 per head and a present
of an equal amount per year. The second
treaty was made by Mr. Simpson, Lieut.Governor Archibald and Mr. McKay.
The terms were very much the saine as in
the former one. The Indians had the
opportunity of hunting and fishing, and
they lived in a country where game
abounded.
Subsequently, after other
treaties had been made, the terms of these
two were reconsidered and amended on
the 3oth April, 1875, to conform to more
recent ones, and the annuity was increased
to $5 per head, and other things in proportion. The chief gets $25, each head
man $15, Indians $5 each, and amongst
other things schools are maintained on the
reserve. The next treaty, No. 3, is known
as the North-West Angle Treaty. The
commissioners were Governor Morris, J.
N. Provencher, and S. J. Dawson. It
was with the Ojibways, and the terms
were, a square mile for each family, a present of $12 tO each person at the signing
of the treaty, schools to be maintained on
the reserves, the sale of liquor to be prohibited, each Indian to receive $5 annually, and $r,5oo a year to be divided

amongst them in ammunition and twine,
and also tools and implements were to be
delivered, seed grain, a yoke of oxen, a

bull and four cows ; each chief received
$25 a year, each head man $15, and each
member of the tribe $5. This treaty,,
No. 3, is called the Model Treaty; the
four treaties made afterwards were of the
same character. The fourth treaty was
made with the Salteaux and Assiniboines,
on the 15 th of September, 1874, the commissioners being Governor Morris, Governor Laird and Wm. J. Christie. Each
family of five was to receive a mile square
of land, and where the family was larger than
five, the quantity was increased proportionately. The annuities paid to the
chiefs, headmen and members of the tribe
were the same as in treaty No. 3. Treaty
No. 5 was with the Salteaux and Swampy
Crees. The commissioners were Lt.-Governor Morris, Hon. James McKay and Mr.
Christie. Treaty No. 6 is the Carleton
and Pitt Treaty. This is where we have
the present difficulties. The treaty was
made in August, 1876, by Governor
Morris, Hon. George McKay and Hon.
Wm. Joseph Christie-I think he was the
agent of the Hudson Bay Company in
that locality.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,.

he was.
HON. MR. READ-By that treaty each
family of five was to have a mile square of
land, each Indian received $12 at the
signing of the treaty, schools were to be
maintained, liquor to be prohibited, and
$ 1,500 worth of useful articles to be distributed each year ; but there is nothing in
all these treaties about supplying food.
and when we come to look into it, we
will see what is the explanation of it, because a shorthand reporter was present at
the conference, and took down everything
that was said by the Indians and the commissioners. This treaty was with the
Plains and Woods Crees and some of the
Stony tribes. The last treaty, No. 7, was
made on the 22nd of September, 1877,
the commissioners being Governor Laird
and J. F. McLeod. It was made with
the Blackfeet, the Piegans, the Sarcees
and other tribes close to the international
boundary, and near the Rocky Mountains,
They were to have a mile square of Land
for each family of five, $12 each at the
signing of the treaty, $25 for each chief
per annum, $15 for each head man, and

794A

Treatie8 with the [SE NATE 1 Indian8 in Me N. We8t.

$5 for every other member of the tribe.
They were to be supplied with other articles in the same manner as the Indians
under the other treaties.

were made to give them more where
ranching could be carried on, and less
stock in parts of the country not so well
suited for cattle raising ; but each band
received a yoke of oxen, a bull and three
HON. MR. O'DONOHOE-How much or four cows, etc. I think that is one of
tobacco constitutes a present-how many the reasons why the expenditures a year
or two ago were more than they are now.
*pounds?
I have looked through the accounts and
HON. MR. READ-I have not the in- it appears to me they are all regular. If
formation as regards the present of tobacco the money has gone in an improper manat all.
I have read over all the reports ner there is no evidence of it. Everything
of the treaties and the public accounts, is expensive in that country,.no doubt, but
and I do not see anything that will give still the system that the Government have
inaugurated is one that any business man
me that information.
Now, what are we doing ? Are we would have adopted, and if there was anycarrying out our agreements with the thing wrong it would soon be found out.
Indians ? From the Public Accounts, and The Government get most of their supplies
from all the information I can get, we are by contract. Advertisements are published
doing so to a much greater extent than in the press throughout the country calling
ever was expected-certainly to a greater for tenders, and there is a great deal of
Every one knows how
extent than the terms of the treaties competition.
demand. At the present time, and for anxious people are to deal with the Govsome years, we have been spending ernment, because if the prices are at all
about a million dollars annually. It was reasonable, the money being certain the
not quite so much five or six years ago, contract is generally profitable. The conand I think it was a little more than a tractor delivers his supplies to the Indian
million, a year or so ago. At all events, agents, at the different. agencies. The
it is now $1,025,ooo.
How has that receipt of the agent is taken in each case,
money been expended? The Indians upon which the contractor receives his
pay. After that, each agent distributes to
are distributed as follows:the different farm instructors in his agenTreaty No chiefs. Headnen.
Indians.
cy, and each farm instructor has to give
1
9
33
3,323
a receipt for everything he gets, and has
2
6
25
864
to show what becomes of the supplies. I
3
29
83
2,493
think that is a sufficient check. I cannot
4
35
96
5,614
conceive why, if anything should go wrong,
5
Io
27
3,118
it would be anywhere but with the farm
6
39
135
7,983
instructor who lives amongst the Indians.
6,616
46
9
7
If he has pork and flour, and other supplies to sell it will soon be found
30,011
448
137
out. The Indians would see it. His
In all 30,01 i that received $5 per accounts have to be correct, and he
head; 448 headmen, who received $15 is the only man who is responsible for
each; and 137 chiefs, who received $25 their accuracy. I doubt if there is much
each per annum. Each chief every three dishonesty. The farm instructor may use
years had a suit of clothes given hirn. I some of the supplies ; but he cannot sell
do not know whether the headmen get them, and I do not see how the accounts
clothing in the saine way.
can go far astray. But, besides that, there
The industrial schools, I may say, are is a rigid inspection every year. The acfor the instruction of Indian boys, and counts are inspected and checked, and
others who wish to learn trades, such as they have to correspond as regularly as
blacksmithing, shoemaking, carpentering, any merchant's books must balance, and
&c., which will enable them to earn their if there is anything wrong it is rectified at
living. Many of the articles which the once. That, I think, is a sufficient guarIndians receive are specified in the treaties, antee to the country that at least the food
such as oxen and cows, and our agreements is distributed properly, and in a businessHON. MR. READ.

Ireatie8 with the [APRIL 30, 1885.] Indians in the 1.-West. 795
like manner. We cannot say that two
thousand miles from here nothing is
wrong, but every precaution is evidently
taken that food and supplies are distributed properly. If the farm instructor
does not do so, the starving Indians, see-

ing him in possession of supplies of pork
and four, would soon take steps to have
their grievances redressed.
I do not
know that more precaution could be
taken. We see things hinted at here and
there, but why do not people make a
specific charge ?

I was in conversation

last year with a gentleman, in the Russell
House, who travels a great deal, a very
important man in this country, who knows
what he is talking about. He told me a
great many stories-that he had seen pork
at Fort McLeod that was rotten, and was
not fit for use.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-That was
last September ?

HoN. MR. READ-Yes; that he had
seen rotten pork, diseased pork, and everything of that sort. I did not ask him then
where it was, but to-day I met him on the
street, and he said to me very jocularly
"this is the gentleman who thinks the
Indians are not cheated." I said, " I do
not know; I have yet to have evidence of
it. Can you tell me where you saw food
issued to the Indians that was not fit for
use?" He said "Yes." I asked "Where?"
He said "Fort McLeod." I asked "When?"
He said " Last September." That was a
plain statement. I made it my business
then to eiquire about it-in fact I went
to the office-and I have a letter here from
the Inspector which it will be well to read.
The Inspector said that "there is a rigid
inspection of the food every year; I have
heard nothing about this case, but this is
a specific charge, giving a specific time
and a specific place, and I will make enquiries." He did so and the result he gives
in this letter :OTTAWA, 30th April, 1885.
Si,-Referring to that portion of my an-

,nual report, at page 143 of the printed Report

*of the Department of Indian Affairs for 1884,
I have the honor to state that I inspected the

several agencies in Treaty No. 7, in July and
A&ugust 1884, and that I found all the provi-

sions

on hand of excellent quality. The bacon

ýon hand at Fort MacLeod, and at the Black

foot Crossing, is a portion of 120,000 lbs. delivered under contract in November, 1883.
I happened to be in Treaty No. 7 when the
bacon was being delivered, and am able to
say, positively, that it was of as fine a quality
of clear side bacon as it was possible to furnish-in fact it was of the very best quality.
Up to the date uf my last inspection, it had
not appreciably deteriorated in quality, a fact
of which I satisfied myselif but cutting into
every tenth side inspected, finding the meat
firin and the fat sweet and white.
The condition of the bacon in question was
found to be the same at all the points in
treaty 7, where it was stored.
I am also able to state froin personal knowledge that all the beef supplied to the Indians
of that Treaty is of excellent quality, the animais killed being fat steers ot from three to
seven years old.
(Signed)
T. P. WADSWORTH,
Inspector of Indian Agencies,
N. W. T.
L. VANKOUGHNET, Esq.,
Deputy Minister of Indian Affairs.
That, I think, disposes of thosebold statements that people make. There is nothing like pinning them right down when we
find them. The people know that they
are expending a large amount for those
Indians; they expend it willingly, and
when statements like this are made-that
the Canadian people provide the means
to supply the Indians with food, which
the officers appointed to distribute it
amongst them turn to their own use,

while the Indians are starving, and that is
the cause of this uprising-it should not
go uncontradicted, if it is untrue.

While

it is generally supposed that the Indians
are not very sharp in making their bargains, it will be seen that in all those treaties

they made very large demands on the
Commissioners, and asked that they
should be fed. It is evident that Chief
Beardy has been a troublesome Indian
from the commencement. The year before this treaty was made with them, the
Rev. George Macdougal was requested
by the Government to visit all the tribes
and notify them that the following year a
treaty would be made with them for their
lands. He had been a missionary among
the Indians for several years, and was
frozen to death on the plains the year
He notified all the
after this treaty.
Indians in the North-West that the Commissioners would be there the following
year, to make a treaty with them. When
they came near the Duck Lake district,

796

Treaties with the (SENATE]

Indian8 in Me N.- We8t.

been spending half a million of dollars annually for food, and that food is distributed in this manner :-There are certain reserves where pork is distributed, and other
reserves where beef is given. The
latter are in the ranche country,
to the south west where they have been
in the habit of using beef or buffalo meat
altogether, and there the Indians are fed
with beef. There has been some little
trouble about sonie pork having been sent
there. The Indians for a time did not
"I sent a messenger, Mr. Peter Ballenden, like the pork; but they want a ration of

Chief Beardy was very troublesome. The
Commissioners had appointed Carlton
as the place at which the treaty would be
made, but Beardy pointed out another
place; he said he had a vision that the
treaty was to be made on such a hill,
and not at Carlton. The Commissioners
did not approve of it, and went on to
Carlton, and he did not attend at the
treaty. Then the Commissioners sent a
messenger to him, and he states the circumstance as follows:-

to Duck Lake, to inform the Indians that I pork once a week now. There was some
would meet thein at the encampment of the little jarring at that ture, but since it was
Carlton Crees, about two miles from the
Fort. On the 17th, on his return, lie informed me that the Chief said, "lie had not them beef Tley give each Indian a
given me leave to nieet the Indians anywhere pound of beef a day, and haif a pound of
except at Duck Lake, and that they would four under Treaty NO. 7, for every man,
only neet mie there."
wo an a d child. Lt is issued three times
Beardy did cope in, I believe, fln- a week. The syste is to give the food
aly, and joined in the treaty, but le
liasto the aged and infirme and the widows
been a troublesome Indian, When the and orphans regularly-all those who cantelegrapl people were going through that fot help the
y-,elves. the Indian that
But
country he unloaded their carts and tItrew wili fot do anytlng on his own land, or
their stuf away, and the Governent had do anything to support hinself and bis
to pay the contractors some $6oo for family, the farm instructor is directed
damages. He has always been trouble- fot to give hum rations. If the Indian
soie. It is as well to read a little from works on bis own land, and does sorethe report of what was said at that treaty. thing towards earning bis own living, then
They asked that food should be given to he receives his rations for hirself and bis
family the sane as the others in the tribe.
them. The report says :" A spokesrnan, the Pond Maker, then ad- Those are the instructions to farm instrucdressed nie, and asked assistance when they tors, and 1 cannot tell you how tley are
settled on the land, and further help as they carried out The instructions seem to be
advanced in civilization. I replied that they
a
had their own means of living, and that we
could not feed the Indians, but only assist cause for this rising. The Indian is given
them to settle down. The Badger, Soh-ah- oxen and a plougl, and seed grain and
moos, and several other Indians all asked implerents and cows, and he bas bis land

help when they settled, and also in case of un- to work, and if le wilI only do sorething
forseen troubles in the future. I explained
that we could not assume the charge of their towards earning bis own living and cultieveryday life, but in a tinie or a great national vating the sou, le gets bis rations regucalamity they could trust to the generosity of larly. The Indians in the Edmonton and
the Queen."
Fort Pitt district get a pound of four per
In all the correspondence there never day and one-third of a pound of pork for
were any hopes held out to them that eacb man, woman and cbild. Tbat seems
they were to be fed. There was a short- to be a very fair ration wlen it includes
hand reporter there, and everything was every littie papoose. This bacon tbat is.
taken down that was said. And in no distributed is ail meat and no bone, and I
part of the report will it be found that the think that amount of food is quite suffici-

Commissioner held out to the Indians any
hope that they were to be fed by the
Government. Now, what are we doing?
In addition to giving them farm implements and instructors, and furnishing
them with seed and industrial schools
and cattie and ail tbose things, we bave
HON. MR. READ.

Cnt for the Indians to subsist on. That.
is tbe condition of affairs, and we cannot
conceive that there is any real cause for
this uprising. No doubt the Indians have
been misled. We cannt divest ourselves.
of the idea that tley are chidren to a
certain extent; that tley are easily led

Treatie8 wtth the [APRIL, 30 1885] Indians in the N.- West. 797
away, that they have not the foresight that
other people have to provide for the
future. The British Government have
always, since they have had anything to do
with the Indians of this country, made it
part of their policy to take care of them
and to protect them, and up to the present
time we do not know of any difficulty
that has arisen under that poicy. We
find them in the war of 1812 fighting side
by side with the whites against the enemies
of England, and up to the present time I
do not think we have had any difficulty
with them, and would not to-day if they
had not been badly advised. I hope the
time will soon arrive when they will peaceably take to their reserves and devote
themselves to the cultivation of their
lands and try to support themselves.
It is a serious question what we are to do
with the Indians, and it is one that has to
be met by Parliament. I do not advocate
feeding men who are not willing to do
anything for themselves-able-bodied men
who could work if they wished to do so.
The Rev. Mr. Young, who has been referred to, has lived amongst the Indians
for a number of years, and he advises that
they should be all moved to the north, towards the Beren's River. I should like to
see the Government try to drive those
people to the north-to drive them away
from where they were born and brought
up, and their fathers before them ! If they
were driven north, I do not think they
could be kept there very long. Mr. Young
says 200 policemen would be able to take
care of them if they were all put together
in the north. However, I think they will
find it a difficult matter to keep them
there; they would be like a flock of sheep.
When one would break out the rest would
follow. In the spring of the year the farm
instructors are authorized to give the
Indians who will work on their land tobacco and tea. That is a present to encourage them to provide for themselves. It
might be well perhaps for hon. gentlemen to
hear what is the cost of this food that is
provided in the different localities. It is
no secret, but many would be surprised
to learn how expensive it is :
TREATY NO.

Birtle .H..
Indian Hiead ..

4.

Flour. Beef. Bacon.
.16c.
.04c.
4tt
.02r8

.r4y/2

TREATY NO. 6.

Prince Albert. .
Carlton .......
Battleford . . . . .
Pitt ..........
Snake Hills ....
Edmonton ....

Peace Hills....

.03
.03y2

.18
.0534

.184

.o4%

.18Y

2
.o6 /,,

.06/4

.18y

.o6%

TREATY NO.

Blood Reserve.. . .
Piegan Reserve. ..
Blackfoot Reserve.
Sarcee Reserve. . .

-17/
174

.04X/c.
.03/8

7.
i.
.118
.12

/c.

.151/10
.151/10
.141/10

.149/,
Those seem to be very high prices, but
everything in that country is expensive,
and has to be paid for at high prices. No
doubt, in the near future, this will be
changed as the country is settled and
farm produce becomes more plentiful and
the Indians raise more produce of their
own, and the Government will be able to
give them more food for the same amount
of money. I have often wondered why it
is that in the North-West country, where
grain is so plentiful and so cheap, the
farmers have not taken to raising pork
more than they have done. However,
they manage their own business, and I
cannot manage it for them. This Indian
question is of vast importance now, and if
I have detained the House a little by my
remarks I hope hon. gentlemen will excuse
me. It is desirable to have the information which is the subject of my inquiry, and
I will conclude by asking the Government
whether they intend to make any more
treaties in the North-West of the same
nature as those which have been made up
to the present time ?
.o3ý/4

HON. MR. OGILVIE-Before anything
further is said, I would like to confirm a
great many of the statements of the hon.
member from Belleville. There was a
difficulty about bacon and pork at the
Blood reserve just about the time I was
there, in August. I then saw good bacon,
meat that any of us would be glad to have
on our tables, distributed to the Indians,
and I have seen the Indian chiefs look at
it and pitch it contemptuously away from
them, saying, " no good, no good."

HON. MR. KAULBACH-Where was
that ?

198

Treaties with the

[SENATE]

HON. MR. OGILVIE-That was on
the Blood Reserve. I have seen the beef
distributed to them, and if there was anything wrong with the smallest piece of it,
they would not take it, and they acted
very badly indeed. They get good provisions, and from what I. saw while out
there of the agents who are doing the
work, they did it well and honestly. They
had a kind of stockade built, to which the
Indians had access through a narrow passage way, made with heavy posts, through
which one man could go at a time. They
tried to get me to go in through it, but I
could not ; it was too narrow, and the Indians laughed at me. The beef is cut in
pieces, weighed, and given'out to the
Indians, and they take it away with them.
They get first-rate rations indeed, and are
treated a great deal better than most of
our laboring men in this part of the
country.

HoN. MR. MACDONALD (B. C.)The trouble is they are fed too well.
HON. MR. OGILVIE-I have been on
several of the reserves myself, and from
what I have seen I have come to the
conclusion, that, if they had not been
treated so well as they have been, we
would not have so much trouble from
them to-day. The hon. member from
Belleville spoke of Fort McLeod Indians.
Those we saw about Fort McLeod were
few in number, and they had just as good
rations there as the Mounted Police had
-nothing could be better. In my opinion, this rebellion has originated in a desire to get possession of the country.
The Indians have been led to believe,
and I have known it for months, that if
they can once get possession of it again,
they can hold it forever.

Indians in the N.- WVest.

good he possibly could, and I do not believe that he is a man who would make a
statement at variance with the truth. I
think, in whatever statements he has.
made, he has been influenced by a desire
to do what is right, and I hold in my hand
a letter of his, which is published in the

Methodist Magazine, of Toronto, for May.
With the permission of the House I should
like to read it. I think it is no more than

fair to the rev. gentleman that he should
be put in a right position. I do not believe in the Globe myself. I do not believe much of anything I see in its
columns. Its object seerns to be to do all
the damage it can to the present Government, by publishing articles that will have
a bad effect upon them. This letter by
the Rev. Mr. Young, is as follows " The Indian question has suddenly come
to the front, and, as is quite natural, a large

number of persons are enierging from the obscurity where they had, according to their
own imagination, been reading the ' igns of
the times,' and with their '1 told you so,'
and 'I had long foreseen this," and 'the
Government ought to have done this,' or ' it

ought not to have done that,' are adding to

the agony of the occasion, and making matters
more mixed and confusing to a long-sufferinfg,.
patient reading ublic, who patriotically wade
througb their effusgions.
cIt is shid that the author of ' Life on the
Ocean Wave,' never went to sea, and that he
who wrote ' Do they miss me at home ?' never
left home. So the less some people know

about a thing the more assurance with which.
they write about it.

"At the earnest request of the editor, I addi
my share to this generous dish of Olla Podrida, not that I profess to know more than what
bas been written, but from the fact of having:
been within a few hundred miles of the scene
ofconflict, and having had apartial acquaintance with some of the notorious charactere,
that have lately sprung into an unen viable prominence, I have had the honour conferredi
upon me.
" As Canadians, we have, most assuredly,.
received a rude shock by these stirring events
which are transpiring in our own Dominion.
Our vanity is wounded, our record tarnished,,
and we, Britons, who on Yankee platforms
and in the press used to wax eloquent, in our
own eyes, as we with much assurance contrasted, always to our own advantage, the
methods of treatment pursued in reference to,
the Indians by the two nations, seem to have
reached a period in our national history when,
we can sit down and ruminate on the proverb
that they who live in glass bouses should not
throw 8tones.
" But is it not humiliating that these things

HON. MR. FLINT-I have been acquainted with the rev. gentleman who has
been accused of making the statement
which appeared in the Globe, from his
boyhood, and I know him almost as well
as I know anyone. I believe him to be a
man of honor and integrity, and I know
that he must have made a great sacrifice
when he gave up a comfortable home to
go into the North-West country amongst
the Indians, where he remained eight or
nine years, endeavoring to do them all the should be ? that with a past record so honour-

Treaties with the [APRIL 30, 1885] Indians in Me N.- West. 7991
able and satisfactory, we should have this rude
awakening, and be obliged tu open our eves to
the startling fact that we are really engaged
in a war of no mean dimensions with hal
breeds and Indians ; and that it should occur
now, when nearly everybody was of the opinion that satisfactory treaties had been made
with the Indian tribes, and that the clainis of
the half breeds had been met by a liberal
issue of scrip, makes it the more extraordinary.
" If it had occurred years ago, when these
now feeble tribes were mighty and could
mYuster their thousands of proud free warriors,
who revelled with delight n the very thought
of war and carnage, we might have partially
understood it ; but in those days ail who
visited any of those tribes, no matter whether
north or south of the boundary line, if they
came with the proud distinction of beine
British subjects, were always received as
trusted brothers, and were ever assured of a
very cordial welcome.
" Now our hearte are saddened by the sickening details of precious lives lost, fair homes
destroyed, and a spirit of unrest and disquiettude aroused that will not subside for years.
" Many are anxiously asking, was there
sufficient cause for this unhappy state of
things; if so, what was it, and what is the
remedy ?
.4" First, then, as to there having been sufficient excuse for this uprising and defiance of
law, we most emphatically say, no.
"There have been no grievances mentioned,
even by the most bitter and rebellions of the
Metis, tojustify them in the lengths they have
gone, and for the valuable lives they have
taken, and for the injury they have inflicted
on the country.
"For a long tiie, however, there have
influences at work which have made thisbeen
uprisin.g which is really a conflict of races,
a
possi ility. Many of these French half-breeds
inherited both the traditions and feelings of
the past. They well knew that there was a
tine when their French ancestors were the
rulers from Quebec to the Mississippi. Some
of their forefathers, with the humiliations
following the English victory on the Plains of
Abraham, and the subsequent surrender of
Quebec, and then of the whole of Canada,
hurried away into the vast wilderness, had
and
there amidet the excitement of almost savage
life had kept alive in the hearts and menories
of their children and grandchildren, as the
years roled by, the story of their fears
datred of that race, which had made the and
de-Lis of France go down before the Red FleurCross
of England. Living under the semi-patriarchia rule of the Hudson Bay Compny,
whose requirements were few, and making
their living more by hunting
and trapping
than by farming, they kept themselves aloof,
except for purposes of trade, from the Scotch
half-breeds and others speaking the Englieh
langua e, and were much more French than
English in their prejudices and feelings.
" Withjealous eyes, and bitter feelings, they

watched the incoming waves of Anglo-Saxon
civilization. They chafed and fretted, and
then with Riel-the dreamer, the egotist, the
coward-they made thatdes perate attempt in
1869 and 1870

to retain their supremacy,

which has become a matter of history. Into
those events we cannot here enter, but vividly
burned into memory's tablet are some of the
scenes and incidents of those days, when the
dear 'Old Flag' was for a time in the dust,
and when the snow in front of the old Fort
Garry was crimsoned with the life-blood ofScott, a moral, honest, temperate young man,
a communicant of the Presbyterian Church,.
who was foully murdered for his outspoken.
loyalty, and for his contempt of the man who.
had dared to dishonor the flag he loved so.
well.

" With the half-breeds of Manitoba, the

Government dealt most honorably and lib-

erally. Hundreds of thousands of acres of
good land, most advantageously situated,

were allowed them; and in addition, scrip,
which was a kind of a deed for much more,
was granted them.
They threw the scrip.
upon the market, which was almost glutted'
with it for a time. Soon after the opening of
the country, when emigrants began pouring
in, the restless spirit of the Metis manifested
itself, and many of them, getting rid of both
their scrip and farms, left their province and
wended their way to the distant Saskatchewan and other places, where many of theirclass had gone before.
Now, instigated by
Riel, and soured by their straightened circumstances, the direct resuit of their own
improvidence, they are found in open rebellion; and with arms in their hands, on,
ground stained with innocent loyal blood, are
demanding theirrights. The demand is preposterous in the extreme.
It is still an open,
question requiring
candid consideration,
whether or not those who can prove that
they have not been sharers in the Manitoba
allottment, but have been and are settlers in
those western settlements, have any just
claims or rights beyond what they nowenjoy. Common justice says: ' Give them,
the patents or deeds to the farms on which,

as bonafide settlers, they reside-but we fail

to see that they have claims beyond thiswhich may not be as juetly demanded by all
loyal emigrants going in as settlers, be they
English, Irish or Scotch.

" But the great cause of the present trouble is the scarcity of meat since the destruction of the great buffalo herds. Both Indians
and half-breeds well know that the extinction.
of these animals is due to the coming of the
white man, with hi@ superior fire-arms, and
hi. wanton slaughter for the mere excitement
of the chase, and also hie greed for the pro.
fits on the sale of the robes.
" The buffalo was ever regarded by the
Indians as the special gift of the Kiche
Maneto, the Great Spirit. His nutritious
flesh furnished the best of food ; hie hides
gave them their tente, bedding, clothing and
moccasins; the sinews were eaeily made into

800

Treatie8 with the [SENATE] Indians in the N.- West.

the strongest of thread.
With plenty of
buffalo, they hardly needed anything else.
Travellers who visited those broad prairies
years ago have gi ven as glowing descriptions of
the vast herds that then roaned over those
fertile regions; literally, the cattle upon a
thousand bills. Strict laws, very similar to
our present game laws, were rigidly enforced
by the Indians to prevent the unnecessary
sIaughter of these useful .animals. Spears
and bows and arrows were the only weapons
with which they hunted them. But this is
ail changed. The pale face has come, and in
his mad frenzy to kill he bas ignored ail the
wise laws for their preservation, and so the
wholesale slaughter bas gone on until now
the buffalo is, or very soon will be, classed
among the extinct animais. A few years ago
as many as 160,000 were slaughtered for the
robes alone. When killed in the fall of the
year for meat, their robes are about worthless,
ut during the winter when they are in prime
condition as the robes of commerce, the flesh
is poor and bard. The result is there was a
double slaughter, to obtain meat and to obtain
robes.
"l it any wonder that under such wholesale slaughter, those plains that once teemed
with plenty, should now be so devoid of life;
and that the half-breedsorIndians should, from
theirpresent balf-starved condition, wish they
could see those days return again ? I remember once, when conversing with the late honored Rev.George McDougall on the expensiveness of getting in supplies to my northern
mission, hearng him say that the matter of
obtaining provisions for his own, and son's
families, the previous fall, was a very simple
affair. He said that he and one of his sons,
with their pockets full of bullets, with their
powder horns on their necks, and with their
guns in their hands, bad mounted their welltrained buffalo runners, and during the
afternoon's sport had killed fourteen fa
buffalo cows, which furnished them with
abundance of fresh meat ail through the
winter.
" The great yearly event in the life of the
half-breeds was the great fall hunt of the
the buffalo. When their little crops were
eecured, like a great millitary procession they
wended their way westward towards the vast
feeding grounds of these animals. Wives and
children followed afterin thequaint, cspacious,,
ungreased, and consequently noisv, vehicles,
known as the Red River carte. Rundreds of
buffalo used to be killed, and thousands of
pounds of dried meat and pemican, and tallow
and hides would be secured. This, with the
produce of their little farine, aith9ugh they
made miserabl e farmers, gave them abundance
of food.
" So vast was the quantity of meat secured,
that great portions of it were sold for a trifle.
The Indian tribes, who lived in the outside
forest regions, where the buffalo roaimed not,
when their: fisheries or deer huntinge were
poor, could get al ths -buffalo meat they
wanted at cheap rates in exchange for their
HON. MR. FLINT.

fyrs. Now, ail this is changed. With
bungry looks, and gauit forms, we have
heard thern talk of those bygone times, and
mourn over the present state of things. From
our standpoint. of course, we could see that
these thingS were inevitable, that as the
Anglo Saxon wave of civilization rolled westward those fertile prairies were too valuable
to be kept as mere buffalo preserves. But
many of these half-breeds and Indians do not
thus see it, and hence their bitterness and
discontent. Hungry men are naturally apt
to be unreasonable and quarrelsome. True,
we have made arrangements and treaties with
theni, but the most advantageons treaties do
not give them a tithe of what they once had.
What is five doilars a head, with a little
twine and ainnunition and a few rations, per
annum on their now desolate prairies, compared with what they had in those days when
the thunder of the tread of the vast herds of
buffalo constantly sounded in their ears.
" There is no use disguising the fact, tha
these people are in a wretched, half-starved
condition. The transition has been too sudden, the old life was too deeply ingrained to be
forgotten in a year, or even adecade. Placed
on their reserves or settiements, they have
never felt contended, and it will take Iong
years and much patience and firnness in deafin with them.
" If there is one thing more important than
another, it must be the selection of the men
who represent our Government among thei.
What ever else is done, let us not introduce
the American system ofgiving some political
hack an Indian agency, in order that he may
be recouped for some service rendered to his
party. Already there are facts that have
come to light that are humiliating. What
seems very much like Texas steers have been
furniehed where well-broken plough oxen
were promised. Miserable ploughs and basewood whipple-trees were sent in to one large
reserve. What would be rejected' by some
people as chicken-feed was sent to one place
for seed wheat. True, these and other things
were done by sub-agents; but the fact that
they could be done at ail shows that our
methods need overhauling."
HON. MR. READ-Those oxen that
were sent in were refused, and others
were sent in to take their place.
HON. MR. SCOTT-How does the
hon. gentleman know ?
HON. MR. READ-I know from infor-

mation received at the Department.
HON. MR. FLINT-My object is not
to say whether they were or were not, but
merely to give the reverend gentleman's
lerter as it iW,
and'tô let!the House see it
for themselves, and decide whether the

2reatie8 with the [APRIL 30, 1885.] Indians in the N.- West. 801
reverend gentleman is as much to blame
as the Globe newspaper would represent
him to be in making a statement which
does not appear in this letter, and, I think,
in this at all events, his views are more
likely to be correctly represented. The
letter continues :-of
" My article is already too long, or I would
endeavor to show how I think our whole
systeni of reserves is, a failure, and a great
mistake. My theory is the formation"o a
large Indian province north and east of Lake
Winnipeg, in which all our Indians could be
more advantageously placed, both for their
own happiness and welfare, and for the future
progress and safety of the great prairie regions, which we hope to see yet filled with
millions of people, who will till the Poil and
live happy and contented on its resources,
and now is the time to promptly attend to it.
The uprising of the Indians has destroyed
the confidence of the whites. They can
never again live in peace and contentment with the Indian. Reserves, as they
now are, acattered all throngh the white
settlements. ' Heroic treatment' must be
the order of the day, if we expect settlers to
corne in after what lias occurred. The strong
arin of the law mnust punish the half-breeds ;

question to the Fouse. 1 thought when
he took his seat that there would be no
other speeches on the subject. I feit that
I could add very littie to what he had
said, except to endorse the greater part of
i. I suppose it neyer entered the head
any one in this House that the Government, after raking treaties with the Indians, had failed to carry out their part of
the agreement. The hon. member from
Quint said nothing more, but merely
tried to show from the blue books and
public accounts that the Government had
done their duty, but the hon. member for
Aima has been, on this occasion, a littie
too zealous. I regret that this discussion
capable of arriving at a correct conclusion
upon it than a blind man would be to
judge of colors. We are ignorant of
nounce the rebels, although no one
in this Parliament can say why they
are in arms. They put other gentlemen

in this flouse in this position, that knowing
something more on the subject, they are
to deny the assertions which are
made, and then the trouble begins. I
think it wouid be niuch better to let those
questions rest for the present, until Parliament is in possession of the whole of the
facts. Surely, we have a right to expect
that a majority in Parliament will prefer
the public good to personal prejudice, and
if it be found that the Government have
done wrofg, I ar sure a majority of the
Fouse will be ready to condemn them.
If it shouid be proved by public documents
that the rebels are not as wantonly mischievous as sore represent them to be, I
hope that there are men who are conscientious -nough to admit that these unfortunate people are not such wretches as some
believe then to be. I rely upon the
honor of our public men to wait until they
see what is at the bottom of these troubles
before condemning anyofe. If the hon.
member from Aima were not my representative, I would not say a word on this
subject; but in this instance he does fot represent ny view ofthe matter, because Iam
far from believing that those who are now
in arms in the North-West, are infiuenced
by desire
be the sole proprieHoN. MR. LION
BELLEROSE-I am thank- ierely thata country.to They may be wrong
tors of
ful to the hon. member from Quinte for in their views, but there are other reasons
the way in which he has explained this behind their movement than those which

must be removed.h" r
the Indians the ndins
uet e rmovd."forced
Now, I do not think it would be right
for the Government to force the Indians
to go into a certain part of the country to
settle by themselves, but if they could be
persuaded to do so, no doubt it would be
the best thing that could happen. I believe, with the rev. gentleman who is the
author of this article, that there will never
be peace in that country until the Indians
are sufficiently civilized to live by agriculture. I would not have detained the
House so long if my hon. friend from
Quinte had not corne to me to obtain the
address of the rev. gentleman with a view
to writing to him, and he showed me the
report in the Globe. I had no faith in the
accuracy of the report then, and I have no
faith m it now. I believe this article
which I have read, contains just what the
rev. gentleman would have written to the
Government, and he should not be blamed
for the report in the Globe, although he
has not contradicted it. I feel that I have
been doing a simple duty not only to the
rev. gentleman, but to the country, in submitting this article to the Senate.

A2

802

Treatie8 with the [SENATE] Indian8 in the N.- We8t.

have been stated here. If they were ani- terminate the insurrection, but let us do,
mated by any such sentiment as the hon. nothing more.
member has stated, why did they remain
HON. MR. POWER- The other day
peaceable and law-abiding for ten or twelve
years?
when I made some reference to the disturhance in the North-West my hon. friend
HON. MR. OGILVIE-The tribes were from DeLanaudiere rather chid me for
introducing a subject here which might
fighting each other.
lead to a somewhat heated discussion.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-No country Now, I have the right to retaliate on the
could be more peaceable than the North- hon. gentleman. As I understand it, the
West was until this spring. It is easier question of the half-breed grievances is
for the Government to send an army into not before the House. The hon. gentlethat country now, when the Pacific Railway man who brought this matter before us
is nearly completed, than it would have did not deal with the half-breed question,
been three or four years ago, and if the but solely with the Indian question. Of
Metis had been prompted by a desire to course it is a cognate subject, and it is
keep that country for themselves it would very hard for gentlemen to deal with the
have been much easier for them to fight Indians without speaking of the half-breeds
Canada then, than it is to-day. It shows too. I do not know that I should have
how little foundation there is for any such said anything about this subject had not
assertion. I ask why prejudice public the hon. gentleman who introduced it to
opinion on this subject ? This is some- the notice of the House taken occasion,.
thing more than a question of pounds, as some members of the Senate so often
shillings and pence; it is a question of do, to introduce party politics, and to,
life-a question of even more than that ; read from the Globe; and his speech was
it is one of the public good of this Dom- to a certain extent a reply to the editorial
inion. There are men in this country comment in that newspaper on an address
who are not ready to believe all those delivered by a Wesleyan clergyman. The
charges that are made against the half- hon. gentleman undertook to tell us, and
breeds. It is well known that in 1837 the hon member from Belleville (Mr..
and 1838, when the officiais of the Imper- Flint) also undertook to tell us, that what
ial Government went to the other side of they read from that reverend clergyman
the Atlantic, none of them confessed they showed that the Globe report was wrong.
were wrong. After having injured our I did not so understand it. If I caught
country in many ways, they returned to the figures given by the hon. gentleman
England and raised the cry that we were from Quinté as furnished to him in thewrong; that we were a people who could letter of the Rev. Mr. Young, that gentlenot be managed, and that they were right. man stated that while some $170,000 was.
But it was satisfactory to us to hear some expended in feeding the Indians and
years later, as I heard from a governor giving them necessarieswho was sent out here, that if England
HoN. MR. READ-No, the amount is.
had known at the time how those Imperial
officials had treated Lower Canada, there $170,000 in bounties.
would have been no rebellion, because we
HON. MR. POWER - $170,000 in
would not have had any cause to complain.
It is because I remember ail these events bounties, $8oo,ooo odd were expended
that I now say, "let us wait ; let us not for other purposes. That is pretty nearly
prejudice public opinion." But if any one the proportion of 5 to 25, and the statewishes to precipitate a discussion on the ment in the Globe is not so far out of the
matter, I am ready to fight it out in my way. Not knowing as much as the hon.
own way. But for the sake of our country, gentleman from DeLanaudiere does about
for the sake of peace and harmony, let the merits of the difficulties between the
the matter rest while our men are fighting Indians and the Government or their
and spilling the best blood of Canada in agents, I cannot undertake to say to say a
the west ; let us admire, but let us also great deal on the subject ; but I shall say
keep quiet ; let us help them if we can to this, and I think it is something that must.
HON. MR. BEL LEROSE.

Treaties wth the [APRIL, 30 1885] Indians in the N.- West. 80a
strike everyone. Canada has been deal- was fulfilled. The Indians knew and felt
ing with Indians for a great many years. that, and had the highest'respect for him;
Ever since 1763 the government of this and I have very little doubt that if the
country has been obliged to deal with the present Indian Commissioner had been a
Indian tribes, and I think this is the first different kind of a man from what he is,
time that we have had any serious diffi- this difficulty might have been, to a very
culty with any of them. It may be that considerable extent, avoided. We have
the Indian is not exactly the sort of indi- heard the opinions of clergymen read,
vidual that he is represented by Cooper and it happens that I have been furnished
and other novelists ; but as far as one can with some clerical authority, too. The
gather from persons who have been first is a letter which is published under
arnongst the Indians, and others who have date of March 31st.
had dealings with them, they are people
who, if you keep your word with them and
HON. MR. KAULBACH-What paper
deal fairly with them, are not at all diffi- is that ?
cult to manage, and are not likely to make
trouble. Up to a very recentdate the
HON. MR. POWER-The Daiy Times
Indians were always fairly dealt with, and of Moncton, an extreme Conservative
I think there must have been recently paper. The letter from which I propose
some alteration in the mode of dealing to read an extract is written by a Church
with them to lead to this change in their of England clergyman. He says:conduct. No doubt the failure of the
" As to the Indians, all persons who know
buffalo has been a very serious element in anything about them state that they have
the question, but that is not all-there been bad ly treated through the rascality of
rnust be something else. One fact must agents.
g The government
are scanty
strike every one who has read anything enough, but it is openly rations that they do
stated
about this matter, or who has talked with isot get even these in full quantity. There is
peopie who have been in the North-West, no doubt that Governor Dewdney muet be
or have had anything to do with the In- held responsible if there is an Indian outbreak
dians there, that is that there is throughout for he and the agents have not representeJ
the whole of that North-West country- matters at Ottawa as they were."
Then later on in the letter this reverend
amongst all those Indians-a most astonishing want of respect for and confidence gentleman says :" The Indians are hungry and desperate.
im, the Indian Commissioner. One never
hears a good word said of Mr. Dewdney They have no confidence in Dewdney, and a
by anyone who speaks of that country. I little more delay in getting control of the outdisastrous, and will send
will
have talked with people who have been break over toprove by hundreds."
Riel
them
up there and had a good deal to do with
Unfortunately the prediction made by
the Indians, and I have never heard one that gentleman on the 31st of March has
of them yet who did not speak in the been verified, so far as to their going over
same tone of the feelings which the in considerable numbers to Riel. Now I
Indians entertain towards him. When will read an extract
from a paper by the
we find that a whole race of people, who Rev. James Seiveright, a Presbyterian
are not unreasonable, entertain the same
clergyman, which was published in the
feeling towards an officer who has to deal
Presbyterian. He says :with them, there must be some reason Canada
" Armedrebellion must be crushed by force.
for that feeling. When Mr. Morris, a
The causes that led to the uprieing are far
gentleman appointed byhon. gentlemen op- deeper than cannon or rifles can reach. A
posite, was Governor of Manitoba and In- wise and conciliatory management of the
dian Commissioner,therewas never any dif- Indian Department would have prevented the
ficulty in the administration. The Indians whole trouble. Had the Contro ler ot Indian
Governors
had confidence in him, and when he said Affaire been of the same stamp ofmight have
Laird or Morris, the volunteers
a thing they believed it. Mr. Laird speni been peacefully pursuing their wonted vocaa number of years there and the Indians tions, and the country spared a large expendientertained the same feeling towards him ture of life and treasure. The redmen of the
He never said anything that he did nol North-West have substantial rievances.
groun s and the
mean, and when he made a promise ilt Deprived of their hunting of subsistence-by
t buffalo-their main means

804A

Treaties with the [SENATE] Indians in the Y.-We 8t.

the advent of the whites, they are often reduced to the verge of starvation by the scarcity ofgame. Over the graves of Indians buried
while I was in Prince Albert, might truly be
inscribed: 'Died of starvation or diseases
caused by want of food.'
This fron a clergyman who has recently
come down from the Prince Albert
country. He adds:" The muskrat is the main reliance in winter. When it is scarce, famine stare the redmen in the face. Indians are shiftless, disinclined to hard. steady work ; stili, men inured
to the chase, and nothing else, have a right
to be fed by those who took from them lands,
their means of subsistence; a right to at least

that the Hudson Bay Company, having

stations all over the North-West, and
having the means of carriage in their possession, are in a better position, as regards
a very large portion of the country, than
anybody else to furnish those supplies.
Now, hon. gentlemen will see how this
operates. I quote from a letter written
by a settler up there, a William Millar,
who went from New Brunswick up to
Prince Albert, and writes from there
under date of March 2oth.
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-What paper

as much food as would keep soul and body is that ?

together."
HON. MR. POWER-It does not make
Further on he says
" The Indian problem can never be rightly any difference what paper it is. It is the
solved by mere speculators like Lieutenant- Moncton Transcrit. This letter was
Governor Dewdney and some of the officials of written before the outbreak of the troubles.

the Indian Department. No one can conjecture to what extent rebellion may spread
among famine-stricken men.
This shows that people who were up
there do not quite agree with my hon.
friend from Quinté in thinking that the
Indians have no substantial reason for
The Government
being troublesome.
are not directly responsible, because they
have been spending money and doing
their best in that way to keep those Indians quiet; but I think the Government
have suffered to a certain extent, for the
shortcomings of their agents. It is to be
regretted that these agents were not
called to account earlier. The hon. gentleman, who brought up this matter, referred to the supplies, and to the way in
which they are furnished. He says that
tenders are called for, and the supplies
are furnished t'y contract. I am not
finding any fault with the way in which
the Government have been procuring the
supplies ; I presume they are procured in
the same way, that they have been obtained all along, but I wish to point out,
as a matter of information, that there are
very serious drawbacks to that mode of
furnishing supplies. For instance, the
Government call for tenders for the supply of a certain quantity of hay to all the
different posts ; and the same way with
regard to fuel and other necessary articles.
Naturally enough, none but those who
have the means of conveying goods over
all that country, can tender with any
chance of success. The consequence is,
HON. MR. POWER.

He says:" We have to depend on a local market.
The Indian and police supplies have all been
given to the Hudson Bay Company."
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL-The

statement is not correct, because the supplies are not all procured from the Hudson

Bay Company.
HoN. MR. POWER-I did not say
they were all ; I said as regards some
things they had a great advantage.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
refer to the statement of the writer; he

says they are all procured from the Hudson Bay Company. That is not correct.
HON MR. POWER-That is at Prince
Albert. Of course one takes these statements for what they are worth ; no doubt,
as they are made by a person laboring
under natural excitement, they are somewhat exaggerated.
HON.

MR. PLUMB-Hear, hear.

HON. MR. POWER-The hon. member for Niagara says, "hear, hear." That
hon. gentleman, when there is no reason
to be excited, often speaks in an exaggerated way here.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I do not think
the hon. gentleman has a right to make
any such statement. I call upon him to

Treatie8 with the [APRIL 30, 1885] Indians in the Y.- We8t. 80
explain what he means when he says that system has been for some time in existence
I speak in an exaggerated way.
there. I simply mention this as indicating
the feeling in that country.
HoN. MR. POWER-I mean what
I say.
HON. MR. ALMON-What does wood
cost ?
HoN. MR. PLUMB-You have no
right to say that, and it is not correct.
HON. MR. POWER-$ 3 .5 o per cord.
HON. MR. POWER-We had an illusHON. MR. ALMON-I do not consider
tration of it the other day when the hon. that a high price. Labor up in that
member ventured to correct my hon. country must be high. A man would get
friend from Albert, and was inaccurate.
probably $2 a day, and he would not cut
more than a cord in a day.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentleman is out of order.
HON. MR. POWER-My hon. friend
HoN. MR. POWER-In what way?

perhaps knows better than William Millar

who is living up there. I do not pretend
to know anything about it ; I merely read
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentle- Mr. Millar's statement.
man has no right to refer to a previous
debate.
HON. MR. ALMON-I do not consider
that $3.50 per cord for wood is too high.
HoN. MR. POWER-That is a very
smiall point. I shall now read this letter :
HON. MR. POWER-While it is unlocal market. The fortunate that the Indians appear to be in
".We have to depend on
Indian and police suppliesahave all been given a somewhat ill-tempered and dissatisfied
to the Hudson Bay Company. That ieans, frame of mind just now, I do not think
nearly all the noney goes out of the country."
they have had any very serious grievances
to complain of, nothing to justify them in
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--Now, taking up arms as they have done. But
that statement is not correct.
the Indian has nothing to do ; he has not
the same occupation in the way of hunting
- HON. POWER-The letter con- that he formerly had when the country
MR.
tinues :
was in a state of nature, and before it
r It is put into their power to
pay us in passed into the possession of the Domintrad e and they have taken the advantage of ion. The different tribes also amused
it to the utnost. I will give an instance
or themselves in those days by fighting with
two :-Th)ey let 500 cords of wood, by private
Contract, to Hudson Bay Conpany at $3.50 one another. That they do not do now,
per cord. I would have liked to have had the and when there is a fight going on I supJob Mt $2.00 r cord, and would have done pose they have the feeling that is attributed
wel by it.
t did not cost them $2.00 per to the typical Irishman, that they want to
the Hudso, a contract for hay at $25 pr ton, have a hand in it. There is one reflection
and payin Bay Conanv paying $ for it,
that occurs to me with respect to that
an pyigbOh ntrade.." pyi~o
policy
I call the attention of the Minister to fight ; it might be, perhaps, a wiseservices
for the Government to secure the
the last sentence particularly. It is
per- of a certain number of Indians-say the
fectly clear that settlers at Prince
who were obliged to supply hay Albert, Blackfeet-as scouts.
to the
Hudson Bay Company at $7 per ton
PLUMB-Nothing could
would feel it a sort Of grievance that the be HON. MR.
more disastrous than to employ them
Hudson Bay Company were getting
the Government for that same hay from in any way.
$25
per ton. That little fact will show how
HON. MR. POWER-That is a
the Indian supplies have cost more than
matter on which opinions may differ. I
they should. As I have said, I am
directly blaming the Government, for not offer a suggestion ; and I know that a
the great many men who have been up

Treaties with the [SE NATE] Indians in the N. West.

806

there and are well acquainted with
the Indians are of the same opinion-that
a warlike tribe like the Blackfeet are
very likely to get into the fight if it continues for a certain time. Now, if a certain
number of them were selected-I do not
suggest that they should be taken as part
of the forces exactly-but if 15o or so of
them were utilized as scouts they would
be of very great service to the troops and
would prevent anything in the nature of a
surprise by the other Indians or halfbreeds ; and the fact that a number of
thoseç men were in the service of Canada
wo uld keep the remainder of the tribe
loy al. It may be that that is a mistaken
vie w altogether, but I think there is a
go od deal to be said for it.
HON.

SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL-I

think the hon. member from Quinté has
do ne the country good service in calling
attention to the incorrect statements made
by the Rev. Mr. Young; evidently those
sta tements are incorrect, as read. Whether
th e Rev. Mr. Young did make them in
th e language in which they are quoted, or
wh ether the subsequent paper read by
y hon. friend behind me (Mr. Flint)
mc)re correctly represents his views, at all
ev ents the statement that appears in the
paper conveys an erroneous impressionth at the larger portion of the money which
is given to the Indians by Parliament is
applied, not for their benefit, but for the
purpose of paying agents and others who
ar e the intermediaries between the country and the Indians. That, in the degree
wl ich is mentioned there, is an enorm ously erroneous statement.

HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-The
statement that out of every $30 voted by
Parliament for the Indians, only $5 flnds
its way to the Indians, and the other $25
is lost among the officers of the Department employed to distribute the fund to
the Indians. That was the statement.
Upon the reverend gentleman being
applied to, he does fot seem to have
taken the opportunity, as I should have
hoped he would have taken it, of saying
that the statement as it appeared in the
newspapers was erroneous, because a
fta

ttmn

h

ido

aeo

ti

incorrect. No one could read it without
seeing that it is wrong. I hope and trust
that the reverened gentleman was misreported and that he did not state anything
of the kind ; but it is very desirable and
important that attention should be called
to the statement, and that the contradiction which the hon. gentleman has given
to it should become public, and that the
people should know that although the
Rev. Mr. Young has been in the NorthWest eight or nine years, if he did state
this he was grossly incorrect.
I have brought down with me the information which the hon. gentleman has
given to the House. I did not know that
he had gone into the subject so thoroughly,
and I had brought down the information
in order to supply the statistics which he
has given to the House. I need not
read them. The only information I can
supplement is a statement which my hon.
friend has not procured, of the manner
in which beef, bacon and flour are distributed under treaties six and seven, and the
quantities of these various articles that

HON. MR. SCOTT-What statement ? these Indians have got.

The following is

A STATEMENT showing the number of Indians in Treaties 4, 6, and 7, in the
North-West Territories, and the quantities of Flour, Beef and Bacon distri
buted to them during the year ended the 3oth June, 1884
Nuinber

PROVISIONS DISTRIBUTED.

of

Indians. Flour.
i
Treaty No. 4
"
"

No. 6
No. 7

Beef.
ibs.

Bacon. Fish. Potatoes

Ibe.

5,700 504,500

2,000

Ibs.

I lb. of Flour, and
when Beef is given

7,800 136,771

8,400 328,700

lbs.

6,400

HON.MR.

HON. MR. POWER.

1 1b.- of Beef or IsIL

82,150 60,000

497,900 2,341,903 141,021

Daily Rations.

of Bacon.
38,422
.of

l b. of Flour & 1 lb.
Beef.

Treaties with the [APRIL 30, 1885] Indiansin the N.- We8t. 807
It should be stated that, in addition to
the above, the Indians themselves raise
considerable quantities of grain, roots and
vegetables. In treaty No. 4, rations are distributed to all working and destitute Indians, in the proportion of one pound of
flour, one pound of beef, or, in lieu of
beef, one-third of a pound of bacon per
diem, the distributions occurring once a
week. In treaty No. 6, the number of
working and destitute Indians rationed is
proportionately less than in treaty 4, owing
to the fact that game and fish are more
plentiful, and that hunting and fishing are
very generally followed by the Indians.
In treaty No. 7, all Indians remaining on

Io we know what course Lieutenant-Governor Dewdney has pursued, or what he has
done, or what he has omitted to do ? The
hon. gentleman speaks only from what
he has seen in newspaper correspondence.
HON. MR. POWER-I have read those
letters, and I have read other articles besides ; and the Minister of Justice forgets
that I stated also that I had had conversations
with numbers of persons who had been
through the North-West, and that I found
one universal chorus ofcomplaints against
that officer.

the reserves receive a daily ration, the disHON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-Suptributions occurring every other day.
I thought that the House might like to posing the hon. gentleman has had
see the ground covered by these treaties. that in addition to the newspaper
I have brought down copies of the treaties articles and letters, I ask him is it
to which the hon. gentleman from Quinte fair to use the name of the Lieuhas already alluded, and I need not trouble tenant-Governor in the way he does,
the House with them, but I have a map at all events with the paucity of informahere which I will lay on the table of the tion which he has upon the subject, and
House showing the different areas covered upon a motion of this kind, when nobody
by the several treaties. The territory supposed that the name of Lieutenantcovered by each treaty is marked with a Governor Dewdney was to be brought into this debate ? The hon. gentleman
different color.
With reference to the general question, from Quinte, in drawing attention to this
I agree with my hon. friend from De- question of the treaties with the Indians,
Lanaudiere that the time has not arrived described what those treaties were, and
for a discussion of the grounds which in- mentioned what was agreed on our part to
duced the Indians or the half-breeds there be furnished to the Indians on behalf of
to take the course which they have the public, and how those supplies were
adopted. It seems to me that it is the distributed ; and then said that he had
wiser course, and I think my hon. friend found in the newspapers a statement of a
from Halifax will ultimately come to that gentleman who had been up there, and
decision, to refrain from discussing the said so and so.
reasons they have, or think they have,
until all the facts are before us. The
HON. MR. POWER-And he then
Government are responsible for the drew a picture of the Inlians reading
the
manner in which the affairs of that country Globe, which was very amusing.
have been conducted, and if those troubles
have been caused by any dereliction of
HON. MR. READ-I did not speak of
duty on their part, it will be time to fix
that responsibility, and punish them for the Indians reading the Globe, but I spoke
it, when all the facts are before Parliament; of the effect that would be produced by
but I do not think it fair to drag into this someone reading such articles as that in
discussion, with the little information we the Globe to the Indians in their present
have before us, the nane of the Lieutenant- excited condition.
.Governor of the North.West Territories.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-And
HON. MR. POWER-It is perfectly I suppose it is a barely possible thing.
right to do so.
Putting the Government to one side, it is
injurious to the conntry that such reports
HON. SIR. ALEX CAMPBELL-How should go abroad that we are not
doing our

808S

Treaties with the

[SENATE]

duty, and that we are not keeping our plighted faith with the Indians, that the money
voted by Parliament for the Indians bas
been squandered, and that we are distributing bad food amongst them. Putting the
Government on one side altogether, it is injurious to the country to have such reports
sent abroad, and therefore, I think the hon.
gentleman from Quinte, did good service
in bringing before the notice of the House,
the information which he has given us.
He said nothing about Lieutenant-Governor
Dewdney or anybody else doing anything,
or having done anything, and made no
charges. When the facts are all before
us, the Government will be anxious to
facilitate all inquiry and will endeavor, if
possible, to get at the very bottom of the
cause of the present troubles in the North
West. As far as the Indians are concerned, I apprehend the cause of their rising
is the scarcity of the buffalo. There may
be other things that have irritated them;
there may have been, occasionally, misconduct on the part of some officers of the
Government that they do not approve
of ; but let us wait until we ascertain the truth and flnd out who is to blame
and then let us hold that person or those
persons strictly to account, and no one
will be more ready to do so than the Government. But, until then, it is better in
the interests of the country to refrain from
discussng these matters. I desire to say
in reply to my hon. friend that it is not
the intention of the Government at present
to make any new treaty with the Indians.
The territory which is now covered by
treaties is a very large territory, and runs
as far north as there seems to be any necessity for making arrangements about in the
meantime. This policy was arrived at in
the early part of 1884, and a letter was
then written to the Bishop of St. Albert,
communicating to him the fact.
He
seems to have asked of the Superintendent
General whether new treaties were to be
concluded or not, and to have asked that
question on behalf of the Indians north of
the country we have now acquired, and
who seemed to be desirous of having a
treaty made with them. The letter is
dated the 28th of May, and is as follows:
OF INDIAN AFFAIRS,
OTTWA, May 29th, 1884.
Right Rev. Sir,

{DEPARTMENT

With reference to your letter of the 28th of

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Indians in the N.- West.

July last, relative to the desire of the Indians,
whose hunting grounds are situated north of
the northern boundary of Treaty No. 6, to
enter into treaty relations with the Government, and also referring to the document
signed by the Indian Chief on behalf of the
Indians of le a la Crosse on the same subject,
I am directed by the Superintendent General
of Indian Affairs to inform your Lordship that
having caused enquiry to be made into the
iatter, he is of opinion that the negotiating of
a Treaty with these Indians may be postponed
for some years, or at least until there is a likelihood of the country being required for settlement purposes.
I have the honor to be,
Right Rev. Sir,
Your Obdt. Servant,
(Sd.) L. VANKOUGHNET,
Deputy of Supt. Gen'l of Indian Affairs.
The Ri it Rev.
BIsHoP» oF T. ALBERT,
St. Al bert, N. W.T.
That would show that the Indians who
have not had treaties made with them are
desirous of coming under them ; I think,
in the meantime, at all events, we should
be willing to assume that the faith of the
country bas been kept with the Indians;
that they have got all that the treaties secured to them, and we know in many
cases they have got more, and those
stories about bad pork and bad beef should
be taken wîth great allowance and great
care, because it is the duty of the Government, and the interest of the Government,
to see that the Indians are fairly dealt
Until the
with and get good rations.
contrary is proved, let us believe that the
officers employed by the Government have
done their duty. It is a source of great
mortification to the Government, as it
must be to every lover of his country, to
find that there has been a change in the
feeling of the Indians towards us. It has,
hitherto been a matter of pride to us, and
I have sometimes boasted of it in this
House, that the Government of Canada
have been able to manage the Indiaà
tribes so well, that they have hitherto been

peaceable and law-abiding citizens.

That

they have been so, is owing mainly, I think,

to their faith in the Hudson Bay Company,
and the fact that the Hudson Bay Company had always carried out their promises with the Indians; that gave us, as
their successors in the government of the
country, the high stand.ng we have had

amongst the Indians to this time.

That

Treaties with Me [APRIL 30, 1885] Indians in the V.- West. 809
good feeling, and that confidence in the
Government, were a heritage that has been
left to us. It was a heritage that was deserved, and I think we still deserve it, and
if any of the officers of the Government
have done anything towards forfeiting that
high character for fair dealing, they should
be held strictly to account, and if the
Government are to blame they should be
held strictly to account, and I trust and
believe the country will always hold us
strictly to account for our treatnent of the
Indians of the North-West.

that I wish to make, in deference to the
wish of the House.
HON. MR. READ-I wish to ask a
question regarding the Bishop, whose
letter has been quoted by the leader of
the House. Where does that Bishop
reside ?
HON. SIR.

ALEX. CAMPBELL-At

St. Albert.

HON. MR. MACDONALD (B. C.I think it is perfectly clear, from the statement made to the House by the hon.
gentleman from Belleville, that the Indians
have been treated more than justly.
Treaties were made with them, and terms
and payments were made, and beyond
those terms and payments, they received
large quantities of food.

THE SPEAKER-I desire to say with
the regard to the position of this question,
that I do not consider that it is strictly
out of order for any member to continue
this discussion, although it is very unusal
after the Government has given the reply.
However, it is in the power of the House
to control the whole subject, and if any
member desires that the discussion should
not proceed further, and makes a motion
to that effect, I will close it.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
think my hon. friend is not quite in order.
I think when the reply to a question of
this kind is given by the Government, the
debate should close.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I am very
glad that the Chair has ruled in accordance with what I am sure is the desire of
the people of this country and the desire
of the House.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Freedom

HoN. MR. MACDONALD-I rise to a
question of order. I was prevented from
speaking on this subject, and there is no
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
ask question before the House, and I object
the House whether it is not
proper
close a.discussion of this kind when to to anyone continuing the debate.
the
reply has been made ? It seems
will
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I
that to continue the debate would to me
be to simply observe that I quite agree with the
wander into a long discussion,
there would be no end. We haveto which views expressed by hon. gentlemen before
gone as
to discuss this
far as we ought to go under the usage me, that we should be able we waited until
and pactice of Parliament, which enable matter more intelligently if
fuller information was placed before us;
a question to be put and explained by
an insurrection
the
mover and by others, who desire to speak but we have this fact, that
has taken place; and we have further, the
on the subject, and then replied to by the
statement has
gentlemen who represent the Crown on fact that an alarming
appeared that the Indians in different parts
the occasion.
of the North West may possibly rise and
join the half-breeds. With such a fact
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I submit before Parliament, surely we should not be
to the House that the leader of the Gov- discharging our duty to the people of this
ernment ought to have waited-country if we did not, according to the
information that we possess, endeavor to
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
find out what could have led to this
call the hon. gentleman to order.
stateof dissatisfaction amongst the Indians.
If we take up the reports of the Indian
HON. MR. MACDONALD-I am Department, and I have done so, and
perfectly willing to forego any remarks read them carefully, I cannot find from

of debate!

810

Richelieu and Ontario LSENATE] Navigation Co's Bill.

those reports that there should be any disturbance amongst the Indians. The
reports of the special agents speak of the
instructors having done their duty, of the
Indians being trained to cultivate the soil,
of their being supplied with rations, and
that everything was going on peaceably.
Then, I ask if that is a reliable report, how
does that tally with the events which have
transpired since the insurrection of
the half-breeds, and how does it tally
with the rumors which appear in
this morning's journals? It is proper
that we should inquire into and
endeavor to ascertain what is the cause of
those troubles. We know that Parliament
grants upwards of $i,ooo,ooo towards
feeding and instructing those Indians. I
do not desire to make any charge against
Lieut.-Governor Dewdney, for whom I
have always entertained great respect. I
was surprised this morning, after having
perused the report issued by the Indian
Department, to meet the owner of an extensive ranche in the North-West in the
streets of Ottawa, and touching that subject
he said, "One cannot wonder that there
should be discontent amongst the Indians.
When I visited my ranche, a short time
ago, I found them giving damaged pork
to the Indians-pork that was not fit for
a dog to eat, which led to much murmuring." When I meet a loyal citizen who
states that fact of his own knowledge, I
am led to inquire is this report that we
have from the Indian Department reliable ?
I do not blame the Lieut.-Governor of
the North-West, but I say there is something wrong-that while Parliament votes
$1,ooo,ooo the different tribes of Indians

should still be dissatisfied. The fact of
their being in a state of insurrection today convinces me that there is something
wrong in the distribution of that money.
I have lived much amongst the Indians,
and my experience has been that if you
only keep faith with them, and show that
you take an interest in their welfare, you
would never have an insurrection amongst
them. But if the Government continue
to appoint, as a previous speaker has
said, mere political hacks as agents
amongst those Indians, it is one of the
fertile causes of the trouble, men who
have been sent out there merely
to provide them with office. They
may not be men of principle, and
HoN. MR. ALEXANDER.

how do we know that those officers have
distributed the food faithfully amongst the
Indians ? The Lieutenant-Governor may
not know whether those men have not
appropriated the food that was intended
for the Indians, to other purposes. The
Governnent may try to check all the
debate on this subject, but the future of
the country depends on the appointment
of proper, upright officers to administer
the affairs of the North-West, and not
political hacks, who are not worthy of the
position. The policy in dealing with the
Indians ought to be one of paternal care
and kindness, and if such were acted upon,
we should not be troubled with an insurrection in the North-West.
RICHELIEU & ONTARIO NAVIGATION CO'S BILL.
SECOND READING.

HON. MR. PELLETIER moved the
second reading of Bill (6), " An Act
further to amend the Acts incorporating
the Richelieu Navigation Company, and
the Richelieu & Ontario Navigation
Company." He said: This Bill has
passed through the House of Commons,
as presented there, without any opposition, and I do not expect that any opposition will be made to it here. The only
parties interested in the Bill are the shareholders themselves, and I do not think
anyone can have any objection to it. A
certain number of shares were purchased
on the open market for the company, and
the purchase was made in part out of
funds borrowed for that purpose. Since
then some doubt has arisen as to the validity of the purchase ; the Bill legalizes
that purchase, and provides for the purchase of the balance of the shares which
remain on the open market, at a price
not exceeding 6o per cent. upon its par
value, and for the issue of debentures to
the amount of $200,ooo for a period not
exceeding ten years, bearing interest at
six per cent.
Great precautions are
taken to secure the interests of the
shareholders by saying that such purchase of the balance of shares shall only
be made after one month's notice shall
have been given to each shareholder of
the intention to purchase. Such debentures are to be a first mortgage and pri-

Ofence8 Again8t [APRIL 30, 18851 the Person Bill.
vilege on all the company's property, but
they are not to be issued until all existing
claims on such property shall have been
previously paid and extinguished. The
last clause provides that the quorum of the
board of directors shall hereafter be a
majority of the number of directors constituting the board.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I

811
think we

had this matter thoroughly before us yesterday, and discussed in committee, and
that there was a general consensus of
opinion in favor of the amendment then
made, that a woman's evidence was not
sufficient to convict her husband. That,
it seemed to me, met with general approval, and I hope that the House will not deHON. MR. READ-Is there any pre- part now from what was the evident feelcedent for a company issuing debentures ing of the committee.
to buy back its own stock ?
HON. MR. GOWAN-I think that when
HON. MR. PELLETIER-I am not

prepared to give any precedent now, but
I have no doubt I can do so when the
Bill goes before the committee.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
OFFENCES AGAINST THE PERSON BILL.
AMENDMENTS

CONCURRED IN.

I HON. MR. GOWAN moved concurrence
in the amendments made in committee of
the whole House on Bill (S), " An Act
to amend the Act respecting Offences
against the Person."
He said : The
amendments made to this enactment are
mfl s Position, that the wife is competent
thi
to give evidence, but it must be fortified
by corroborative testimony. I need
dwell upon the subject as the matter not
has
been fully discussed.
HON. MR POWER-I understood
that ny hon. friend wanted some
slight
ameh dment made Several gentlemen
have spoken to me since this matter
before the Fouse yesterday, and was
there
seenis to be a very decided impression
that there is alo reason why a husband
shoud not be allowed to give evidence
bis own behaf on occasions of on
this
kind ; and I move that the amendments
be not now concurred in, but that the
be referred back to a committee of Bill
whoie for the purpose of amending the
same by striking out all the words the
after
"child" in the ioth ine to
the end of
said clause and inserting the following the
in
lieu thereof :"The accused and hie wife shal be comPetent to give evidence
-or against the accused.'' as witness either for

the matter was discussed in committee of
the whole, my hon. friend opposite, from
whom I am very sorry to differ, proposed
his resolution, and it was passed upon by
the House. I cannot accept this amendment except the House pronounces upon
it. I think it is just the entering of the
wedge to a most objectionable principle of
allowing the prisoner to give evidence on
his own behalf. While 'there are some
exceptions perhaps to be made in a case
like this, still it is a dangerous point to
begin with, and I should be sorry if the
House assented to the proposition.
HON. MR. O'DONOHOE-I do not

agree with the very strong desire on the
part of my hon. friend that the husband
should, in a case of this nature, be unable
to give evidence. This is different from
ordinary cases. I do not think it should
be allowed that the wife can bring her
husband into court, and say just what she
pleases under oath, while the husband, the
party charged, as between himself and his
wife, is to have his mouth closed. I do
not think it is entering the thin edge of the
wedge as against any established law. I
have not had the long experience of my
hon. friend from Barrie, but I have had a
good deal of experience in criminal courts,
and from that experience I conclude that
it would be a most dangerous thing to
enable a wife, who may in a moment of
passion, or excitement, or in a state of jealousy, be prepared to do anything against
her husband. There is nothing to which,
under any of those conditions, she might
not pledge her word, and against her husband, for whom, when she cools off, she
would gladly lay down her very life. We
should give her no chance to create such
a state of feeling between herself and her
husband, as might render the differences

812

Ofences Against [SENATE] the Per8on Bill.

between them for ever after irreconcilable.
The husband who has been bound to her
for years and years, and who has a family,
may be charged by her, in one of those
moments of passion, with not being willing
to support herself and her children, and
he, who alone can tell of his mearns to do
that, or give evidence of it, is not allowed
to state his case. Which of the two is
more likely to tell the truth, or to give the
best evidence under such circumstancesthe woman who lodges the information
against the husband, or the husband
against whom the complaint is lodged ?
From my experience, I would attach much
more consequence to the evidence of the
husband than I would to that of the wife.
I am very reluctant in saying a word
against the Bill, or against the view of my
hon. friend, for whom, and for whose experience, I have great respect, but I cannot allow any respect for the person, or
for his experience, to stand in the way of
discharging what I feel to be the duty of
the House. I believe it is proper that in
such a case as this, the husband should be
allowed to explain the reasons why he is
brought there, and in giving him that liberty I believe that you add very much to
the chances of diminishing the number of
such cases. I shall, therefore, vote for the
amendment of my hon. friend from
Halifax.
HON. MR. DICKEY-My hon. friend
who has charge of this Bill objected to
this proposal on a previous occasion, to
allow the husband to be placed on the
same footing as his wife, by saying that it
would be an entering wedge in the criminal law. But who started the entering
wedge? It was my hon. friend himself.
When he brought in this Bill he introduced the thin end of the wedge by
asking that the wife should be allowed to
give evidence against the husband, when
my hon. friend knew that that is contrary
to all principles of criminal law. When
this Bill was first before the House he gave
as his reason that it was only following
out the legislation which we had two or
three years ago made in the case of complaints for assault and battery. Then,
when I called his attention to the fact
that we only ask to proceed on exactly the
same lines as that, he shifts his ground
and says it is entering the thin end of the
HON.

MR. O'DONOHOE.

wedge into the criminal law, and that it
will be applied to other cases. I wish to
call rny hon. friend's attention to the fact
that in this very session we have refused
to legislate any further in that direction,
and I think he might trust the House, with
the benefit of his assistance, to keep itself
right in that respect.
If we were to act
upon the objection which he takes, we
would not consider this Bill at all, because
it is the thin end of the wedge that he
introduced himself, and we have foregone
our opposition to that.
We say here we are perfectly willing to
let the Bill go if you make it conformable
to the only Act on our statute book
which is a precedent for it-that is the
Act passed three years ago by which both
husband and wife are allowed to give evidence fur each other in cases of assault
and battery. The feeling of the House
at that time was that we could go no further ; the feeling of the House has been
evidenced since by what has taken place
this session, but my hon. friend persists in
pressing this Bill forward and insists on
objecting to the husband in the cases
covered by this Bill being put on
the same footing as the wife. Why should
he not ? There has not been a single
reason given to the House why the husband and wife should not be on the sarne
footing. The hon. member who has just
sat down has put that strongly. I put it on
the simple ground that if it is right for the
wife to give evidence in such a family
quarrel as this-and 1 doubt whether it is
good policy, but I am willing to forego
my opinion on that-if it is right to give
her that privilege, surely it is right to give
her partner, the other party to the squabble, the same right. It is difficult,
looking at the question logically, to get
over .that. The hon. member from Lunenburg yesterday moved a very good'
amendment, as far as it went, to prevent
the wife coming in and telling her own,
story, and getting a verdict against her
husband without corroborative testimony,
but my hon. friend knows very well, from
his experience as a criminal lawyer, that
where a woman would undertake to convict her husband, if she were unscrupulous, she would very easily get someone to,
come forward and confirm her statement.
The amendment is, therefore, no great
protection after all. But I do not see-

Temperance Act, dc., [APRIL 30, 1885] Amendment Bill.
why that amendment, good as it is, should
interfere with the one which I propose,
because that only provides for a case where
the wife comes to give evidence against
her husband, and it is no answer
at all to what we contend for, that
the husband should be put on the
same footing as the wife, and be allowed
to give evidence in his own defence. As
far as my, experience goes, I have never
seen a plainer statement of a ground for
proceeding as we are doing in asking this
amendment. It is logically correct ; it is
in conformity with the legislation of three
years ago, and I have not heard a single
ground upon which the House should be
called upon to give this advantage to the
wife and withhold it from the husband.
The object of testimony it to elicit the
truth. When a woman comes forward to
give evidence against her husband she is
subject to feelings which require her
evidence to be confirmed ; when the husband comes forward to tell his tale he is
likely to be swayed by the same feelings,
and his evidence will be taken for what it
is worth, and no more ; but to shut the
door against him and say we will allow
the wife to tell her story and bring forward
witnesses to support her statement, perhaps a mere child, is to my mind most
unfair. The very statement of the case
shows the impropriety of it. I hope the
hon. gentleman who has charge of the
Bill will accept the amendment which I
have proposed.
The House divided on the amendment
which was adopted by the following vote:
CONTENTS:

Alexander,

AI mon,

Hon. Messrs.

McClelan.

Archibald
Baillar eon,

Macdonald,
McKa,

Carvell

O'Donohoe,
Oqilvie,
Paquet,
Power,
Smith,
Turner.-21.

Dever
Dicke4,

Ferrier,
Girard,
Haythorne.

NON-CONTENTR:

Hon. Messrs.
Campbell (Sir Alex.), Miller (Speaker),
Gint

Gowan,
Kaulbach,
MacInnes,
McDonald,

Nelson,
Odell,
Plumb,
Scott,
Vidal.-12.

813

The House resolved itself into a committee of the whole on the Bill to make
the proposed amendment.
In the Committee,
HON. MR. GOWAN-I accept with
respect the decision of the House, though
I am not convinced, and I therefore beg
now to move that the amendment be
inserted.

The motion was agreed to.
HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE, from the
committee, reported the Bill with the amendment.
HON. MR. GOWAN-I move that the
report of the committee be concurred
in.
HON. MR. ALMON-I move in amendment that the House do not concur in
the amendmer.t, but that it be concurred
in this day three months. The Bill has
been so changed and patched that it is
hard to say what the effect of it will be,
and I think it will be better to reject it altogether.
HON. MR. POWER-I think my hon.
colleague would more properly make this
motion at the third reading,
HON. MR. ALMON-Very well, I
withdraw my motion for the present.

The third reading was fixed for to-morrow.
CANADA TEMPERANCE ACT AND
LIQUOR LICENSE ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
REFERENCE

TO

COMMITTEE

OF

THE

WHOLE POSTPONED.

The order of the day having been
called,Committee of the Whole House on (Bill 92),
The Canada Temperance Act 1878, and The
Liquor License Act 1883, further amendment
Act.
HON. MR. VIDAL said : At the request
of several members, but very much against

814A

Bille

[SEN ATE]

A88ented to.

my own wishes, I move that the consid- An Act to incorporate the Synod of the
eration of this Bill be postponed until Diocese of Qu'AppelJe and for other purposes
Wednesday next, then to stand the first connected therewith.
An Act further to amend the Act to incororder of the day.
porate the South Saskatchewan Valley Railway Company.
The motion was agreed to.
An Act respecting the Canada Congregational Missionery Society.
The Senate adjourned at 6 o'clock.
An Act to amend the Act to incorporate the
Wood Mountain and Qu'Appelle Railway
Company.
An Act to incorporate the Lake Erie, Essex
and Detroit River Railway Company.
An Act to incorporate the Brantford, WaterTHE SENATE.
loo and Lake Erie Railway Company.
An Act for granting certain powers to the
International Coal Conpany (Gimited).
Ottawa, Briday, May ist, 1885.
An Act for the relief of George Louis Emil
Hatzfeld.
The Speaker took the Chair at three
An Act for the relief of Fairy Emily Jane
o'clock.
Terry.
An Act for the relief of Alice Elvira Evans.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
An Act to amend An Act to incorporate
the Sisters of Charity of the North-West
The House was adjourned during Territories.
An Act to incorporate the Pension Fund
pleasure.
Society of the Bank of Montreal.
An Act respecting the Annuity and GuarBILLS ASSENTED TO.
antee Funds Society of the Bank of Montreal.
An Act respecting La Banque du Peuple.
An Act to authorise the Royal Canadian
At 3.30 p.m. the House was resumed.
Insurance Company to reduce its Capital
Stock, and for other purposes.
The HON. SIR WILLIAM JOHNSON
An Act to amend the Law respecting
RITCHIE, Knight, Chief Justice of the Bridges, Booms and other works constructed
Supreme Court of Canada, Deputy Gov- over or in Navigable Waters under the
ernor, being seated in the Chair on the authority of Provincial Acts.
An Act to amend the Acts
Throne ; the Deputy Governor was pleased Department of the Secretary ofrespecting theState.
to command the attendance of the House
An Act to continue An Act respecting theof Commons, and that House being Albion Mines Savings Bank.
An Act respecting the Canada Co-operative
present, the following Bills were assented
(imited).
to, in Her Majesty's name, by His Honor Supplv Association the Aet forty-fifthVictoria,.
An Act to amend
the Deputy of His Excellency the Governor ohapter Se venteen, to encourage the construcGeneral on his behalf, viz :tion of Dry Docks.
An Act
An Act to provide for the appointment of a Provinces.respecting certain advances to the
Deputy Speaker of the House of Commons.
An Act to incorporate the Canadian Pacifie.
An Act to provide for the taking of a Census Employes' Relief Association.
in the Province of Manitoba, the North-West
An Act to incorporate the Hamilton,Guelph
Territories and the District of Keewatin.
and Buffalo Railway Company.
An Act respecting the River St. Clair RailAn Act respecting the Ontario Pacifie
way Bridge and Tunnel Company.
Railway Company.
An Act to incorporate the Synod of the
An Act respecting the Canada Southern
Railway Company and the Erie and Niagara Evangelical Lutheran Church of Canada.
An Act respecting Explosive Substances.
Railway Company.
An Act to amend the Act to incorporate the
An Act to reduce the stock of the Federal
Bank of Winnipeg.
Bank of Canada and for other purposes.
An Act fùrther relating to the Central
An Act for the Relief of Amanda Esther Bank of New Brunswick.
Davis.
An Act respecting the Hamilton Provident
An Act respecting the Sault Ste. Marie and Loan Society.
Bridge Company,
An Act respecting the Huron and Ontario.
An Act to amend the Acts relating to the Ship Canal Company.
Great Western and Lake Ontario Shore JuncAn Act to incorporate the Fredericton and
tion Railway Company.
St. Mary's Railway Bridge Company.
HON. MR. VIDAL.

Winnipeg and Irince [MAY 1, 1885] Albert Railway Bill.

815-

WEST ONTARIO PACIFIC RAIL- powers, and we inserted that amendment
WAY COMPANY'S BILL.
in the Bill. He also asked for powers to
construct and operate a steam ferry on the
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
River St. Clair, in connection with the
lines on the other side, so that they could
HON. MR. DICKEY, from the commit- exchange their traffic backwards and fortee on Railways, Telegraphs and Harbors, wards, which was also a reasonable amendreported Bill (94), " An Act to incorporate ment. We, therefore, gave the company
the West Ontario Pacific Railway Com- additional powers to construct
pany," with amendments. He said: I ate a steam ferry across the and operRiver St.
may explain that the first material amend- Clair. The last clause fixed the time for
ment is to be found in the 5th clause, from the commencement and completion ofthe
which these words are struck out-" and work, but it made no provision that the
shall hold office from the ist February." charter should be null and void unless
That refers to the appointment of directors. that work was done. We,
therefore, addIn the next clause, the appointment is to ed, by consent of the promoter
be made on the first Tuesday in February, at the end of the clause which of the Bill,
did so proand there would necessarily be a hiatus vide the time, the following-" otherwise
between the two dates unless the first of the powers granted by this Act shall be
February happened to be on the first forfeited." These are the only important
Tuesday in the month. The Bill is amendments to the Bill.
amended so that the directors shall remain
in office until their successors are appointHON. MRL PLUMB-As there have
ed. The next amendment is in the i ith been some amendments to the Bill, with a
clause, where the company ask power to view to bring it into conformity with other
take lands. As these powers are given by railway legislation of this
perhaps
the Consolidated Railway Act, and there it would be as well to House, that the
move
were other amendments to the Bill, that amendments be considered
on Monday
clause was struck out. The next material next.
amendment is in the clause which enables
the company to convey or to lease their
The motion was agreed to.
lands. There was no provision for any
number of shareholders to be represented
WINNIPEG AND PRINCE ALBERT
at such a meeting ; and as we thought it
RAILWAY BILL
was so closely connected with the dispoed itn of the whole property, we considerTHIRD READING.
t necessary to do as we had done in
other Bills, to provide that shareholders
HON. MR. DICKEY, from the Select
representing at least one-half in value
Committee on Railways, Telegraphs and
should be present, or represented
by Harbors, reported Bill (91), "An Act to.
proxy, at the meeting. The next relates incorporate the Winnipeg and Prince
to the building of lines of telegraphs and Albert Railway Company," with certain
telephones, pursuant to chapter 67 of the amendments. He said : The first amendConsolidated Statutes of the late province
ment is in the section which gives power
of Canada ; but it had no reference to any to construct the road, but,
as it came up
other Act, and we, therefore, inserted
the from the House of Commons, it gave
words " and the Acts amending the same," no power to operate the road. In
which was a necessary amendment.
The amending the clause, we give the com2 1St clause asked for
powers to build, pany power to construct and operate the
acquire and work elevators, and
ber of the House of Commonsthe mem- road. The next amendment is in the 4th
who explained the Bill, asked for increased section, which asks for power to increase
the stock of the company as provided by
Powers to hold docks and
wharves, the Consolidated Railway Act. That
because this railway terminating
ide at Lake Erie, and on the on one clause was struck out, for the obvious
other at
River St. Clair, rendered it absolutely reason that the company had the power
under that Act. The 7th clause is struck
necessary that they should
have those out for the same reason. It asks for

816 Ru8h Lake & Sa8katchewan [SENATE] R'y & Navigation Co's Bill.
power to take grants of agricultural lands
in the North West. As they had already,
by the Consolidated Railway Act, power
to take lands, this particular provision was
rather narrowing their power, because it
confined their right to take lands, to agriTherefore, we
cultural lands wholly.
struck out the clause by the consent of
the promoters, leaving the company power
to operate under the general clause of the
Consolidated Railway Act. There is an
.amendment in the 9 th clause, which is of
some importance, because it relates to the
first meeting for the election of directors,
.and to subsequent meetings. The amendment provides that, besides the notice in
the Gazette, as this covers a large district of
-country, the notice shall be mailed to the
different shareholders, as far as their address can be known. The 13th is the
bond clause, in which we have provided,
as we have in similar other bills, that at the
meeting for authorizing those bonds,
shareholders representing at least one-half
in value of the stock shall be represented
in person or by proxy. The note clause
has been amended to bring it intoharmony
with similar clauses in other bills of this
kind.
HON. MR. GIRARD-As the amendments to the Bill have been communicated
to, and concurred in by, some of the promoters of the Bill, I move that the report
be concurred in.

The motion was agreed to.
HON. MR. GIRARD moved the third
reading of the Bill.
The motion was agreed to, and the bill
was read the third time and passed.
RUSH LAKE & SASKATCHEWAN
RAILWAY & NAVIGATION
COMPANY'S BILL
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.

HON. MR. DICKEY, from the Committee on Railways, Telegraphs and Harbors, reported Bill (79), " An Act to
incorporate the Rush Lake & Saskatchewan Railway & Navigation Company. He
said : The amendments, although numerHON. MR.

DICKEY.

ous, are not very important, except in two
or three instances, which I will explain to
the House. I may state generally, that
the Bill, as it came to us, appears to have
been copied from an old Act which was
passed four or five years ago, before steps
were taken to bring the language of our
Acts into something like harmony, and to
strike out all unnecessary verbiage, as far
as we could. In consequence of that,
several of those amendments are simply
verbal, or transposing the sentences, so as
to bring then into conformity with our
other legislation. These amendments
were made with the entire concurrence of
the member of the other House who had
charge of the Bill there. He expressed
his complete satisfaction with the manner
in which the Bill had been amended. The
first amendment is in clause 6, in which,
strange to say, power was asked to build a
double line of railway, but now power is
taken to build a single line of railway. It
was arnended to give power to build either
a single or a double line. In the i th,
the promissory note clause, an amendment
is made to bring it into conformity with
other bills of this kind. The I 2th, is the
bond clause, which requires that at least
one-half of the stock shall be represented
at 'the meeting called to authorize the
issuing of bonds. In the 19 th clause, an
amendment is made for striking out the
power which is asked for to make regulations for facilities for running arrangements with other companies, inasmuch as
that power is already given by the Consolidated Railway Act. Under the 23rd
clause, as the Bill came up to us, the railway was to be commenced in two years
and completed in three years. When
the wide stretch of country which this railway proposes to cover, was considered,
the promoter of the Bill asked us to extend the time for the completion of the
railway for two years longer, and we,
therefore, made the completion of the
railway to extend to five years from the
passing of this Act. These are the only
amendments, but perhaps the House
would prefer that they should be printed,
and appear on the face of the journals
before they are adopted. I, therefore,
move that the report be taken into consideration on Monday next.
The motion was agreed to.

Pulie Ajairs [MAY 1, 1885] of the Dominion.

8117

PUBLIC AFFAIRS OF THE DOM- selves for the discussion, and make
INION.
up their own minds as to the course they
will pursue with reference to that particular
ENQUIRY.
subject. That pratice has been followed
in this House. An instance of it occurred
HON. MR. ALEXANDER rose to call here yesterday, when the hon. member
attention to the present state of the pub- from Quinte drew attention to treaties with
lic affairs of the Dominion, and to ask the Indians and asked the Government
the Government how they proposed to whether it was intended to enter into any
rernedy existing evils. He said: At a new treaties with the Indians.
Another
moment when such troubles have been notice was given by the hon. member from
brought upon the country by misrule, I Niagara,who drew attention to the practice
only propose to touch very briefly some of the House with respect to Bills coming
of the more important evils which the before us, and asked whether the GovernParty now in power have brought upon ment would take any steps towards endeaus, but before proceeding I willvoring to improve the practice, and that
is constantly done : but in all these cases
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
there is a specific notice, and there is a
rise to a point of order. The point of specific question.
The rule is laid down
order which I desire to raise is under the very plainly--better in Bourinot than in
rules of the House which regulate the May or Todd-and I will read it to the
occasions upon which a Senator has a House. It is put very clearly, tersely and
right to address the House. The rule correctly in Bourinot, "Questions put by
which I invoke is rule 21, which says :members," as follows :'<A Senator may speak to any question be" It is an establisbed rule of Parliamentary
eore Senate or upon aquestion,oran amendthe
and one that
be
"lnt to be proposed by himself,or upon a ques- practice,observed, that no should always adof order arisin gon of the debate, but not strictly House, unless it member is toto a
out
be to speak
otherwise without ieave of the Senate, which dress the
motion already under debate, or to pro pose
sha be determined without debate."
one himself for discussion.
A practice, howThis is the rule of the House, and this ever, bas long prevailed in Parliament, and is
's the rule which has been observed in the now established im the Senate and House ot
Commons, of putting questions to Ministers of
House of Commons. Certain exceptions the Crown, concerning any measure pending
have been engrafted on this rule by the in Parliament, or other public matter, and of
usages of Parliament,and more particularly receiving the answers or explanations of the
by the usages of the House of Lords and persons so interrogated. This deviation from
has arisen
the Senate. In the House of Commons, the general rule respecting motions has sbown
in England and in this country, questions from the necessitv that experience informaof obtaining for t'he House material
are put briefly and answered shortly. In tion, which may throw light on the business
the louse of Lords and in this House, a before it, and serve to guide the judgment in
certain latitude has been allowed to mem- its future proceedings. The procedure in the
Senate on such occasions is quite different
bers who put questions.
That latitude from that of the House of Commons. Much
originally confined them to such explan- more latitude is allowed in the Upper House,
ations as were necessary to elucidate the and a debate otten takes place on a mere
question they were about to put. By question or inquiry, of which, however, notice
degrees that latitude was enlarged, and it must always be given when it is of a special
Many attem pts have been made
character.
has, during late years, been the practice
in
such questions, but the
the House of Lords and here to give to prevent debate on seen from the precedents
Senate. as it may be
notice, as the hon. gentleman has
done in

this ca3e, that he will on such a day draw
attention to such a subject, and
will ask
the Government such a question : but the
notice is intended to give the
House
generally information as to the precise
object which the hon. member has
in
who is about to put the question, view
in order that members may prepare themB2

set

forth in the notes below, have never

practically given up the.usage of permitting
speeches on these occasions-a usage which
is essentially the same as in the Lords' House.

The observations made on such occasions,
however, should be confined to the persons
making and ansivering the inquiry, and if
others are allowed to offer renarks these
should be rather in the way of explanation, or
with the view of eliciting further information
on a question of public mnterest.
The more

818

Pulic Aftair8 [SENATE]

regular, and now the more common practice,
is fbr a member, in cases requiring some discussion, to give notice that he will call attention on a future day to a publie matter, and
make an inquiry of the Governnent on the
subject. Then it is perfectly legitimate to
discuss the whole question at length, as the
termsw of the notice show the intention of the
person who puts it on the paper. This practice of the House of Lords las been followed
in the Canadian Senate since 1877."
Now, that pre-supposes a notice of an
intention to call attention of the House
to a specific matter and to ask a specific
question. The hon. gentleman in this
case has not taken that course. He has
not taken a course which would give the
House any information concerning the
matter which he proposes to discuss, and
the very object of a notice is that the
House may be prepared to consider what
he brings before them. The notice in
this case is " That he will cal] attention to the present
state of the public affairs of the Dominion,
and will ask the Governnent how they propose to reniedy existing evils."

of the Dominion.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Knowing,
from extensive reading, the procedure of
Parliament both in the House of Lords
and the House of Commons in England,
I never supposed that the leader of the
Government in this House would possibly
raise any objection to the motion of which
I have given notice. If I had anticipated
that he would do so, I could have brought
twenty different cases in point both in the
House of Commons and the House of
Lords, and I would only respectfully solicit
the Speaker of this House to delay his decision on the point of order until Monday,.
that I mày have an opportunity of presenting to this House numerous precedents, as I am prepared to do. When the
affairs of a nation or a country are drifting into an alarming condition it has been:
the privilege of any member of the House
of Lords or the House of Commons to refer to the subject and to touch upon any
questions in which the public interests are
involved. If I had the least idea that the
leader of the House, who seems always.
disposed to block-

Now, calling the attention of the House
to the existing state of public affairs may
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
mean anything and everything. It may hon. member is out of order.
mean all the policy of the Government
from the time they became a Government
THE SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman
to the present day. It means all the is not in order. The only argument he
affairs of the North-West; all the affairs can use is as to the question of order.
of the Pacific Railway; the tariff-anything and everything the hon. gentleman
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Then I
chooses to talk about: and then his ques- merely rise to respectfully solicit the Chair
tion is, " How they propose to remedy to delay the decision on this question unexisting evils ? " What an inquiry that is, til Monday. I will bring to his attention

and how impossible it is for any Government to speak in reply to such a question !
The hon. gentleman's view of what are
existing evils differs, very likely, most
materially from the view I entertain, and
probably the view of the majority of the
House as to what are existing evils ; and
therefore to say that he will draw attention
to everything-because that is substantially the notice he has given-to draw
attention to everything and ask everything

numerous precedents of motions in the
House of Lords similar to this one which,
I have placed on the paper.

does not come within the rules and usage

HoN. MR. DICKEY-I should think
that the feeling of the House would be
that the matter should be decided now, if
his Honor is prepared to give his decision.

of Parliament, even as that usage has
been interpreted of late years. Therefore,
I think the hon. gentleman has no right
to address the House and make the
inquiry of which he has given notice. I
submit the question of order for the consideration of the House.
HON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL

THE SPEAKER-The postponement
proposed by the hon. member does not
rest with me. If the House desire that
the question should remain over until
Monday, I am perfectly willing to postpone
it.

HON. MR. POWER-I do not agree
with the hon. member from Amherst. As.

Public Afairs [MAY 1, 1885] of the Dominion

8i19ý

it happens tbe hon. gentleman from Wood- into this House by the hon. gentleman
stock stands in a somewhat peculiar posi- who is now Minister of the Interior, the
tion in the Senate.
hon. gentleman gave a notice which really

did not inform the flouse as to the extent
of the ground that he proposed to cover.
I remember that in 1877, the notice given
Hox. MR. POWER-He is the leader was an inquiry of a limited character,.
of the third party in the House, and I and the hon. gentleman travelled over a
believe constitutes the third party himself, great deal of ground that was not covered
and I think that, being in such a small by the notice. In the next session, 1878,
minority, he is entitled to every consider- the hon. gentleman gave notice that he
ation from the members of the two regular would call attention to the financial conparties. Now, the hon. gentleman has dition of Canada. Well, the financial
stated here in his place, that he can condition of Canada is a very wide subproduce several precedents to justify the ject. Now, where is the House going toaction which he proposes to take ; and I draw the line ?
think that as a matter of courtesy to an
hon. member .of the House, he should
HON. MR. BOTSFORD-That was a
have an opportunity of doing so. If the specific motion.
House should decide not to give the hon.
tlember that opportunity, which I hope
HoN. MR. POWER-This is a specific
they will not do, I think, even looking at motion. It was customary some years
the authorities cited by the Minister of ago to move the House into Committee
Justice, there is nothing out of order in of the Whole on the general state of the
the notice of the hon. gentleman, and the provinces, and practically this notice is
manner in which he proposes to speak. intended, I presume, to bring about subIt is true that the subject is a somewhat stantially almost the same result as the
extensive one, but there is no limitation motion to go into a Committee of the
laid down in Bourinot or the authorities Whole on the general state of Canada.
to which he refers as to the extent of a Considering, as I said before, the extreme
subject. The Government, I think, should numerical smallness of the party which
be prepared always to defend their policy the hon. gentleman leads, and the fact
at all points.
that there is ample time just now at the
disposal of this House for a discussion of
HON. MR. ALEXANDER- Hear, the general condition of the country, the
hear.
rule ought to be construed in the broadest
and most generous spirit.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Hear, hear.

RON. MR. POWER-I think that it is

the duty of the Government to be preTHE SPEAKER-I am quite prepared
pared.
to give my decision on this question now,
and if it is the pleasure of the House I
HoN. MR. ALEXANDER-They are shall do so.
afraid
of a debate.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I call for
HON. MRL POWER-The hon. gentle- the yeas and nays whether the Speaker

ian notice has been on the paper now
s
for something like a month, and the Government have had every opportunity,
there were any weak places in their if
fences, to strengthen them, and I do dethink it could be pleaded that they not
are
taken by surprise; that is the only object
f nakng the notice definite, to prevent
the Government being taken by surprise.
Now, I remember that, when this procedure of calling attention to a matter,
and
then asking a question, was first introduced

shall give his decision now, or delay it until Monday. I do not believe that any
six or eight members should dictate to this
House. (Order.) It is contrary to every
rule and precedent of Parliament.
THE SPEAKER-When the motion on
the paper first attracted my attention, I
thought it was of an unusual character.
It has been on the paper now for several
weeks, and for my own part, I have noidea at the present moment, although it

820

Public Ajairs [SENATE] of Me Domipion.

has come every day under my eye during
that time, what the object of the hon.
gentleman is in placing the motion on the
paper. The practice of asking information
from the Government is a very useful one,
and prevails largely in both Houses; but
the practice of the Senate is very different
from that of the House of Commons. In
the Flouse of Commons, no such latitude
as members enjoy in the Senate is at all
permitted. Here, following the practice
in the House of Lords, a very great latitude in debate is allowed on notices of
this character. Our practice is altogether
controlled by the example and precedents
of the House of Lords. The rule of the
Senate regulating the right of Senators to
address the House, I need not repeat, as
it has been read by the Minister of Justice. I will, however, read from May on
the practice generally of putting questions
in Parliament, before referring to precedents that I intend to quote on this subject. May says that:" By the practice of both Houses, questions
are frequently put to Ministers of the Crown
concerning any measure pending in Parliament, or other public event; and to particular
members who have charge of a bill, or who
have gi ven notices of motion, or are otherwise
concerned in some business before the House,
a question may be asked concerning the intentions of the Governmeut, in any matters of
legislation or administration, but not as to
their abstract opinions upon general questions
of policy. When a question affects the character of a member, or reflects upon the conduct of other persons, it is more properly the
subject of the motion which can be conveniently debated. Notice is usually given of
such questions in the votes, unlees they relate
to sone matter of urgency, or to the course
of public business. All questions should be
limited as far as possible to matters immediately connected with the business of Parliament, and should be put in such a manner as
not to involve opinion, argument, or'inference;
nor are any facts to be stated, unlese they be
necessary to make the question intelligible.
In the same manner, an answer should be confined to the points contained in the question,
with such explanation only as will render the
answer intell ible, without discussion; but a
certain latitu e is sometimes permitted, by
courtesy, to Ministers of the Crown. It is
irregular to refer to past debates, either in a
question or answer, but a departure from this
rule has been occasionally permitted, in order
to clear up misunderstandings. When a question has been fully answered, a member will
not be allowed to repeat it. Where notice has
been given of an irregular question, it is either
corrected at the table, if possible, in conference
THE SPEAKER.

with the member himself, or wholly onitted
by direction of the Speaker.
"Sometimes, when an answer has been
given, further questions are addressed to the
Minister on the sanie subject, but no observations or comments are then permitted to be
made. In the Lords, a greater license of
debate is permitted, in putting and answering
questions, and commenting upon them, withont any question being before the House. In
1867, the Lords' committee on public business, while recognizing and approving this
practice, resolved that notice of questions
should be given in the minutes, except in
cases of urgency. And on the 2nd April,
1869, it was resolved, 'that it is desirable
when it is intended to make a statement or
raise a discussion, on asking a question, that
notice of the question should be given in the
orders of the day and notices."
It is well understood that by the m2th
rule of the Senate, that in cases unprovided for the House is governed by the
rules, usages and proceedings of the
House of Lords.
Bourinot, on the same point, has this
clear and emphatic language with regard
to the necessity of a notice in repect to a
question to be submitted to the House for
discussion " The more regular, and now the more
common practice, is for a member in cases requiring some discussion, to «ive notice that
he will call attention on a luture day to a
public inatter, and make an inquiry of the
Government on the subject. Then, it is perfectly legitimate to discuss the whole subject
at length, as the terms of the notice show the
intention of the person who puts it on the
paper."
Now, to my mmd, the terms of the
question of the hon. Senator from Woodstock, do not show what question the hon.
member intends to ask the Government.
With regard to the practice on this subject, I wish first to refer to the precedents
of the House of Lords on which our practice is founded, and I shall cite out of innumerable cases which I could mention,
one or two showing the practice of the
House of Lords on questions of this kind.
The first one is in regard to the subject of
Railway Amalgamation in 1872 " The Earl of Airlie called attention to the
question of .Railway Amalçamation, and inquired whether Her Majesty s government intend to appoint a Royal Commission, or to
move for a Committee for the purpose of investigating the question of aRailway Amalgamation; or whether they intend to propose
further legislation on this subject during the
present session ? "

PiublicAËai8 (M AY 1, 1885] of the Donion.
Here the subject of the inquiry is clearly
and specifically stated ; what the noble
lord wished to call the attention of the
louse to, and the question which he intended to ask is as clearly indicated. 1
will only cite another out of the many
cases which I could mention. It is as
follows

-

" Lord Chelmsford called attention to the
report of the Marriage Law Commission presented to the liouse in the year 1868, and asked, whether the Government have any intention of taking steps to carry out the recom-'
lhendations f the commissioners for the
amnenduient of the law ?"
Here, again, the subject to which it was
the intention of the member to direct the
attention of the House, was clearly and
sPecifically indicated, and the question
which it was intended to ask the Govenment is just as clearly foreshadowed in
the notice. These questions should and
Must form precedents to govern our practice. It has been said, however, by the
hon. member from Halifax, that questions
very similar to the one now before the
House have been put in this Chamber
hitherto. I differ from the hon. Senator,
at leat
have searched in vain for any
similar motion being made in this House.
The case alluded to by the hon. Senator
frorm Halifax, is the first instance which
we have in our books. It was on the
occason of a similar motion made
by the
hon. Minister of the Interior, who
was the
introducer of this practice into the Senate.
The question was :
The hon. Mr. Macpherson called the attention of the House to the public expenditure
of the Domninion, e8pecially t bat portion of ut
whch is rgely witin e contro of the adn1stration, and inquired of the
be t 1 proposed to restore the Government
equilibrium
ween ncome and expenditure?"
Here the subject was the public expenditure of the Dominion, and
specifically the controllable expenditure of
the
Dominion, and the question asked of
the
Government was how it was intended
to
restore the equilibrium between
revenue
and expenditure.
In the next year, a
Similar question was put by the
hon.
Minster of the Interior on the same subject, as follows:~
" The non. Mr. Macpherson
have cle
the attention of the House i h
Penditure of the Dominion, especally
tiat
Portion of iL
twhich is largely within the control

821

of the administration, with a view to inquire
of the Government how it is proposed to restored the equilibrium between income and
expenditure ? "
Here we have again the subject intended to be brought to the notice of the
House clearly indicated. The House was
not taken by surprise; the Government
could not be taken by surprise in the
answer they would have to give to the
But I may say that these two
question.
questions put by the hon. Minister of the
Interior exhibit a greater latitude in regard
to the subject than any others I think to
be found either on our journals, or on the
records of the House of Lords. I do not
know that it is necessary for me to weary
the House with further precedents.
I
have, however, another precedent fron a
very excellent authority which I must
A question was put by the hon.
quote.
member from Halifax in 1883, as follows:
"Hon. Mr. Power called the attention of
the House to certain objectionable features in
the management of the line of steamshi ps
wrich now carry the mails between the
United Kingdom and Canada, the desirability
of making changes i the terrns of the existing contract so as to render the operation of
the contract more beneficial to Canada, and
the necessity of terminating the present contract; and ask the Governiment whether they
have given or propose to give, notice to the
contractors of their intention to terminate the
said contract, and if so, what is the nature of
the changes which the Governinent propose
to make in the terms of the said contract?"
This question, I think, might be very
safely adopted as a model by hon. members desiring to put inquiries of this kind.
It is the most specific form of question
perhaps on our books, and neither the
House nor the Government could at all
be taken by surprise either in discussing

or in answering it.

I think I may be

permitted to say that the practice has gone
quite far enough in this House with regard
to inquiries of this character. We have
gone beyond the precedents of the House
of Lords from which we have taken this
practice. In the House of Lords, no
notice of an inquiry of this kind can be
adjourned, as is often done in this House,
because there being no substantive motion
there is nothing to found an amendment
upon, and a motion for the adjournment
of the debate from day to day must be, in
amendment to the main motion. Such
motions are never made in the Flouse of

Ofences Against [SENATE] Me Peron Bill.

,892

Lords. If, however, motions of the des- the building to us for some weeks ; and
cription of that which has just now been there is at least as much reason now for
taken exception to are permitted, I am
afraid that our practice will become very
loose, and the use of a notice on the paper
may almost as well be dispensed with.

adjourning over for three or four weeks
as there was in an earlier part of the session. It is unfair to keep members here,
when there is nothing for them to do.

My opinion clearly is, that the question of
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
the hon. Senator from Woodstock is out
hon. gentleman is probably more in the
of order.
PARLIAMENTARY RETURNS.

secrets of the Opposition as to the course
they are pursuing in the other branch than
I am. The hon. gentleman, I think, is
mistaken in saying that there will be no
business up from the other House for
three or four weeks. I am sure that unless the party with which he is connected
obstructs the business very much in the
other House, in a short time there will be
work enough before us to keep us occupied, and I think we should remain, because we do not know how soon the policy
of the Opposition may change.

HON. MR. POWER-Before the orders
of the day are called, I should like to ask
the Minister of Justice if he can inform
the House what time the reports of the
railway surveys, asked for some considerable time ago, will be brought down.
When I asked the Minister a few days ago
he said that he thought they had been
laid on the table of the other House. But
that would not be an answer to our resolution, and I imagine that the reports, if
HON. MR. ALMON.-If the leaders in
brought down, would have been printed
before now and distributed amongst mem- this House, in conjunction with the Ministers in the other House, will issue an inbers of this House.

ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
inquired the day after the hon. gentleman
put the question to me, and I found that
the report had been in the possession of
the Minister of Railways, but had not
been laid on the table of the othtr House
by him. He told me, however, that he
would either give them to me to bring
them down here, or would lay them on
the table of the other House himself, and
I do not know whether he has since
HON. SIR

junction that no books are to be taken out
of the library, I think it would shorten the
session of Parliament very much. The
practice of reading long extracts from
books, which has been carried on in the

other House, and which has lately broken
out here in a slight degree to the left of
Mr. Speaker, should be disallowed, and
we would get through the business of Parliament much sooner, and get home to our
families.

brought them down to the other House OFFENCES AGAINST THE
SON BILL.
or not.
A

SUGGESTED

ADJOURNMENT.

HON. MR. POWER-Before the orders
of the day are called, I should like to
suggest to the leader of the Government
the advisability of adjourning this House
over for some time.
HON. GENTLEMEN-Hear,
Oh, oh ! No, no ! "

hear!

HON. MR. POWER-The work of this
House has been kept up very satisfactorily
up to date ; there are no arrears of work

before us, and it does not seem likely that
any work will come from the other end of

THE SPEAKER.

PER-

REJECTED ON THIRD READING.

HON. MR. GOWAN moved the third
reading of Bill (S), "An Act to amend 'An
Act respecting Offences against the Person,'" as amended. He said : This Bill
has already been spoken to very fully. I
would only shortly observe that the enactment is one of a very beneficial character,
a wholesome enactment, intended to protect the weak and helpless. The law as it
stands, is insufficient to do so, and I would
simply quote two extracts from a judgment of Mr. Justice Armour, who lately
gave his decision in respect to the competency of a wife to give evidence against
the husband. He said:-

Ojence8 Again8t [MAY 1, 1885] the Person Bill.

823

".The law under which the prisoner was
HON. MR. SCOTT-If the wife is not
]ndicted is, to ny mind, a inost wholesome
tnactment, and it must, in my opinion in competent as a witness.
nearly every case like the present, be a dead
letter unless the wife, against whom the
HON. MR. ALMON-If the wife is not
offence is committed by lier husband, be per- a compellable
witness under the law ?
Mitted to testify against him."
In winding up his judgment he said:HON. MR. GOWAN-What I said is
" I do not think that we ought, by declar- this : I quoted the language of one of the
ing the wife to be incompetent, to render the learned judges of Ontario, Justice Armour,
very salutorv Act under which the prisoner and what he said was this : that unless
wa8 Convicted 'vain and useless.'"
the wife was permitted (he was in the
Nothing that I could say would add minority and differed from the judges
force to these remarks, but I may say, and who held that she was not allowable
.do so most emphatically, that the Act as a witness) the law would be a dead letwill be a dead letter unless the wife is ter, and a very salutory enactment would
allowed to give her testimony in any fall to the ground, dead and useless.
charge preferred by her against the husband. I bow to the decision of the House.
HoN. MR. ALMON-This is a piece
They desire that the husband also shall be
of patch-work on the law as it stands.
a witness, and in the face of the vote that The Bill has already been so amended
has been giver,I feel it would be improper
and patched by the hon. gentlemen and
tO contend against it.
the lawyers who have been hackling at it
since it has been before us, that it has at
ION. MR. BELLEROSE-I would last got to be like a tramp's trousers-you
ask the hon. gentleman to allow the third cannot tell which is the original, and
reading of this Bill to stand until Monday, which are the emendations. When it was
as the Bill is very important, and there is introduced, it provided that the wife
difference of opinion as to the effect
of should be a competent and compellable
the amendment.
witness against the husband ; then it was
moved that the husband should also be
H7ON. MR. GOWAN-I would be ex- an allowable witness in his own behalf.
ceedingly pleased to meet my hon. friend's I may say that the hon. gentleman from
suggestion but I have been called sud- Halifax lopped off one limb; the hon.

denly home on a matter that will make
it member from Lunenburg lopped off
impossible for me to be here on Monday. another, and the hon. member from

ION. MR. ALMON-I have a great
many reasons for moving the resolution
which I now do, that this Bill be not now
read the third time, but that it be read
this day three months. In the first
place,
I consider that all amendments to the
cri-ninal law should come from the Minister of Justice. I think that this kind
patchwork-bringing in a Bill to alter of
the
criminal law, when we do not know what
went before this amendment,
or what
Comes after it, is not advisable.
dropped out during the debate, It only
Punishment for the husband, if that the
on this evidence, is three months convicted
imprisonment. The hon. gentleman
himself has
iust tohd us that this Bill, as amended,
vill be a dead letter if it becomes law.
ON.

MR. POWER-No, no.

Amherst cut off another, and I think the
Minister of Justice cut off another. With
his pleasant smile, the father of the little

Benjamin now asserts a doubt whether he
recognizes his own child; in fact, I think
he knows as little about it, as he did

about the seat of that boil that he alluded
to a few days ago as having escaped the
notice of the medical men. We know
that eventally that boil came to a head,
but where it originated we know not.
HON. MR. SCOTT-The hon. gentleman perhaps is correct in stating that there
have been one or two changes made in
this Bill, but in its present shape it is an
extremely simple measure, and I am quite
sure when he hears it read, he will agree
with me in the opinion that it is as simple as it can possibly be made. It is as
follows:-

82A4

Ofences Against [SENATE] the Person Bill.

"I n any prosecution of any person under
this section for refusing or neglecting to provide food, clothing or Iodging for his wi e or
children, the accused (that is the husband)
and his wife, shall be comipetent (not cornpellable) to give evidence as witnesses either

because I am forced to support him frorm
my own convictions, notwithstanding the
fact that the learned gentleman from
Barrie is the personification of justice, and
I am disposed to give a great deal of
for or against the accused."
attention to everything he says.
When
Nothing can be simpler than that. It the hon. gentleman introduced this Bill,
allows each one to go into the box, and I was in favor of it, with certain amendallows the husband to tell his own story, ments. I was opposed to anything that
and the wife to tell her story. Those would have the tendency to sever the tie
I believe it
stories always reach the Bench, whether between husband and wife.
under oath, or not under oath. In my is a tie recognized in law to be so close,
judgment, in cases of this kind, where that they have never been allowed to give
both parties have such a direct interest, evidence for or against each other, and
there is very little difference whether they this seems to be the first departure from
are sworn or not sworn ; because a judge, that salutory and, I believe, just rule, and
in a case of this kind, which is a domestic I consider it to be vicious in its tendency
matter, naturally asks the husband to give and effect.
If we allow a measure of
his explanation. It is presumed that the this kind to become law, under which the
explanation he gives in a crisis of that kind wife and husband can give evidence for
is the same as he would give under oath. or against each other, I believe it will have
I think it is always extremely important a dangerous tendency, and it was with
that the wife should be enabled to give her that feeling in my mind I moved the
amendment at another stage, that the
statement.

wife's evidence should not be sufficient as
HoN. MR. ALMON-It leads to per- against her husband without corroborative
testimony. If the Bill had remained in
jury.
that position, with my amendment accepHON. MR. SCOTT-I am quite pre- ted, as I thought by the House, I should
pared to agree with the hon. gentleman have been satisfied to vote for it in that
in that, but there seems to be an opinion way ; but when the amendment was proabroad that in the administration of the posed yesterday, and carried, that the
criminal law we should follow the lines husband and wife shouild both be comlaid down in the civil law, to allow the petent witnesses, I considered it was a
parties to a case to be examined under departure from ail the principles that I
oath. A Bill was brought before the believe to govern the rules of evidence
British House of Commons the other day, with respect to charges between husband
and was passed there, which allowed the and wife. Although there may be some
accused in ail cases, not only in misde- reason why such a law as this should be
meanors, but in felonies, to give evidence enacted, I do not think that the wife
in his own case. If there is a case in is exactly in the position my hon. friend
which the accused should be allowed to says, in ail cases. She usually has scme
give evidence in his own behalf, it is in connections or sympathizing friend. She
one of this kind. As the Bill now stands is not isolated from everybody, and there
there can be no objection to it ; both will be some friend who will know of her
parties will be heard, and no doubt there condition if she is in want and suffering,
will have to be corroborative evidence and any merchant or neighbour will probefore a decision will be given for or vide her with the necessaries of life, the
husband can be made responsible for
against the accused.
those necessaries in a civil action. ThereHON. MR. KAULBACH-No doubt, fore, while ·this civil remedy exists, I see
as the hon. member from Barrie has the no reason for a law of this kind, the tensupport of the leaders of the Government dency of which will be to weaken that
and of the Opposition, he will not fear the close relation which should always exist
fate of the Bill. I may say that I regret between husband and wife, and to lead to
that my hon. friend, the junior member perjury. My hon. friend from Ottawa
from Halifax, has brought in this motion, has given us the strongest reason why
HoN. MR. SCOTT.

Civil Service Act [MAY 4, 1885.] Amendment Bill.
this Bill should not become law. He says
it is immaterial whether the wife and husband are sworn or not ; that the Court
would pay very little attention to their
evidence.

Girard,
Gowan,
Grant,
Haythorne,
MeClelan,
MeInnes,

825

Power,
Scott,
Srnith,ý
Stevens,
Sutherland,
Vidal,

Macfarlane,

Wark.-23.

HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentle- Miller (Speaker),
mran from Ottawa did not put it in that
The House then divided on the main
way.
motion, which was lost on the following
division :HON. MR. KAULBACH-If I am misCONTENTS:
representing the hon. gentleman from
Hon. Messrs.
Ottawa, he can correct me himself. He
said he considered it of very little import- Alexander,
Miller (Speaker),
ance whether they were sworn or not, Archibald,
O'Donohoe,
because he considered there would be Campbell (Sir Alex.), Pellet er,
Poirier,
perjury somewhere, and the court would Dever,
Flint,
Power,
pay little attention to either of them. Girard,
Scott,
That is a reason why I consider they Gowan,
Smith,
Stevens,
should not be brought into a court as Grant,
Sutherland,
witnesses when we feel that such would Havthorne,
Vidal,
McClelan,
be the result.
Having had considerable MeInnes,
Wark.-23.
experience in such matters in my practice, Macfarlane,
I cannot allow this Bill to pass without
NON-CONTENTS:
mny disapproval.
With the amendment
Hon. Messrs.
which I proposed, I was quite ready to
Giasier,
accept it, because then it was not the Almon,
Kaulbach,
wife's evidence alone that the conviction Armand,
Baillargeon,
McDonaId,
was based on, but upon that evidence Bellerose,
McKay,
McKindsey,
supported by independent testimony. The Bolduc,
Bill, as it stands, is vicious in its tendency, Boteford,
Montgomery,
Chaffers,
Nelson,
and has my unqualified opposition.
Chapais,
Odeil,
Plunb,
The House divided on the amend- Clemow,
Read,
ment, which was lost on the following Cochrane,
DeBlois,
Trudel,
division:Turner.-24.
FerguHon,
The Senate adjourned at 5:15 p.m.
CONTENTS:

Hon. Messrs.
Almon,
Armand,
Baillargeon,
Belerose,
Bolduc,
Botsford
Chafters,
Chapais,
Ciemow,
Cochrane,
DeBon,
Fergugon,

Glasier,
Raulbach,
McDonald,
McKay,
McKindsey,
Montgomery,
Nelson.
Plumb,
Read,
Trudel,
Turner.-23.
NON-CONTENTS:

Hon. Messrs.
Alexander,
Odeli,
Archibald
O'Donohoe,
Canpbell,'(Sir Alex.),Pelietier,
Flijnt
Poirier,

THE SENATE.

Ottaa, Monday, D88oe41',
May
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
o>clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.

CIVIL SERVICE ACT AMENDMEN1'
BILL.
SECOND

READING.

CAMPBELL move
HON. SIR ALEXS
the second reading of Bil (3),"An Act to
amnend and consoVidate the Civil Service

Civil Service Act [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

'826

Acts ot 1882, 1883 and 1884." He said:
This Bill proposes to introduce some
changes into the present Civil Service
Acts. I do not find that the changes are
very important. The first that I notice is
in the third clause; it is to apply the
'Civil Service Act to the officers and employes of the Government in the NorthWest Territory. That has been rendered
necessary by the increased forces which
the Government are obliged to employ
there. The 5 th clause enables the Governor-in-Council, fron time to time, to
make rules and regulations respecting the.
appointments and promotions of civil
servants. Sub-section 2 of the same
clause provides that the supernumerary
clerks shall not be eligible for increase of
salary. Section 7 provides that anyone
who is a member of the civil service at the
time of the passing of this Act shall be
classified in the class in which he has
been appointed. The next clause provides that the Board of Examiners shall
he supervised by the Secretary of State,
and the 4th sub-section of the clause fixes
the salary of each menber of the board at
$6oo per annum.

held, unless they present themselves for
exanination and obtain certificates. I
think that is a very good amendment.
Then sub-section a of section 50 has been
changed to enable the deputy head to
suspend an official from performance of
his duty, or receipt of his salary, for misIt sometimes
onduct or negligence.
happens that it may not be desirable to
suspend an official from the performance
of his duty, but it may be thought advisable to punish him for some neglect of
duty, as, for instance, a mail clerk who
has been careless, and this is to enable the
Head of the Department, or his deputy, to
punish the offender by saying to him,
"you shall go on with your duty, but you
shall pay a fine for what you have done."
Sub-section 2 of section 51 provides that
when an officer of inferior rank performs
the duties of a superior officer he shall
receive the same pay ; I think that is
eminently fair. Section 52 is as follows:
Any officer, clerk or employe who has resigned, shall be eligible, without examination,
under the authority of an Order-in-Council,
to re-enter the service, at the saine salary in
the class in which lie was serving at the time
of such resignation, and provided that funds
are available for the payment of his salary.

HON. MR. SCOTT-How much have
I know of two instances of this kind-a
they now ?
man has left the service, believing himself
to be unfit to discharge his duties through
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.some threatening complaint, who turned
They have so much a day, and it cornes, out afterwards to be fit for work. This
in the course of the year, to about that. clause enables the Government to avail
Each examiner receives $8 a day. There themselves of his services.
is another sub-section which allows members of the board their travelling expenses.
HON. MR. SCOTT-Somebody else
The seventh sub-section provides for the may have been appointed to the position
appointment of a secretary to the board, in the meantime.

at a salary not exceeding $i,ooo per

annum, with a clerk to assist him. One
of the examiners now discharges the
duties of secretary, and with the number
of persons coming to be examined it is
impossible for him to take his part in
holding the examinations; therefore, it is
proposed to appoint a secretary. The
47th clause of the Bill provides that when,
from a temporary pressure of work, the assistance of temporary clerks becomes necessary, the Head of the Department may, on
requisition of the deputy head, select from
the lists of qualified candidates the
necessary clerks, but such persons are not
to be continued after the period in which
a preliminary or qualifying examination is
HON.

SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLThen he could not be employed again in
that position. Clause 53 provides that all
payments of money to permanent employes, other than salaries, shall be made
only under the authority of the Governorin-Council. That is a provision to remedy
a difficulty which sometimes occurs, and
which certainly should be put a stop to.
Sometimes a clerk stands well with his
principal, and an endeavor is made to give
him additional salary, and an item for that
purpose is put in the Estimates. The
Estimates are often made up somewhat
hurriedly, and this item, with others, receives the sanction of Parliament, and this

Civil Service Act [MAY 4, 1885] Amendment Bill.
clerk gets the money without the matter
having had the consideration of the Governor-in-Council. This is to provide that
even under these circumstances, although
Parliament may have voted the money,
yet the intervention of the Governor inCouncil will be necessary, and then, of
course, their responsibility will be complete.
HON. MR. MACINNES (Burlington)It would be a further protection if it came
fron the Treasury Board.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
Treasury Board only makes recommendations to the Governor-in-Council. The
Governor-in-Council throughout act in
that, as in kindred matters, by referring to
the Treasury Board and adopting their report. There are some novelties, I think,
in the schedules. I do not know at this
nioment of more than two. One is
a superintendant of letter carriers maythat
be
appointed at a salary not exceeding $8oo.
HON. MR. SCOTT-A new office?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-A new
office, im name at all events. The duty
has been discharged in some of the larger
cOffies-in Montreal I believe, in Toronto,
know-by a clerk. There are a great
niany letter cariers in a place like Toronbelieve upwards of ioo, and in dealtng with so many employés it is desirable
that somne one man should be the master
to see that they got out with their letters
at the proper hour, that they return in
proper time, that they take all
the letters
-supervise in that way the letter carriers
in the complete performance
duties. It has been found, in of their
Toronto I
know, to be attended with very good reSuts, and the work has been done,
not
uder this name of Superintendent
of
ter Carriers, but a clerk has attended Letto it
and seen that they carried
out
the Department, that disciplinethe rules of
duaintained and that they were has been
all fit for
duty. It is a complete
supervision over
that thranch of the service, and I believe
Thet s s is a very valuable
improvement.
rhe system obtains only
in 6 or 7 of the
loger cties. There is also a change
in
sone Part f the Bill in the
number of
ersons who may be appointed
to office
ivithout examination.

827

HON. MR. POWER - That is the
deputy-collector of Inland Revenue. He
is substituted for the collector. It is in
clause 37, sub-section 2. It is an improvenient as far as it goes.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
collectors are responsible for the correct
discharge of their duties, and rtquire a
technical education. For instance, they
must know how to calculate the strength
of liquors, and know the various qualities
of cigars, &c. Technical knowledge of
that kind would be required by the collector, although the deputy-collector may
be brought in without examination and
without reference to the rules for promotion prescribed in the Act.
These are the changes ; the House will
perceive that they are not very great. The
Bill excited a great deal of interest in the
other branch of Parliament, but I think
that was because the other House saw
proper to discuss the measure, as though
it were an entirely new matter, and the
civil service system was being introduced
for the first time. The House will see
that the changes are of no great importance in themselves, and perhaps the more
convenient way would have been to have
introduced a separate Bill containing only
However, there is
the amendments.
something to be said on the other side
even in that respect, because it is desirable
in a bill of this kind to have it presented
in whole. I hope the House will not
object to the amendments which have
been proposed. They are sought because
experience has shown that they are desirable in the interest of the civil service.
HON. MR. MAcINNES (Burlington)As this Bill is founded mainly upon the
report of the commission which was appointed in 188o, and of which I happened
to be a member, I think I shall make a few
observations with reference to it. The
commission was appointed to inquire into
the needs and condition of the civil service, and the plan which we adopted was
something like this: we summoned witnesses from all the different Departments
of the inside service for the purpose of
obtaining their evidence. A small subcommittee was appointed by the commission also to visit the various offices of
the inside service, to examine into the

828

Civil Service Act [SENATE] Anendment Bill.

system of accounts. That sub-committee they were largely selected through political
consisted of Mr. Barbeau and myself, and influence and personal favoritism.
we made as thorough an examination into
the system of accounts as we possibly
HON. MR. ALEXANDER -Hear,.
could. Committees from the commission hear !
were also appointed to examine into the
condition of the outside service in the
HoN. MR. MAcINNES--We found on
various cities throughout the Dominion- reading over the documents which wereHalifax, St. John, Quebec, Montreal, submitted to us that up to the end of
Toronto, Hamilton, and I am not sure 1855 the civil service of Great Britain
whether London was visited or not; but was in a deplorable condition, arising, as
all these important points were visited for we read, from the same cause-from the
the purpose of examining witnesses and manner in which appointments and profinding out the condition of the civil ser- motions were made in the service. So
vice in all of them. We had also placed great was the evil that leading statesmen
before us by the Government documents of both parties united to bring about ar
relating to the civil service of Great Bri- reform in that respect, and a commission
tain and France, and other countries. We was appointed, on whose report a system
had these various reports and documents was adopted under which the civil service
published along with the report and evi- of Great Britain has, from being one of the
dence taken, and they will be found in the most defective, become one of the most
Sessional Papers of 188o-81, and will be efficient probably in the world. Having
interesting reading to anyone who takes an that example before us, we deemed it our
interest in the subject. We thought it duty to recommend the adoption of a
would be convenient to publish them in system which had brought about such
that form, so that they will alw ays be ready satistactory results for our Mother Country.
for reference in the Parliamentary Library. For we are British Canadians, or Canadian
We found a good deal to reform in the British, but above all things we are British,
various departments of the service. We and we felt that it ought to be the desire
found that the general expense, in a great of every one in this country to perpetuate
many cases, was needlessly increased, British institutions on this continent ;
mainly by salaries which were paid in therefore we were very largely guided in
this way: we found that officers of the our recommendations by the system
higher grade were performing duties which existing in Great Britain. On the recomought to have been assigned to third-class mendation of the Civil Service Commisclerks, and in that way the expense of the aiorn in i88o, an Act was passed under
service was needlessly increased. We also which all persons entering the civil service
found that the structural arrangements of must pass a preliminary and qualifying
the Departments was very inconvenient, examination, and there was also a period
and it also needlessly added to the ex- of probation insisted upon-a period of
pense, because of so many small rooms six months before permanent appointwhich cause unecessary subdivision of the ment, in order that the fitness of the
work, and strong recommendations were party selected might be ascertained If
made by the commission on that point. found efficient and useful he was apHowever, it isexcessively difficult to change pointed permanently ; if found to be
the structure of buildings after they are inefficient he was not appointed. We
erected ; but as the Government are now also recommended, and this Bill before
about to erect new offices in Ottawa, no us embodies that recommendation, that
doubt attention will be paid to that im- promotion by merit should exist in the
portant point, because it is very important service, and a system of examination is
that clerks shall be in large rooms where adopted before making promotions, in
they will come under the supervision of order to ascertain the fitness of the officer
Then, with reference to
their superior officer. We found that the for promotion. good
the salaries, a
deal has been said on
system of appointment by successive gov- the point of annual increments-that is,.
ernments was defective ; that the best men the third-class clerk to be appointed at a
were not always appointed ; that, in fact, certain salary, and he gets a certain
HON. MR. MACINNES.

Civil Service Act [MAY 4, 1885] Anendment Bill.
.advance annually as here stated in the
Bill. The question is which is the better
system-a system of that kind in which
the clerk gets an increase every year, or a
systen of paying so much as a mean. In
the United States, I think a third-class

829

and gave it a great deal of attention, and
we recommended the Government toadopt
a system of life insurance for the civil
service, and making a deduction from their
salaries to pay for their premiums, in the
·clerk gets $i,ooo, and his salary contin- same manner that the superannuation deductions are now made.
Our recomues at that. My own opinion is in favor mendations were not, however, adopted.
-Of system, because if a clerk only re- It is a very difficult question-a question
Our
mains a short time in the service and gets that has been discussed elsewhere, as well
the $1,000, of course the country is pay- as here ; but it appears to me to
be a very
ing more for his services ; if he remains important matter indeed, that the widows
,under our system we are paying less, and and children of deceased civil servants
then it is an encouragement for him to should have some provision made for
perform his duty. Then there has been them, if the officers themselves do not
a god deal said about the superannua- do so ; and as a rule, I fancy it is more
tion. Our Superannuation Act is admithonored in the breach than in the
ted to be a very good Act. My own observance. Then, with reference to the
opinion is that it is an excellent Act,
superannuation, I think
,and properly administered can be made expense of deal of misapprehension there
is a great
with
largely to contribute to the economy
of reference to it. The cost of the state of
the service. For example, as I have
already superannuation is not so large as it is
Stated we found superior officers, men re- generally supposed to be. The statements
ceiving superior pay, doing the work of in- which
are laid before
erior clerks. It is manifest that a change are incomplete. TheyParliament yearly,
simply show the
should be made in that respect ; that an amounts received from the civil servants
officer receiving high class pay for doing
by those deductions, on the one hand,
-Ow class work, should be removed; but and on the other they show the amounts
it would be ,a great hardship to remove which are paid out for superannuation.
him without compensation. The SuperNo account is taken, however, in those
annuation Act enables the Government
to
of the indirect savings to the
Zet rid of the services of the inefficient in statements,
country, which the Government are enthat way; it is only a question of judg- abled to make owing to the Superannument and discretion, how far
can be exercised, or should bethat power ation Act. Take for example, an office
exercised.
needless, and is,
In Great Britain, the superannuation is that is found to be that it should it be
therefore, desirable
entirely paid by the Government:
that is, abolished, and that the officer occupying it
they make no reductions whatever
the salary of the civil servant ; it is from should be disposed of in some way. It
Paid by the Government. It was awholly would be cruel to discharge him altogether,
ques- but under the Superannuation Act he is
lion that was discussed in the House
of
for and the office is abolished.
Commons in England, very thoroughly provided of that kind it is a clear gain to
In a case
bnd very ably, and it ended in a
being adopted of the Government system the Government, which the Superannupaying
the whoe of the cost of the superannua- ation Act enables them to make. Then
there are other cases where an office is
tion Of civil servants. Objections are abolished, the holder of which was receivtade to our Superannuation
Act, because ing high pay ; but his services can be disit nlres no provision for the
children of deceased civil widows and pensed with under the Superannuation
servants. It Act, and the difference between the
shouldbe borne in mind that
the
kneer intended to do anything Act was salary paid him, and his superannuation
of that allowance, is saved to the state. The
todi ~It was only ntended as a pension Civil Service Commission in i88o, reto Civil servants themselves.
The com- quested the different departments to prechin
of which I had the honor
Chaiman, took up the question of being pare statements of the working of the
of making
Act in that way, and hon.
Provision for widows and
orphans of civil Superannuationfind in the Sessional Papers
gentlemen will
Servants. We discussed
it at great length, of 188o-8i, those statements along with

830

Civil Service Act [SE NATE] Amendment Bill.

the report and the other statements to
which I have already alluded. There can
be no question that the different Acts
which have been passed since the report
of the commission was made to Parliament, are the best we have ever had in
this country. They have not, perhaps,
gone the length of the recommendations made by the commission,
but it appears to me that the
Act is quite abreast with public
opinion. I cannot sit down without stating that the Act itself, and the improvements made in it, are very largely due to
the leader of this House, and the leader
of the Government as well. When we
were appointed to perform this duty we
were left perfectly untramelled ; it is our
own report ; we had no suggestions made
to us from anybody ; we simply went to
work and made as thorough and conscientious an inquiry into the condition of
the civil service as we could, and made
our report accordingly,and upon our report
the Acts of 1882, and the amendments
thereto, were founded. When this Bill is
in the committee, there are some clauses
to which I shall consider it my duty to
ask for some amendments.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
hon. gentleman from Ottawa asked what
the present salary of the Board of Examiners is, and I said that it is $8 a day,
and that it would amount to about the
same sum as is provided by this Bill, but
I see that it does not. The present vote
is $5 a day, but the time is not to exceed
6o days-in all, that would be only $300.
The gentleman who is a member of
the examining board, and who is also
secretary, gets the salary now that it is
proposed to give by this Bill, so that there
is no additional salary there.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-This Bill
introduced to amend and consolidate the
Civil Service Act, as far as I have been
able to investigate the matter, appears to
be drawn with care, and its provisions in
general appear to be in the public interest.
HON. MR. MAcINNES, (Burlington).
Hear! hear!

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-If the
provisions of the Act were only faithfully
HON. MR. MAcINNES.

carried out, I do not think there would be
much to complain of. The salaries of
the officers of the civil service are certainly not excessive.
We desire that
gentlemen holding positions in the
different departments should be able to
live respectably, and that they should be
enabled to educate theirfamilies and clothe
them respectably, and in every way live
in a manner becoming their position.
There are one or two clauses in the Bill
to which, when the House goes into committee, I will venture to move amendments. I think that one of the crying
evils of the system is the abuse of the
Civil Service Act, and not the carrying of
it out faithfully. As was observed to me
the other day, when walking along the
streets of Ottawa, by a Consers ative Senator, while we met a number of superannuated officers in the full vigor of life,
superannuated upon salaries of nearly
$2,ooo a year-" Good God, it is dreadful

to meet such men, in the full vigor of life,
superannuated for some object, probably
for some political purpose." It is simply
dreadful to see such men superannuated
on large salaries, causing a large waste of
public money. This is a fact that is not
denied. It may be alleged by the present
Government that their predecessors did
the same thing. However, two wrongs do,
not make a right, and I protest against
government after government perpetuating
such a system. What are we here for as
members of Parliament, if it is not to endeavor to check this system of selfishness
and corruption, and waste of public money
from year to year ? Another crying evil,
is, that we have found the Government
violating the principles of justice andi
right, bringing their own relatives into the
service and placing them over the heads.
of old public officers who have served for
forty years in the public service, because
of their political power. What sort of
justice is that ? I find in this Bill a very
objectionable clause. I refer to No. 5,
one of the new clauses, which I hope this
House will expunge. It provides that the
Governor-in-Council may, from time to
time, make general rules and regulations
not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act, respecting appointments and promotions of the officers in the civil service,.
"and all other matters pertaining thereto."
Why should the Government have this

Civil Service A et [MAY 4, 18851 Amendment Bill.

831

power ? What is the use of our enacting those demonstrations were such office
a measure if we are to give the Govern- seekers, but one of them came to me at
ment full power to do as they like ?
the Queen's Hotel, Toronto, after the
grand demonstration there, swearing and
HON. MR. POWER-Not to do any- saying, "I have spent a large amount of
thing inconsistent with the Act.
money going to those demonstrations, and
I have been humbugged long enough with
HON MR. ALEXANDER-Does not promises ; I will not go to another." We
that clause bear the impress that they have thus some idea of the nature of those
want to use that power in contravention Public demonstrations, which might thus
of the Act, and for political objects? be composed of 2,000 office seekers
When they want to reward some one who crowding after him, just like the multitude
has rendered political services, either by that came to the shrill sound of Henry
bribing the electors or in some other way, Clay's whistle. I have nothing further
that they will be enabled to place him in to say with regard to this Bill.
Some public office, and make a vacancy
for that purpose. If he is a man who
HON. MR. POWER-I think what the
has sacrificed honor and principle for the Minister of Justice said with respect to the
sake of party, they may then be enabled form of this Bill is sound; but there was
by this Act to compensate him. Could a reason for introducing it in the shape in
any clause be better drawn to enable which it has come up. If the minister
then to corrupt the people of this country ? will look at the chapter of the consolidated
It appears to me that for some time there statutes respecting the civil service, he will
has been an effort on the part of the Gov- see that the Bill, as introduced in the
ernment to lead the multitude to look for other House, was a transcript of that
office. We flnd from end to end of chapter, with the desired amendments
Ontario-I cannot speak for the province inserted. I suppose the object is to subOf Quebec or the Maritime Provinces- stitute this for that chapter in the consolibut there is a prevailing feeling amongst dated statutes.
those that are unfortunate to look to the
ministers to give them office, so they may
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
obtain their sustenance from the public amendments are inserted in italics.
treasury. This reminds me very much of
an anecdote : a British nobleman visited
HON. MR. POWER-As a matter of
lenry Clay at his beautiful place in Ken- mechanical convenience, it was a wise
tucky, on which occasion Mr. Clay, one course to take. We have had several
day after breakfast, asked his guest if he discussions on
civil service bills; and
would take a walk over his domain. In this time we are fortunate in having pretheir ramble they came to a shady
in
discussion,
where they found a number of grove, sent, and taking partdeal the valuable inof
troughs and giving'us a great
when Mr. Clay took from his pocket somt formation in connection with the matter,
grain and salt, which he scattered in the> the hon. gentleman whom we may look
troughs and giving a loud, shrill sound fror i upon as the father of this system. I could
a whistle which he carried in his pocket
detect running through the hon. gentlehogs came towards him from every direc - man's speech, however, a certain melantion, upon which Mr. Clay remarked
because,
t(
the nobleman-" do you see that swinisl choly strain ; and I do not wonder made as
i looking at the report which he
multitude ?
They are typical of thi- chairman of the commission, and at the
hungry office'seekers that surround thie law in which that report is supposed to be
President of the United States
it diffipresidential election." And so after i embodied, I think the father finds
we fin d cult to recognize his own offspring. Unthis country full of hungry office
seekers
tho zealously entered their appearance , less I am misinformed, the commission of
a,t which my hon. friend was the head, rethose great demonstrations last
autumn iln commended that admission to the civil
honor of the first minister of this
countr y service should be by competitive examiat Montreal and Toronto.
I do not mea n nation. That I think is the essential
to say that all those who participated
i n feature of a really good civil service sys-

-832

Civil Service Act [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

term; but, unfortunately, that essential
feature is omitted from the system as we
have it here. The hon. gentleman said,
and he stated it as a melancholy fact, that
at the time this commission was appointed,
political influence had a great deal to do
.with the appointments.
HON. MR. MACINNES-Hear, hear.
HON. MR. POWER-I am glad to know
that I did not misinterpret my hon. friend.
The fact is, that under the present system,
political influence makes the appoinsments just as it did before ; but there it
this improvement now, that political influence cannot appoint a man who is utterly
ignorant. That is the only change.

HON. MR. MACINNES-A man must
be of the requisite age.

clause of the Bill, and that he will move
that in future the persons who come out
best in the examination shall be appointed,
and then we shall have competitive examinations and get clear of political influence.
The hon. gentleman also referred to another matter which does not come directly before us ; but it is a matter of a good
deal of consequence and one which has
been discussed in this House on two or
three occasioris-the question of civil
service superannuation. It appears that
the Government did not adopt what
the commission recommended. The recommendation must be recognized as a
very much better system than the one
which now prevails. That is a system resembling life insurance, under which the
widows and children of servants who die
in the Government employ, should receive
something.

HON. MR. MAcINNES-No, we did
not recommend such an amendment.
HON. MR. MAcINNES - And they That is an entirely different Bill from the
were formerly appointed without being of one which is before us.
.the requisite age.
HON. MR. POWER-But that system
HON. MR. POWER-There is that was recommended.
little improvement-the candidate must
HON. MR. MACINNES-We made no
be of the requisite age, and must possess
such recommendation to amend the Civil
a certain amount of information.
Service Act, as it stood then, or as it
HON. MR. PLUMB-That is a good stands now.
deal.
HON. MR. POWER-I understood that
HON. MR. POWER-It is something; my hon. friend recommended that system
but the essential feature of a good civil of life insurance, and did not think it was
service system does not exist. A hundred to be in addition to superannuation. It
candidates go up for examination under is to be regretted that some such system
the present system, and the examinations has not been introduced ; because now it
as a rule are easy. The Government, in is sometimes thought desirable to dispense
making an appointment, may take the low- with the services of an officer for one
est man who passed, and appoint him to knows not what reason, and he is superfili the first vacancy that occurs. I am annuated with a large allowance; and we
not aware that there are any cases where find him, as the hon. member from Woodthe political leanings of the candidate have stock stated, looking for employment in
been overlooked. So far as political in- other ways, quite energetic, active and
fluence is concerned, it is felt almost as able to do his business, though drawing a
large amount of public money ; while in
much as ever.
the case of a servant who dies in the public
HON. MR. MACINNES-It is an open service, who has saved nothing whatever,
and leaves a helpless widow and children,
competition.
the law makes no provision. It must
HON. MR. POWER--My hon. friend strike everyone that this is a most unsatishas stated that he proposes to move one factory and inequitable system. There is
amendment. I hope it will be to that no doubt that this superannuation has
HON. MR. POWER-Yes.

HON.

MR. POWER.

Civl Service A et [MAY 4, 18851 Amendment Bill.
been abused; we have discussed that
before. If you look at the estimates this
year you will find that there are about
$200,000 estimated for superannuations
alone. That is a tremendous sum for a
Poor and thinly-peopled country like this.
It is about one-fifth of the whole money
paid for civil service purposes. That is
clearly an abuse, and if hon. gentlemen
will look at the returns which have been
brought down from time to time they will
see that what was intended to meet an
exceptional case, the provision that a number of years should be added to the period
-f service of an officer who is about to be
superannuated, has been made the general
rule, and that in very few cases have officers been superannuated on the allowance
tO which they were strictly entitled. I
have ventured to say so much on the
general question ; although perhaps strictly
we ought to deal only with the new matter
in this Bill-at least that might have been
More convenient for the Government. As
to the new portion of the Bill, I wish to
say this, that most of the amendments
which have been mentioned by the Hon.
Minister of Justice, in my humble opinion,
are improvements. The two most important alterations that this Bill makes in the
civil service law are-first, that the whole
fmatter of the civil service is put under the
supervision of the Secretary of State.
'ION. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Oh.
n0; only the examining board.
11
0N. MR. POWER-The board shall
be supervised by the Secretary of State.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
1s only the Board of Examiners.
HON. MR. POWER-That is an important matter.
HON. MR. PLUMB-It merely gives
it
to One man instead of the Council.
HON.

833

this board now.
It is most desirable
now, following out the intentions of the
commission of which the hon. gentleman
behind me was chairman, that this examining board should be kept as free as
possible from every suspicion of political
influence ; and I think the fact that the
board is to be directly supervised by the
Secretary of State is calculated to increase
rather than to diminish the political influence over the examiners. That is one
change which does not deserve approval,
and the other is the change in the mode
of payment of the examining board. The
cost of this examining board is very
considerably increased.
The utmost
amount that one of those examiners
could get under the law as it has existed,
was $300, in addition to his travelling

expenses. Under this Bill, each member gets not merely the maximum that
he could get under the old system, but he
gets double the amount of the old maximum, $6oo. There is to be a secretary.
Under the existing law the secretary
was to be a member of the board
of examiners, so that there were only
two members and a secretary, receiving
$i,6oo in all. Now, there are to be
three members, receiving $600 each,
and a secretary whose salary is fixed
at $i,ooo, so that the expense of the

board has been about doubled. I think,
when we come to look at the actual position of affairs, that increase will appear
the more objectionable. The fact is that
under the examinations which have already
been held, a larger number of candidates
have passed than will be required to fill
places for the next two or three years.
As the law existed before, there need be
very little expense incurred, if it was
deemed unnecessary to hold examinations.
I do not see the necessity of holding
some four examinations each year when
there are so large a number of persons
who have qualified.
HON.

SIR.

ALEX.

CAMPBELL-per

MR. MAcINNES-Formerly it There
are only two examinations

was the Governor-in-Council.

annum.

HoN. MR. POWERshould have
HON. MR. POWER-Supplemental
iuch more confidence in the Board
of examinations are held.
which the Minister of Justice was a member, than I would have in a
single officer
HON. MR. MAcINNES---We are as81ch as the gentleman who is to supervise
sisting to educate the people.
c2

834A

Civil Service Act [SE NATE] Anendment Bill.

HON. MR. POWER-The matter of
education has been left to the local governments ; I do not think it is our busiIf these examinness to educate men.
ations had no other effect than to educate
these young men, there might not be so
much objection to it. We may educate
them, although I doubt if we do ; as a
rule, I think they receive their educations
elsewhere, and after being educated they
The
come to pass these examinations.
result of holding out inducements to
young men to pass these examinations is
that we make them waiters upon Providence.
HON. MR. MAcINNES-Hear, hear!

HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentleman seems to be amused, but it is a
serious matter. There are, I understand,
about 1,200 young men who have passed
Here are these
these examinations.
young men who, but for the inducements
held out by this system, would go to make
their livings at some independent enterprise, who are now trusting to Providence,
or trusting to the good will of the Government which we have been told is a particular friend of Providence, for something
to do bye and bye. I think that is a very
unfortunate state of things.
HON. MR. MAcINNES-Large numbers of these civil service candidates who
have passed the examinations are picked
up by outsiders, such as banks, insurance
companies and others, just as the best of
them are in Great Britain. They see the
list of the young men who have passed
those examinations, and they immediately
avail themselves of the opportunity of
picking them up and giving them employment.
HON. MR. PLUMB-It answers as a
first-class recommendation ; they are well
known everywhere.

have never found much difficulty heretofore in getting clerks, and I do not think
that it is our business to supply them.
This Bill examplifies a tendency which is
too strong in Canada altogether, that when
a comparatively trifling expense would
have enabled the Government to hold ail
the examinations necessary, they fasten on
the country an expensive piece of machinery, which, whether the work is necessary
or not, will go on turning out candidates
who are not required at ail, at great expense to the country. I think that this
particular alteration in the Act is a change
altogether in the wrong direction, and I
am very sorry to see it. I presume, as to
the details of the Bill, that there will be an
opportunity to discuss them in committee.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I intended to address a few remarks to the House, but the
subject has been pretty exhaustively treated ; I may, however, say something more,
at a future stage.
I have not taken
much interest in civil service legislation,,
because I have never had the smallest
faith in it.
It is a very good thing in
theory, but it is not really carried out.
The chief objection I have found to it is
the very one to which the hon. gentleman
who has just taken his seat has adverted ;
that is, it is stimulating a large number of
young men, ail over the country, to believe
that, by passing an examination, they willi
get an appointment to the civil service.
They have come in hundreds and passed
the examination, and that has been the
end of it. When the Government want
to make an appointment, they do not look
to the large number of young men who, at
very considerable expense to themselves,
have passed examinations, but appoint
sornebody who has political influencesomeone who has been put in as a supernumerary clerk, and told to work up and
be prepared to pass the examination.

HON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
hon. gentleman should not say that the
HON. MR. POWER-I am glad that Government disregard the law-that when
my hon. friend's experience has been of they want a supernumerary clerk they take
that kind ; I cannot say that my own has. him from outside the list altogether.
It rnay occasionally happen that a young
HON. MR. SCOTT-I do not like to
man who passes this examination is taken
.nto the service of a bank or an insurance make a strong statenent, but I venture to
company, but I presume that they would say, if we could get now the names of
have taken hin at any rate. The banks those who had been employed during the-

Civil Service Act [MAY 4, 1885] Amendment Bill.
last year, we would find that a very considerable number have been put on as
extra clerks, who have not passed the
examination. The Government can pass
an Order-in-Council by which, for a
lirnited time, supernumerary clerks can be
paid, and thus they can override the
Auditor General.

835

suppose there would be anything like io
per cent. ; so here we have 90 per cent. of
the appointments made from persons who
were not examined before their appointment, and not from amongst the young
men of the country who have been led by
false representations to look for Government positions, and have been waiting on
Providence, looking to the Government
and believing the time might come when
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
appointment. I
Order-in-Council can only be for one they would receive an been appealed to
have, myself, frequently
month.
by gentlemen, who have said "I have
passed the civil service examination and
HON. MR. SCOTT-Only for one I want an appointment." I have invariably
month at a time ; they can pass another said, " unless your application is backed
Order-in-Council for the next month, and up by two or three strong friends of the
Governnient, your have no chance of getanother, for the next.
ting an appointment." It is new to me to
hear that the banks and other prominent
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL- institutions of the country pick up those
There are supernumerary clerks who young men who pass these examinations.
were employed anterior to the passing of I should be very glad if that were the case,
the Civil Service Act, and those have been but no instance of the kind has come unkept on.
der my observation. There may be isolated cases, but I doubt very much
whether these examinations form a preHON. MR. SCOTT-For the reason liminary to the appointment of young men
which I have given, I have never taken to banking or commercial houses. I
much interest in the Civil Service Bills. I should be very glad to hear that it was the
Was rather interested in the speech made rule ; it would have an excellent effect,
by the hon. Senator from Burlington in but those companies generally select their
Which he told us in very glowing terms of men from the best material they can find
ail the trips the commissioners had made at hand, whether they pass civil service
and all the sittings they had held in the examinations or not. I was not aware,
various towns of Canada, collecting infor- though I should be very glad to hear that
mation. I should have felt more gratified it was the case, that a certificate from the
if the suggestions he had made were being Board of Examiners gave a young man
carried out in the same spirit as the system a status in the country. However, on
is being carried out in England, but we that point I may be wrong, but
shal have to move very considerably out I repeat, not a single case has
of the Political circle in which we move come under my observation in which
here before we arrive at the condition
of passing the civil service examination has
affairs that prevails there; because it cannot obtained a situation for a young man.
be for a moment imagined that all the The hon. gentleman from Burlington inYoung men in the country are on troduced the subject of civil service superthe Conservative side-that there are
no annuation and justified the system. I do
YOung men on the Liberal side who not propose to go into the subject further
are fit for appointment to the
civil
point out this fact, which is
vice. The fact is, we find that ser- than to
the patent, that year by year this amount is
appointments are made entirely from swelling up enormously, and it is out of
among the friends of the Government.
I
venture to say that if you take the number all proportion (and the proportion is becoming greater each year) to the moneys
hf arpontments made from those
who paid in. I have not had time to look
had passed the Board before
they were
these returns, but I think it is in the
appointed at all, you will discover that the over
neighborhood Of $175,ooo or $18o,ooo
Percentage is very, very small. I do
not; that was paid last year. Does not that

836

Civil Service Act [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

seem a monstrous sum, particularly with I HON. MR. KAULBACH-I know
the knowledge that there are men all over only two cases of my own knowledge,
this country who feel that they are capable both in Montreal. In one the young
of earning a living for themselves, who man was appointed to a commercial
are enjoying very handsome annuities, house, and in the other to a bank, in
from $8oo to $i,8oo a year. I could consequence, I believe, of having passed
name several men who are yet in their this examination. How many others
prime, but who have been disposed of there may be I do not know. I believe
simply to make room for some favorite, or the examination is a very stringent one,
because they did not get along, perhaps, from what I have been told by those who
with the deputy head or some one else in have failed to pass it. It is a great prothe Department, and consequently they tection to the public in the appointment
had to be shunted. There is no doubt of civil servants. No doubt there may be
about that. If we run over the names of some young men who wait for the sweet
those who are on the superannuation list, bye and bye, until their friends get into
we will find a very considerable proportion power, but I think generally those who
of them fit for public service-quite as fit pass the examination find their way into
as many who are in the service now. My other occupations, waiting for the time
hon. friend points out that there is some when they may have a chance of getting
advantage gained, because an office has an appointment to the civil service. No
been abolished or you are getting another doubt there is some trouble in these civil
man to perform the service at a lower service superannuations.
Perhaps ten
salary. I only point out that the sum years may be allowed to a man to get rid of
that we are paying year by year is enor- him, in order to abolish the office or
mously increasing; that we are paying something of that kind. I believe the
more to the employes of the Government. system is open to corruption, though how
The figures during the last six or eight far it has been abused by this Government
years have been increasing continuously, or any other I do not know ; I have
by io or 15 per cent. and that is consid- never inquired into it. I think the civil
erably added to by the superannuation service examinations have blocked the
allowances. You are employing two overdue influence which was exercised on
men to do the work that one did before, the Government for appointments to the
and that is adding very considerably to civil service. No doubt the public offices
the cost of the extension of civil govern- had been crammed by persons not qualiment in this country. Of course it is a fied for such positions. I believe that
question that ought not to be discussed the public service might be performed as
now, because hon. gentlemen have not the efficiently as it is now done, with twofigures before them, but the hon. member thirds of the present number of civil
from Burlington,in his anxiety to say a great servants. Many of them are only an
deal in favor of the commission and the incubus on the service of the country, and
recommendations they had made, has I hope the Government will be able to
chosen to speak of the subject of super- get rid of them.
annuation, which I think is not deserving
of the favor that he asks for it, because I
HON. MR. DEVER-Talking about
think it is a serious blemish on our sys- superannuation of officials, reminds me of
tem that we pay so many men now, who a matter with which I am quite familiar.
are quite capable of serving the country, I do not wish to say which class of polia handsome annuity in order that others ticians the matter happened under, but the
may be put in their places.
incident to which I am about to refer
occurred some ten or eleven years ago.
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-With re- I know three cases. The first
is that of a
gard to competitive examinations helping gentleman who was superannuated, for
I can age I understood, and if I wanted
young men to obtain situations,
a man
endorse the remark of the hon. member to go to the North-West to-day to lead a
from Burlington.
company to put down the rebellion, I do
HON. MR. SCOTT-How many cases not know a man in the province that I
would prefer before him.
He is walking
do you know of?
HON. MP

SCOTT.

Civil Service Act [MAY 4, 1885.] Amendment Bill.
about the streets at present, unoccupied,
and he must be now for ten years at least
receiving an allowance of $8o8.56 a year.
His salary had been $1,25o a year. I
refer now to another gentleman, who is
receiving an allowance of $I,40o a year.
lis salary had been $2,ooo. I think he
was superannuated about the same time
as the one to whom I have just referred.
le is a gentleman, and always was a
gentleman, but I do not see that he should
have the public money for nothing any
more than anyone else ; but he is receiving it, and has been receiving it for the
last ten or eleven years-at all events I
think it was under the previous Government that these were superannuated.

83T

HON. MR. PLUMB-Is there anything
about superannuation in this Bill at all?
HON. MR. DEVER-I have no reference to this Bill at all; I am only telling
you what came under my notice, in reply
to some remarks that had fallen from an
hon. gentleman in reference to the abuse
of this superannuation clause. I say that
those things have happened, and they are
going on now, and there is a waste of

public money in consequence.

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I wish to
draw from the hon. gentleman from Burlington, if possible, some explanation with
reference to the examinations. As he has
been chairman of the commission, no
HON. MR. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
doubt he is in a position to state to the
House how those examinations are conHON. MR. DEVER-He was replaced ducted, and what becomes of the examiby another gentleman, who received a nation papers of the candidates. It is
Salary in the neighborhood of $2,500 or manifestly a matter of great importance
$3,ooo a year to do the work that his pre- that the Government should obtain the
decessor had done for $2,ooo a year. I services of the most competent
candidates,
also know another gentleman who was and that their names and qualifications
appointed in the place of one of those should be known to all the world, and to
superannuated officers, and instead of the candidates themselvës. I think that
giving him what the former officer had, he the end contemplated by competitive exgot some $2,ooo a year for doing what had aminations will not be attained, unless the
been done by the party who was superfull results of those examinations are made
annuated for $1,25o.
The man who public. Hon. gentlemen have stated that
received the $2,ooo a year was perhaps the large numbers of both candidates remain
rnost unfit that could be picked out of the for a lengthened period after the examinaPoPulation of St. John for such a situation. tion waiting for appointments which never
'e was an old man when
a helpless man, unfit in he was appointed, come, so they take employment as it offers
every respect to in other businesses. In the meantime,
titi the office he was appointed to, and haps, vacancies occur in the public persertotally unfit to be a substitute for the man vice, and the list is taken up and a random
who had been superannuated.
selection is made from the well-known
supporters of the Government. Now, if a
HON. MR. KAULBACH-How long system of this sort prevails, and continues,
ago was that ?
it is obvious that the civil service will, in
a comparatively short time, be filled by
HON. MR. DEVER-It was during the men who arc supporters of
the existing
Previous administration. That gentleman
government, particularly if that governWho was receiving $2,ooo
a year was by ment happened to be long in office, and
SOae means or other superannuated on an that I conceive would be a manifest evil.
alîowance of $5oo a year, and
he
a citizen of the United States, is now The remedy for this state of things is that
and has the best men should be appointed, and
rng hor several years, though he is draw- that all the candidates should have their
is superannuation allowance. I papers returned to them, in order that
mention those three instances
to show to they may see how many marks they rewhat an extent this superannuation
systern
lay be abused. Men are superannuated ceive at the examination, wherein they
Who are quite competent to do their work, failed, and how they came to fail. If this
system were pursued there would be no
a others are put in their
places.
complaint of injustice, so far as examina-

838

Civil Service Act [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

tions are concerned, and all the candidates
would know precisely how far the attainments of their fellow candidates extended.
I have risen to give the hon. gentleman
from Bùrlington an opportunity to clear
up this doubt, and I think many members
of this House would be grateful for this
information, and I am sure a great many
candidates who have not heretofore obtained Government situations, will then
understand how it came about that they
failed.
HON. MR. MAcINNES (Burlington)With reference to the candidates who
corne up to be examined by the civil
service commissioners, the hon. gentleman will of course understand that they
belong to all classes-to his side of politics,
as well as to our side, so that there is no
selection in that respect. It is open and
competitive as far as that is concerned.

are made, the board decide, and the public never see the papers-no one ever
sees the papers except the government.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
marks can be seen, if any person desires
to see the papers.
The examination
papers are kept for a year and then destroyed. The names of the successful
candidates are published in the Canada
Gazette. It would not be fair to publish
the names of unsuccessful candidates, and
therefore they do not do so; but the
names of the successful men are published.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I understood that
they were put in sections.
Those who
secure up to 6o marks are put in one section ; all up to 70 are put in another ; all
up to 8o are put in another, and so on,
and the highest grade is put at the head
of the list.

HoN. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
I believe to be the case. As to the publication of the names of the successful
HON. MR. MAINNES-First of all I candidates, that is provided for by the
-will point out to the hon. gentleman that, 34th clause.
according to the present Act, immediately
HON. MR. POWER-It does not say
after the examination,a list of the candidates
who have passed is made out and pub- in the order of merit.
lished in the Canada Gazette. As regards
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
the examination papers, they are, I think,
written papers which are sent to the office but that I belheve to be the case-that it
of the Secretary of State.
is in the order in which they passed that
they are published. It would be manifestTION. MR. HAYTHORNE-There is ly unfair to publish the names of the unthe evil.
successful candidates. It is no hardship
to those young men to go up for examinaHON. MR. MAcINNES-Where
is tion. It is an episode in their lives. If a
the evil? What are we to do with them ? young man goes to a bank or to a railway
company and does not get employment
HON. MR. SCOTT-There is no rate- he tries his chance for the civil service,
ing ; they are all put on an equal basis, and he goes through the examination. If
though they are not equal as to marks. he does not get employment then it does
Some must have been very much better not waste his time, it does not make him
than others; some must have had more dissipated, and it does not damage him
marks than others, and I think the most in any way. He simply tries his chances
pertinent proposition is that the world for the civil service, and what harm does
should know which candidates passed the it do him ? The hon. gentleman says
best examination, just as they do now in that a nunber go away disappointed.
the Military College examination. There There is no help for that. You cannot
is an illustration ; the Imperial Govern- appoint 500 because 5oo candidates have
ment give commissions to the four best succeeded in passing. The hon. gentlegraduates each year. Why not adopt an man says we ought to open the civil
examination of that kind ? It is a star service to those who are qualified ;
chamber business now; the examinations but he does not suppose that all
HON.

MR. HAYTHORNE -

about the marks and the papers ?

HON.

MR. HAYTHORNE.

How

InfectiUos or ContagiowU

[MAY 4, 1885] Disea8esof Animals Bill. 839

the men who have passed the civil head of the list, without fear or favor ; but
service examination-some 1,500 up
to under this system there is no security that
the present time-are waiting to be em- the man who passes a good examination
Ployed, still resting on their oars, and do- will stand high on the list, or that he will
Img nothing ? There is no suggestion of obtain employment.
This is a state of
that kind. This only means that they things that ought not to be permitted to
take their chances for employment in the endure.
civil service of the country. They pass
the examination, and if it fails they try
HON. MR. POIRIER (in French)-I
sOmething else. It does them no harm, and was pleased to hear what the Minister of
only fastens in their minds the knowledge Justice said concerning the manner in
that they have, and qualifies them better which the lists of the successful candidates
far other employment.
are made. That being the case, there
should be no difficulty in adding to clause
ION. MR. HAYTHORNE-Both the 34 such words as would embody his deleader of the Government and the hon. claration-that is, directing and obliging
gentleman who was chairman of the com- the Board of Examiners to put those who
mission, have, I think, shrunk from pass the most successful examination, and
answering the point which I brought to secure the greatest number of marks, at
their notice.
the head of the list in the order of merit.
This would be an inducement to aspirants
ION. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The to work for the position, and would at the
hon. gentleman did not ask me any saine time enable the Government to
question.
select at once the very best of the candidates for positions in the service.
ION. MR. HAYTHORNE-That is
lot the question in this case ; it is the
The motion was agreed to, and the
Position of the candidates. The examin- Bill was read the second time.
ers may place the candidates where they
Please, and the public has no opportunity INFECTIOUS OR CONTAGIOUS
of knowing how the candidates got there.
DISEASES OF ANIMALS
The candidate may be conscious,
BILL.
himself, that he has passed a successful
exanination, yet he finds himself far down
THIRD READING.
on the list. The only check on that sort
of thing is the return of the papers to the
The House resolved itself into a Comcandidates
mittee of the Whole on Bill (34), "An
Act respecting Infectious or Contagious
HON. MR. PLUMB-They all know Diseases affecting Cattle."
What the result is.
HON. MR. POWER-Clause 29 says
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE - The that " every such regulation shall have the
leader of the Government and the chair- like force and effect as if it had been emMan of the civil service commission
have
the Act." Is it not possible
not touched on that point, nor is there any bodied in that clause a regulation, which
that under
Provision in the Bill for this rational
be
the
arrangement. If hon. gentlemen would was inconsistent with Act? Act, would we
Because
made to override the
look at the results of such examinations
expressly say that the regulation, without
«Is those of Sandhurst and Woolwich,
ex- any limitation at all, is to have the effect
aminations conducted upon
the most of law. I think these regulations should
exact and fair principles, as
well as being be such as are not inconsistent with the
r rngid, they would
inUthber of marks made byfind there the Act
every candidate
i the columns of the Times,
and it
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-The
well known that the commissions is also
which hon. gentleman will see that the subjects
resuit from those examinations
are
nosty to men who have stood atgiven on which regulations are to be made are
the definitely mentioned in the various sub-

840 Ru8h Lake & Sa8katchewan [SENATE] R'y & Yavigation Co's Bill.
sections of clause 27. These are the only WEST ONTARIO PACIFIC RAIIones about which Orders-in-Council shall
WAY COMPANY'S BILL.
be passed. We might make the amendment which the hon, member suggests,
THIRD READING.
but I do not think it is necessary.
HON. MR. PLUMB moved that the
amendments made by the Committee on
Railways, Telegraphs and Harbors, to
Bill (94), "An Act to incorporate the
West Ontario Pacific Railway Company,"'
be concurred in. He said : The chairman of the Committee on Railways explained, in the House last Friday, that
some amendments had been made to this
HON. MR. KAULBACH-That is only Act, none of which are of importance. It
in cases where a person has power to pre- was deemed best, however, that they
should be left over until to-day. I can
vent, and does not prevent the removal.
explain the amendments as they were
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That made if the House desire it.
would only apply of course to railway and
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-They
steamship companies, and the evil is so
great and so much to be deprecated that were explained on Friday.
I do not think we should hesitate to pass
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
the clause.
was then read the third time and passed.
HoN. MR. NELSON, from the committee, reported the Bill with amend- RUSH LAKE AND SASKATCHments, which were concurred in.
EWAN RAILWAY AND NAVIGATION COMPANY'S BILL.
HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the third reading of the Bill.
THIRD READING.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the third time and passed.
HON. MR. GIRARD moved that the
amendments made by the Committee on
NORTH-WEST MOUNTED POLICE Railways, Telegraphs and Harbors to
FORCE BILL
Bill (79) " An Act to incorporate the
Rush Lake and Saskatchewan Railway
SECOND READING.
and Navigation Company," be concurred
in. He said: I do not intend to go into
HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL moved the details of these amendments unless the
the second reading of Bill (T), " An Act House desires an explanation. I have
respecting the North-West Mounted Police carefully examined the amendments, and
Force." He said: This is a Bill to put the I find in them nothing which would
members of the, Mounted Police, when they render them objectionable to the House.
are serving with the militia, under Military They are rather an improvement in the
Law. As it is now, the members of the interests of the public than anything else.
Mounted Police are enlisted under their
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
own Acts. A doubt has arisen whether
they are amenable to the Military Law or was then read the third time and passed.
not, and this is to remove that doubt and
The Senate adjourned at 5.45 p.m.
to place them in the same position as the
other men who are serving in the militia
under the Queen's regulations.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.

HON. MR. POWER-I only asked the
question; I did not urge it. I would ask
the Minister if he does not think that the
4oth clause is very stringent-" every person who moves, or causes or allows to be
moved, &c ?" It provides a severe penalty
for any one who "allows " any of these
things to be moved.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Lands in the [MAY 5,1885] N.- West Territories.

841

THE SENATE.

HON. MR. PLUMB moved that the
amendments be concurred in.
Ottaia, Iuesday, Mfay 51h, .85.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
THE SPEAKER took the Chair at three was then read the third time and passed.

O'
clock.

Prayers and routine proceedings.
THIRD READINGS.

LANDS IN THE NORTH-WEST
TERRITORIES.
INQUIRY.

The following Bills, reported from
HON. MR. WARK rose to caîl attention
standing committees without amendment, to the arrangement recently entered into
were read the third time and passed.
by this Government with the Government
Bill (74), "An Act respecting the Man- of Manitoba, and inquire whether the
itoba & North Western Railway of Can- Government intends to set apart and reada." (Mr. Girard).
serve a portion of the lands in the territory purchased from, the Hudson Bay
Bill (61), "An Act further to amend Company, in order to apply the funds
the Acts incorporating the Richelieu arising from the sale thereof towards liquidNavigation Company, and the Richelieu ating the debt now being incurred on be& Ontario Navigation Company." (Mr. haîf of said territory? He said: Lt will
Pelletier).
be remembered that some years ago it
was proposed to set apart i00,000,000
DOMINION GRANGE FIRE INSU- acres of land towards the building of the
RANCE ASSOCIATION'S BILL.
Canadian Pacific Railway. I do not know
whether any steps have been taken with
THIRD READING.
regard to that or fot, but my attention
has been called to the subject recently, in
ION. MR. ALLAN, from the Com- consequence of a return which was laid
flmittee on Standing Orders and Private before Parliament, being an agreement enBills, reported Bill (55), "An Act for tered into by the Dominion Government
granting certain powers to the Dominion with the province of Manitoba, settling ait
Grange Mutual Fire Insurance Associa- daims up to the present time. Some
tion, with amendments."
He said- years ago, I remember seeing that the
This Bill is for the purpose of granting Provincial Government put forwarda daim
certain powers to the Dominion Grange to aIl the lands within the province, and
Mutual Fire Insurance Association, I think they have since not only claimed
which was incorporated under cer- aIl the lands but the moneys arising from
tain Acts of the province of Ontario, for the sales of the lands that have been disthe purpose specially of insuring the posed of Comparing the position of this
Property of members of the Association, province and the new provinces about to
nown as the Patrons of Husbandry. By be erected in the North-West, so far as rethis Act they seek to have their power gards the endowment of land, it strikes
extended to other provinces of the Dom- me that the older provinces have very
inion, and in doing so they wish to have considerable daims on these lands
before
their Policies limited to a term of three they begin to be distributed. I do not
Years. The wording of the Bill as it know that Manitoba is one of the largest
care to the committee would have the provinces. When it was originally erectefect of limitig-or we supposed it ed into a province, it contained
only 9,500,thuId have the effect of himiting-them to 000 acres, but it has since been enlarged
the Powers they possessed under the Act to ten times that amount. It has
now 96,Of the province of Ontario. Those words 000,000ofacres. Assumingthat6,oooooc>
were struck out and it is simply provided of those acres have been
granted,
that under this Act the Association should suppose is an outside estimate, which I
there are
9iY issue Policies for three years. That sili 90,000,000 of acres in that province
's the oliy amendment.
that are ungranted. The population at

.Lands in the [SENATE] N.- West Territories.

-84A2

-the last census was 65,95o.

Assumng came out to that country had to pay for

every acre of land that they received.
There were no free homesteads or free
lands; every man who wanted ioo acres
of land had to pay for it. There were no
roads or bridges; the immigrants had to
make these themselves. The Crown reexpenditure. We have '/13 of the popu- tained the sole control of the lands for
lation of the whole Dominion. I think I fifty years. Although they had a Legislamay fairly assume that we pay fully '/la of ture, it had not the right to sell an acre of
all the burdens that fall upon the people these lands, nor even a tree off the land.
of this Dominion. At that rate, we have A commissioner was sent out by the Imexpended at least $2,ooo,ooo in the pro perial Government, who had the sole convince of Manitoba. Now, I think we are trol and management of the lands, and the
entitled to some consideration for this. I proceeds arising from them were retained
am not authorized to speak for the Mari- for the payment of the civil list. The
time Provinces generally ; but I may re- Crown kept the control of the whole.
mark, en passant,that the Maritime Pro- Again, when grants were made they revinces contain ,,, of the population, and served the best timber on the land, and
consequently their expenditure, taken alto- they reserved a quit rent. The parties
gether, in Manitoba, would be $5,730,000. who received the grant were liable to pay
I am disposed to deal with this young a quit rent, and there was a reservation of
colony, as I think all young colonies ought certain mines and minerals ; so that all
to be dealt with, in a liberal manner, but the right the purchaser had was to culti-at the same time the interests of the older vate the surface of the soil. This state of
colonies, or provinces, are to be consid- things went on for fifty years, and then a
ered, and must not be lost sight of. Be- good deal of dissatisfaction being felt,
fore this expenditure in the North-West is especially among the representatives of the
-ended, I have no doubt, it will reach be- people, and two or three delegations havtween $1oo,ooo,ooo and $150,000,000, ing been sent home to treat with the
.and I believe that a very considerable Government on the subject, a bargain was
portion of the lands of the Dominion in made by which we agreed to take over the
the North-West ought to be set apart to whole civil list, the Imperial Government
liquidate this debt, else it will be a very giving us control of the public lands; and
serious burden on us for all time to come. I suppose at that time there was not more
Suppose we set apart 20,000,000 of acres than eleven or twelve million acres of land
in each province, say in Manitoba, Assini- left. We had to pay for that, the salaries
boia, Saskatchewan, Alberta, and Atha- of the lieut.-governor, his private secretary,
baska; that will make it roo,ooo,ooo the surveyor general and the indoor estab.acres of land, and it will be a very small lishment expenses, the provincial secretary,
proportion of the lands contained in these the chief justice and three puisne judges,
provinces. The people in the North-West the attorney general, the solicitor general,
claim these lands on the ground that the the auditor general and the receiver
older provinces were permitted to retain general. We undertook to pay all these
all their lands, but I wish to show to the salaries, and the amount which was exHouse what lands New Brunswick has and acted from us was £ 14 , 50 0 , or $58,ooo.
how it came by these lands. I may ob- Just about that time, we had established
-serve first, we had only 17,393,ooo acres the Court of Chancery, with a salary to
in our province altogether. Of that, now, the judge of $3,200.
He frequently
there is nearly io,ooo,ooo granted. There applied to have his salary placed on the
is a little over 7,000,000 left. When our civil list, but never succeeded. That sum,
province was first established, our first added to the bargain made with the
Legislature met in 1786. A number Government for the land, whether we
of loyalist families had come to received it from the land or not, was a first
the province and they obtained grants, charge upon our ordinary revenue, and
.certainly not extravagant, fron the Crown ; payable quarterly. We, therefore, had
but from that time those emigrants that $61,200 to pay, and we paid that from the
that

it

is

now

oo,000

the

ex-

pense, as stated in the arrangement
made with the Government here, which
has been incurred in that province, is put
down at $28,65o,ooo. Now, I only look
to our own province, so lar as regards this

HoN. MR. WARK.

Lande in the [MAY 5, 1885] Y.-West Territories.
time this arrangement was entered into in
In that
1837, down to Confederation.
time we paid $1,836,ooo, and here is the
land we have now left for that heavy
charge upon the lands that were transferred
to us ; so that it will be seen that we paid
pretty dearly for all the lands we have. I
did not mention that among the sums
Which were chargeable on the civil list, was
£I,ooo sterling to endow our university,
-andthat was given on condition of our
granting out of the ordinary revenue

84A3

en passant, seeing the Government have

been so liberal to railways, and are endowing railways in the different parts of the
Dominion, it would be a graceful act on
their part, I might say a generous act, for
the Government to buy this land from the
company to whom it was granted, and
hand it back to our province. I hope the
Minister of Justice will note this, and talk
it over with his colleagues. Now, if the
province of Manitoba, and those other
new provinces, get the proceeds of the
£1,ooo additional to meet it.
Bath large portions of land which would be
those charges we have still to pay, and left after the deduction which I have rejustly, too. I may remark, in referring to ferred to, they would have an income
the university, that that worthy man, King from these lands for a century, or centuries
George the Fourth, thought he was perhaps, after our small income from our
exceedingly generous when he endowed lands is exhausted. This may be a very
our university with 5,95o acres of land, trifling question to the large provinces of
and not of the best quality. I see by the Ontario and Quebec. Their revenues
arrangement proposed to be entered into from lands will be almost inexhaustible ;
With Manitoba, that the Government pro- but it is very different with the Maritime
Pose to give them 150,000 acres, twenty- Provinces-very different with us in New
five times more than the endowment we Brunswick, and if this heavy debt is to rereceived.
main as a dead weightuponus while wehave
no revenues of this kind, it will be almost
HON. MR. BOTSFORD-And better intolerable ; consequently, I feel satisfied
land.
that these lands ought to be set apart, and
the proceeds of them strictly kept for no
ION. MR. WARK-And far better other purpose but to reduce the debt.
Iand. The Civil-list Act that they passed
to secure the Government was very
HON. MR. POWER-Hear, hear.
stringent. The money was to be paid
quarterly, and we were bound not to sell HON. MR. WARK-I am satisfied New
an acre of the land but what was set up Brunswick will not have less of this burden
and sold by public auction; and this was to bear than $8,ooo,ooo or $ro,ooo,ooo.
a very wholesome regulation.
If the It will not come on us directly, but it will
D)Ominion Government ever propose to come indirectly, and we ought to congive control of the lands to the new sider it, and try to get quit of this part of
provinces they cannot do better than the public debt in order to enable us to
follow this example. If we were selling a get along more comfortably with that portilhber berth it had to be advertised, and tion of the debt which we must bear. We
sold at public auction, and the lands came into Confederation with a small debt.
the same.
We increased it a little by what is considered a part of the contract. We had our
"ON.
MR. BOTSFORD-And an share of the expenses in constructing the
'uPset price fixed.
railway. We did not object then in the
Maritime Province to the deepening of
.lioN. MR. WARK-Yes, and an upset the canals, but when we got that far we
PrIce fixed, as my hon. friend reminds
There is another matter I ought to me. thought we would stop and try to pay all
refer our debts instead of incurring more.
to; we had probably 9,ooo,ooo acres of There is the debt to the Hudson Bay
eand
when we came into Confederation.
Company. There is the expense of this
We had to subsidize a railway which took enormous undertaking, the Canadian
'7olooo acres, nearly three-quarters
of Pacific Railway, and the expense of keepOur land, small as the portion of lands we ing up the North-West Mounted Police.
POssessed was. And I may now remark, For all those things, the lands ought to

84A4A

Lands in the [SEN ATE] N.- We8t Territories.

contribute the principal part of the ex- demands that the Government should set
penses. I need not take up further the apart 1oo,ooo,000 of acres in the Northtime of the House, but would just ask the West, to which the Minister of Justice has
replied (if I heard him correctly) that
question of which I gave notice.
nothing has yet been done in that direction.
HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-The The proposition is that the proceeds of the
scheme which my hon. friend prop--ses sales of these lands should be kept as a
has not been considered by the Govern- special or sinking fund to carry out that
ment. We had no intention of setting solemn assurance given by the Government
apart any particular lands, because the to the people of the older provinces. I
proceeds of the sales of all the lands were do not suppose that my hon. friend who
going into a common purse, and any con- has brought this matter before us has the
tribution to Manitoba is paid out of very slightest hope that the present Govthat common purse ; but the idea ernment will make any effort to fulfil that
suggested by the hon. gentleman is-and I pledge.
understand it now for the first time-that
to take those moneys out of the common
HON. MR. WARK-Oh, yes.
purse is, to some extent, unfair to the
smaller provinces. I think that is the
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Knowing
point he makes. I will take care to bring their ways, knowing as I do their record
it under the notice of the Premier and my for the last four years in the management
colleagues, and, perhaps, will take occasion of public affairs, it is a hope which I do
hereafter to refer to the subject again ; not entertain. The hon. gentleman will
but the answer to the hon. gentleman's remember that for some time Parliament
question, in the meantime, is that we have has really aind truly, as it were, surrennot deemed it necessary, so far, to take dered its judgment to the First Minister
such steps as he suggests, because all the upon such leading public questions. The
proceeds of the lands sold go into a com- Parliament of the country has not been
mon purse, out of which the payments to directing the public expenditures, but a
large majority of the House of Commons
Manitoba come.
and a very large majority of this august
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-If I under- body, worshipping the First Minister as
stand the object of the hon. gentleman's never any idol was worshipped in Assyria
motion, it is this : the Federal Government or ancient Greece, placing such entire
have made collossal expenditures to faith in his prudence and astuteness, have
accomplish the development of our North- surrendered their judgment and allowed
West Territory, probably amounting to him to take his own course, thinking he
ninety or one hundred millions of dollars, would act with wisdom and care, and that
and they have thereby increased the public everything he would do would be wisely
burdens of the older provinces. We and properly done. That is the position,
remember very well after Confederation, and I defy any member of this House to
and upon our entering upon these very gainsay that position-that the Parliament
large expenditures for the construction of have not tried to control and guide the
the Canadian Pacific Railway, the solemn First Minister, and we now see the result.
pledge or statement made by the first Parliament, composed as it is of the first
Minister and other members of the Gov- minds of the country, has ceased to conernment, that the whole amount thus ex- trol and check the executive government.
pended would be recouped from the sale
of the public lands, and my hon. friend
HON. MR. DEVER-He is the leader
from Fredericton is perfectly correct ; he of the expedition-old Agamemnon.
takes a tenable position when speaking on
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-The First
behait of his province ; he says that the
province of New Brunswick have a perfect Minister is a most extraordinary man.
right to demand that that solemn pledge The country has never produced, and
or assurance should be faithfully carried may never again produce, his equal for
out by the Government of the day. If I astuteness, but what about the means he
understand his view, as expressed, he adopts-his Gerrymandering Bills, and
HoN. MR. WARK.

Lands in the [MAY 5, 1885] N.- We8t 2erritories.

845

his Franchise Bills, brought in to control incensed that Parliament should have
Parliament, which the rules of Parliament trusted to one mind the destinies of the
Will not allow me to characterize as they country. By culpable neglect, they have
Ought to be characterized ? I think the brought upon us the calamity of sedition
country now begins to feel, and I mistake and civil war, and if they remain much
very greatly if the Parliament of the coun- longer in power, will bring on serious
try does not now feel, that their faith has commercial disaster.
been misplaced; and if they do not feel it
nOw, I am sure they must feel it before
HON. MR. HOWLAN-I rise, after
six months have passed. Whether from having listened to this address, with some
age or other causes, the First Minister is hesitation. In the first place, I am sur"0 longer a reliable leader, especially in prised that my hon. friend from Woodstock
questions of finance. He is an astute has become the champion of Nova Scotia
lawyer and parliamentarian ; he knows and New Brunswick. Almost the first
how to manipulate men, but has become address that I had the honour of listening
latterly a danger in the state, and the to in this House from that hon. gentleman
country will reap a most bitter experience was one in which he denounced the Adfrom the fact of its Parliament having sur- ministration of the day for building the
rendered their judgment and left him to Intercolonial Railway. The spirit breathed
guide public affairs. It is becoming daily throughout that speech was that it would
more evident. He knows nothing about be better to let the Maritime Provinces go,
inance, either in the management of his because they were robbing Ontario. I
Own affairs or the affairs of the country. remember it vividly. He rolled off colWe see that singular dispensation often in umns of figures like a boy's multiplication
<listinguished lawyers. God does not table, showing the expense of this hercugive every talent to one man ; he gives to lean work, as he called it, the Intercolonial
One man one talent and to another Railway. No words could be found to
another. I am surprised that the mem- express his utter condemnation of the
bers of both branches of the Legislature Government for building that great highare not alarmed at the manner in which way.: no words could be found to express
the First Minister has brought the coun- the holy horror which he entertained of
try liable for those enormous expenditures the people of the Maritime Provinces. I
In the far North-West and through the do not say this from memory merely; I
Alpine range of the Rocky Mountains, speak after having recently read the report
Contrary to the common sense of of his speech on that subject. It struck
every commercial man in the country. me at the time as coming with very bad
It is no wonder that my hon. friend from grace from a member supporting the AdNew Brunswick is moving in this direction, ministration of the day. In my ignorance
Speaking on behalf of the Maritime of this hon. body, I thought if that was
Provinces, when he finds that from the spirit which animated the members
$7 0,ooo,ooo to $1oo,ooo,ooo have been from the Upper Provinces, it was a missunk in such a manner with so little pros- take that the Maritime Provinces had
Pect of its conferring any substantial entered the Confederation. After an exbenefit on the people for a long time to perience of twelve or thirteen years in this
cone. The First Minister takes no advice ; Chamber, I know that these were not the
he bas not even consulted the Parliament. opinions of the people of Ontario and
lie has got this Pacific Railway on
brai,, and we will in a very short time the Quebec, and to-day I congratulate the
the financial obligations that he will see hon. gentleman that he no longer pours
have out his vials of wrath on the Administraimposed on the country, and if he suc- tion for having constructed the Intercolceeds through this Franchise Bill to
defeat
Railway. At that
n the opposite party, his reckless and onial not confined to onetime his attacks
session of Parfed expenditures may break up the Con- were
liament, but every session we had the
eration. The provinces
and New Brunswick, like of Nova Scotia annual diatribe against the Government
Quebec
Ontario, peopled by an industrious, and for having built the Intercolonial
and Railway. I congratulate the
Upright Population, will then feel deeply ber that a few years of hon. memexperience

Lands in the [SENATE] N.-West Territories.

84A6

in the public affairs of the Dominion has
so far disproved his judgment that he
now becomes the champion of the Maritime Provinces. This session, we have
been called upon to listen to the hon.
member attacking the members of the
Government in this House, and those
who support them, until forbearance has
been pushed to its utmost limits. He
has told us to-day that every man in this
Chamber who sustains the Government
of the day is simply a tool in the hands of
the Premier. He must have been pretty
well sharpened himself during the time he
was on the Government grindstone; he
tells us that it is only for the last four
years that the Government has gone
wrong in its policy. Ever since he has
held a seat in Parliament-I take it from
his own words-he has always been a
Conservative, and always supported Sir
John Macdonald and his policy.
HON.

MR.

ALEXANDER-IHear,

hear.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-The hon. gentleman himself acknowledges the fact;
still, after a long experience in parliamentary life, speaking with a knowledge of
public affairs which every one must admire, he is from day to day blotting out
the record of his mature manhood, and
now at advanced age he is giving the lie
to the experience of his past life. It is
pleasant for us to hear discussions which
arise on public affairs, and the hon. member has had my sympathy in trying to get
his views before the people on public
questions, but that sympathy has been
exhausted when he tells me that for
twelve or thirteen years during which I
have held a seat in this Chamber, I have
been only a tool in the hands of the
Premier, and yet my votes have always
been recorded side by side with those of
the hon. gentleman.
HON.

motives as the hon. gentleman himself.
Charity has been extended to him until at
last he has assumed to grossly insult every
member of the Senate who supports the
Government of the day. He tells us that
no one has acted from experience, judgment or patriotic motives but himself. He
carries the whole patriotism and wisdom
of the Senate upon his shoulders. I can
only say, God help the wisdom and
patriotism of this House if he is the
receptacle of it.
When he speaks of
expenditure on the Pacific Railway, surely
his meniory must be at fault. From the
inception of the resolutions in this
Chamber, and in every division, from the
inauguration of the railway until recently,
his vote will be found, and not only his
vote but his speeches, recorded in favor
of that great enterprise. You will find
that he has held up to the admiration of
the public the lofty plan-I think those
are the words he used- -by which the
administration takes hold of this question
and purposes to bring it to its proper issue.
The records of the House show that at
every stage in the progress of the enterprise his vote has been recorded in
its favor.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Not
rush it through in 1885.

to

HoN. MR. HOWLAN-The records
are there for anyone to satisfy himself on
that point. For some reason, justifiable
or unjustifiable, it is not my place to inquire which-tor some petty quarrel with
two or three members of this HouseHON. MR. ALEXANDER-The hon.
gentleman is not in order. He is introducing matters not relevant to the subject,
contrary to the rules of Parliament. He
has no right to impute motives.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-The hon. member has himself imputed motives.

MR. ALEXANDER-No, no.
THE

SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman

HON. MR. HOWLAN-I say every from Alberton is certainly out of order, in

vote has been given side by side with his,
and it is time that the members of this
House should assert themselves and let the
hon. member know that there are Senators
with as lofty an idea of national faith and
honor, and possessed of as patriotic
HON. MR.

HOWLAN.

attributing motives to the hon. member.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-I bow to the
decision of the Chair, but I ask the House
is it not time to resent these insults which
have been heaped upon us by tie hon.

Land8 in the [MA Y 5, 1885] N.- We8t Territories.
nember from Woodstock ? I, for one,
will no longer permit him to assert that I
am a mere registering machine without an
idea or opinion of my own. It is time
that a stop should be put to such language,
and I can only say that so far as I am
concerned, it shall end.
lION. MR. KAULBACH -When
I
rose just now to speak, it was with the
same impulse as the hon. gentleman who
has just taken his seat. When the hon.
rmember from Woodstock rises to address
this House, he plays the role of Bombastes
Furioso-or rather he flits about like
Some ignisfatuus. He does no harm, but
he always drifts away from the subject
before the House, showing that his
desire is, not to bring his knowledge or
experience to the question before the
Senate, but simply to make an attack on
the members of the Governmunt in this
House. I rose with the object of expresSing my indignation at the style of the hon.
rnember's remarks. I shall say nothing
more on that matter, but, reverting to the
subject brought before us by the hon.
rnenber from Fredericton, I concur in his
Opinion, that the Maritime Provinces feel
that the lands of the North-West should
recoup us largely for the money that has
been expended in the development of that
great country. We paid a large sum to
acquire the North-West Territories; we
have incurred heavy obligations in establishing communication with that country,
and extinguishing the Indian title, and we
are obliged to expend large sums annually
to feed and take care of the Indian tribes,
and to settle the North-West. We have
assumed serious responsibilities, and we
should be recouped to a large extent for
Our enormous outlays, by the sales of
lanids there. However, I do not agree
With my hon. friend, that we should lock
UP any portion of these lands for that
purpose. We might obstruct settlement,
and check the opening up of railway comlWunication
The moneys derived fromu
the sales of lands, go into the public
treasury and are applied, as
far as they go,
to meet'the expenditures of the country.
I believ, that, in the course of time,
the
lads In the North-West will repay us a
Pene portion of the money we have exanded in opening up that country, but I
ai flot in favor of setting
apart

84AT

portion of the public domain for the purpose of reccuping us for our outlay.
HON. MR. POWER-I cannot agree
with the hon. gentleman from Lunenburg
in the way he has characterized the hon.
member from Woodstock. He spoke of
him as an ignis fatuus. Now, an ignis
fatuus is something that keeps moving
about and dancing in front of one. If
there is anything which peculiarly characterizes the hon. member from Woodstock,
at any rate during the present session, it is
that one always knows where he is on
every question. Instead of changing frequently and being hard to locate, he is
extremelý easy to locate.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-It is a good
idea though-a false light.
HON. MR. POWER-Still it is a steady
light ; we know where he is always. The
line of argument adopted by the hon.
member from Alberton is certainly not a
very forcible one, and not one that is
likely to convince. He seems to think
that the hon. member from Woodstock is
to be reprobated, because, having supported the Conservative party, and the
present leader of that party for several
years, he is at last obliged to desert him.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-I said nothing
at all of the kind.

HON. MR. POWER-Possibly my hearing is bad, but I understood the hon. gentleman to express his astonishment at the
inconsistency of a life-long ConservativeHON. MR. HOWLAN-No, no.

HoN. MR. POWER-The hon. gentleman expressed his astonishment that a
life-long Conservative should speak in the
way he does about the Government and
about those who support the Government.
I think there is another way to look at
that : I can quite understand that a gentleman in whom the feeling of party loyalty
is strong, can stand a good deal ; that the
Government can go on doing things that
may not meet with his approval, and his
party feeling is so strong that he forbears
to speak or vote against the Government ;
a large but, as in the case of artillery, there is a

.Landsin the [SENATE] N.- West Territories.

-84A8

bursting charge, and at last the iniquities
of the Government had reached the point
where the strain was so great, that
the party allegiance of the hon. gentleman
from Woodstock could stand it no longer.
I think the fact that the hon. gentleman
from Woodstock, whohas acted in harmony
with the Conservative party and its leaders
for nearly a life time, towards the end of
that life, when he has nothing to gain by
a change, changed his mind, and that he
no longer follows the leader of the Conservative party, is the very strongest evidence
that the leader of the Conservative party
has gone astray.

language with respect to certain members
of this House has been altogether indefensible ; but I think that, as a rule, the
hon. member has guarded hiniself from
saying anything offensive which applied to
the whole House, or a majority of the
House.
HON. MR. ALLAN-Only to five.
HON. MR. BOTSFORD-Not to the
Opposition, certainly he does not ; but to
the Conservative side of the House he
does.

HON. MR. POWER-I do not rememKAULBACH--You will ber that the hon. gentleman from Woodstock has used unparliamentary language
fnot take him into your party.
as regards the majority of the House ; he
HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentle- has certainly used unparliamentary lanman has not asked to come into our party ; guage with reference to certain members
he says he is an independent Conserva- of it.
tive ; but, although the hon. gentleman
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I merely
does not belong to the Liberal party, I
feel the fact that he stands alone is an ad- accuse the majority of the members of the
<ditional reason why he should have fair House of idol-worship-worship of the
play, and while standing alone that he First Minister.
should receive some consideration. Even
HON. MR. POWER-This session is
if it is a fact that the hon. gentleman from
Woodstock has changed his views on im- very likely to show whether or not-if the
portant subjects, I hardly think that the hon. member from Woodstock has stated
hon. gentleman from Alberton is in the hat the majority of this House are idolbest position in the House to reproach any worshippers-the hon. gentleman is right
member for doing it. The hon. gentleman or not. As to the question put by the
from Alberton has changed his mind on hon. member from Fredericton, I wish to
most important public questions on more say that 1, in the main, concur with him.
than one occasion ; and I do not think, I think that just as sinking funds are set
therefore, that he should be so ready to aside for certain purposes, it would probablame other people for doing what he has bly he a wise course to set aside the proceeds of the sale of those lands in the
done himself.
North-West for the specific purpose of
HON. MR. HOWLAN-I rise to a paying for the expenditure which has
point of order. What I blamed my hon. taken place in connection with the Northfriend from Woodstock for, was not for West. We have been told a great many
having changed his opinion, but for insult- times that those lands would pay for the
ing every member of this House, by saying constructing of the Canadian Pacific
Railway, and would pay also for all the
that we were tools of the Government-a
other expenses incurred in connection
mere registering body.
with the acquisition and settlement of
HoN. MR. ALEXANDER-I never that country; and it would be a wise, and
used such language ! I never applied it seems to me a statesmanlike, course to
follow the advice of my hon. friend from
such language ! Never !
Fredericton.
HON. MR. POWER-I am not going
HON. MR. PLUMB-It always gives
to defend the hon. gentleman from Woodstock or his language, because I think that me pleasure, and I think it does also the
on several occasions that hon. gentleman's other members of this House, to hear my
HON.

MR.

HON. MR. POWER.

Lands in the [MAY 5, 1885] N.- We8t Territories.
hon, friend from Fredericton address this
Chamber. He always speaks in a statesmanlike manner, and only when he has
Something important to bring forward.
The proposition which he makes is one
that could hardly be carried out. I do
not think that it is at all desirable to tie
Up the lands in the North-West for any
special purpose ; we have to trust the
Government of the day with the proper
administration of that fund, and with apPlying it where it should be applied, that
is, to recoup the Government for the expenditures that have been made for the
Opening up and improvement of the
North-West. I did not quite understand
mlly hon. friend in the statement'which he
triade, with respect to the expenditures in
the North-West. When I was in the other
House, I requested that a separate account

should be made up and attached to the
Public accounts, showing the exact amount
that was expended in the North-West, and
I find that that account is here. Out of
an expenditure of $5o,ooo,ooo for the
North-West, $29,559,ooo has been expended upon the Pacific Railway, and
$6,ooo,ooo for the Indians. Against that
total expenditure of $50,ooo,ooo, there
have been receipts anounting to $11,214,OOo, leavinga balanceofnearly$39,ooo,ooo.
But the total expenditure, less the sums
Paid out of the consolidated fund, is
$16,32o,ooo.
I have, myself, faith that
the time will come when those expenditures will be largely recouped by the sale
of the lands in the North-West ; but if the
Course which has been pursued in referring
tO the condition of the North-West, and
the administration of the affairs of the
North-West, is continued by the Opposition and by the Opposition press, it
is evident that that day will be post-

Poned..

LION MR. POWER-Hear, hear!
HON. MR. PLUMB-There is no
question about it at all. There has been
a constant endeavor to injure the Northest, and to retard the settlement
of that
Country. I an very sorry to say that it is
Patent to every one, and if we have failed
hefair to realize the expectations that were
held out, it is due very largely to the

Position taken by the Reform party in
this country.
D 2,

849

HON. MR. POWER-A good joke.
Ho:. MR. PLUMB-It is a good deal
more than a joke. I an sorry that the
hon. gentleman who made that harangueI think that is a parliamentary wordafter the leader of this House had spoken,
is not present. I concur entirely with my
hon. friend who sits at my right hand
that this House has extended towards he
hon. member from Woodstock a kind of
indulgence which he has shown, from
time to time, that he has not deserved.
I for one have listened with astonishment
to the tirades which he has addressed to
this House. I have heard him charge
hon. members with a kind of iniquity,
which, but for consideration of his peculiar
condition of mind, could not have been
passed over either by the members of this
House generally, or by the gentlemen who
were particularly referred to. I congratulate, however, the senior member for

Halifax on having taken that hon. gentleman under his protection. I can congratulate him upon the accession to his
leadership of that hon. gentleman who,
having formally deposed the regular
leader of the Opposition, has so far placed
himself under the leadership of the hon.
gentleman from Halifax.
HoN. MR. POWER-Hear, hear.
HON. MR. PLUMIB-It must be a
great satisfaction to himself to have the
hon. gentleman from Woodstock as an
ally, and to accept that hon. gentleman's
judgment on public affairs; but he is
quite welcome to whatever satisfaction it
may give him.
The hon. member from
Halifax rises in defence of his erratic
follower on almost all occasions, actuated,
as I can see, by a feeling of secret gratiThe hon. gendeman from Woodtude.
stock has not hesitated to assert that the
hon. gentleman who has for a long time
led the Opposition in this House, and who
holds the respect, I think, of both sides,
has failed to fulfil his mission ; that he is
a " political fraud "-that is the expression
that has been used-and he has utterly
repudiated and deposed the hon. gentle..
man from Ottawa, and has placed my
hon. friend from Halifax in a position
which, out of gratitude, compels him to
acknowledge the hon. gentleman from

850

Land? in the [SENATE] N.- We8t Te7ritories.

Woodstock on all occasions, and stand up
in his defence. I think we have tolerated
this farce long enough, and this House
ought to feel indebted to my hon. friend
from Alberton for the manly indignation
he has expressed at the insults that have
been heaped on this House in calling us
mere tools to register the decrees of one
man. I think that this House can assert
its independence on any occasion, and its
honor and dignity do not rest with the
hon. gentleman from Woodstock, who, I
see, has absented himself. He has done
more towards lowering and degrading the
position of this House than any gentleman who has been connected with
it since I have had the honor of a seat in
the Senate of Canada.
HON. MR. DICKEY--It is one of the
inconveniences attendant upon a question being submitted to the House, under
a notice such as we are at present discussing, that members are apt to be diverted
to side issues. I may say in rising that I
am not prepared to follow them into those
issues, because I think it is scarcely fair
to my hon. friend who has presented this
matter to the House that his question,
which is a grave one, and the subject
which he has brought before the House
is equally grave, should be met in the
way it has been met. I think he has
done his province good service in submitting this matter to Parliament. I may
add that so far as the province from which
I come is concerned. we stand very much
in the sane position. Some fifty years
ago the question of the public lands and
the civil list was settled very much upon
the same lines as those which he has
stated to the House as regarding New
Brunswick, and we feel naturally a sympathy for the position he has taken, and
for the course that he recommends in this
matter. I do not know that the present
moment is a time to discuss it, because
the question has been met in such a way
by the leader of the Government in this
House, that it rather prevents hon.
members from taking a line antagonistic
to the Government. The hon. member
has submitted his case in such a clear
and courteous way to the attention of the
Government that he has succeeded in eliciting from the leader of the House a pledge
that this matter will be taken into consiHON. MR.

PLUMB.

deration. Under those circumstances, I
do not think it would be wise to discuss
the question at large. I only rise for the
purpose of expressing my own sympathy
with the course taken by the hon. gentleman from Fredericton, and with the views
that he has expressed. Under the circumstances he has succeeded in the object
that he presented to himself, and in
eliciting from the Government a promise
that the question should be looked into.
It is a very large subject, and it would not
be, I think, an opportune moment to discuss it any further. I hope that the pledge
which has been given to my hon. friend
will be redeemed in due season, and that
this whole question of the position in
which the Maritime Provinces stand with
regard to the enormous expenditure of the
North-West shall be gravely considered by
the Government. Under those circumstances, I do not think it necessary to add
anything to what has been said by my hon.
friend, because the facts are so plain and
so clear, and so written upon the page of
the history of the Dominion, that they
cannot be mistaken. I think my hon.
friend deserves credit not only for bringing
the matter up, but for the manner in which
he has brought it up, as he has done so in
a way that will present it most favorably
to the Government.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I might add
a iew words by way of endorsing the
remark of the hon. gentleman from Amherst. I think that the hon. member
from Fredericton has done very good service, so far as his own province and the
Maritime Provinces generally are concerned, in bringing this question before
the House and presenting it in a phase
which to many of us is new. I must
confess, not having the long years of experience of my hon. friend, that I was not
so well acquainted with the early history
of the affairs connected with my own
province as my hon. friend appears to be,
and he has detailed very clearly and very
fully the position which New Brunswick
occupied in relation to our public lands,
and the position financially in which that
province stands with regard to Manitoba
and the North-West; and he has also intimated very plainly the inequality of
taxation under which certain provinces
labor in the opening up and developing

N.- West iounted [MAY 6, 1885] Police Bill.
of that country. It must be apparent to
every one, considering the immense
amount of money that has been expended
on the Pacific Railway, that some of us
mnay have been under the impression that
It was being built mainly in consequence
0f the terns made with British Columbia,
but I see in the minute of council which
has been placed on our desks, that in the
correspondence regarding Manitoba's
claims, the Government set forth
that, so far as British Columbia is concerned, a waggon road might have been

Sufficient-or, at least, they would have
adhered to that proposition were it not
that it was necessary to open up the lands
of Manitoba and the North-West to settlement ; consequently the interest which
Manitoba has in that, should be taken
into account in making adjustment.
Something has been said with reference to
the Intercolonial Railway. Of course, a
large expenditure has been made in the
lower provinces in the construction of that
road, yet it is perfectly well known by
gentlemen in this House that one of the
Strong reasons why that road was built in
the peculiar location in which it is, was on
account of certain Imperial interests, and
that therefore the benefit which we might
have derived from the carrying out of that
original scheme has been greatly neutralized, and the road bas not been found to
be a commercial road in the interests of
New Brunswick. I may say that I am
Very glad indeed that the hon. gentleman
frorm Fredericton bas brought up this
guestion, and has shown the very great
Ilequality that exists in the taxation of the
different provinces, and the necessity for
Some proper, just, and equitable arrangement which will adequately meet the
Sound and mature judgment of the people
of the lower provinces.

851

benefit from the building of the railway,
but the great expenditure that lias been
made has not been incurred on account
of Manitoba. The whole of the money
that bas been credited to Manitoba and
the North-West has not been expended
there ; a large proportion of it bas
been expended in British Columbi- and
in Ontario, yet we aie saddled with those
expenditures in the North-West and Manitoba. I do not think that is fair. Another
point that I wish merely to touch upon is,
the hon. gentleman who bas just sat
down wishes to show the inequality in
taxation between Manitoba and the NorthWest and New Brunswick. I would not
be very positive about the exact figures,
but the last time that I had occasion to
find out the amounts paid to the revenue
by the two provinces, it was something
like three dollars a head for New Brunswick, and about eleven dollars per head
for Manitoba and the North-West. These
are the points that I wish to mention
just now, but if the matter comes up
again I shall be prepared to make these
statements and some others more fully
than I can now.
NORTH-WEST MOUNTED POLICE
BILL.
THIRD READING.

Bill (T), " An Act respecting th- NorthWest Mounted Police," was reported frorp
Committee of the Whole without amendment: read the third time and passed
without debate.
The Senate adjourned at 4.45 p.m.

THE SENATE.
HoN. MR. SUTHERLAND-I did
not imtend to say a word on this question,
Ottawa, Wednesday, May 6th, 1885.
and have not by any means prepared
myself to do so, but there are one or
two
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
Points that I wish to refer to. It is gen- o'clock.
erally supposed-at all events
by a great
CanY people-that the building of the
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Canadian Pacific Railway is, as the hon.
gentleman who bas just sat
down bas said,
A PROPOSED ADJOURNMENT.
Priecipally in the interests of Manitoba
and the North-West. Of course,
there is
HON. MR. BELLEROSE rose to
olG
doubt that we have derived the first notice that he would move that when give
this

852
)

TeinperanceAct, &c.,

[SE NATE] Amendnent Bill.

House adjourns on Friday next, it stand
adjourned until Wednesday the 2oth inst.
He said : It is well known that this
House has almost completed the work
before it now. We have to wait for an
important measure which is before the
other House for some time, and there can
be no objection to the adjournment for a
few days.

not be regular to move an instruction in
the way he says. If the amendment is
one which can be made in Committee of
the Whole, it is not a subject matter for
an instruction, and it is just because I
thought that this requirement that at
least three-fifths of the persons voting
should be in favor of the petition before
the petition would be deemed to be car
ried-just because I thought that that
CANADA TEMPERANCE ACT AND could not be done in a Committee of the
LIQUOR LICENSE ACT AMEND- Whole, that I proposed to move an instruction. The whole matter of instrucMENT BILL.
tions is dealt with at considerable length
and very clearly in Bourinot. The subIN COMMITTEE.
ject begins at page 533 and continues
The order of the day having been down to page 538. I shall just read a
few lines to show my hon. friend that he
called,
Committee of the Whole House on (Bill 92), has mistaken the point.
" The Canada Temperance Act 1878, and
HON. MR. VIDAL-I have read the
The Liquor License Act 1883, further Amendment Bill,"
lines that the hon gentleman refers to.
HON MR. POWER moved,
That it be an instruction to the said Conmittee to insert a provision in the said Bill
requiring that whenever in future a poll is
taken under " The Canada Temperance Act
1878," the Petition shall not be held to have
been adopted unless more than three-fifths of
the votes polled are for the Petition.

HON. MR. POWER-The House has
not heard them. Bourinot says-" An 'instruction,' empowering a committee to make those changes In a bill which
otherwise it could not nia ke, should be moved
as soon as the order for the committee bas
been read by the clerk, and before the question
is put that the Speaker do leave the chair.
An instruction, properly speaking, is not of
HON. MR. VIDAL-Before the hon. the nature of an amendment, but of a substangentleman proceeds I should like to raise tive motion which ought to have precedence
a question of order with reference to this of the question that the Speaker do leave the
chair. If an instruction is moved when the
I find in Bourinot, latter motion is proposed, then it becomes an
proposed motion.
that it is not regular to instruct a commit- amendment, which, if agreed to, suipercedes
tce to entertain a question that is outside the motion for the committee, and the Bill
of the Bill which is before them.
I consequently cannot be proceeded with for the
object that this motion is outside of the time being.
Considerable misapprehension appears to
Bill which is now before us. The Bill exist among some menbers
of the Canadian
does not touch on the question of voting, Commons as to the meaning of an instruction
and this amendment relates to the ma- -a misapprehension by no means confined to
j)rity by which a petition shall be carried. that body, since English speakers have freI find also that an instruction to a com- quently found it necessary to give decisions
instrucmittee is not mandatory, and therefore it and explanations on the subject. An given to
tion, according to these decisions, is
is necessary to state explicitly in the a committee to confer on it that power which,
motion that the committee have power to without such in-truction, it wouid not have.
make the change. The motion is man- If the subject-matter of an instruction is reledatory ; it is an instruction to the com- vant to the subject-matter, and within the
scope and titles of a bill, then such instruction
mittee to insert an amendment. For the is irregular since the committee has the power
first point I refer to page 536, Bourinot, to make the required amendment. The following precedents will illustrate the correct
and for the second I refer to page 537.
practice with respect to this class of motion:
"In 1854, the Englih Commons had before
HON. MR. POWER-I do not think
them a ' Bill to abolish in England and Wales
the hon. gentleman's point is well the compulsory removal of the por on the
taken. In the first place, his idea as to groundof settlement,'and a meme rproposed
instructions is so far astray that it would to introduce clauses into the Bill to prevent
HON. MR. BELLEROSE.

Tenperance Act, &c., [MAY 6, 1885] Anmndment Bül.

853

the removal of Irish paupers in the different
Unions of the country.
It was pointed out
that the contemplated changes would entirely
alter the character of the Bill, and could only
be made by an instruction; the Speaker,
being appealed to, said that the rule had been
Clearly stated, and if the noble lord intended
to propose the addition of the new provisions
allded to, it would be necessary to move
them as an instruction to the committee.
"Ini 1865, the order for committee on the
Union Chargeability Bill having been read,
Mr. Bentinck inoved' tþiat, 'it be an instruction
to the comniittee, with a view to render the
working of the system of union chargeability
more just and equal ; that they have power to
facilitate, in certain cases, the alteration of
the limits of existing unions.'
An objection
was at once taken, that under the Poor Law
Board Act there was power to alter the
bOundary of unions, and therefore an instruction was not necessary. The Speaker (Mr.

but in -order to be quite clear about it, I
consulted the author of the work, Mr.
Bourinot, on the subject, and he told me
that the course which I have taken was
the proper one to take. Fortified by his
opinion, I put the notice on the paper in

matter as to which opinions differ. Some
hOn. gentlemen think that we could in
Com1mittee have amended the Bill before
the flouse in the direction in which I
Wish to see it amended. My own opinion
Was different. I thought that we had not
the whole of the Canada Temperance Act
before us, and that consequently this
anendnent could not have been moved
l committee. I consulted this work on
the subject and I thought that the course
which I have adopted was the correct
one,

order - that it was an amendment
to the Bill which was consistent with the
provisions of the Bill, and that the hon.
member from Amherst was in order in
moving it at the third reading. I take
this ground that if the hon. member from
Amherst was in order in moving that amendment without notice, that the committee have authority, when the bill is referred
to them, to make a similar amendment if
the majority of the committee so see fit.
I think the point is clear that the com-

the form in which it appears.

I do not

think it is necessary to read any further
authority ; I think it is clear enough.
HON.

MR.

BOTSFORD-I

cannot

agree with the hon. member from Halifax
that what he has read at all sustains the
position which he takes. I think it is
quite clear that the amendnent which he
proposes, giving instructions to a Commit.
tee of the Whole,is one which can be made
without instructions by the Committee of

Dennison) decided : ' The question is not as the Whole to which the Bill is to be reto whether the Poor Law Board has the ferred. The authorities show clearly that
wer, but whether the committee would
.ave it without the instruction ; and, if the Committee of the Whole have
In rny opinion, the conimittee would not have authority to deal with the amendment,
that power, bocause the subject matter would then the instruction is out of order, and
nOt be relevant to the subject matter in the the authorities which the hon. member
Bill. Therefore the motion is in order, has read show as clearly as possible that
and should have precedence, because an it is only in cases where the subject of the
mntrnetion is not of the nature of an amendinstruction is not within the power of the
ILment, but ot a subtative motion.
"In 1878, the order for committee on the Committee of the Whole,. that instruction
Factories and Workshops Bill having been can be given. If the Committee of the
read, Mr. Fawcett rose to move an instruction Whole have, by their functions, power to
extending the operation of the Bill to children
employed in agriculture. Mr. Speaker Brand deal with the amendment which has been
stated in reply to an objection to the proceed- proposed by the hon. member, then undcr
ing: 'The motion of the hon. member is in the authorities quoted, it is quite clear
the form of an insttuction to the committee. that he is out of order in moving an inThe committee would not have power to deal
With the question unless an instruction of this struction to the committee on a question
with which they have power to deal. It
HRouse were passed."
will be recollected that last year, when
And there are other cases given which this Bill came up, and the hon. member
go to show what is the exact nature of an from Amherst moved an amendment at
imstruction. Now, I proceeded in the the third reading similar to the one
way I have done because I felt that objec- which the hon. member from Halifax
tion might be justly taken to an amenid- is now seeking to move, objection was
ment of this kind that it did not come taken to it that it was out of order,
within the purview of the Bill which is and the honorable the Speaker clearly
nOw before the House. I know that is a decided that the amendment was in

854A

Temperance Act, &c., LSENATE] Amendment Bill.

mittee have authority to deal with it. The
amendment is not at all extraneous to the
bill. It is not like the authorities who
are referred to in Bourinot in any way.
There the amendnent referred to a different matter. The bill was to abolish in
England and Wales the compulsory removal of the poor on the ground of settlement, and a member proposed to
introduce clauses into the bill to prevent
the removal of Irish paupers in the different unions of the country. The Speaker's
decision in that case was that the committee of the whole had not power to deal
with the bill in that line, but that it was
necessary to give instruction. There is
nothing incongruous between the amendment and the provisions of the bill, and
therefore I raise the point of order, not
exactly on the point stated by the
hon. member from Sarnia, but on the
principle that this is an amendment which
could be dealt with by the Committee of the
Whole, and that the hon. gentleman cannot move the resolution.
MR. POWER-There are two or
three cases which follow the quotation
which I gave, and which I think may
perhaps convince the hon. member from
Sackville that this resolution is in order.
They will be found at page 535 Bourinot.
They are as follows:
" In 1881, the order for the Comniîttee of
HON.

the Whole on a Bill respecting the sale oi

intoxicating liquors on Sunday, in Wales,
having been read, it was moved as an instruction that, they have power to extend the sanie

to Monmnouthshire "
That was held to be in order. Then
agamn:
" In 1868, the Speaker ruled that a Select
Conniittee to which. had been referred the
Sale of Liquors on Sunday Bill would be confined to its subject niatter, and could not con-

sider the question of the general licensing

system without a special instruction from the
House.

Now, that was a case very like the one
which is before us. In another case,
Speaker Denison (page 536 Bourinot)
said : " The necessity for an instruction
arose from the Acts relating to spirits be.
ing considered quite a distinct class ; and
to deal with beer, cider and wine would
be to deal with separate trades."
The impression made on my mind by
these authorities is, that this is a case for
HON. MR.

BOTSFORD.

an instruction-a case where the instruction
is the proper means of making the desired
amendment.
THE SPEAKER-The course pursued
by the hon. member from Halifax, if the
instruction were in order, is perfectly correct. This is the proper time to make the
motion placed by the hon. member on the
minutes. The motion of which the hon.
Senator has given notice is as follows:That when the Order of hie Day to commit

the Bill intituled: "An

Act

further to

amend ' The Canada Temperance Act 1878,'
and ' The Liquor I icense Act 1883,'" to a

Committee oh the Whole House is read, he
will move that it be an instruction to the said
Comrnittee to insert a provision in the said
Bill requiring that whenever in future a poli
is taken under " The Canada Temperance
Act 1878," the Petition shall not be held to
have been adopted unless more than threefifths of the votes polled are for the Petition.

The hon. Senator from Sarnia has
raised the question on this motion that it
is not in order, because it is not germane

to the Bill before the Senate. The hon.
gentleman quoted fron the rules of the
House of Commons in support of his contention, but if the hon. member had
quoted the whole of the rule he would
have found the present motion did not
come within it. (The Speaker then read
the full rule cited by the Senator from
Sarnia). I, therefore, do not think the hon.
gentleman from Sarnia was right in the
point of order raised by him.
The question of order raised by the
hon. Senator from Sackville, (Mr. Botsford) is of a different character, and must,
I think, prevail. An instruction to a
committee is a power from the House to
do something which it cannot do without
such authorization. It is not in order to
instruct a committee to do anythng it has
already the power to do. Last year, a
motion was made in this House relating
to the subject of the present motion, and
I then decided that the subject matter
was germane to the Bill then before the
House, and if it is so, it certainly is quite
within the competency of the committee
now to deal with it without an instruction.
(The Speaker here quoted numerous precedents in support of his views of the
case).
My decision is, that the motion of the
hon. member from Halifax is not in order.

Temperance Act, &c., [MAY 6, 1885] Amendment Bil.

855

HON. MR. VIDAL moved that the cities alone returning members for the
House go into Committee of the Whole House of Commons, and the three cities
on the Bill.
that we have, unfortunately are not as
populous as most of the eastern cities.
The motion was agreed to, and the Victoria, with only a population of some
House resolved itself into a Committee of 8,ooo or io,ooo, returns, with a small porthe Whole.
tion of the surrounding country, two members to the House of Commons. The
same thing applies in New Westminster,
In the committee,
district and city ; they return only one
HON. MR. VIDAL moved the adoption member for the House of Commons of
of the first section of the Bill, providing Canada, and I claim that if the Act is
that it shall he sufficient to deposit the carried in the district that it will be inpetitions for purposes of inspection, in operative, and I think that it would be
one registry office in a county where there very much better if the words of the secmay happen to be more than one office. tion " except city " in the i oth line of the
clause were expunged ; it would be in the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do interest of temperance and the cause
not see any objection to that clause. The which the advocates of this Bill have in
difficulty has arisen in one case in the view. 1, therefore, move that the words
County of Perth, where there are two " except city " in the ioth line in the
registry offices, and I believe in other second clause be expunged.
counties where there are more than one
HON. MR. NELSON-Before the amregistry office also. I do not object to
that clause, nor do I think there is any endment is made, I rise to say that I ar
reasonable ground for objecting to the entirely opposed to it. That amendment
afterpart of the clause, although at first to this Bil was made, I believe, at the
sight it appears to be more objectionable suggestion of one of the members of the
than the first part. It is to legalize what Houseof Commonsftom British Columbia.
has been done in the past in that respect, The amendment was supported by every
but I suppose it is only intended to legal representative in the Commons from Britize it in those cases where the Act has ish Columbia, and was passed through
actually gone into force; therefore, I do that body. The object which 1 think My
not think the House need object to the hon. friend has in view is perhaps to apply that more especially to the district
Passage of the whole of that clause.
from which he coes, the district of New
The clause was agreed to.
Westminister, so, as tco inctude the city 0f
New Westiinster in the eveat of the Act
H-ION. MR. VIDAL-In mnoving the being adopted there. The district ofNew
of the second clause, the amend- sadoption
Westminster lies along the American borment proposed by my hon. friend from der, from the Guf of Georgia up to where
British Columbia will be taken into con- it touches the district again some 25 or 30
sideration. 1 are quite prepared to allow miles. The country there is a wild counhis to make his motion at once in amend- try, and in the immediate neighborhood
ment to my motion to adopt the second of that ne on the other side there is a
,clause of the Bill. 1 quite agree with the number of small American towns, and it
aniendments which my hon. friend pro- would be impossible to prevent the introPoses. I think they are quite in harmony duction of liquor from those American
with the spirit of the Bi, and are neces- towns into New Westminster, and the ef
sarY to make the measure workable in fect of applying the Scott Act in this manBritish Columbia.
ner to the districts, would be to encourage
the islicit sale of liquor. There is scarcely
hiON. MR. McINNES (B.C.)-The a public house to-day in that district. The
reason why I gave notice to have this sec- liquor that is consumed in that portion of
tion amnended is this: We have five the country is carried from the town of
electoral districts in British Columbia for New Westminster, ad probably a portion
the bouse of Commons ; we have no of it is suggled in from the United States

856

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

If the Scott Act were applied to the town
of New Westminster, the fact of the matter
would be that wholesale smuggling would
be carried on across the border from the
United States into our district. We have
also to take into account the fact that
above the district of New Westminster
lie the district of Yale and the town of
Yale, and there is as much communication
between that town and New Westminster,
as between New Westminster and its own
district, and liquor would be carried down
froni there and distributed in New Westminster to as great an extent as at present, and the whole effect of applying the
Scott Act to the town of New Westminster would be to encourage the smuggling
of liquor across the border, to destroy the
trade of New Westminster, and to deprive
the Dominion of its revenue. For this
reason I oppose the amendment.

from British Columbia. The hon. gentleman says that if we expunge the words.
" except city," from this clause, the effect
will be to encourage smuggling from the
United States and Yale district. I do not
believe that such would be the case. If
the Scott Act is carried in New Westminster, any smuggling that will take place
will be from Victoria. Liquors may be
shipped in from there, and sold without
the sanction of law. New Westminster is
nearly in the centre of the district of Westminster for electoral purposes. If the
amendment I propose is not accepted, the
Act would be a complete failure there, and
I would rather ten times not see it carried
in the surrounding country if not carried
in the city as well. The Act must be
carried in the city as well as the district,
or it would be a complete failure, and I
can see no good reason why the electoral
districts of the House of Commons should
HoN. MR. VIDAL-The effect of the not be the standard for electoral districts
amendment is, really, to make the vote of for the purposes of this Act.
the electoral district as it stands now. The
HON. MR. NELSON-With the Ameriway in which it is worded, as the Bill is
before you, it would make a distinction be- can border lying alongside the district of
tween the city and surrounding country New Westminster; with the facilities for
smuggling liquors across that border; with
that does not alrëady exist.
the impossibility of preventing it from.
HON. MR. NELSON-That is as far being carried across that border; it would
as the House of Commons is concerned, be madness to pass such an amendment
but we have the electoral district of West- as that, and the hon. gentleman knows
minster and the electoral district of New just as well as I do that it would be an
Westminster clearly defined as far as local impossibility to prevent smuggling fromthe United States. He knows that
elections are concerned.
probably it exists to-day, and just as soon
HON. MR. VIDA L-We are not dealing as the Act would be passed smuggling
with the divisions into which provinces would be increased. There can be no
may divide their counties or districts. We doubt about it.
are dealing with the electoral divisions of
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
the House of Commons, and I think the
seems to me the words should be expunged
amendment of my hon. friend from New
Westminster would be an improvement to for another reason ; that reason is this :
that unless we expunge the word " except,"
the Bill.
the city of New Westminster would not
HON. MR. MACDONALD - I think vote anywhere at all under this Temperthe committee would be acting wisely to ance Act. It would not vote as a city
leave the divisions as put in by the House apart from the rest of the country, because
of Commons. The members of that body it is not an electoral district. It ought to
settled it in the way it stands, and I think vote in the electoral district on this subject,
i( would be better to leave it as they pass- and unless it so votes it cannot vote as an
individual municipality.
ed it.
The amendment was adopted.
HON MR. McINNES---I am sorry I
HON. MR. VIDAL-The other section
stand alone on this question, and that I
cannot agree with my hon. colleagues relating to British Columbia provides that
HON. MR. NELSON.

Temperance Act, &c.,

[MAY 6, 1885] Amendment Bill.

notice shall be deposited in the registry
offices in the respective electoral districts
or in sherifis' offices in such districts. In
all British Columbia, there are but two
registry offices and two sheriff's offices, and
it is quite obvious that the requirements
of the Act could not be met by depositing
the petitions in these offices only, they are
So remote from other parts of the country.
The hon. member from New Westminster
has given notice of an amendment, to
strike out this third section and substitute
In place thereof the amendment of which
he has given notice. I have only to say
that, so far from having any objection to
the amendment, I think it would be a very
great improvement to the Bill. It is
absolutely necessary, in fact, in order to
rihake the Bill workable in that province.
HON.

MR.

McINNES (B. C.)-As

the hon. gentleman from Sarnia has very

properly said, we have only two sheriffs in
the whole of the province, one at Victoria
and the other at New Westminster, and we
have only two registry offices in the province, one at Victoria and the other at
New Westminster. The electoral districts
of Cariboo, Yale and Vancouver, have no
such offices at all. Consequently, if the
Bill is passed in its present state, there
Will be no place for depositing those
notices. I, therefore, move that section 3
be struck out, and that the following be
Substituted therefor :The notice provided for in section 6 of the
Act shall, so lar as it relates to British Columbia be de osited inthe respective Electoral
Districts as follows:-

85T

" All courts, judges, justices of the peace,

inagistrates, judicial and other officers, shal
take notice of such order-in-council, so
published as aforesaid, in any proceeding
uider this Act, withont its bping specially
pleaded or referred to, and no evidence thereof shall be required to be given in any precaution under this Act."
I need scarcely call attention to the.
absolute necessity for some such provision

as this, in order to make the Act workable
in the country districts. It is impossible
there that people shall have at hand ready
to produce before magistrates, or in courts,
certified copies of orders-in-council, of
the Gazette containing notices, and of
various other documents which might be
technically considered necessary, in order
to prove a fact which no person doubts,
and the evidence of which has been made
public in a very full and sufficient manner.
This is asking no new privilege; it has
been attached to other bills, and I cannot
see any possible objection to requiring
judges and other judicial officers to take
notice of orders-in-council published in
the Canada Gazette, on any proceedings,
under this Act, as sufficient evidence that
the law is in force, without requiring

copies of official documents duly certified
to be produced.
HON. MR. DICKEY-I should like to
ask the hon. member who has charge of
the Bill, as I have not had an opportunity
of referring to sec. 96, whether it is provided in that section that the proclama-

tion shall be published in the Canada
Gazette ?

HON. MR. VIDAL-Yes, it is.
1. Cariboo Electoral District, in
o the Registrar of Voters, Village ofthe office
BarkerVille.
HON. MR. DICKEY--It appears to me,
2. Yale Electoral District, in the office of in order to prevent confusion, this clause
theRegistrar

of Votera, Village of Kamloops.
.New Westminster Electoral District, in ought to have provided that the proclamathe office of the Registrar of Votera, City of tion in the official Gazette should be suffi3

eew Westminster.

cient, without any further evidence.

The

4. Victoria Electoral District, in the office rule with regard to other matters has
0 the Registrar of Votera, City of Victoria.
always been to state that the proclama6. Vancouver Electoral District, in the
oce Of the Registrar of Votera, City of tion in the official Gazette shall be evidence of itself, without any further proof.
The amendment was adopted.

That would make the clause clear and
intelligible.

HoN MR. VIDAL-Section 4 of this
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
i is an amendment to section 96 of the understand that some magistrates have
ginal Canada Temperance Act, by objected to the production of the Canada
8Ufply adding thereto the words-Gazette as not being sufficient evidence,

858

Temperance Act, &o., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

and have required certified copies, and
this is to obviate the necessity of procuring such certified copies. It can be done
either in the way that my hon. friend
proposes, which would probably be the
more regular way, or in the manner in
which the Bill provides.
HON. MR. VIDAL-The Bill has been
drawn up by a gentleman of the very
highest legal standing, who thought that
this was the best way that the difficulty
could be met.

The clause was adopted.
Hox. MR. VIDAL-In moving the
adoption of section 5, I may repeat an
observation which I made in introducing
the Bill. The two or three alterations
which are proposed, as they are given here,
certainly throw no light on the effect of
the clause as it will be, though having that
clause before one it will be seen that the
amendments are very simple. I should
be disposed to strike out the 5th section
and re-enact it with the amendments, but
there is a consolidation of the laws being
made now, and I think that the amended
Act can be introduced without difficulty
in that consolidation. I think, therefore,
that we might safely adopt the Bill as it
stands. This was a mere clerical error.
The other portion of the clause has been
several times before this House-it was
the restriction attached to the sale under
a doctor's certificate that the quantity was
not to be less than one pint. The original
object was to prevent tippling. I never
did exactly approve of it myself, and it is
now proposed to strike out the words,
leaving unlimited power to physicians to
prescribe what they see fit. Some object
very strongly to the limit being taken away,
though I think, while we may occasionally
find a physician who is not fit to be entrusted with the power, that the profession
stands so high that we can safely leave the
matter to their discretion. The latter
portion of the clause was considered
necessary apparently by the House of
Commons. It is one that I have little or
nothing to say about. I suppose it is well
that violations of the law should be
punished, and it is not necessary to
suppose, because the penalty is provided,
that infractions will take place.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I am very

glad that my hon. friend puts so much
confidence just now in the medical profession. I thought the general principle of
this Bill was to prevent tippling. When
the Bill was before the House for the
second reading the other day, the hon.
member from Amherst remarked on this
clause, that instead of preventing tippling,
it was rather encouraging it, and that a
man could, under the amendment, take
his dram without scruple.
HON. MR. POWER-How many
scruples to the dram ?
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I think it
is rather encouraging tippling, than otherwise, but I am glad to find my hon.
friend's confidence in the medical profession is increasing.

HoN. MR. DICKEY-I beg to be
allowed to disclaim being the author of
that very bad pun, that in any act in
which my hon. friend from Sarnia had
a hand, he should be supposed to be guilty
of legislating for taking a dram without
a scruple. Curious complications have
arisen with regard to this section, to which
my hon. friend, with his usual modesty,
has not referred.
Last year, when we
were considering the amendments to this
Act, an hon. member-I think the hon.
member from Alexandria-moved substantially, this very amendment.
HON. MR. SCOTT-Oh, no!
HON. MR. DICKEY-The amendment
was that the quantity should be restricted
to not more than one pint-in any quantity less if you like, but not more. The
extraordinary part of that was, that the
amendment was voted down by the promoters of the Scott Act, with the single
exception of the hon. member from Sarnia,
who has been, I admit, consistent throughout on this matter. He voted with the
minority, and voted that these words
should be put in. If that amendment
had been adopted, this portion of the Bill
would have been unnecessary, because it
would have made it clear that no one
could sell more than a pint Now my
hon. friend is kind enough to allow the
sale of any quantity-even a dram, without
a scruple.

Temperance Act, &co., [MAY 6, 1885] Amendment Bil.
HoN. MR. SCOTT-I, myself, was
very strongly in favor of the amendment, but it will be remembered that
the Minister of the Interior who had
charge of this Bill on behalf of
the Governinent,
stated to
those
gentlemen who favored the amendment
that the condition on which he and the
Government agreed to support this Bill
was that no change should be made.
When the proposition came from the hon.
member from Glengarry I felt that it was
One in the right direction, one which
Would protect the profession from any
Mlproper obseriations in the future; and
I was most anxious to support it. The
Minister of the Interior, however, had
Placed this obligation on us, that we
Should ask for no change, and had promised that if we would take the Bill as it
Stood, without change, his assistance
Would be given to it. For that reason
and that reason alone did I vote for itto keep faith with the Government-but
believing that the proposition made by
My hon. friend was the true one, if he
makes it now I shall not only vote and
Say all I can for it, but I shall be extremely
glad to have the change made, and I
think he will confer a great benefit on the
profession if he will take that course.
HON. MR. McMILLAN-I gave notice
when this Bill came up that I would
mnove the following amendment " Provided, however, that duly licensed
medical practitioners nay purchase and disPense alcoholic liquors for exclusively medicinal purposes and not otherwise."
I would like to add to that also a further amendment, so far as druggists are
concerned :
"'Provided also that nothing in the Act
shall be held to interfere with the sale by
druggists or physicians of the officinal
preparations of the authorized pharmacoPoeas when made of full medicinal strength,
and sold only for niedicinal purposes, nor

ith the dispensing of physicians' prescripons containing spirit- ous liquors in quantitÎes of not more than eight ounces at any one
time, nor with the sale of any patent medi-

eine unlese such patent medicine ie known to
the vendor to be capable of being used as a
beverage, the sale of whfch is a violation of
The Uanada Temperance Act 1878.' "
I may say that the druggists are desirOus of having that amendment added
also. The object of this amendment is

859

to remove a doubt that exists in the
minds of legal gentlemen as to the construction of this clause.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I think it would
be better to have this amendment on the
paper before we consider it-not only the

one that has been for some time on the
paper, but the amendment by which he
proposes to exempt the druggists from
any penalties for selling prescriptions
although they may contain a very large
percentage of alcohol. It is an important proposition, and I should like to see

it in print before it is submitted to the
House.
HON. MR. McMILLAN-I have no
objection. I think the suggestion is a
good one, because it may be thought that
I am springing it upon the House. I give
notice of it now. The clause to which exception is taken provides that from the
day on which the part of this Act comes
into force in any county or city, or so
long thereafter as it continues in force

therein, no person, unless it be for exclusively medicinal purposes .under the regulations of the 4 th sub-section of this section, shall, within such county or city, expose or keep for sale any spirituous or
other intoxicating liquors or mixed liquors
capable of being used as a beverage, and
part of which is spirituous or otherwise
intoxicating.
A good many are in doubt as to what
is the proper construction to put upon
that clause, and some are construing it to
mean that a medical man cannot keep in
his surgery alcoholic mixtures, or alcohol to prepare mixtures. There are a
great many-I suppose the larger portion
of the medical men in the Dominionwho are not living convenient to druggists,
and consequently are obliged to keep
their own preparations, and perhaps to
manufacture a good many of them. In
order to remove that doubt as to the
legality of their keeping alcohol in their
surgeries, it is considered desirable, by a
great many medical men, to have this provision added. I may say that in the
House of Commons the hon. member
from Dundas introduced a somewhat similar amendmefnt, but it was not worded
quite as strictly as this. That amendment, I may say, was carried in the com-

860

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bdl.

mittee, but it was rejected by the House.
Now, this amendment which I have prposed is as follows :" Provided, however, that duly licensed
medical practitioners

inay

purchase and

dispense alcoholie liquors for exclusively
medicinal purposes, and not otherwise."

I think it will be rather an improvement
to the Bill than otherwise, and consequently I expect that hon. gentlemen
will support it.
HON. MR. POWER-I wish to call the
attention of the committee to one feature
in this amendment, which, I think, is
objectionable. The section of the Canada
Temperance Act to which this amendment
is proposed deals only with the selling or
giving away of liquors. My hon. friend
purposes to add :" Provided, however, that duly hcensed
nedical practitioners nay purchase and
dispense alcoholic liquors for exclusively
medicinal purposes, and not otherwise."
I think that the words " purchase and"
should not be in this clause. This is a
clause which deals with the selling of
liquor. Al that the hon. gentleman wants
is to authorize medical practitioners to
dispense, and not to purchase liquor.
There are other provisions in the Bill
under which they can get liquor. I do
not feel very strongly on it, but I do not
think this applies to the purchase of liquor.

one case that I have now before me a
medical man gives an order for four
gallons of brandy. In another he gives
an order for 72 pints of ale or beer, and
in another for io quarts of whiskey, and
so on in unlimited quantities, and theretore
I think the medical men have at the
present moment as much license as we
should give them in this respect. I would
much rather my hon. friend would propose
that they would be restricted in making
prescriptions to a pint. That would be a
reform, and would protect the profession
from the aspersions that are likely to be
cast on them in connection with the giving.
of certificates.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-You

have adopted the pint limit in the law as
it stands.
HON. MR. SCOTT-The proposition

was to strike it out althogether, leaving
the quantity to the discretion of the man
who prescribed, and I state in confirmation

of that, that the profession have availed
themselves of the privilege granted to
them by giving these large prescriptions

up to five gallons of brandy at a time, and
large quantities of ale and beer. I notice
in the report before me where a medical
man gives an order for 70 pints of ale in
one prescription. I suppose the person
proposed to have a porter or ale bath.
He could not use it in any other way in
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-They one prescription.
must purchase in order to dispense them.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-AcHON. MR. SCOTT-I think at the cording to the hon. gentleman's own adpresent moment that medical men, from mission, this amendment does not make it
the experience we have had where the any worse.

Act has been in force, have availed themselves to a very large extent of the privi-

HON. MR. SCOTT-Yes, it does; it

lege of obtaining liquors. From the
returns that have been brought before
Parliament, it appears that medical men
can obtain liquors, from the parties who
are at present authorized to dispense them,
in unlimited quantities.

gives the right to dispense to a larger
number.

HON. MR. DICKEY-The law as it
now stands enables a medical practitioner
to give a medical certificate for any quantity whatever; but he cannot give a certiHCN. MR. DICKEY-Under the law ? cate for less than a pint. He must give
a certificate for a pint or upwards.
HON MR. SCOTT-Under the law
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-As
as it now stands. I have now before me
reports from several counties where the I understand the amendment of the hon.
Act is in force where I find the quantity gentleman from Glengary, it is to provide
dispensed, is practically unlimited. In that a niedical practitioner in the country

HON. MR. McMILLAN.

Temperance Act, &c., (MAY 6, 1885] Amendment Bill.
may buy liquor and keep it in his office
for the purpose of being used when he
nakes up a prescription of which it is a
necessary part, and for that purpose he
wants the right as a medical practitioner
*to keep it on the premises and dispense it.
In reference to the clause itself, I invite
the attention of the committee to this :
whether it is quite right to subject a respectable body of gentlemen like the
members of the niedical profession, to a
penalty for a conviction of this kind ; it
says, " for strictly medicinal purposes,"
and if they do not give the liquor for
strictly medicinal purposes, they are to be
subject to a penalty. Who is to be the
judge as to whether it is for medicinal
purposes or not ? If that is brought
before a country magistrate who may perhaps be a violent fanatic, he may say that
it was not given for medicinal purposes,
but for some other purpose, and that may
raise a very delicate question, and perhaps
a very embarrassing one for an honest
practitioner.
If he cannot satisfy the
rnagistrate, as a medical man, that he has
dispensed the liquor in the line of his profession, it would place him sometimes in a
dangerous position.
HON. MR. DICKEY-I quite agree
with my hon. friend as to that, and the
clause is made still more exceptionally
severe upon medical men when you come
to consider that, by a sub-section of this
Act, we have conferred pretty much the
same privileges on priests and ordained
,clergymen, and to be consistent you should
Impose the penalty upon them as well as
Upon the medical men.

861

felt it necessary to take a glass of ale, ha
would render himself liable to a severe
penalty if he did so, while his r-edical
man, who lives a little way froin him, is at
liberty to go and buy as much liquor as he
pleases and dispose of it as he thinks proper, and, I presume, if he used two or
three glasses of whiskey he would be at
liberty to say that it was for medicinal
purposes,
I think the returns that
my hon. friend from Ottawa has referred
to, show that the medical men in the past
have stretched the exemption as far as it
could go, and certainly further than the
law ever intended that trust to be extended. There is a way in which medical
men can provide thenselves with liquor.
Under this Act they can buy liquor in
quantities to the extent of a gallon at a
time, and more than that I do not think
they have any right to expect. I do not
consider that it is right to allow a doctor
to buy liquor by the gill or a snaller quantity, for that would show that the medical
men wanted to tipple and not to dispense
liquor.
HON. MR. DEVER-I am opposed to
the whole law, but if it is to be passed, I
am not inclined to give privileges to
medical men and clergymen more than to
others. I would like to see the law
carried out as a temperance law, but for
my part I do not believe it can be enforced.
I believe now the druggist can bring in
any quantity of alcohol and can sell it ;
he can sell it as cologne water. I think
the hon. gentleman is aware that cologne
water is actually alchool; yet the druggist
is at liberty to dispose of it in large quantities. If druggisti and doctors, and
clergymen and priests, have the privilege
of using alcohol as they please, the regular
dealers, who have been employed in this
business all their lives, should not be restricted. I think it is right that I should
speak out on this subject holding the
views that I do, and vote against those
privileges being given to the medical men
or clergymen.

HON. MR. POWER-I think the proper cure is to make them liable to the
'Penalty as well as the doctors. It is, perhaps, unfortunate that we have this law at
all, but as long as we have it, it should be
administered with some sort of fairness,
and I know of no reason why a doctor
should be allowed to go and buy as much
Whiskey as he pleases, and consume it or
dispose of it as he pleases, when a lawyer
HON
MR. McINNES - Become a
or a merchant cannot do the same.
clergyman.
HON. MR. )ICKEY--We do it.
HON. MR. POWER moved that the
HON. MR. POWER-If my hon. friend amendment be amended, by striking out
from Amherst, who lives in a Scott Act the words " purchase and."

county, were walking on a warm day and

The motion was lost on a division.

862

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bill,

HON. MR. SCOTT-I think you had
HON. MR. SMITH-No; the certifibetter repeal the Act if you are going to cates for gin might be.
mutilate it in the way that is proposed.
HcN. MR. SCOTT-It is very extraorHON. MR. SMITH--Hear, hear; it is dinary that the hon. gentleman from Tora scandalous Act.
onto should contradict me so boldly when
I tell him the fact that the doctors can
HON. MR. SCOTT-If you are going only give certificates for medicinal purto mutilate the Act, it would be better to poses ; that is the law.

repeal it.
HON. MR. SMITH-You say they do
ALEX. CAMPBELL-This not give it for medicinal purposes.
is not mutilating the Act.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I say they do take
HON. MR. SCOTT-We are enabled advantage of the privilege accorded to
to judge by experience. A few years ago, them and give wholesale orders. They
I thought the medical men would respond sell prescriptions although the law says
to the trust placed in them by Parliament, they shall only give a certificate for liquor
in granting them the power to issue cer- for purely medicinal purposes. There is
tificates ; but we find there has been a the law.
most open violation of the law; that in
the Island of Prince Edward, where the
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Will the
law is in force, some medical men have hon. gentieman give us a return of the
printed certificates, which they sell at so physicians who refused to issue those cermuch apiece, and fill them up for any one tificates?
that applies for them. I take the returns
HON. MR. SCOTT-Here is the return
of a single day, at one drug shop, from
the printed return before Parliament, and of liquors dispensed under medical certifiI find that in Prince County, Prince Ed- cates.
ward Island, liquors were dispensed on
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--Does
medical certificates in the following quantities: Brad Black got i 2 pints of whiskey ; not my hon. friend see that this amendMrs. James Read, 9 pints of whiskey; ment is limiting it to medicinal purposHoward Farrow, 8 pints of whiskey; Wm. es?
S. Green, 1o pints of whiskey; Charles
HON. MR. SCOTT-Was not all this
Clark, 8 pints of whiskey; T. H. Robble,
8o pints of ale and porter ; Brad Black, 18 dispensed for medicinal purposes ? The
pints of whiskey; Brad Black, 28 pints law says there shall be no sale of liquor
of whiskey; H. E. Wright, 16 pints of only under a certain condition, and that
whiskey: D. Hunt, 24 pints of whiskey; condition is that a medical man shall preMr. Kirk, 20 pints of whiskey, and so on scribe it for medicinal purposes.
through the return.
HON. MR. McMILLAN-How will the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That medical man that resides out in the country,.
has nothing to do with this question.
40 miles away from the druggist, give a prescription containing alcohol if he is not alHON. MR. SCOTT-It has everything lowed to keep it in his office ?
to do with this amendment, as the hon.
HON. MR. SCOTT-That is not the
gentleman will see.
point we are discussing.
What I an
HON. MR. McMILLAN-The amend- saying is this: that Parliament having
ment says it is for exclusively medicinal trusted the miedical profession with the
right to give certificates for unlimited quanpurposes.
tities, and in the belief that they would
HON. MR. SCOTT-Were not all those limit it to the quantities actually required
certificates I have referred to for exclu- for the special cases, some of them have
abused that trust. There are many who
sively medicinal purposes ?
HON. SIR

Temperance A ct, &c., [MAY 6, 1885] Anendment Bill.
believe that alcohol is useful in medicine.
I do not believe it myself, but in deference to the views of the many gentlemen
who think differently, I consented to their
being allowed the privilege of issuing certificates, but on the express understanding
that medical men who gave those certificates would give them for medicinal purposes only, and that those certificates
should be fyIed with the druggist, and
that the druggist should make a return to
Parliament of those prescriptions. I was
reading from this official return, made by
this druggist, of the doctors who ordered
gin, brandy and other liquors for the
people. I have the names of the doctors
who issued the certificates, the names of
the persons for whom these prescriptions
were made, and the name of the druggist.
There is all the evidence necessary, and I
have proceeded to read what was done in
one drug shop in a single day, so that the
House can understand how this privilege
has been abused, and I ask, if the privilege has been abused to that extent with
the limitations that the doctor himself
would have to send the applicant to the
drug shop and the druggist would have
to make a return of those prescriptions to
Parliament, am I not perfectly justified
in saying the abuse would be ten times
greater if this amendment were allowed ?
I cannot understand any medical gentleMan who has any respect for his profession supporting it. I am perfectly justified in believing that if we enlarge this
privilege, which now certainly seems large
enough to destroy the real value of the
Act, we are making a perfect farce of the
Act.
HON. MR. PLUMB--I would like to
know what is to be done when there is no
druggist at hand ?
.MON. MR. SCOTT-The statute proVides that other parties may be named as
Vendors.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Why not trust the
doctor, as well as anybody else ?
HON. MR. SCOTT-The law, as it
stands to-day, provides that if there is no
druggist in the neighborhood, other vendors
rnay be named. They may name a doctor
if they like ; I should rather see doctors'

863

names in all cases, if they kept the returns,
but I do not think ycu ought to do it
without that proviso. When this Bill was
under consideration, and the suggestion
was made that there should be other
vendors appointed, I limited it to druggists,
as we all thought that the drug shop would
be the best depository. It was then suggested that there were localities where no
druggist could be found, and against my
own judgment the words "and other
vendors" were added.
Among other
provisions, the License Act repealed the
druggist clause altogether, or rather
repealed it in this way-by transferring the
power of giving the license to the druggist
from the Lieutenant-Governor of the
province to the Board of Commissioners,
and they are the people who to-day make
the selection, and they, by the interpretation put upon this Act, give the right to
the doctors, or to the tavern keepers, or to
anybody else to sell the liquor, and as a
matter of fact they have absolutely
appointed, in the county of Huron, where
the Act was carried the other day by a
large vote, the tavern keepers who have
been put out of business by the passage of
the Act, to dispense the liquor instead of
the druggist. I say the Act has been made
a perfect farce of.
HON. MR. DICKEY-It shows the
difficulty of enforcing such an Act.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I had faith enough

in all the Provincial Governments that
they would faithfully and honestly carry
out the Act, if officers who are not
favorable to it, and who have no moral
responsibility in carrying it out, were not
allowed to interfere with them ; but under
such circumstances the law is powerless.
It cannot be put in force unless you have
officers to enforce it, and it is very much
better that it should not exist at all, than
be a dead letter. I do not hesitate to
say that if the Act is not supported by
public opinion and by the authorities, it
is infinitely better not to make a farce of
the statutes of the country, because it will
degenerate still further, and there will be
practically free trade in liquor when there
is no license. The Act has some defects,
owing to a want of geographical knowledge, and a want of officials to carry it
out, but as far as the power to put the

864A

Temperance Act, &c.,

[SENATE] Anendm.ent Bill.

Act in force is concerned, it has all the
executive action, if there were individuals
behind it to enforce it, once it is carried
in a county. But if the License Commissioners choose to defeat it they can do so
readily under the License Act, and I ask
hon. gentlemen if it is a fair interpretation
of the intention of Parliament when the
License Commissioners give to the tavernkeeper, not to the druggist or doctors, the
right to dispense liquor under a doctor's
prescription ?

man, whether he will say that 16 pints of
brandy can, in any sense, be called a prescription ?
HON. MR. PLUMB-It shows that the
recipient had great capacity for liquor.
HON. MR. SCOTT-It shows that certainly ; but I do not think my hon. friend
will contend that it was an honest prescription.

HON.
MR. SMITH-They are not think my SIR ALEX. is CAMPBELL-I
hon. friend
unreasonable in
tavern-keepers-they were tavern-keepers. this. He tells us what the medical men
can do now-that they can order so much
HON. MR. SCOTT-I stand corrected;
from the druggist, and he makes that a
they are not tavern keepers. There are ground for objecting to the amendment of
no tavern keepers now; they are dispens- the hon. member froni Glengary, which
ers of liquor. They close their taverns on seems to me either to be unnecessary altothe 3oth April, and on the ist of May gether, or if it should pass, would have a
they are licensed by the Licensed Commis- tendency to limit this evil.
sioners to sell liquor on doctor's prescriptions, in any quantity they please.
HoN. MR. SCOTT-How so?
HON. MR. SMITH-It only shows the
Hox. M. CAMPBELI. Because it
absurdity of the law.
says that the medical man can purchase
HON. MR. SCOTT-I object to any and dispense ; but my hon. friend says
change in this clause, because it is now that he will not have to make the return
too broad. I think it ought to be the ob- that the druggist has to make now. You
ject of every medical man to place the can amend that, however, by saying that
law in such a position that weak members nothing in this clause shall prevent hini
of the profession would not have an op- from making the saie return that the
portunity to abuse their trust and bring druggists now do under the Act. Why
the whole profession into discredit. I should not ny hon. friend from Glenhave the medical returns here from which gary, who lives twenty or thirty miles
I was reading to the House the sales fron any licensed vendor of liquor, not
under different prescriptions-when hon. have an opportunity of dispensing it ? It
members stopped me. I have shown is quite as fair and reasonable to suppose
cases in which froni 8 to 12 pints of whis that a niedical man is honest and upright,
key have been given in one prescription. as to suppose that even in the face of
Now, my hon. friend will not say that that those instances that have been referred to
was carrying out the spirit of the Act. by the hon. gentleman opposite, he is goHe has too much candor, and too much ing to abuse the trust that is reposed in
common sense, to justify the conduct of him. If my hon. friend will add a clause
the doctor who gave such certificate. He requiring medical men who dispense to
cannot pretend to justify Dr. McKay in make a return, the same as other parties
giving 6 pints of brandy in one day as one who are licensed to dispense liquors, there
can be no objection to it, and all the
prescription.
abuse which has been mentioned, and
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Pur- properly mentioned, as having arisen unchased in one day-my hon. friend does der the Act as it is now, is not going to be
not suppose that it was drunk in one day. increased by adopting this amendment.
HON.

HON. MR. SCOTT-I ask my hon.
HON. MR. SCOTT-The law is not
friend from Glengary, or any hon. gentle- infringed in that particular.

HON. MR SCOTT.

Temperance Act, &c.,[MAY 6, 1885] Amendment Bill.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-This
amendment might be necessary, and if it
is necessary, place in it the same restriction
that medical men have placed on them
now.

Hox. MR. SCOTT-It cannot be done,
because as it is now it is the druggist who
makes the return and dispenses the liquor.
ifyou compel the doctor to make thereturn
he has nobody to check him, but if he is
compelled to make it under oath, there
-cannot be so much objection to it.

865

medical profession should be held up to
odium and disrepute in this House, and
all through the country, in the way it has
been in the debate on this question. There
are, I admit, a few medical men, as well
as men in other professions, who violate
the law, and do things that are mean and
contemptible ; but there are nearly 6,ooo
medical men in the country, and I do not
think the temperance men are doing themselves justice when they array a body of
such influence throughout the Dominion
against them.

HON. MR. SCOTT-The hon. gentleHoN. MR. McMILLAN-My hon.
friend does not appear to make a proper man states that a doctor is not bound to
distinction between a certificate and a give a limited quantity. The doctor is
bound to prescribe it, and bound to make
prescription.
an affirmation that it is a prescription. I
HON. MR. SCOTT-Those are all pre- suppose if he makes a prescription he
scriptions ; I have read nothing but pre- fixesthe quantity that the patient is to take.
Not only has he to give the certiticate
scriptions.
but he must affirm that it is for the person,
Ho-.
MR. McMILLAN-They are named therein.
certificates under the Scott Act.
HON. MR. McMILLAN-It may be a
FON. MR. SCOTT-They can only be pint or ten gallons.
given as prescriptions.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-The reHox. MR. McMILLAN-Decidedly marks of my hon. friend from Ottawa, as
not. The patient or the patient's friend regards the medical men of Prince Edward
calls on the doctor, and he simply gives him Island, were rather indiscriminate. Some
a certificate to go to the druggist, and he of them, personal friends of mine, are
gets whatever liquor he wants. I do not about as upright and honorable men as
The evii is in
know that it is incumbent on the medical can be found anywhere.
man to name the quantity, and I think'the Act that they have had to administer.
my hon. friend is very inconsistent to-day It is a difficuit thing for a medical nan to
in saying that the medical men have discriminate between actual disease, and
betrayed their trust ; for it was the hon. what is likely to become so, if an acgentleman and his friends that asked the customed stimulant is retused. A pcrson
Flouse to strike out the words "flnot less w,%ho is in a delicate state of health caused
than apint,"and nadethe clausemworse than by unusual abstinencefrom his accusto ed
it was. Lt is not incumbent on a
glass of
redical fermented liquor,
nay apply to a
ifan to naie the quantity of liquor, and doctor who ay se quite clearly that the
if
gives a certificate to the friend of the oe is likely to resut in actual disase,
case
Patient, he may buy ten gallons for ail the and surely he ought to anticipate that
iedical man nay know. 1 have myslcf disease by giving the necessary liquor to
given certificates without naIing the prevent it. It is a very nice
mnedeof
quantity, because the law did not require marcation between these two points, what
"ne to do so. This amendent is simply lis disease, and what is in danger of becointo give to the edical p
"ofession ing so ; and, therefore, I do not see that
the privilege of keeping liquor in surgeries for the the doctors are to be blamed, if acting on
Purpose of co pounding medicine and this necessity, they have ordered the use
dispensing it to patients, where drug- of liquor.
What I want to eal attention
gists' shops are not convenient
It is not to is that a close study of this return
i
vtended any other purpose than that would show that some Inedical men, even
for
and I think it is really too bad that the in Princes County, have acted with proper
E 2

866

Tenperance Act, &c., [SE NATE] Amendment Bill.

discretion in this matter.
The whole return is just an illustration of the utter inefficiency of this Canada Temperance Act
of 1878.
It is clear to me that if the
parties who have thus obtained liquor in
undue quantities through the assistance of
medical men had not obtained it in that
manner they would have obtained it in
some way perhaps more objectionable.
At least they have had this advantage,
that the liquor they obtained in the
druggist shop was generally of a fair
genuine quality, whereas if they had been
driven to obtain it in other ways it might
have been some vile compound which
would have been attended with injurious
effects.
HON. MR. DEVER-The hon. gentleman from Ottawa seems to have a terrible
fear of the retired tavern-keepers. He is
in favor of the druggist being entrusted
with the sale of liquors. I am aware of a
case where a druggist dispenses wine at
$1.50 a bottle, the actual value of which is
only 50 cents, and this is the way that this
law is operating all over the Dominion.
Insteaçl of wine of good quality being had
at the regular prices, people are compelled
to procure it from druggists, at extortionate prices.
HON. MR. ALMON-I may mention,
for the benefit of the hon. nember from
Ottawa, that many cases occur in which
For
a good deal of liquor is required.
instance, in cases of consumption, the
medical man, in all probability, would say,
in the first instance, take a tablespoonful
of cod liver oil and a glass of liquor, three
times a day, until the symptoms cease.
The man may not care for the liquor any
more than for the cod liver oil, but he
takes it because the doctor orders it. How
could the doctor, in that case, tell how
much liquor the man would have to take?
Under the Scott Act, he could buy ten
gallons and get off scot free; but if he
bought 9 gallons and 3 pints he would run
the risk of being imprisoned for three
months.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I really think that
the gentlemen who are promoting this Bill,
are making a mistake. It seems a very
reasonable thing to permit this ; it is evident that it is the sense of the House that
HON.

MR. HAYTHORNE.

this should pass, and I do not think that
anything is gained by attempting to oppose
it. Whenever my hon. friend from Ottawa
rises to speak on this subject, he adds to
ny conviction that the law is one which
cannot be put in operation satisfactorily to
himself or to anybody else. He acknowledges the fact whenever he speaks upon
the subject, as does my hon. friend fron
Sarnia.
HON. MR. VIDAL-I beg the hon.
gentleman's pardon ; I do not acknowledge
anything of the kind.

HoN. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentleman acknowledges the fact by the statements that he makes. The promoters of
this legislation put an amount of machinery on the statute book which cannot be
made to work because it is repugnant to
the sense of the community, and the bottom of the whole thing is that it is put on
the community without the vote of the
majority for its acceptance. There is the
trouble which lies at the bottom of everything, and the hon. gentleman may make
as many amendments to his Act as he
likes, but still it will be imperfect, because
it will lack the essential element of being
acceptable to the people.
HON. MR. VIDAL-I think the hon.
gentleman makes a very great mistake
when he ventures to prophesy with his very
limited acquaintance with the right feeling
of the people of Canada. If he would
take the evidence which the people have
unmistakably given as to the view which
they hold of the importance of this mater, he could not utter the sentiments
which he has expressed now.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentleman has forgotten the figures that I gave
him recently.
HON. MR. VIDAL-I have not forgotten anything. I attach very little importance to the hon gentleman's figures because they had very little bearing on the
question before us. He says this Bill
cannot be put in operation ; what kind of
character is that to give the people of
Canada to say that a law which stands on
the statute book cannot be put in operation.

Tenperance Act, &c., [MAY 6, 1885.] Amendment Bill.

867

HON. MR. PLUMB-The Act is defec- it is entirely unnecessary. I believe that
tive ; not the people.
every facility which is required, for a
physician to prescribe and to have alcohol
HON. MR. VIDAL-If the Act is de. if he requires it to mix his medicines, is
fective, what is the duty of Parliament ? Is open to him now without hindrance or
it not, when defects are pointed out, to molestation.
remedy them?
HON. MR. McINNES (B. C.)-Will the
HON. MR. PLUMB-You have had it hon. gentlemen point out the section which
all your own way.
empowers a physician to have alcohol ?
HON. MR. VIDAL-No, we have not
had it our own way, but we are going
to have it all our own way. There is no
doubt in my mind that we will have it
our own way at last. The hon. gentleman
says the Temperance Act does not rest on
the recognized approval of the people.
How does the law come into operation ?
It cannot be given effect to anywhere unless by the vote of the majority of the
people.
HON. MR. ALMON-No, not the majority of the people.

HON. MR. VIDAL-A majority of
those who record their votes. What other
way have we under the British system of

HON. MR. VIDAL-The section was
pointed out by my hon. friend from
Ottawa. What does the hon. gentleman
from Glengarry propose now? To put it
in the hands of some persons-I frankly
admit they would form a contemptible
minority of the medical profession-to
abuse this power, and to make a pecuniary
profit by the sale of liquors. That is an
important feature of the question to be
taken into consideration. It is not necessary, in carrying out the duties of their
profession, that they should have any such
power given to them as is proposed by this
amendment. This very question has been
submitted to the House of Commons, and
that House has very distinctly refused to
engraft such an amendment on the Bill.

getting the views of the people ? The
HON. MR. "McMILLAN-Not this
rnajority of ballots cast in an election determines the fate of governments, the fate amendment.
of policies, the future of the whole country, and shall not the ballot-box be taken
HON. MR. VIDAL-Not this amend.

as an indication of the will of the people, ment in its identical words, but an amendwhen a majority of the votes recorded are ment having the same object in viewi favour of the Scott Act ? I challenge an amendment to provide that nothing
any hon. gentleman accepting the princi- in this Act shall interfere with the right of
Ples of the British Constitution to point medical men to keep and dispense alcohol
Out any fallacy whatever in the statement for professional purposes. There is, perwhich we make, that we have the voice of haps, less in it than in my hon. friend's
the people with us on this great question. amendment, but the question of the
propriety of trusting this power to medical
men was fairly discussed in the 'other
HON. MR. KAULBACH-No, no.
House, and rejected. Where is the use
HON. MR. VIDAL-Most emphatically of our adopting this amendment, since it
I say we have. As a matter of opinion, I has already been decidedly rejected in the
have just as good a right to mine as my other House, and it cannot again come up
hon. friend has to his, and I adhere to it for consideration in the same session. I
tenaciously, because after a long and do not mean to say that the action of the
careful investigation, and after making House of Commons is to be considered
mnyself master of the question, I have come so binding on us that we are not to use
to that conclusion. With reference to the our own discretion and judgment, but I
natter which is before us I cannot con- do say that we ought to take cognizance of
Sent, for my part, to accept the amend- their action, and it ought to have some
ment proposed by the hon. member from effect on our minds and make us hesitate
Glengarry, and for this reason-I believe to take a stand in opposition to that

.868

Temperance Act, &c., [SEN ATEj AmendmeLt Bill.

House unless some great principle is
involved, or some great danger apprehended. I am very sorry that I cannot
accept the amendment of the hon. member from Glengarry, but I consider it
would be a mistake to do so.
HON. MR. DICKEY-My hon. friend
believes that this amendment is unnecessary. If it be unnecessaiy there cannot
be any great harm, at all events from his
point of view, in adopting it. But I agree
very much with what the senior member
for Halifax has said, that these words,
" purchase and" are entirely superfluous
and unnecessary. It would be better to
drop them out and let us say " dispense."
Perhaps we might allow this amendment
for the present, in committee, to be carried and let it be contested on the third
reading.
HON. MR. FLINT-I am very sorry to
observe that we are getting rather warm
on this question. I think we should proceed to the examination of the clauses of
this Bill calmly, and deal with them candidly and freely, and that we should not
get into a fever heat about them, because
that can do no good. The eyes of the
public are on us at the present time, and
although this Bill may be so mutilated
before we get through with it, that its
promoters will hardly recognize it as the
same measure, yet, notwithstanding that,
I think we should be careful in all we do.
Let us act honestly, uprightly and fearlessly in dealing with every clause of it.
For my own part, I intend to take that
course, and I intend to deal with the subject calmly, and to speak in such a way
that every member of this House will
know what I mean.
If, on the one
hand, the Bill should be so mutilated that
it cannot become law, we who support it,
will have to put up with it. If, on the
other hand, it can be amended in any way
which will make it more efficient, I think
those on the opposite side of the question
should also be prepared for that result.
Some say that the Act cannot be worked.
Now, I say in reply to that that there is
no law upon the statute book which
can be worked if people are determined to break it. You can make
laws to prevent murder, theft, housebreak
ing and other crimes, yet there will always
HON. MR. VIDAL.

be some persons who will violate them.
Those who are in favor of the liquor
dealers and the liquor traffic, and those
who like their glass will oppose the law
with all their might and main. Iet thern
go on if they choose to do so, but the end
will come bye and bye. I am confident
that in the end the victory will be on our
side. With regard to this arnendment, it
strikes me that the fine imposed upon
medical men who violate the Act, should
be done away with. I do not think that
all our medical men are like the one that
has been referred to. We have gentlemen
in the profession of the highest standing,
who are incapable of wrong doing, but on
the other hand, I think there are a few
who do not care what they do so long as
they can make money or gain popularity.
There are black sheep in every flock, and
probably there are as many black sheep in
proportion to their number in the medical
profession, as in any other class of the
community ; but it is said that a little
black wool mixed with the white sometimes makes better yarn. We will try to
get the Bill through, and if it does not
pass to suit us, we will trust to the other
House to protect the interests of the temperance people.
HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
suggest that it would be as well to leave
out the words " purchase and." There
are means now by which a medical man
can procure liquor.

The words " purchase and " were struck
out, and the committee divided on the
motion as amended, which was adopted
contents 35, non-contents 16.
HON. MR. McMILLAN-I think the
discussion that we had upon the former
clause really covers this one.
HON. MR. ODELL-I have an amendment which I want to move to the section
itself. The amendment of the hon. gentleman is to a sub-section ; the amendment I propose is to the 5 th clause itself.
HON. MR. DICKEY-If the hon, gentleman looks at the notice-paper he will
find that the amendment proposed by the
hon. gentleman from Glengarry is to the
5th clause, commencing at line 13.

Te'mperance Act, &c, [MAY 6, 1885] Amendnent Bill.

869-

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It penalty for improperly giving certificates,
proposes to leave out the provision for as a medical man. I shall be prepared to
fining the medical men for selling for other move it if my suggestion is accepted.
than medicinal purposes.
HON. MR. McMILLAN-That is al;
I therefore move the amendment of which
I have given notice, that the 5th clause of
the Bill be amended by leaving out from
the word "sale " in the thirteenth line, to
"2 " in line twenty-two.
HON. MR. POWER-I should like to
ask my hon. friend what his objection is
to the portion of the clause which he proposes to strike out ?
HON. MR. McMILLAN-Medical men
are liable to a fine of from $20 to $40,
when other parties, who are allowed to
give certificates on the same conditions
are not subject to the same fine. For
instance, clergymen and priests can give
certificates, and those gentlemen are not
subject to a penalty, and it niakes a very
invidious distinction.
HON. MR. POWER-The better way
to remove the invidious distinction is to
put them all on the same footing. If we
propose to repeal this Act altogether, well
and good. If, when hon. gentlemen
think there is any chance of doing that,
they will move in it, I shall be very glad
to assist them ; but, while the Act is on
the statute book, I ihink it is not fair to
try to destroy its effect by filibustering
amendmients.
HON. MR. PLUMB-By what ?
HoN. MR. POWER-By fillibustering
amendments. What object is there in
Providing that a medical man shall not
prescribe liquor except for medicinal purPoses, if there is no penalty for his violating
the law ? You must have a penalty in

order to enforce the law, and it is only
proper that a medical man should be
Punished as well as any other man if he
violates the law. If a clergyman violates
the law I do not know of any reason why
he should not be punished as well as a
redical man or anybody else, and I think
the proper way to amend this Bill is to
add to the sub-section a provision that any
Such person shall be liable to the same

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I shall object to such an amendment. This law is

generally administered by fanatics, and it

would not be fair to drag a medical man
or a clergyman before such persons for
trial. Medical men will not abuse such a
trust as this, because their object is to heal

the sick, and not to abuse the law. I say
that it is throwing an insult upon the
profession to propose such an amendment.
I am surprised at my hon. friend attempt-

ing to put the medical profession, or the
clergy, in such a humiliating position as
to have them dragged before a court and
tried by blind fanatics whose zeal outweighs their judgment on this question.
HON. MR. DICKEY--I am rather
surprised at my hon. friend from Halifax
making such an attack as he has done on
the hon. gentleman from Sarnia. He has
spoken of this amendment as a fillibustering amendment ; yet who brought it in ?
Why, the people who framed and promoted the Scott Act. My hon. friend who
made this motion has not asked for any
amendment to the Act ; he has asked to
strike out a fillibustering amendment that
is put into the Act by this verv section,
and therefore it is hardly fair towards the
hon. gentleman who has charge of the Bill
to speak of the amendment in that way.
Of course I speak jocularly, but one cannot overlook it. Now, with regard to the
words that are to be struck out, I just put
it to the House, is it fair that medical
men who for the last seven years have
been entrusted by Parliament with this
duty, the responsibility of which they
know very well, are now to be put under
a penalty, and under what circumstances ?
You say that they may be brought before
any one justice; that justice may be a
gentleman of very strong convictions-I am
not calling him a fanatic, but he may have
very strong convictions-and that justice
is selected by the prosecutor who brings
the suit. He can take his choice of any
magistrate in the district, and put a medical man, under those circumstances, in
very great peril, and perhaps destroy his
character as a physician.

ý870

Temperance Act, &-.,

SENATE] Amendment Bill.

HON. MR. McINNES (B.C.)-Cannot purposes.
Who is to be the judge of
he appeal to a higher court ?
that? Surely the medical men themselves
are the only judges of what is strictly
If you put them under a
HoN. MR. DICKEY-He may be medicinal.
taken before one or more justices; he penalty, you must do the same with the
may be taken before three if he likes, or clergymen, and you must oblige thern to
it may be before any one justice, at the submit themselves to the opinion of men
discretion and the selection of the party who are not half as well able to judge
who prosecutes ; but you have not even what is proper for medicinal purposes as
put in the ordinary protection that it shall they are ; but supposing that instances
be a higher officer or stipendiary magis- have occurred in which medical men have
trate, and in the country districts we know abused the trust reposed in them by Parvery well how it would work.
It would liament, there is no contention that the
be an instrument of tyranny, and a mode great bulk of the medical profession will
of punishing people under fanatical in- do what is wrong in this matter. There
fluences, and I do not think it is legis- are, of course, a few black sheep amongst
lation that ought to pass.
And has the them, as in other professions, but you
committee considered this ? If you pass should not legislate against the whole
that clause, you cannot in ail consistency profession because some of them do
refuse to make it applicable to the next wrong, and it is placing them in great
one, the one with reference to the clergy- danger, because they would have to
men and ordained ministers of this satisfy men who in some cases would
country.
Are you going to impose such never be satisfied that the liquor disTo be consistent pensed was for medicinal purposes.
a penalty on them ?
you must do it, and if you do it you link
HON. MR. WARK-There are numtogether those men who have been spoken
of in such strong terns by the hon. gentle- bers of the niedical men who are not to
man from Ottawa, and the priests and or- be trusted with this license. Vhen it is
dained clergymen.
I do not think the proved that clergymen are not to be
committee will hesitate for a moment to trusted with it, it will be time to impose
The men who
leave the law as it stands, and not to the penalty on them.
make a fillibustering amendment. When give the certificates ought to le licensed,
medical men are bound strictly to give and the authorities who grant the licenses
liquor only for exclusively medicinal pur- ought to have the power to withdraw the
poses, it is better to leave them to be the license when it is found that the party
judges of it.
who has it abuses it.- That would meet
the case if the House is not disposed to
HON. MR. McINNES, (B.C.)-Is there pass the clause as it stands.
not an appeal from the conviction of one
or more magistrates to any superior court ?
HON. MR. POWER-I wish to call the
attention of the Minister of justice to
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I an this point. This Bill was considered at
really not able to answer my hon. friend some length in the other House.
off-hand under this Act.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-That is no
Hox. MR. VIDAL-There is no argument.
appeal from the stipendiary magistrate,
but there is from an ordinary magistrate.
HoN. MR. POWER-This particular
amendment was considered attentively;
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It we propose to make certain amendments
seens to me that this proposed amend- to this Bill, which are armendments of
ment ought not to carry. I do not think some consequence. This is an amendit is fair to the medical profession, ment which I think is not of much conseand I do not think it would be carried quence ; but the effect of our making so
out in any fair sense at all towards them. many amendments on matters that have
It says that they are to be fned if they give been recently passed upon by the Comspirits for any other but strictly medicinal mons, will be to render that Chamber

Temperance Act, &c., [MAY 6, 1885] Amendment Bill.
disinclined to accept important amendments upon points which they have not
dealt with. I put that to the House
simply as a matter of business.
HON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do

not think that that is a fair proposition
to put to the House. We should deal
with all those questions according to our
Own view of what is right, and what ought
to be done, let the fate of the Bill be what
it may. I do not think we are to consider what was done in the Lower House,
or what course they may pursue, in case
we fail to do exactly what they may consider we should do. This amendment
proposes a thing which the majority of the
House, I think, consider unfair, and we
ought to vote according to our conviction.
HON. MR. DEVER-I understood that
the great complaint by certain gentlemen
against this House is, that we are merely
a recording committee ; and now the hon.
gentleman from Halifax seems to be going
the other way.

The motion was agreed to.
HON. MR. ALMON-I scarcely think
that the penalty under this act is large
enough. Any medical man who gives a
certificate for any other than strictly medicinal purposes shall, for the first offence,
be fined $20, and the second $40, or in

default, imprisonment for three months.
In the Act itself, it is provided that, if a
Man is found within half a mile of a
Polling-booth during an election, with a
walking-stick, and is asked to give it up,

and refuses to do so, he is fined $ioo. I
think the penalty in this clause is too
light.

871

ask the House is it specially desirable to
have those special forms ? For my part

I do not think it is. It seems to me that
the hon. gentlemen who are in favor of
this Act had better be content with the
forms in the Summary Convictions' Act,
and strike these out. There is no difficulty in specifying the offence under this
Act, and I think it would be better not to
make a special form.
HON. MR. SCOTT-The forms here
are only permissive, and not absolute. It
has been found in preparing the charge it
very often falls to a tribunal that for the

first time has had occasion to prepare it,
and therefore they do not know the words
to use in the form, and I do not see any
objection to having these forms prepared
for them.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-1
would suggest to my hon. friend from
Sarnia the leaving out all the words down
to the word " where " in the 13 th line, so
that it would provide that the information
shall be made upon the oath of thc party
complainant substantiating the information.
That would give an enactment which the

temperance people want on that subject,
and would leave out all about the forms.
HON. MR. DICKEY-I would like to
call attention to this feature in connection
with the schedules. The latter part of the
clause is a very proper amendment to the
law, and I do not think there can be any
possible objection to it. That is the one
which provides that the information, where
it is not laid by the proper officer, shall be
made upon oath ; but if my hon. friend
will look at the form of information, No. i
of the schedule, he will flnd it is only to
be "laid and signed before me," instead

of sworn. It should be sworn. These
schedules of forms were framed, I supIt
pose, before that clause was passed.
HON SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL said: was an amendment which, I believe, was
I object to these forms. I do not think inserted in the House of Commons.

On the ioth clause,

wise to make those special forms of information and forms of conviction. We
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It would be
are trying all the time to bring those things
under one general rule ; to give forms for better to leave the forms out altogether.
all convictions and informations under the
HON. MR. DICKEY-It is another
Sumnmary Convictions Act ; and if fromn reason for leaving them all out.
lime to time we pass exceptional Acts
like this, and provide special forms, we
HON. MR. POWER-I venture to
shall only get further into difficulties. I differ from the Minister of Justice on the
it

872

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Armendment BiW.

question of forms. The object of these
forms, of course, is to give the persons
who are proceeding under the Act information as to the way in which they are to
proceed, and I know that there are some
gentlemen who wish to proceed, very
often without knowing what they are
doing, like my hon. friend from Niagara.
HON. MR.

PLUMB-Hear, hear.

HON. MR. POWER-But generally
people prefer to know what they are
about ; and these forms which indicate
the line which has to be taken in cases of
prosecutions for different offences against
the Temperance Act, will be found very
convenient and useful ; and I think it
would be much to be regretted if they
were struck out. When a man wishes to
proceed against a party who has violated
the Act, he gets the form here ; he has
not to look through the Act of 1869, to
see how the forms of that Act can be
altered so as to be adapted to a case
under this Act. He gets the form here
with the adaptation already made, and it
would be a pity, when the promoters of
the Bill have taken such care in framing
those forms, that their labor should be
thrown away. I did not understand that
the Minister of Justice had any objection
to those forms, cxeept that they were making special legislation when the general
legislation would do; but this is special
legislation in this way only-it gives the
forms, but it does not alter the procedure
Act of 1869. It sinply gives a number
of forms which are made in conformity
with that Act and with the Canada Temperance Act. I think that the schedule
would be found to be exceedingly convenient.

HON. SiR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-To
show my hon. friend how mistaken he is,
I may point out to him that these forms
deal with offences that are not punishable
by summary conviction at all. Number 8
is tampering with a witness; Number 9
is for compromising or compounding a
prosecution ; Number 10 is for being a
party to compromise a prosecution-you
cannot deal with these by summary conviction, yet here is a form given for them
which shows the danger of prescribing
forms where persons are not thoroughly
HON. MR.

POWER.

well advised as to the state of the law, and
these forms would be merely a snare to
parties prosecuting. It is far better to
trust to the Law of Summary Convictions.
HON. MR. ODELL-Under the rooth
section of the Act which is now amended,
the punishment of sale and so forth in
violation of the second part of the Act is
a fixed fine of $50 for the first offence and
$1oo for the second offence, with imprisonment for a term of two months if not
paid. I want to draw attention to those
very forms which become part of the Act,
because if you take form Q you will find
that not only is the penalty exacted, but
in this form, which becomes part of the
Act, for the first offence it is fine and
imprisonment, and a warrant of commitment under that form adds imprisonment
with hard labor. Then, take the form for
the third offence, the penalty is fine and imprisonment, and in the warrant of commitment it includes hard labor. In the Act
of 1878, the penalties are fixed, and there
is no hard labor provided ; and it seems
to me that that punishment runs through
all these forms in some way, though it is
not provided under the Act itself.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I think that the
question of the hon. member from Halifax
has been pretty well answered by the Minister of Justice. These schedules have
been taken from the Act of 1883, but they
have been altered ; they are not the same
schedules. I have compared them and
have found some alterations of a very
important character.
HON. MR. VIDAL-I beg to takeissue with the hon. gentleman ; I have
compared these very carefully with the
schedules in the License Act of 1883, and

have marked them, and I see that they are
the same in every respect, except in those
particulars where provisions need to be
made for the special features of the
Canada Temperance Act. My hon. friend
who calls attention to section Q-I cannot
understand how he can, with the documents before him, stand up and say that
for the first offence, a party may be imprisoned at hard labor.
ODELL-No. I refer to.
In the Temperance Act the

HON. MR.

form S.

Temperance A et, &o.,

[MAY 6, 18851 Amendrnent Bill.

873

penalty is fixed, and there is no hard
HON. MR. McMASTER, from the
labor in it ; and the hon. gentleman can- committee, reported that they had made
not show me a case in which imprison- some progress with the Bill, and asked
ment with hard labor has been given under leave to sit again.
a conviction under the Temperance Act.
The report was received and adopted.
HON. MR. VIDAL-No, we cannot;
HON. MR. FLINT moved that the defor the only people who have exposed bate be adjourned until to-morrow.
themselves to such punishment have
The yeas and nays having been called
cleared out and left the country.
for, the Speaker declared that the vote
could not be taken, it being six o'clock.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPELL moved
At six o'clock the Speaker left the chair.
the amendment, which he suggested, to
strike out all the words in the 1oth clause
AFTER RECESS.
down to the word "where," in the thirteenth line.
The House resolved itself into a ComHON. MR. ALMON-I beg to move mittee of the Whole, for consideration of
the amendment of which I gave notice the Bill (92), "An Act further to amend the
other day. I must apologize for being Canada Temperance Act 1878, and the
neck and shoulders with the Minister of Liquor License Act 1883."
Justice in his amendment, but it is enHox. MR. ALMON-When the comtirely owing to the conduct of my colleague, the senior member for Halifax. mittee rose at 6 o'clock, I was about to
He wanted to move his amendment be- move a resolution of which I had given
fore mine, and in his hurry to do so, it was notice some days before. I would have
thrown out. I gave way to him, every moved it earlier in the day but the senior
moment thinking that be intended to member from Halifax, although my notice
move his resolution. He did not do so ; had been given before his, made his antewhether be wis sincere in stating it cedent to mine, and therefore I waived
was his intention to move it or not-I my right for him to move this resolution.
suppose he was - certainly his con- I waited patiently until 6 o'clock for him to.
duct, if I did not know him, would lead move, but he did not do so. Without
waiting longer, I think I had better take
nie to suppose that he was not sincere.
the matter into my own bands and move
HON. MR. POWER-My hon. col- the resolution of which I have given
league from Halifax bas made a charge notice. In doing so, as I have already
against me that is altogether unjustifiable. moved this amendment on two different
It is true that he spoke to me about mov- occasions, I may possibly repeat myself,
ing r-y amendment; and 1 proposed to but I shall endeavour not to do so. I am
move it at what I thought was the proper afraid I may do as Dryden says Alexanstage-when we had disposed of the third der-not the hon. member from Woodclause of this Bill; but at the suggestion stock, but Alexander of Macedon-did at
of the Minister of justice that it was better "the royal feast for Persia won,""And thrice he routed alil his foes;
to get through with the undisputed parts
And thrice he slew the slain."
of the Bill, I agreed to move my amendment afterwards. The amendment that
I trust I shall not fall into the error that
ny hon. friend is going to move is a very Alexander of Macedon did. The motion,
important one. It is one which, I think, as you are all aware, is to endeav:r toought to be discussed carefully and fully ; introduce in this country the use of light
and now at five minutes to six it is not a wines and beer, to the exclusion of stronger
time when my hon. friend could expect beverages. Most of you are aware that
that discussion on his amendment, which the distillation of alcohol was discovered
its importance deserves, and it would be by the Saracens about the middle of the
better to call it six o'clock, and let the de- i 1th century-about the date of William
bate be continued this evening.
the Conqueror. Prior to that time, though

874

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

there had been drunken men, I do not much, considering that there are so many
-think there were drunkards. We search of our people of French descent and
ithe Scriptures, and though we find that speaking the French language, that we
men were drunk occasionally, apd it was have had so little trade with France. We
reprobated in those writings, yet'the cases all know that the chief exports of that
were very few, and other vices were dwelt country are light wines. There is no use
on much more frequently. The hon. of telling us that drunkeness exists where
member from Sarnia knows more about wine is easily procured. We know that it
it than I do, perhaps, but I do not think is not the case. Travellers tell us, and
he will find many passages in the Bible those of us who have been fortunate
that allude to this vice of drunkeness. We enough to travel in those countries know,
come down now to a later time, and we that it is not the case. Why not introduce
know that Juvenal satirized the vice of his light wines and beer in this country, and
.age. We all know, those of us who have see what the result will be ? I have been
had it licked into us, what those vices told that people can get drunk on claret ;
were, and we know that drunkeness is very yes they can, but they have to take a great
little alluded to. Now, to go back to my deal of it. I remember a story cf an
own profession, I find that Hippocrates, Irish squireen who was at Dublin, and
who lived between four and five hundred after drinking claret for about an hour
years before the birth of Christ, kept an he was asked how he liked it. He said,
account of those patients he attended, and " it is very nice, but it is mighty taydious
as far as my memory serves me, and I have drinking." It was something which he
read his work carefully, I do not remember could not get drunk comfortably on, unless
one case where drunkeness was the cause he had a great deal of time on his hands.
.of the disease. Paulus Aegenitus, who But we are told that public opinion is
flourished between the second and third expressed by the petitions which have been
«centuries after the birth of Christ, and who presented here; and that we should sup-a
gives the experience of physiciatis who port this Bill because there are a great
lived before his day, does not speak of many petitions in favor of temperance
drunkeness as prevailing, and therefore it legislation. Perhaps the hon. member
is reasonable to suppose that it was not a from Sarnia can tell me how many names
vice which prevailed before the distillation are attached to the petitions presented
-of alcohol was discovered. Therefore, if this year.
we can manage to repress the use of
alcohol we can very safely and useHON. MR. DICKEY - They say
fully introduce the use of light wines 1 00,000.
and beer? If the Temperance Act should
ever become-as the hon. member from
HON. MR. ALMON-Then, 00,000
Sarnia believes and hopes (hoping against people have said that the Scott Act is a
hope, I think) that it will be-universally failure. They say it has created dissenintroduced in the country, what will sions in the several counties where it has
become of the revenue that we derive been adopted ; that it has injured the
from the liquor traffic ? The Dominion revenue, and that nothing but prohibition
has a much larger debt than it ought to will answer. I think that is a pretty good
have ; the expenses are much larger than indication of public opinion, and that the
they ought to be, and if we knock off six people have no confidence in this tento nine millions of dollars a year from the gallon temperance Act, as I think I may
revenue we will find it hard to make up justly call it. We read the other day a
the amount. If we were obtaining a com- letter from the Venerable Roman Catholic
mensurate benefit, I would not care about Archbishop of Ontario, stating that the
the loss of revenue. I, for one, would be Scott Act was a failure, and that he did
willing to lessen my expenses and to pay not approve of it. His opinion I value,
more taxes to make up the amount, but because he is a man of a great
there will be the same amount of drinking deal of learning, and one who stands
that there is now, and a serious loss to the very high in his denomination.
I
revenue. We are legislating to encourage do not think his opinion would be worth
trade with France, and I wonder very more than anyone else's if it were not for
HON. MR.

ALMON.

Temperance Act, &o., [MAY 6, 1885] .Ainendment Bi11.
the backing behind him. He is a shrewd
man, and he would not promulgate that
view unless he knew that a majority of
those who follow him echoed the same
sentiment. I think it shows that public
opinion is changing on the Scott Act, and
that a great many men in Ontario are
becoming opposed to it. Take the ex
perience of the hon. member from Charlottetown (Mr. Haythorne). What does
he tell us ? If there is a place where the
Scott Act could be carried out it is in the
island of Prince Edward. It is a place
which, for five months of the year, is shut
out from the outside world, and, therefore,
no liquor can be imported there during
that time, and the liquor which is imported there during the other seven months
of the year must pass through the custom
house, and we know who gets it and
where it can be sold; yet we are told by
the hon. member from Charlottetown that
the Scott Act, so far as his province is
concerned, is a failure. I was very much
amused at the appearance of the countenance of my hon. friend from Sarnia,
while the hon gentleman from Charlottetown was speaking. It put me very much
in mind of the Balak and Balaam incident.
The hon. member sent for my hon. friend
to curse the opponents of the Scott Act.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Will the
hon. gentleman be kind enough to explain
which of us is Balak.
HON. MR. ALMON-The person who
was sent to curse the Israelites was Balaam
-at least that was the way it was when I
was a little boy going to Sunday school.
The hon. member from Sarnia reminded
me of Balak, and I was especially interested in the appearance of his countenance
whem Balaam, instead of cursing the
oPPonents of the Scott Act, was blessing
therm and declaring that he was very sorry
that he had voted for the Scott Act,
because it had proved a complete failure.
Like Balaam, from every hill he had
viewed the working of the Scott Act, and
Still could not curse its opponents. He
did not sacrifice a bullock and a ram, but
he sacrificed his character for political
*consistency when he said, despite all that,
he was going to vote for the Scott Act.
No, these petitions all hail from
I do not think it is a very difficult Ontario.
thing to

875

get up petitions. I do not mean to say
that there is more forgery about these
petitions than about others, but the hon.
member from Sarnia must see that a good
many of thein are signed by school children, and that many of them are written
certainly by the saine hand. Now, if a
clergyman goes round to a house and asks
the people, "are you opposed to intemperance?" every good woman, and good
man, too, will say "yes." Then the clergyman will ask " do you mind putting down
your name to a petition to put down intemperance ?" Many put down their
names under these circumstances, and I
do not think that these petitions are
entitled to any weight whatever. Looking
at this Bill throughout, I trust that my
amendment will be adopted. Next year
we will put the Bill right. Farcy a man
not being able to go within half a mile of
a polling place without putting away his
walking stick, and being fined $ioo
if he does not give it up ! The whole
thing is absurd.
Can anyone tell
me why a person can buy eight gallons of
ale or cider and cannot buy eight gallons
of whiskey, but is permitted to buy ten
gallons of whiskey, which is a much
stronger beverage ? It is one of the anomalies in the Act which shows the hasty
way in which it was drawn up, and the impossibility of working it. I say, take the
case of a poor woman who buys eight gallons of cider and sells a tumbler of it ; she
likely has a little shop in which she sells
ginger-bread, pipes, and spruce beer, and
she thinks she can eke out a living by selling cider also. For selling a glass of cider,
she is liable to be fined $50 for the first
time, $1oo the second time, and is imprisoned for two months the third time ;
and her husband, if she has one, is obliged
to be a witness against her. I ask the
hon. gentleman from Sarnia, if he had the
making of the law, would he incorporate
such a clause as that in it ? Cider may
be intoxicating, but I do not think a gentleman of the size of the hon. member
from Sarnia could hold enough to intoxicate him. Then, about ale ; why should
a poor man be deprived of his beer ? He
has had a hard day's work ; he goes
home, and on the way stops at a tavern
for a glass of ale. The ale will not make
him drunk, but will give him what honest
labor has taken out of him, and prepare

876

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

him for the next day's work. Now, we
come to this ten-gallon Temperance Act.
I can understand some hon. gentlemen
supporting the Act, from political motives,
with a view to gaining popularity and that
sort of thing, but I cannot imagine the
senior member for Belleville (Mr. Flint)
being in favor, working for, and devoting
his energy to securing the passage of a measure which allows the rich man to buy
ten gallons of whiskey, to keep it in his
house and drink it when he likes, and offer it to his friends until they take too
much of it, and imagine that he is voting
for a Temperance Act-a ten-gallon temperance act ! Then, again, I ask the hon.
gentleman if this is a Bill which is to put
down intemperance, why is there no punishment provided for the person who buys
the liquor ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-He
gets a headache.
HON. MR. ALMON-Nothing whatever can be done to him, but the person
who sells the liquor can be punished, $50
for the first offence, $1oo for the second,
and imprisoned for two months for the
third. I know that the hon. member from
Sarnia is sincere; I will not say that his
sincerity has not clouded his judgmentI think his zeal has got the better of his
discretion-but I appeal to him to abandon this Act altogether, and try to obtain
a proper license law. Take up any of our
papers, published in Halifax, Toronto,
Ottawa, or any other city, and what do
you see ? In the police court report you
find John Smith, for being drunk, is fined
$2 or $4, and in default is imprisoned for
ten days. The man who made John
Smith drunk has nothing whatever done
to him. What happens? John Smith's
friends get the amount of the fine, and
pay it for him, and in a day or two afterwards John Smith is drunk again. He
fails to pay the fine this time, and he is
sent to jail. Now, the man who made
John Smith drunk should be fined $20,
Let the clerk of licenses inform every
liquor seller in the place, that John Smith
has been drunk and fined by the police
magistrate, and that no liquor is to be sold
to him. After John Smith gets out of jail,
at the end of ten days, you may depend
upon it, he will find no place where he
HON.

MR. ALMON.

I think the hon.
can obtain liquor.
member from Sarnia is just as anxious as
I am to put down intemperance, and that
he ought to unite with me to procure this.
legislation. It may be said that the reason
why there is no punishment provided
under this Act, for the man who buys the
liquor, while there is a penalty for selling
it, is that the whiskey informer would, in
that case, be liable to punishment. Is it
worth while to entail serious evils on the
country, in order that the whiskey informer may be protected ? - I think, if
there is any rascal in the country less
deserving of sympathy or protection, than
another, it is the informer employed by
the temperance people to ferret out the
whiskey sellers. If there is a man who is
prepared to commit any crime, except
perhaps murder-he would not have the
courage for that-it is the whiskey informer. If the hon. member from Sarnia
will take me into his confidence and let
us work together, we will perhaps secure
legislation which will put down intemperance. I possess no longer the vigor of
youth, but if the hon. gentleimm with his
energy, will join with me I will do everything I can to aid him in getting a good
license law on the statute book-a law that
can be enforced. I do not care for popularity.
In my own city, I will make
myself as prominent as can be to have
those persons who make drunkards severely punished. Take the case we had
up on a former occasion-the case of the
county of Sunbury, in New Brunswick,
There are 1,400 voters in that county, and

I think the hon. member from Sarnia will
admit that you cannot carry out a law to
fine a poor woman $50 for selling a glass of
cider, unless the feeling of the people in
that county is very strongly in favor of it.
Now, out of the

1,400

voters in that

county how many took the trouble to vote
upon this question? Only 169 pro and
con. Can you carry out a very stringent
law that has all the atrocities and cruelties
of the Scott Act-that makes one law for
the poor and another for the rich-that
allows the man who has a good cellar
and a long purse to keep ten gallons of
liquor while the man who cannot buy so
much is fined $50 or imprisoned for three
months? Is that an Act that commends
itself to one's judgment or one that should
be carried out? I say no, and I trust

1emperance Act, &c., [MAY 6, 1885J Amendient Bill.
the majority of this committee will echo
ny sentiments. Therefore, I beg to move :
That the dealing in ales, porter, lagerbeer, eider and light wines containing not
more than twelve per cent. of alcohol, be
exempt from the operation of the Canada
Temperance Act of 1878.
HON. MR. DICKEY - If my hon.
friend will allow me, I will second that
motion. It is not my intention to inflict
a speech on the committee at this hour of
the evening on that interesting subject. I
chiefly rise for the purpose of calling the
attention of the committee to a letter
which I have, bearing upon the question
subnitted to us by that resolution. It is
a letter from a clergyman, and is to this
effect: He states that he objects to the
Canada Temperance Act" Because it is too sweeping and indiscriminating: it not only puts the ban on distilled
iquors, but on fernented liquors of the weakest kind, even on lager beer, the lightest
wine, etc., and punishes in the most rigorous
manner ail who will presume to make or sell
all such. I ask, is not this a sumptuary law
of the most tyrannical kind ?"

Then he presents the Scriptural argument. He says :" Secondlv, I object to it decidedly as not
only unscriptural but anti-scriptural. This
is to my mind the most serions objection of
ail; so it must be to any Christian man. It
i8 contrary to the higher law. Clearly wine,
properly so called, bas the sanction of Scripture for its use. This has been again and
again denonstrated ; yet this law places a
ban on it and punishes the sale of it, and consequently condemns the use of it as if it were
Poison.

877

weight with my hon. friends on both sides
of the House.
The letter concludes as
tollows " Hoping you will be successful in your
resistance to what it false, and in maintaining
what is true, I remain, &c."
I wish to cal] the attention of the
hon. member froin Sarnia, who has
charge of this Bill, to the proceedings
which have lately taken place in his own
province, Ontario, upon this very subject.
It appears that there is a temperance
organization there called the National
Temperance Union.
HON. MR. VIDAL-An organization
of liquor sellers.

HON MR. DICKEY-A challange has
been given to them by a sister organization, who work somewhat upon the
sanie lines, but go further and seek for
prohibition-in other words. they go for
the Scott Act, for it is prohibition, not
temperance at all.
'These extreme men
challenged the other men to a discussion,
and it is but fair that I should read to the
House what is the question at issue between them, because one is a termperance
organization, and the other is a prohibition
society. We are legislating, now, I hope,
in the interest of temperance-that is the
great Christian virtue we are called upon
to promote. They say :" It is not true that ' discussion has been
invited at the meetings of the union,' which
bitherto have been chiellv intended for organization, and to set fbrth to the public the
various grounds of action upon which the
members of the union propose to deal with
the great question of intemperance."

That is doing no injustice, I think, to
the argument of gentlemen who are so
That is exactly the line upon which the
enthusiastic in support of that principle in
this country. Then he goes on to say, Church of England Temperance Society
after referring to the miracle of Cana in works ; the pledges are optional, either
total abstinence or temperance in the use
Galilee :
of liquors. It continues :"Shall we blasphemouslv dishonor His
It is not true that the union or its speakers
'nanie by placing under the ban of law what
Re allowed and sanctioned, and thus in effect are " opposed to total abstinence as a remedy
say that le did wrong? I an a minister of for drunkenness." Several leading members
the Gospel, as my signature will show you, are total abstainers, and a total abstinence
and must iaintain my conscientious convic- pledge, as well as a nioderate pledge, are
tions."
amongst the nethods adopted by the society
in combatting intemperance. The union beI may say he resides in the Dominion, lieves that many total abstinence societies
and is a minister of the gospel, and the have, through ignoring the teachings of exhon. gentlemen who support this Bill perience, science, Scripture and common
sense, been led into an extreme and false
must take my assertion for that.
I have position. The union bases its advocacy of
11o doubt that this letter will have its due total abstinence and of tempérance on the

878

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

firm ground of Scripture warrant and Chris- resolution to the committee. We think
tian ethics, believing that these cannot be im- that it is in the true interest of temperproved upon.
ance-not of prohibition, but of the
It is not true that we have asserted that
" beer and wines have been proven to con- Christian virtue of temperance; and my
tribute to national sobriety " any more than hon. friend who talks so much about it
that we have stated that tarts and pies have being necessary to exclude everything as a
proven to conduce to the prevention of glut- beverage in the shape of liquors, and ail
tony. We have maintained, however, that wines and beers, ought to recollect that
the substitution of beer and wine for whiskey
tends greatly to diminish intemperance, and really we are making a proposition now
that the licensing of the first-named beverages, which would have the effect of advancing
under due restrictions, and the abolition of the cause of temperance. If you can get
the sale of ardent spirits as beverages, is more rid of the abuse of ardent spirits, and you
calculated to diminish intemperance than is could not take a better course than by
total prohibition, which, experience has
shown, tends to leave whiskey as the sole providing a proper substitute, I think you
will advance a step in the right direction
alcoholie drink of the people.
I believe that to be perfectly true, in towards the end that, I think, we ail have
in view, which is to put down drunkenthe Scott Act counties particularly.
ness. It is useless to say to the people
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Very bad, that they shall not drink certain beverages,
because by that you take the very mode
too.
to make them do it, constituted as human
of the nature is ; but say to them " you will have
HON. MR. DICKEY-Yes,
; you can use light
worst quality ; but it is much more con- no further excuse
A man can smuggle or wines and beer, and if you think it necesvenient to carry.
sary to take stimulants, you can take the
sell a much larger quantity of what makes
harmless one." In that way, we think,
a inan drunk in that form than in the
the Scott Act will be materially improved,
form of beer or light wines, and I agree
and on ail future occasions it should be
with the hon. member from Halifax that passed with
that restriction. Under those
there is not much danger of people getting
circumstances, I do hope that the friends
drunk on either of these beverages. The
of the measure will accept this very
National Temperance Union continues:reasonable amendment, because I think it
" In reply to the challenge, we beg to say is really in the interest of the Act itself,
that we assume the fol lowing positions:(1.) That alcohol is a food, and that while and, without wishing to weary the House,
medical testimony, science, and experience I will conclude by saying I think my hon.
show that the use as beverages of ardent friend has taken a very proper course in
a
spirits is fruitful cause of intemperance and offering this resolution, and I trust that it
injurious to the health; the same evidence will commend itself to the majority of the
goes to prove that the use of natural, fermented beverages, such as beer and wine, is not, committee.
except in some cases, injurious to the health,
beneficial.
and in many instances is
HoN. MR. WARK-My hon. friend
(2.) That Scripture and Christianity war- from Amherst says that if we adopt the
rant temperance in the use of wine.
(3.) That the substitution of beer and wines course recommended by the motion now
for ardent spirits would greatly reduce drun- before the committee, we will be taking a
step in the right direction. I can tell my
kenness.
(4.) That total prohibition is not successful. hon. friend that we took that step which
In support of these propositions we will is now recommended, 5o years ago. We
meet Messrs. W. H. Howland, James Thomp- thought that we were taking a step in the
son, A. Farley, George Ward, I. Wardell, and
James B. Marshall, collectively or individu- right direction then, but we very soon felt
that the use of these weak liquors, those
ally, in joint meetings as proposed."
I think the mere reading of the propo- wholesome beverages, was only a stepping
sition which these people lay down, and stone to the use of stronger liquors. I
which runs on ail fours with the views, I have known numerous instances of it. It
hope, of the majority of this House, will is not at all uncommon, I believe, at the
show that we are proceeding on safe present day for some people to say that
ground when we take the position that my every gentleman ought to take his glass of

hon. friend has assumed in offering this wine, but no gentleman ought to get
HON. MR. DICKEY.

Temperance Act, &c., [MAY 6, 1885] Amendment Bill.
drunk. I have known numerous instances
of men of that kind who taught their sons
to be gentlemen by taking a glass of wine,
but the young men did not long confine
thenselves to such beverage. The wine
was not stimulating enough for them, and
they resorted to the bar rooms and to
stronger liquor, and got to be a disgrace
to their families. Take the beer shops in
any large town of England, and they are
only nurseries to provide customers for
the gin palace. Just as sure as these
people begin to resort to the beer shops
they go on after a while to the gin palace.
Consequently, the step which the hon.
gentleman talks of taking now, and which
was taken 50 years ago, will be found to
be a failure. The clergyman from whose
letter he has quoted, has no right to speak
of every Christian man believing as he
does, for we can get 50 or ioo without
going out of the province that we are now
in, of the highest standing, who differ from
him entirely. As to the use of wine, I
ask where can you get wholesome wine
now? I remember a neighbor of mine
telling me that he went and bought a cask
of port wine which had just been imported
and took it home; and when he opened
it he took a pail of logwood chips out of
it ; yet poor people are recommended to
get port wine for the sick members of
their families when they are only getting
extract of logwood chips. I say let the
weaker liquors alone. I do not think it is
necessary to discuss this question at length,
but I tell the hon. gentleman what my
observation has been for 5o years. I have
known numerous instances where men
commenced with the weaker liquors and
the end was ruin.

transient, and depend partly upon the carbonic acid which is evolved from it, and partly
upon the alcohol, which is suspended in this
gas, being applied rapidly and extensively to
a large surface of the stomach. The idea
that champagne produces gout, is sufficiently
refuted by the fact that the disease is very
little known in the province where the wine is
made.
"We often hear those who are most oppressively wise, in their own conceits, attempt to
display their wisdom by referring to the small
geographical boundaries of the champagne
country, and shrewdly deducing therefrom,
that not enough of champagne can be made
to allow a single bottle to be inported into
this country; but, for ail that, the species of
wine known as champagne, is manufactured

ail over the south of Europe, of as excellent a
quality as that produced in the District of
Champagne, and a vast deal of this genuine·
wine is imported into this country.

"Just as good champagne can be found here
as at Rheims, but your only protection is the
character of the people, or house where you
purchase. Just as good wine can be got in,
the remotest inland towns of America, as can
We have
be had in Paris or Bordeaux.
tasted as great a variety of the finest wines, in
Chicago, as can be found on the continent of
Europe; and there is one importing house in
New York, who import, on an average, ten
thousand baskets a year, of the ' Moet, Chandon' champagnes, which. are, perhaps, the
finest of ail the various brands of champagnes,
and thus, in New York, we have the best
genuine champagnes that are made in Europe.
Of these brands, the 'Grand Imperial,' or
' Green Seal,' is, perhaps, the finest, though
many choose the ' Bouzy Cabinet.'
The
'Fleur de Bouzy ' sells for the saine price as
the 'Heidsick,' and is a better wine than even
this favorite old brand. And if a single house
imports ten thousand baskets, yearly, what
must be the quantity of genuine champagne
which is brought to this country by ail the
great importing houses ? Probably not less
than two millions of baskets annually."
So much for hon. gentlemen who state
that no good wines can be had in these
HON. MR. DEVER-In reply to hon. days.
gentlemen who say there is no such wine
now as there was in the days of the ScripHON. MR. POWER-I want to know
ture, allow nie to differ entirely from such which house my hon. friend recommended?
statements We have just as good wine
now, as there ever has been. The same
HON. MR. DEVER-I do not recomnatural laws that enabled them to make mend any house; I recommend certain
wine, are better known to-day, than they brands, and if the hon. gentleman is
ever were before ; and here I want to acquainted with the wine trade, he will
quote from an authority on wines, so that know what I arn talking about.
gentlemen who wish to obtain the best
that ever has been made, can get them in the
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I wish to
following brands, and described as follows: offer a few observations on the amend" Champagne is the king of wines; its in- ment proposed by the hon. member from
I regret especially that he has
toxicating effects are rapid, but exceedingly Halifax.

880

Teipeiance Aet, &c.,

[SENATE]

introduced it, because I know that he
always speaks according to bis convictions
and only suggests what he conceives will
be in the best interests of society. We
ail know that arguments can be advanced
in favor of the use of beer and light wines,
and we ail know that those can be used
in a rational way without doing injury to
the constitution.
I have been somewhat
surprised that some members of this
House, and especially the hon. gentleman
from Amherst, have seized the present
occasion not merely to object to this Bill,
which is simply to make some sinall
amendments to the Temperance Act, but
to attack the Temperance Act itself.
It
is a course which I do not think a wise
one for this body to adopt. We know
that this Bill, when it was introduced into
the House of Commons, was, through the
influence of the First Minister,placed upon
the notice paper ; and through bis influence it took precedence of ail other
(luestions in order to give it every chance
of passing through Parliament. The First
Minister and the Government desired to
make an impression on the country that
they were favorable to the Scott Act, and
desired to aid the temperance movement.
It appears to me that it places the Senate
in a very unfortunate position, that when
this Bill comes up here the leaders
of the Government and their immediate
partisan supporters should be the most
prominent to endeavor to destroy not only
this amending Act but also the Temperance Act itself. There can be no mistake
about the position that they take. We
find the Minister of Justice cheering on
gentlemen who are pursuing a course,
the effect of which must be to destroy entirely the Temperance Act, and to discourrage ail those who have been promoting
the temperance cause throughout the province of Ontario. I cannot speak for the
other provinces, but I can speak for
Ontario. I do not think chat this is a
manly or proper course for the First Minister and the Government to pursue.
If
they really believe that that temperance
movement should be discouraged, why
did they not, in an honest and manly way,
declare so on the floor of the other Chamber, and not leave the odium to fall upon
this body as they do, of striking a blow at
that movement, which bas been inaugurited by the mi-iost respected and responHON. MR. ALEXANDER.

rnendruent Bdl.

sible men of the country?
I say that
sucb tacties are most discreditable on the
part of the Government. What has influenced me as a Conservative, more than
anything else, to take action against the
present Administration, is that I have seen
them steadily for years, using this august
body to serve their party purposes. They
seem not to care whether they destroy our
good name. They go on using us. They
wish us to register their objectionable
money grants ; and here to-day they go
through the farce of impressing the country that they desire to encourage the temperance movement, while they use the
Senate to destroy their Bill.
Here we
have the ministerial supporters and the
leaders of this House, through the instrumentality of their friends, supporting a
motion, the effect of which must be to
destroy entirely the Temperance Act.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Have they supported it yet
HoN. MR. ALEXANDER - They
have suported it by their cheering on,
and by the speeches which have fallen
from them.
What will be the resuit?
The First Minister and bis colleagues care
not one straw if they sink the Senate in
public estimation; or whether a cry may
be got up to demand its abolition. Those
m2n wbo have used you will turn upon
you afterwards and say that you were
foolisb, and that you ought to have acted
upon your own independent judgmentjust as they have brought ruin upon many,
and afterwards laughed at those who were
the victims of their evil courses, and so
the, will vith regard to the Senate of the
Dominion.
I was chided in very strong
terns last night, because I expressed
my views openly, and I desire to say that
as long as I have health I shah continue
to express those views, and I feel confident
that we shah succeed in a very short time
in having a Government in power who
will act upon more upright principles;
who will act in the interest of the peopleof the Senate-and of the country at
large. Lt is pitiable to see a Government
using this augus body, composed of the
best men from aI parts of the Dominion,
for their miserable partisan )urposes. I
am sure that in a very short time you will
come to despise the leaders of tbe present

Temperance A et, &c.. [MAY 6, 18851 Amendment Bill.

881

'Government-that you will look back to opposite, in light wmes, an absurd position
the words which I have uttered on the which I hope fot many hn, gentlemen in
floor of this House, and say that I was
right, and that you wished you could only
have seen theni in the sanie light that
they have appeared to me for the last four
years. They are men who are destitute
of principle and feeling, and have no consideration whatever for this Chamber or
-the public interests.

this buse occupy.

H
man, while speaking, conveyed to the
House every word that 1 could 4ay in
reference to this matter. The hon. member ftom Woodstock, a few moments ago,
declared that he was going to support the
Scott Act, and seemed most anxious to
HO-N. MR. CAR\ELL -w have nothing find fault with the movernment under the
,to say witb regard to the closing remarks supposition that they intend to support adof the hon. member from Woodstock, but verse amecdmets to it. I fet that I had
quarrel with the hon. gentleman in his
must confess that I was surprised at his no H
opening sentences. He expressed bis very attempts to oppose or find fault. in his
m-f
great regret that the junior member for own peculiar way, with the members thý
ouse, or out of th
Halifax should have introduced an amend- Governrment in this
mtent to promote the use of beer and ligt House. In reference to the hon. gente
wines. It bas been my privilege to taste mans quarrel, or kink against the Govterwine in company wth the hon, gentleman nient, I have nothing whatever to say
aentdeaI.
from Woodstock, and for days and weeks but did feel with the hon.
afterwards I have known hiem tox smack w o preceded me, the inconsstency ot
bis lips over its fgavor. There is no hon. the member ftom Woodstock in daring toa
gentleman in this Chamber who more rise and tel this House and the country
thoroughly appreciates a glass of good wine that he is going o support a temperance
than the hon. gentleman himself; he is a measure-a man who is notoriously known
day of his life- a man
only
fudge of it, and he appreciates it, notwkery to use liquor
while it is trickling down his throat, but for who is known to be under the inuence
Of Iiqor occasioasallydas and weeks afterwards.
HoN. MR. POWER---l rise to au
HON. MR. Pt)WER--I do not think
that this has anything to do with the ques- tion of order ; what has the inconsistency
of the member for Woodstock to do with
tion before the committee.
the matter before the House?
HoN. MR. CARVELL -'That is the
Hox. MR. SMIT-Order, order.
great trouble in Canada in reference to
this question which is now before the
HON. MR. POWER- I risc to a queslouse--the Scott Act and its working, its tion of order. One of our rules forbids
continuance, its repeal, or its amendment. sharp, taxing and insulting speeches. This
At elections people will advocate the Scott speech is one of that character, and calcuAct, will vote for it, will subscribe liberally lated to lead to disorder.
to the fund for its enforcement. who from
day to day and year to year take their wine,
Hos. MR. SMIT H -Order. order.
who keep it in their cellars and offer it to
their friends. In our own town not long
Hos. NIR. POWER- -I have a perfect
ago, after the Scott Act had been re-enacted right to make my point of order. We are
in Charlottetown, a friend of mine said now discussing the anendment of ny
that he was prepared to subscribe $1,ooo hon. colleague from Halifax to this Bill. to
to a fund to enforce that act. If I had amend the Temperance Act, and anV regone with mv friend who made that state- marks with reference to the taste and
ment to his 'ouse he would have asked me habits of the hon. gentleman from Wrodif I would take wine or ale. Such is the in- stock have not the renotest connection
cofnsistency even of those who do vote for with it.
the Scott Act. There are many men who,
HON. MR. [ILMB--It comes with
While voting for the Temperance Act
themselves, indulge. as does mv hon. friend tvery bad grace from the h >n. gentlemian

882

Temperance Act, &c.,

[SENATE] Anendment Bill.

froni Halifax to talk of sharp and taxing
speeches in connection with the hon.
gentleman from Woodstock, as no other
gentleman in this House has more disgraced the Senate than the member from
Woodstock in that respect.
HON. MR. BOTSFORD-I think it
would have been more to the point if the
hon. member from Halifax had called the
hon. gentleman from Woodstock to order
when he was speaking; had he done so
he would have been in a position to call
other gentlemen to order now.
HON.

order.

MR. ALEXANDER - Order,
There is a point of order raised.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-The member from St. John was showing the inconsistency of members who vote for this
Act, and the difference between precept
and example, as illustrated by some gentlemen who, while voting that other people
shall not be allowed to use liquor, use it
every day themselves. Such hypocrisy
should be put down in this House.
HON. GENTLEMEN- -Order, order.
THE CHAIRMAN-In a matter of
this kind a good deal of latitude is usually
allowed, but I hope that hon. gentlemen
will refrain from being personal in their
remarks.
HON. MR. DEVER-1 have nothing
but praise for every hon. gentleman who,
conscientiously believing that total abstinence from alcohol in any shape or form
would be beneficial to everybody, advocates temperance ; I have every respect
for such men who have a conscientious
conviction, and whose lives square with
that conviction, and such men in supporting a measure of this kind are entitled to
the respect of this House and of thp
country ; but I do hold that it is a bad
example for men who use liquor themselves to stand up here and attempt to
shackle their equals, if not their betters,
and prohibit them from using that which
they enjoy themselves.

hon. gentleman from Halifax, that I have
never voted for the Scott Act, and I have
stated here more than once that had I
been here when the Scott Act was before
this Hcuse, I would have voted against it
on the ground that it does not go far
enough, because I am a total abstainer,
and have been one for nearly fifty-eight
years, and I am not ashamed to own it ;
nor am I a crank nor a fanatic. I came
to the conclusion to be a total abstainer,
on the 19 th June 1827, after calm reflection, in the city of Quebec-to touch not,
taste not, handle not-and I have endeavored to carry out that principle to the
present day, and I intend, God helping
me, to carry it out as long as I live. I
have never voted for the Scott Act, or
any clause in it permitting the sale of
liquor. It may be recollected that when
the hon. gentleman from Sarnia moved
his amendment in reference to allowing
liquor to be sold by the pint for medicinal purposes, I voted against him.
I
vote for no liquor, whether beer, wine,
cider, or in any other shape ; therefore I
shall not vote for the amendment moved
by the junior member for Halifax. When
my hon. friend from Amherst was speaking in reference to this question, and
quoted a letter from a clergyman, I asked
him if he could give the name of that
clergyman, but my question was not answered. I do not know, nor do I care,
who that clergyman may be. He referred
to passages in Scripture as permitting
the use of liquors, and to the wine that
our Saviour made. I would tell the hon.
gentleman if they give us such wine today as our Saviour made at Cana of
Galilee, I will go for it.
HON. MR. CARVELL-How does
the hon. gentleman know what kind of
wine it was ?

HON. MR. FLINT-I do not go in for
stinking, poisonons whiskey mixed with
dirty water and logwood, that they call
wine ; I want the pure juice of the grape,
such as our Saviour made, and if I could
get that, I would be willing to drink it.
The minister, whoever he was, who quoted
from that passage of Scripture, knew but
HON. MR. FLINT-Reference has little of what he was talking about, and I
been made to my course in connection may say that I have known a great many
with the Scott Act. I wish to say to the ministers of that character. I am not at

HON. MR. PLUMB.

'1emperance Act, &c,

[MAY 6, 1885] Amendnent Bill.

all backward in giving my views in reference to ministers any more than to anyone else. If the amendment proposed by
the hon. member for Halifax is carried, it

will destroy the Scott Act, and I think
hon. gentlemen should well consider its
effects before they vote for it, and whether
they are willing to destroy the Temperance
Act or not.

HON. MR. ALMON-Do I understand
YOu to say that you would not have voted
for the Scott Act had you been here ?

Act.

8813ý

I did not quite understand the hon.

gentleman, his remarks are so indistinct.

They are a good deal like chips in
porridge, and there are so many chips in
the porridge that I cannot separate one
from the other. He has a peculiar manner of speaking, and, as a matter of course,
constituted as he is, he understands himself, I think, a good deal better than
anyone else understands him. I do not
wish to take up the time of the House,
and I only desire to set myself right on
this subject. I will vote for no measure
that permits the sale or use of liquor, but
I will vote for any amendment that will
assist in making the Act we have on our
statute books what it ought to be.

HON. MR. FLINT-I have never voted
for it, and would not vote for it. I have
stated, on more than one occasion on the
floor of this House, that had I been here
HON. MR. ALMON-You will vote for
I would have voted against it. If there
was nothing else up to-day before us but it up to the ten gallons ?
the Temperance Act, I would not vote for
HON. MR. FLINT-No, nor one pint
it. My principles are too well known. I
have carried them out strictly for too either.
many years to fail now, but I am satisfied
that if this amendment carries, the Temperance Act will be destroyed by it, and
hon. gentlemen may make up their minds
that in another year they will have to contend at once with the movement for total
prohibition.

HON. MEMBERS-That is just what
we want.

HON. MR. FLINT-The hon. gentleman from Niagara may talk, but I know

better ; I know which way the hon. gentlernan's cat jumps ; it very often jumps in
the direction of the senior member from
Halifax. Now, so far as I am concerned,
I wish it to be perfectly understood by
hon. gentlemen that I have nailed my
colors to the mast ; I did so at Quebec
more than half a century ago, and I am
bound to fight this question till I die. I
am no fanatic, but I have seen a great
mfany men who have been in the habit ot
drinking that have become lunatics, and
Probably I may see more go in the same
direction. The Lord has spared my life
for some good purpose ; I am past the age
of eighty, and I am not going to show the
white feather now. I have been led to
make those few remarks at this stage of
the Bill, but I would not have said a word
if the hon member from Halifax had not
accused me of voting for the Temperance

HON. MR. THIBEAUDEAU-I arn
very glad to see that the hon. member
from Trent division does not accept any
responsibility for the Scott Act, though he
is a temperance man, because he must
have noticed that the Scott Act has proved
to be impracticable, and I believe I can
re-echo what the hon. member from
Niagara has said. I had an opportunity
two years ago of voting against the Act,
and I would to-day very willingly vote for
its repeal if that were the question before
the House. However, as we cannot have
the Act repealed, we ought to be very
glad to accept the amendment of the hon.
gentleman, the junior member from Halifax, because there is no doubt-I cannot
speak of the other provinces-but in the
province of Quebec the Scott Act would
It has been
be perfectly impracticable.
proved to be so, many times, by the action
of our municipal bodies. There was a
time in Lower Canada when licenses
were actually refused in almost - every
parish, and it was found out that in such
parishes, where licenses were not issued,
disorder and drunkenness were greater than
ever. Instead of selling liquor openly
under license, it was done in hiding
places, and sometimes openly on the
public markets : it was peddled in broad
daylight, and I am quite convinced that
in my province wherever the Scott Act is

-884A

T8emperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment BJi.

brought into force, such desorders will these reasons I will vote for the amend-recur. This temperance question is one ment of the junior member fron Halifax.
to be promoted by moral teaching rather
than by legislation, and in Quebec we
thanby lgisltio, in uebe webleHN in R L M-tsesieia of
an
that discussing any Bill
have moral influences that will always, in toamendtheCanada Temperance this kind
Act, the
connection with our municipal organizations, control the sale of liquor. Our
municipalities grant one or two licenses 1 do not know that it can be avoided, but
in a parish, under the belief that such a is unfortunate that the discussion has
places are absolutely necessary, and has b such a range on this occasion, and
rought out very strongly the feeling
that they should be maintained under daily control ;
and in this that the Scott Act itself bas failed to effect
way the sale of liquor is regu- the object which its promoters anticipated.
lated. But what does the Scott Act do? When the Act was brought into the House
It gives permission to all doctors to issue of Commons, I was a member of that
certificates to get liquor whenever they are body, and I voted against it. I had no
applied to for it, and who trusts those hesitation in avowing my hostility to the
doctors? Nobody!
Once a year the measure from that time up to now, and
druggists are obliged to file those certifi- ry observation of its working, and of the
cates with the Government, but I hold manner in which it bas been torced upon
that that is no check at all on this traffic the people, and of the general effect of the
and that the control we had before of moral Act, has only confirmed my previous
influence, and through the municipal opinion. We have been told that this
organizations, and through licenses, was amendment, which is now proposed, will
much more beneficial and more effective destroy the Canada Temperance Act.
than the control that the Government Well, it destroys that Act it will destroy
would have over the druggists and doctors. a measure which bas not effected, up to
We are asked also to amend the law in this time, and is not likely in the future to
such a way that the doctors themselves effect, the object which is claimed for it.
may be permitted sell liquors. I believe 1 say that the Scott Act is a delusion; it is
that if you allow the doctors to issue certi- pretended that it has a moral effect, which
icates, it is equivalent to debarring the it does not have in reality; and though it
country people from having liquor at all may, in some cases restrict the use of
when they want it for their own use or the liquor, it has other effects which are more
use of their families in sickness; because, ielf. W h r the
s on oper
if you take the province of Quebec, say
from Montreal to the city of Quebec, with ation, it is in force by the will of a minority
the exception of Three Rivers, you will not of the people, and every rethod will be
find an apothecary's shop in that whole adopted to evade it. It will introduce
distance. It cannot be said that the law habit of fraud, dissimulation and dissipais a good one that allows a physician to tion wberever it goes, as such acts have
issue certificates for liquor, and the persons have
n oted
pricularly i the
State o
ane Th ri
area intcr
who obtain themmay have to travel5o Or
miles to a drug shop in order to get theate
codin
of t
eo of
liquor. I think the thing is perfectly ab- and
the neiti
the
e f
surd. If the law is to be enforced upon
th sum
any country, I believe you cannot do other- posing
ptur Iaw upon them,
wise than permit doctors to sell liquors, because I feel that it is a surptuary law,
and if you allow them to sell liquors, you notwithstanding the objection of my hon.
allow hundreds of people that privilege friend from Sarnia to that epithet. We
f, know that by late statistics it is shown
without any control over them ar
as we have it to-day, one or two vendors in
every parish selling it under license. I am of this kind of restrictive legislation than
satisfied that I can travel from Montreal any other civilized people on the face of
to Quebec, and obtain a certificate from the earth.
Ho. MR. DEVER-We have the best
every doctor in the district, in my present
state of health, for a botle of wine. For record in the world.
HON. MR.

THIBEAUDEAU.

Temperane Acot, &c., [MAY 6, 1885] Amendment Bill.

885

HON. MR. PLUMB --In the statistics vote, just so long will it meet with this
of the different countries of the world, kind of opposition and this kind of
Canada stands pre-eminent for temperance legislation from those who are not
and moral conduct, and yet we are, by terrified by the bugbear that this temperimplication, told that it is absolutely ance movement is sweeping over the
necessary to put the Canadian people un- country in such a wave that any man who
der a law which is a kind of bondage, and dares to oppose it is likely to suffer in his
one which every independent man rises ipolitical position, as well as in the estimain indignation against.
tion of the country. I am not afraid of
the Scott Act ; I will take the consequenHON. MR. VII)AL--I am as independ- ces of opposing it. I never knew any
ent as the hon. gentleman, but I do not enthusiasm of this kind that has not run
rise in indignation against it.
its course as this will. I say to-day that I
amn prepared to vote for prohibition Dure
pure
vote for nrohibition
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentle- am DreDared to
and simrle. This Act was so ingeniously
man is very independent in everything devised that it never was intended to be a
until the Scott Act is under discussion. Prohibition Act. The principle of it is
I maintain that if any legislation is neces- local option, and local option has never
Sary to carry out the machinery of the succeeded in any country where it has
Scott Act while it stands on our statute been tried. It was announced by its probook as the law of Parliament, the framers moters that the Scott Act would bring
of that Act are entitled to that legislation. about a great revolution in the habits of
They have had that legislation to-day ; the people. There is no necessity for
they have had that section which I ob- discussing the evil effects of intemperance;
jected to, because my hon. friend when he but because one man is injured by drink.
brought his Bill down did not state ac- isthatanyreasonwhy 1oo men shouldbeput
curately or exactlv what would be the under bonds ? Why should it be neceseffect of that sectioli, and what was the sary, because one man shoots off his
necessity for it, but I suppose that neces- hands with a fowling piece, that the lock
Sity will be met for the present by the should be taken off every gun in the
legislation which is now going on in the country ? It is no argument on which to
other House, to suspend the operation of support the Scott Act, and I shall vote
the License Act of 1883, and I now feel with great pleasure for the amendment
perfectly at liberty to vote for any amend- which is offered by the junior member for
rnent, which may commend itself to my Halifax.
judgment, to the Canada Temperance Act.
The hon. gentlemen who are supporting
HoN. MR. VIDAL-Like my hon. friend
the Scott Act, have brought it on them- opposite me, I do think that the discussion
Selves. They brought this B.ill here ; they which has taken place in connection with
brought up the discussion on the Scott this Bill has been exceedingly out of place,
Act ; the amendment would never have and not properly connected with the matter
been brought up as an affirmative propo- brought under consideration by the Bill on
sition by those who oppose the Act ; but which we are to form a judgment. I am
the temperance people bring in a Bill quite well aware that in my opening rehere with nine sections, eight of which marks on introducing this Bill I have been
are confessedly padding for the pur- accused of opening up the whole question
Pose of carrying the other section, and of temperance legislation ; I say, however,
we are not told its force, but that that I have carefully avoided doing anythat section is an absolute necessity to- thing of the kind; I have gone carefully
wards the working of the Act. Now, any over the report of my speech, and I chalother amendments are in order, and the lenge hon. gentlemen to show from the
hon. gentleman who is in charge of this first to the last of it that there is anything
Bill, is, with his friends, to blame for hav- in my remarks opening up the general
ing put the Act in that position. Their question of the principles and results of the
Act is on trial, and I tell the hon. gentle- Canada Temperance Act. I tried to show
Inan that just so long as the Scott Act is that because the Scott Act had been so
forced upon the community by a minority largely adopted, and by such overwhelm-

886

Temperance Act, &c., (SENATE]

.ing majorities in the counties where it has
been voted on, therefore we ought to pass
these amendments which are required to
I said nothing which
make it operative.
might not have applied equally well to an
insurance bill or a bill on any other subject as to the Canada Temperance Act.
But no sooner did I close my lips, than I
was followed by gentlemen who launched
at once into the great subject of temperance legislation, denouncing all its advocates as hypocrites and fanatics, or as being
.exceedingly ignorant of the requirements
ot the country, with being despotic, and
forcing our legislation on an unwilling
people. The utter absurdity of such a
statement is so palpable that it puzzles me
how any person can be found bold enough
to make it in this House. As it is a measure which can only be adopted by the
majority of the people expressing their
will by the ballot, it cannot possibly be
forced on an unwilling people. In what
other way can you get the expression of
the will of the people on any question that
may be submitted to them?

Amendment Bel1.

employer, or his friends or his relatives,
but he votes according to his own convictions as to what is right. I therefore
hold that we have with reference to the
places where this Act has been adopted,
an honest expression of the majority of
the electors of each of those constituenCdes.
HON. MR. DEVER--If you had, they

have no right to tell us what we shall eat
and drink.
HON. MR. VIDAL-It is true that the
whole electoral vote is not polled ; but

what are we to infer from that ? Are we

to infer that every one who does not
come out to vote is opposed to this legislation ? I can with equal justice take the
opposite ground and assert that every
one that does not come out to vote is in
favor of the Act instead of against it, and
I have as good a right to say that, as the
hon. gentleman has to say to the contrary. There is no other way by which
the will of the people can be ascertained
than by open, honest vote by ballot,
HON. MR. PLUMB-It has never had where every man expresses his honest
convictions in a way that nobody can ina majority in its favor in any county.
terfere with or punish him for it.
HON. MR. VIDAL-Admitting for
argument sake that it has never had a
I will now notice a word that the hon.
majority of the people in its favor ; has gentleman from Niagara has used on sevthe hon. gentleman from Niagara ever eral occasions, very improperly calling the
had a majority of the electoral vote in Temperance Act a sumptuary law. If
his own election ? I think not. Exam- some blatant stump orator were addressine the election returns of the House of ing a crowd, and either ignorant himself
Commons to-day, and see how few mem- or presuming on the ignorance of his audibers have been elected by the vote of the ence, had called the Scott Act a sumptumajority in the constituencies they repre- ary law, it would not surprise me ; but to
sent.
You will find that only twelve of hear a gentleman of the acknowledged
them, outside of those who were elected by erudition and of the high literary attainacclamation, have polled a majority vote. ments of the hon. gentleman from Niagara,
who is well acquainted with the language
HON. MR. PLUMB-This is an en- from which the word is derived-to hear
tirely dissimilar subject.
him attach such an opprobious epithet to
the Canada Temperance Act is to me enHON. MR. VIDAL-I mean to say that tirely incomprehensible, as in my judgeunder the British Constitution under ment it is an entire departure from a just
which we live, the only possible mode by appreciation of the meaning and proper apwhich we can rightly ascertain the will of plication of that word. What does it mean?
the people on any question is by vote of
ballot, where every man may, and genHON. MR. DEVER-It means regulaterally does, vote according to his own ing the price of our food ?
convictions, and without coercion, beHON. MR. VIDAL-Sumptuary laws
cause it is not known how he votes. He
may vote contrary to the wishes of his are laws to regulate the expenditure and
HON. MR. VIDAL.

Temperance Act, &e., [MAY 6, 1885] Anendment Bill.

887

Prevent extravagance of the people in food bodies;" and enacts that no man, of whatever condition or estate, shall be allowed
or dress or anything of the kind.
more than two courses at dinner or supper, or
more than two kinds of food in each course,
HON. MR. DICKEY-There is nothing except on the principal festivals of the year,
about drink in it.
when three courses at the utmost are to be
allowed. All who did not enjoy a tree estate
HON. MR. PLUMB-It is the com- of £100 per annum, were prohibited from
wearing turs, skins or silk, and the use of
monly accepted word.
foreign cloth was allowed to the royal family
H-ION. MR. VIDAL-It is not used in
that sense by men of intelligence who aim
to speak correctly and who wish to secure
a correct interpretation of their words. I
will refresh the hon. gentleman's memory
by referring to some of the authorities and
we shall see if his interpretation is sustained by them.

alone.

•

•

•

•

Sumptuary Laws continued to be introduced in England in the 16th, and in France
as late as the
s7th
centuries. Seotland had
also a similar class of statutes. The Scottish.
Parliament attempted to regulate the dress of
the ladies, to save the purses of the puir
gentlemen, their husbands and fathers, There
was a prohibition against their coming to
kirk or market with the face muffled in a
veil; and statutes were passed againist superfluous banqueting, and the inordinate use of
HAYTHORNE-What foreign spices, " brocht from the pairts beHoN. MR.
yond the sea. and sauld at dear prices to
work is that ?
monie folk@ that are very unabill to sustain
that coaste."
HON. MR. VIDAL-The work I now
refer to is Chambers' Encyclopedia. It
These laws were made with the actells us what sumptuary laws are, and knowledged and professed sole object of
what they have been in olden times, that preventing extravagance on the part of
they existed under ancient dispensations, those who, it was thought, were indulging
and how they were used.
in luxuries beyond their means and unwisely expending their money. We do
HON. MR. PLUMB-They were laws not, by our law, interfere with anybody's
to regulate the habits of the people.
eating and drinking or clothing. The
hon. gentleman from Niagara may lay in
HON. MR. VIDAL--They were no tuns of wine if he likes, even if the Scott
such thing. Chambers says :Act should be adopted in his county.
Surnptuary Laws-laws passed to prevent The idea of the law is not a sumptuary
extravagance in banquets, dress and private idea ; it is not for the purpose of preventexpenditure. They abound in ancient legising extravagance on the part of the people;
•
•
•
lation.
The Lex Orchia, 161 B.C., limited the num- it is for the purpose of preventing crime,
ber of guests to be present at a feast ; the pauperism and misery. It is a measure
Lex Fannia, 161 B.C., regulated the cost of of police, of public safety, required for the
entertainments, enacting that the utrmost sum public good, and has nothing whatever to
which should be invested on certain festivals,
was to be 100 asses, 30 asses on certain other do with sumptuary legislation.
festivals, and 10 asses on an ordinary entertaimment, where, also, no other fowl than 1
HON. MR. PLUMB-Why is the hon.
hen was pernitted to be served up, and that gentleman so sensitive about that word ?
*
•
not fattened for the purpose.
Sumptuary Laws were in great favor in the
HON MR. VIDAL-Does the hon.
legislation of England, from the time of Edward I1. down to the Reformation. Statute gentleman know the meaning of the word
10,Edward III., cap 3 narrates,that " through sensitive ? if so, he misapplies it, for I am
the excessive and over-many costly meats not at all sensitive about the term.
which the people of this realm have used
more than elsewhere, many mischiefs have
HON. MR. PLUMB-The Senate will
happened ; for the great men by these excesses have been so grieved, and the lesser peo- judge whether the hon. gentleman is senpie, vho only endeavor to imitate the great sitive on that point or not.
Ones in such sorts of meat, are much impoverisned, whereby, they are not able to aid HON. MR. VIDAL-The hon. gentlethemselves, nor their liege lord in time of
need, as they ought, and many other evils man professes to speak as a man of obserhave happened as well to their souls as their vation ; he tells us of the evils that he has

Tmpcrnjrance Aoet. &P.. FSENATE1 Am6ndment Bill.

888

seen resulting from the adoption of the
Scott Act. Where has the hon. gentleman seen it in operation ? To what
places have his observations extended?
In what part of the country has he had
an opportunity of personally making this
investigation ? Does the hon. gentleman
know that only in one county of Ontario
has this Act been in force ? and in that
county we have the most abundant and
incontrovertible testimony, proving that
the law has accomplished everything that
could be reasonably expected of it. Surrounded as it is by other countes in
which liquors are freely sold under license,
this county has retained its integrity and
enforced the law : on two occasions it has
given evidence of its satisfaction with this
law by upholding it at the poîis.
HON.

the time of this House, 1 could give
statistics and information on the effect of
prohibition that couid fot be gainsaid; I
couid show that wherever this accursed
traffie has been effectively prohibited either
in Britain or America, there has resulted
peace, freedom from crime and diminution
of misery and poverty, such as the advocates of temperance have claimed would
follow its suppression. The hon. gentleman from Amherst bas read us a letter
from a clergyman. What a tremendously
important thing it is to have a letter from
a clergyman to tell us about wine and its
goodness, to inform us what a bad thing
the Scott Act is, and its utter failure! If
the utterances of clergymen are of any
value on this question- -and I regard them
as specially valuable-I have here before
me the utterance not of one man, who, for
MR. PLUMB--Tpere are ail I know, may be a tippler himself and

more liquors drunk there now than there strongly inclined to favor the liquor traffic,
ever were before.
but the statenents of the ministers and
i gentlemen who formed the xoth General
HON. MR. VID)AL----Where does the Assembiy of the Presbyterian Church in»
hon. gentleman get bis information ? Lt Canada, at its session last year. I am not

is just one of those reckless statements giving the testimony of some unknown
which flow fromn bis lips on this question,
without any foundation whatever. I chailenge the hon. gentleman again, to name
any one place where he bas had an oppor-

man claiming
Gospel; an
I
who occupy
country, both

to be a Minister of the
giving the testimony of men
the
place in the-ighest
in intelligence, in social

tunity of observing the operation of this position, and in connection with the
law, and that to bis knowledge it bas failed Church. The General Assembly of the
in its operation.
Presbyterian Churc in Canada is a body
consisting of about 400 members, 200
Ho.,. MR. PLUMB-Every body knows of which are ministers, and 200. eidersthat it bas failed in the State of Maine.
people wbo have been selected in their
congregations as being men of experience
HON. MR. VIDAL-Everybody knows and judgment, and qualified to discarge

that it bas not failed in the State of Maine. aright the duties of rulers of the Church,
Everbody knows that, so far from finding and wat does that court say ?any dissatisfaction with the prohibition
1 That, in view of the resent aspect of the
legislation, the people of Maine have temperance movement throughout the land,

recently made prohibition a part of the the General Assenbly adopt the following as
constitution of the State. To assert that the deliverance on this inatter :"1. That we regard the traffic in strong
the people of that State, who have had
thirty years' experience of the operation of drink as one of the greatest hindrances to the

progress of the cause and kingdorn of our
their prohibitory law, have not enough Lord J esus Christ.
to know whether it is beneintelligence
Now, these are not ignorant men.
ficial for the State, is utter balderdash.
These are not fanatics, who speak because
HON. MR. PLUMB-What is balder- they have a mere prejudice against drinkdash ?
ing. These are highly educated men, who
have been through the universities; me
HON. MR. VIDAL-There is a diction- of large experience and information, and
ary and the hon. gentleman can find out many of them occupying high positions
for himself. If it were right to take up in this Dominion. They continue :HON. MR. VIDAL

Temperance Act, &c.,

[MAY 6, 1885] Ai mendment Bill.

"2. That in view of the erils wrought by
this scourge of our race, this Assembly would
ail with gladness the utter extermination of
the traffic in intoxicating liquor as a beverage, by the power of example, public
opinion, and the strong arm of the law.

889

ject, but I tell them that 767 petitions
from all parts of the Dominion have been
d to Parliament this session
, pray presente
ing that we shall pass no legislation calculated to lessen the prohibitory character of

4 3. That we rejoice at the wonderful ad- the Temperance Act, or to
render it more
vancement of temperance and prohibition difficult of adoption or enforcement. What

sentiments throughout the world, and especially in our own land; and would recommend
our people by voice, vote and example, and
by ail peaceful and righteous means to work
tor the abolition of this great evil.
' 4. That we re-assert our approval of the
principles of the Canada Temperance Act of
1878, and recommend the adoption of the said
Act, as the best available means for the legal

medment that is now proposed to
the Bill ? Is it not a direct and unreasonable denial to the prayer of those 767
petitions, representing as they do over
pon
100,000 of our people?
It is alleged by
an hon. member that some of the signatures to the petitions are written in one

Suppression of the traffic."

hand, or by women and children;

s this a

that

And yet we are told that public senti- may possibly be the case in some few in-

ment is against this Act ; that the people stances; I only know that ail the numerregard it as a failure. I think that those ous petitions that have passed through
Who say so must have a very low estima- my hands have apparently been properly

tion indeed of such a talented and influ- signed, and the majority ot then have
ential body as the General Assembly of borne the names of Ministers ofthe Gospel
the Presbyterian Church in Canada, when
they can count such testimony as nothing.
But other churches have given the sane
testimony, have just as emphatically recorded their approval of the Temperance
AXct of 1878, and have recommended its
adoption by those who are under their
spiritual guidance. Now, what question
have we before us ? What is our duty as
Senators in reference to this rnatter ? The
hon. gentleman from Niagara, and other
speakers, have admitted that the Bill, as
tar as it is necessary for the operation of
the law on the statute book, ought to pass.
.He has misrepresented my view in alludIng to my remarks on the clause to which
he referred, because I distinctly stated in
directing the attention of the House to it,
that it was the most important section of
the Bill, and explained why it was so. I
might have done it more fully, but I did
not think it was necessary then, and subsequently I was prepared to do so in reply to
the remarks of the hon. gentleman from

and of many men whose position in society
arts of the country in which they
were signed, entitles them to respectful
attention. It is not, as the junior member

for Halifax has said, the province of Ontario only that has sent in petitions; he
himself has presented several from his own
province.
HON. MR. ALMON-Thcy ail came
from Toronto to me.
HON. MR. VIDAL-They came originally from Nova Scotia. Were they not
petitions from Nova Scotia, from the hon.
gentlemans own province?
HON. MR.
ALMON-Yes, but they
were sent to me fron Toronto, which
seems to be the great emporium for them.

HON. MR VIDAL-They were first
sent to the Secretary of the Dominion
Alliance, to be by him transmitted to the

Amherst, on introducing his amendment, representatives, in Parliament, of the difbut the withdrawam of the amendment ferent costitueitcies from which they
made it unnecessary. Who is it that has came. I assert, with confidence, that ail
asked for this Bil? I have no personal
iriterest in it. It did not originate with
ne. I am merely the medium by which
it is presented and recommended to this
ouse. The Bill has come to us ftom

the representatives of the people.

parts of the Dominion are now looking to
this House, with intense anxiety, and
watching with deepest interest our action
to-night, and most fatal would it be to the
influential position which this House

It may holds, and to the respect now accorded to

be ail very well for some hon, gentlemen it in the country at large, if, when the
to seek to beîittîe the petitions which have temperance people are asking for some
been presented to this Flouse on this sub- slight amendments to the Scott Act, ad-

890

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

vantage is taken in a most unmanly way,
in a way that is not consistent with the
dignity or character of this House, to destroy that Act by this amendment.

that the first and principal part of the
petition prays that no alteration be made
in the Canada Temperance Act 1878,
lessening its prohibitory character or making it more difficult of adoption or enHON. MR. PLUMB-Oh, oh, oh! forcement. Then it closes with the other
prayer, which is the end that we are all
Order !
aiming at. We do not want to conceal
HON. MR. VIDAL-If my remarks are it ; our openly avowed aim is total proout of order, I will withdraw them ; but I hibition of the liquor tariff; but we
see similar remarks were made without accepted the Scott Act as being the best
exception being taken, by the senior mem- measure we could get, and opening a way
ber from Halifax, last year, when he said, by which total prohibition might be
speaking of an amendment of this kind: eventually obtained. The work is pro" I should say that those hon. gentlemen, gressing gradually ; by degrees, county
in attacking the principle of the Scott Act after county is adopting the Act and beunder cover of this Bill, are not acting coming accustomed to its restrictions and
consistently with their professions of man- to the loss of revenue from licenses, and
liness; for this amendment is certainly an thus the way is being prepared for total
attack on the principles of the Canada prohibition. In my opinion, this is a
Temperance Act, and it is not made in better way to test the views of the people
what I regard as a manly or a straight- of this country, than it would be to bring
forward way." No fault was found with in an absolutely prohibitory law at once.
him ; why should I be censured now ? I Th.e House of Commons has not been
ask, hon. gentlemen, is it fair ? Is it hon- elected on that question, and it would
orable to deal thus with the Scott Act ? scarcely feel competent to vote upon it,
Here is a Bill to facilitate the operation of and to claim that they really reflect the
that Act, and to cure some defects that opinions of their constituencies thereon.
have been found in it-and what is this I think the course adopted by the temperamendment of the hon. gentleman from an:e people is a wise course, and if this
Halifax intended for ? It is obviously in- amendment is passed to-night, this House
tended to destroy the very Act which it is setting itself in direct opposition, not
professes to amend, and it is so regarded only to the plainly expressed opinion of
by every person who takes an interest in the 128,ooo electors who have voted for
the Scott Act, but also to the wishes of
this great question.
the whole people as conveyed to us by
their representatives in the House of
HON. MR. ALMON-To make it more Commons, who have sent this Bill to us.
perfect.
The question involved in the proposed
amendment was brought before the House
HON. MR. VIDAL-1 contend-and I of Commons by Mr. Gigault, in Bill 112,
speak in the name of 128,000 people who to declare that ale and beer and light
have voted for the adoption of the Scott wines shall be considered temperance
Act-that the public do not want any such drinks, and shall not be brought under
amendment to it.
the operation of this Act ; but the House
of Commons decidedly voted it down,
HON. MR. ALMON-I think that and what is the expectation of hon. gentevery one of those petitioners in their lemen in adding on this amendment to
petitions pray not for the Scott Act, but this Bill ? It will have to go to the
that an Act should be passed prohibiting House of Commons for concurrence, and
the use of liquor altogether, which is quite that House has already given its decisions
contrary to the io-gallon Act, that we on this question during the present
session, and it cannot be brought forward
have before us.
the second time to be votel upon.
HON. MR. VIDAL-The hon. gentleHON. MR. ALMON-I doubt if that is
man has evidently never looked at the
petitions: if he had he would have seen the rule.
HoN. MR. VIDAL.

Temperance Act, &c., [MAY 6, 1885.] Amendment Bill.
HON. 'IR. VIDAL-It strikes me that
it is an opinion very much in harmony
with one we have had recently before us;
the House of Commons has most emphatically told us by their action that they
will not pass such legistation. If we
were now introducing the Canada Temperance Act for the first time, I could
understand these arguments being advanced, and this vehement opposition
manifested : but I cannot understand the
opposition to this Bill under the present
circumstances, and the pressing of this
amendinent after the whole country has
petitioned us not to make such changes.
On what ground can we justify the course
which we take in amending this Act
contrary to the express desire of the vast
majority, I may say the electors of this
country ? We cannot justify it. We
must confess that we are allowing our
own personal, private and preconceived

opinions to influence us in this matter, if
we so disregard all the petitions that have
been presented to us praying that no
such change may be made in the Act.
We shall in effect say we utterly disregard
all these prayers, and choose in our imaginary superlative wisdom to set ourselves in opposition to the clearly expressed wish of the people of Canada. It
is utterly impossible that such opposition
can finally succeed in a constitutionally
governed country, as ours is. The voice
of the people will be heard, and will be
heard in unmistakable tones, and the day
will surely, and I believe early, arrive,
when this House will recognize it to be
not only its duty but its pleasure, to meet
the views of the people on this vital question, and to sanction a measure calculated to pronote the best interests of the
country, and to largely reduce the misery,
Poverty, crime and disease, which are
found in our land, thiough the prevalence
of this great curse of intemperance. I
know that it does not prevail to the same
extent in this country as it does in some other
countries, but, do the hon. gentlemen who
are opposing us, and who mention this
fact, take credit to themselves for this
satisfactory state of things?
It is due
neither to their example nor their influence,
but to men like the hon. gentleman from
Belleville (Mr Flint), who, for over fifty
years, by precept and example, and by
'unceasing effort to rescue the intemperate,

891

and to shield the young from temptation-

to such as he, the country is largely indebted for the prevalence of sobriety and
industry among our people. The Bill
before us may, in some respects, be con
sidered an unimportant one, but in view
of the results of our dealing with it, and
of the effect which the passing of this
amendment would have on the Temperance Act of 1878, as being entirely destructive of it, I trust that the House will
act with calm judgment and will not set
itself in opposition to the plainly expressed
wish ot the people, to have that Act passed
unimpaired.
HON. MR. ODELL-I rise to express my approbation of the motion made
by the junior member fron Halifax, and
I do so because I believe it is in the ir.terests of the majority of the people of
this country, and I believe also that it
will restore to them some little degree of
free action which, under the present law,
they are deprived of. We have these applications year by year, from an arbitrary
and despotic ninority-I say it advisedly
-and we have been asked to give them
a little more time. The question came
up last year and we gave them a little
more time ; we have given them another
year and we were told that il this were
done the Act would work well, and that
was all they would ask for. I want to
draw attention to the mode in which this
matter was brought before us last year.
The hon. gentleman from Sarnia told us
then that they had a caucus, that they had
gone to the Government and persuaded
them-how I do not exactly know-to
take charge of the Bill that was to be
brought before Parliament. That Bill
was brought here and the influence of the
Government was used, so far as they could
use it, to press that measure through this
Chamber, as the hon. gentleman told us,
without any amendment whatever, but
when this House insisted upon an amendment he found that the Government were
divided upon it. However, that Bill was
passed. I thought then there would be
an end of it for some time at least. However, here it is now again before us, and
what they ask for is further facilities to
carry this, what I call oppressive, measure
into operation.
The hon. member from Sarnia depre-

8921

9
Temperance Act, &c.,

[SE NATE] Am3endrant BiR.

cates our going into the question of the
Canada Temperance Act at all. But he
forgets that he himself brought it before
this House in his opening speech, and
undertook to tell us how the votes had
been taken in the several counties where
I would
the Act has been put in force.
call your attention to the very title of the
Bill. It is "An Act to amend the Canada
Temperance Act," and that very titie
brings the whole matter before us. The
hon. member told us in his opening
speech that all the temperance people
wanted was a little oil thrown upon wheels.
Has not the whole of this day been taken
up in pouring oil on them ?

HON. MR. VIDAL-No.
HON. MR. ODELL-Then we had
better repeal the sections that have been
passed.
He asks that proof of an orderin-council be not required, because, he
says, it is not a very easy thing, in remote
sections of the country, to furnish such
proof. We give that, but he wants us to
go on throwing oil on the machinery of
the Act, and what is the consequence? If
you recollect, in the early part of to-day's
sitting, instead of the oil allaying the waves
at all it rather increased them, because
there was a good deal of excitement on
the part of the hon. member from Sarnia,
and that produced a little of the same
sort on the part of other people.

HON. MR. VIDAL--That was the other
people throwing gravel in.
HON. MR. ODELL -Then

the

hon.

member, though he will not allow any one
to partake of light wines and beer, requires
an immense quantity of stimulant himself
to keep the machinery in motion. This
very session the same influence as last
year was attempted to be brought into the
House, when the hon. member told- us
that they had another caucus and had got
the First Minister to assure them that
their Bill was all right. They introduced
their Bill in the other Chamber, and
whether through the influence of the
Premier or not I cannot say, but the Bill
was there passed and that ought to have
satisfied him. What does he do now?
He brings up this fact to influence us and
urges that because the First Minister took
HON. MR. ODELL.

charge of it there, we ought to be guided
by the views of that House. He will noti
allow us to have any free opinions of our
own. He tells us that because it passed
the House of Commons, therefore we
should pass it. Wbat are we bere for?
The question arose the other day whether
we are to be a mere recording House for
what takes place at the other end of thisbuilding, and now an attempt is again
made to influence us in our vote on this
occosion-that because the House of
Commons chose to pass this Bill it is our
duty to pass it and send it back without
amendment. Now, I do not subscribe to
any such doctrine. The hon. member
from Ottawa, who I am sorry to observe
is not in his place, told us last year, and
reiterated the point that I have alluded to
just now, that all they wanted was a little
more time, admitted if you recollect in
his speech to-day that this Act was not
working well, that it was to a certain
extent a failure, and that he wanted to
have it kept upon the statute book until the
present generation passed away, and he
could educate the rising generation up to

the law and then perhaps he would be
satisfied. I had intended to make some
remarks upon petitions, but the hon. member from Sarnia, when he was told that
those petitions all emanated from Ontario,
or Toronto, answered that they came from
the different sections of the country to
Ontario. I have had some of those petitions handed to me to present and I did
present some, but others I did not present,
because I was satisfied they were not
genuine. I was satisfied from the fact
that nearly all the names were written with
one hand and with one pencil and that
evidently the names of every member of
the family down to the youngest child
were appended, that they were not genuine,
and therefore I declined to present them.
I handed them to another member and he
was satisfied to present them. I say that
every member who presents a petition
here is to a certain extent responsible for
its character, and should see that it is
strictly in order. There was nothing on
any of the petitions to inform me where
they came from except a pencil memorandum made evidently by the person who
had forwarded them from Toronto. On
the back I would find " from so and so,"
naming some place in New Brunswick..

Temipea

893

Act, &c., [MAY 6, 1885) Ambendment Bil.

That was the only information I had and
there was nothing else to show whetheri
they were genuine or not. Some of the
observations which I had intended to
make on these petitions have been made
by another hon. gentleman and, therefore,
I will not refer to them any longer. With
reference to the question of a little oil for
the machinery of this Act, there is one
point that i want to make to show what
oil will be asked for and what is aimed at.
This is what took place in the other
branch of Parliament:-

indulgence of the House for a few minutes
while I read these figures. I may say
that this statement has been published
for some considerable time, and to
this day I have neyer seen or heard of any
contradiction with regard to a single figure
of it. The following figures, taken from
quarters in which the Scott Act bas made
the greatest "progress," show to what extent "the people" have spoken on the
subject :
NEW BRrNsWWK.

Aggregate

Votes for
Gu. OFciiy
" MR. MOCRANEY enquired whether or not
.
40
dericon
it was the intention of the Government to see
that the provisions of the Canada Temper1,229
ance Act are enforced in counties where York......
adopted, and to provide funds, and to whom Careton.......1,215

entrusted, to pay the inspector, prosecutg Carotte...

867

No. of

Total

voters on roll.

Pop.

788
3,483
2,913
4,220
2,300
4,499
2,579
5,753
3,321
1,369

6,218
20,179
23,365
26,087
12,329
25,617
14,017
37,719
25,109
6,651

718
attorney and other officers. and from what
Kinge..........798
source are the funds to be taken ?
Queens.......... 315
Sir JOHN MACDONALD-The Government Westmoreland ... 1,082
will carry out all obligations imposed upon
176
them by the Canada Temperance Act, what- Nubrlad..
ever those obligation1 may be..
17682
Albinet....... ....
32,226
201,291
. 7,678
Total..
I do not think they gained much by
the answer, but I quote that to show what
PRINCE FNDWÂRJ
D ISL&ND.
the intentions of this minority are as to
Aggregate
No. of
Tota
týr.
e'
The hon.
forcing their Act upon us.
t~Son roll.
Pop.
Inember from Sarnia, in bis opening Pic....,6
34,347
5,434
speech, quoted a large number of figures Charlottetown ... 827
11,485
1,829
to show us wbat the vote upon this Tem- Kinge......... 1,076
5,673
26,433
36,626
6,351
perance Act had been in Ontario; but be Queens......... ,317
did it, I think, in a very unfair way. He..
19,287 108,892
drew no comparison;, he did flot tell us
otl
4,8
NOVA C rIA.
what the number of votes on the lists
were; he did fot tell us the population
oTotal
No.)
etit.on. Vaters on roi. Pop.
in each of the districts, and though the
944
figures he quoted were large, and one igby..... .....
19,881
2,802
10,577
1,574
would almost suppose they formed a large Queens .......... 76.3
14,913
2,266
tnajority, yet when the hon, gentleman Shelbourn...... 807
26,720
4,147
from Niagara undertook to answer him.' Colchester...1,418
Ânnapoli ...
1,111
20,598
3,205
he produced figures which entirely anni Kings .......... 1,478
23,469
3,431
hilated those of the hon. meniber from Hanto.......... 1,082
23,369
3,642
1,555
Sarnia.
Now, the hon. member bas Pictou ........
th
5,780 35,535
31,258
3,656
challenged anyone to show that this Act Cape Breton739
25,651
3,546
960
,,e,,e, .......
bas been a failure in any îocaîity. t h
27,368
4,653
n.1,560
Yarmota.r1,287
accept that challenge to a certain extent, Cumberlad wr a
3,361
21,284
and before I sit down I wiI quote some
eachof te an 1 wuld sk
contie,
helbourne ...
807 pe
42,063 280,613
Total.......13,704
think will satisfy the
e
figures which
ra
The three provincef med are: claimed as
Ilouse, that at any rate in the Maritime
Provinces this Act is a perfect failure. 1 Scott Act 'ftrongholds.
It will be noticed,
happen to have a carefully compiled state- then, that in thele stro ngholds " 7,678 New
aent with reference to the Maritime Pro- Brunswickers acted n the nane of " the
eole nunibering 201 ,291; 4,982 Prince
vinces, shewing the votes for the petition
" the
e
r
n
aeat
heaggregate number of vn the the10 ward Islander ted in the naine of 13,704
the
votes on
8,891; while
voters' roll, and the total population in eend Sn i n 280,61 hPe selves " the people,"
e ie
so. or a total of

894

Temperance Act, &c.,

[SENATE] Amendment Bill.

26,364 Scott Act voters profess to represent regard to that same place. Before the
" the people," numbering 590,795 persons. Is Scott Act came into operation we had
it renarkable that the 590,795 persons decline
no police whatever; they were not reto bow down and worship the 26,364?
quired; but now we have got four or five,
Now, I think these figures clearly prove and really to carry out their duties propthat instead of the promoters of the Scott erly they ought to have four or five more.
Act having a majority, they are in a very Not only that, but there is another point
decided minority throughout the country. connected with it to which I will direct
Having spent so much timie in reading the attention of the House. This Act is,
these statistics, I will not detain the House in my opinion, educating the rising genlonger in commenting upon them. I think eration to intemperance and alsu in
they speak for themselves. Now, I want demoralization, in evasion of law and
to draw attention to another point. We order, and in fostering malice and resisthave been told that it is impossible to ance to constituted authority, and in
show any locality where this Act has been many cases destroying family harnony.
a failure. I have here some figures which That I know to be the case there. There
were put in my hands, and which come is another proof-that at this very mofrom a source in which I have implicit re ,there are several young persons who are
liance. They show the amount of money undergoing imprisoiment in the penitenwhich has been spent within the last three tiary for resisting with firearms the conyears for the importation of liquor into stables there, in the discharge of their
the city of Fredericton, where, as I believe, duty under this Scott Act, and severely
the Act was first voted upon and carried, wounding one of these constables. That is
and where it has been voted upon a another fact which substantiates my statesecond time. This statement is for the ment with regard to the mode in which it
Prelast three years. The value of liquor im- is educating the rising generation
ported into Fredericton from St. John vious to the passing of this Act, when the
alone, irrespective of Montreal and other temperance movement was first made, I,.
places, for the last three years, was $123,- among a great many others who are now
ooo. It you divide that by three you get opposing it, was favorable to all that they
$41,ooo as the annual amount for the last were then doing, and I would say now
three years expended for liquor in that that if they would continue the course
small place, with a population of 6,212 that was adopted in the first instance and
souls. If you take from this population lay aside all their temptations to become
3,314 females-and I think I have a a political party and over-ride the country
perfect right to do that because the and destroy every man's freedom, and if
females are not those who are in the habit they would by preaching, if you please, by
of using strong liquor-it leaves 2,904 precept and by example, use all their
males, including adults and children. influence to promote temperance, great
From that I take the males under the good could be done ; but they should
head in the population returns of children, avoid on every account whatever coercion
1,9o6, and that leaves only 998 adult which will only breed resistance. We all
males out of the whole population of that know very well that good and evil have
small place. Call it 1,ooo, and you have been placed before us. That has been
got to divide the $41,ooo by 1,ooo; that ever since the day of man's creation, and
leaves $41 per head for every adult male so it will continue to the end of time, and
in the place. Now, Fredericton is a city if we choose the one and reject the other,,
where the Scott Act has been voted upon there is some merit in it and great good
twice, and where it is supposed to be in will follow, but if you attempt by coercion
operation, and from these figures, which I to make people moral, you will assuredly
believe are perfectly reliable, it appears that fail. You have tried it with regard to
$41 per head for every adult male is ex- crimes of all descriptions, and you cannot
pended for liquor in that place alone. I think make people moral by an Act of Parliathat is another proof that the Scott Act, ment; but Isay, let a stringent License Act
in that locality, at all events, is a perfect be passed ; punish the drunkard, and the
failure, and the figures speak for them- man who makes him drunk, severely;
selves. I will notice another thing with cary out some legislation of that character,
HON. MR. ODELL,

Temperance Act, &c.,

[MAY 6, 1885] Amendment Bill.

and then you will have the whole country
with you, from one end of the Dominion
to the other ; but I would say to this
Chamber that we should rise above party
prejudices and the influences of a
despotic oligarchy, banded together to
rule the country and destroy liberty of
conscience. I hope, by the vote taken on
this question, this will be the course that
we shall pursue. I regret that I have
detained the House so long with what has
been a dry affair in quoting so many
figures, but I felt that they gave great
strength to my argument, and I hope that
they have had some effect on the House
itself.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I do not
propose to detain the House long, but it
rnust have been observed that I have been
silent during this debate. I have been
silent because at the opening I intimated
to my hon. friends on the opposite side of
the House that I intended to do as I have
done on previous occasions, support their
amendments and give their Bill every
chance ; that it should not fail for want of
any support which I could give it, but I
carefully guarded against anyone entertaining the idea that I approved of the Bill
or of its principle in any way. I do not
know that I would have risen now, were it
lot for the purpose of commenting shortly
on some of the arguments-fallacies, I
deem them-which fell from the hon.
Inember from Sarnia. I can understand
how it is, if he addresses temperance
audiences in that style, that their
mlinds are carried away by the fallacies which he puts before them.
Those fallacies are boldly spoken in public and the antidotes-such antidotes as
have just been applied by my hon. friend
from Rockwood-are never heard in those
audiences at all. The result is, that a sort
Of unanimity prevails in the temperance
Communities, on this subject. It is because only one side is put before them by
such earnest men as my hon. friend from
Sarnia, who, I am sorry to see, is not in
his place now. The hon. gentleman said
he spoke the voice of the people, and he
quoted an axiom that majorities should
govern. Well, I am not aware that that
is an invariable principle in enacting laws.
On the contrary, I think, when a legislature attempts to enact laws, it is not

895

actuated by what the people for whom it
is about to legislate, desire, but what is
necessary for them. For instance, in passing a law that is intended to restrain sone
crime or vice, you do not consider what
the people it is intended to restrain think,
but what is best calculated to attain your
object. But a contrary principle is adopted
in this law. What is called the optional
principle is allowed to prevail, and, as a
consequence, the Canada TemperanceAct
of 1878, is put forward and carried without difficulty, in many places where the
people are emphatically sober, but it is
not the case if a community is composed
of a majority who are given to the vice of
intemperance, though that is just the community where the restraining power of
such a law is most required. In such a
community it is simply inoperative. Now,
that such is the case, is proved by instances
known to almost every one of us. We
have seen the law go into operation ; we
have seen it disregarded. I hold, in my
hand, a report showing the liquor sold in
Prince County, Prince Edward Island.
In these numerous instances of liquor sold
under this law, I say every one which
is not simply a case where it has been sold
for medicinal purposes, is an infraction of
the law. Let hon. gentlemen consider,
for a moment, the result of that. This
was the easiest and most ready way
of obtaining liquor in a county where
the Scott Act was in force.
No
difficulty was found in obtaining it in
this county in the usual way, through
the apothecary shops ; but suppose, by
amending this so-called Temperance Act,
you made it impossible for men to obtain
liquor through this means, what is the
consequence ? Other and more objectionable means would be taken. That would
be the result immediately. Instead of
liquor being legally sold by chemists, you
would have an organization of smugglers
all around our coasts, and they would be
supported by false swearing, and would
have to be restrained. The attempt
would be futile ; but still you would have
to attempt to restrain them by all sorts of
revenue laws and coast guards and cruisers,
such as we had in the Old Country fifty
years ago. I think Canada is not prepared for that, particularly when the temperance cause was steadily advancing by
means not as objectionable as the means

896

Temper«nce Aé-t, &c.. LSENATE] .meiîrnment Bil.

provided by this Act. I may say that I
have been living now for three and a halt
months in this city of Ottawa, in a large
hotel, where there is a bar and liquors are
sold, and I may say here that I have not
seen one offensively drunken man or per-.
son in this city during the three and a
half months of my residence here. Will
any gentleman pretend to assert that,
under these circumstances, such a law as
this is necessary ? Certainly it is not. The
hon. gentleman read us an article about
sumptuary laws. I will take the liberty of
reading a short extract from another encyclopedia, and it seems to me that the extract I am about to read is more weighty,
and, I think, will prove more convincing to
the House than that which was read by the
hon. gentleman. This article is taken
from Johnson's new encyclopedia, which
Sflnd in the Library. TNhe extract is as
follows
redtrict the exlawa tppi
IlSumDtuary ia,
penses of citizens; they have respect to certain

articles of consumption w ithin defined liiits.
involve always an abridgement
"Scb
individual liberty, and of the natural it
of every ma t do wat e will with
own-provided lie work-s ne wreng or ili te
his neighbors.
iThey invoFve the aadsimption thac a Gov
rnientin the exercise its paternal author
over itb subjects, can judge better tflan
themeelvts what will best subserve their wellare in the use of wiat they have. The wastafu extravagance apparent in every community Seem8 te eaU for the interposition Of Govfrnment t curb the lavish outlays for drees,
diet, tquipage. lence, suctolaws are found
on the statute bocks of almost ail nations.
ander an aristocratie organization of society,
uch enactientv have been made in part for
distinctions,
the purpose of maintainingfas
hresq style eino made
and
certain features of
edvided
ynbopso vik.
IlThis
nerpostio o encalldean bas, however, almnost ovmityses legisiation for the
tirely failed cf its object, because it is so, easily
evad ed-and because the laws are so directly
rith
men's common sense cf
at variance
right. This actual experience, and a better
tnderstanding cf the funetions cf guvernment
have led te the abandonment in moder times
ofl avasuptuary aaws, properiyso called.
symol ofgrank.ac
"6Some laws for the rýgulaticn cf public
r
e
the public aibertyHn this iht nay require
of
personalm rogts. For this
some limitation
both leitimate and wis to restrict
ais
end it
the sale and the hse cf artcle which cause
and
diseate, pauperism and misers, st increase
emmunity
Yet
the burdens ofa whe c
even for this object, labeare found o esi
litte avail, except as thea are suotained hy a
g
prevalent blic -entment an

Hoi,

HAl
auR. TiORNE.

Now, there is no doubt that the last
passage but one I have read here could
be applied to the hon. gentleman's temperance proposais, but here I contend is
Ht and his
one of his radical errors.
friends deliberateiy charge upon wines,
beers and spirits, crimes which purely
beong to their imitations. What did the
hon. member from Ottawa here admit in
the debate on the second reading? He
admitted openly that so long as the
French and Swiss consumed their own
pure native wines they were a sober peopie, but when their naturai drinks failed
them, and they consumed aduiterated imitations, then they became intemperate.
Yet the hon. gentlemen opposite have not
the siightest hesitation in charging upon
our pure wines and spirits the evils which
belong te their imitations. Now, that is
unfair and unreasonable, and when it entails such injurious legisation, such esbre
pionage, such inquisition into the inner
ou
life of men, it is most pernicious.
cannot persuade a man w-ho reads his
Bibpe
eaws
hts didts
ineor
aions
bf
tha to tis
he
it i
o
er
o
r
necessari y a wrong act, because he bas
secn wine treated in the Scriptures as
one of the greatest blessings which a
o
o
uf riarch coul
pty
recolects the touching
one
Every
blessing by the patriarch on his two sons.
tHe told the that with corn and wine had
he sustained theri; and those who are
conversant with other parts of Holy Writ,

particuiarny the Psairs of David. can
recoilect how the Sweet Singer of Israel
said, God had providd for every animal
its
food eut of the earth - wine and cil
te make his heart glad, and to make hirn
of a cheerful countenance ; and yet some
hon. gentlemen represent this thing which
given for
baneful and abominable article. I could
ot allow these rerarks of the hon. genpass
teman opposite teadthwithout comment.
ae fliu
1 arn willing te support bis measure, but I

do hope there wil be soe discretion used
in this matter. I admit freely, that after
having made a promise that I would support the Bill, and having made it from a
sensu f necessity that some law restrainshould be in operation, net only in the
provinre froee which I core, but in other

Tempeïance Act, &c., [MAY 6, 1885] Amendment Bill.
parts of Canada, I shall vote with my
hon. friend, but I confess that my powers
of endurance have been sadly tried in this!
debate. It is impossible to resist the
validity of the arguments brought by
those who oppose this Bill. Nothing
could give me greater pleasure than
to see the hon. gentleman who promoted the Temperance Act of 1878
drop these practices and join hands with
the true friends of temperance, men who
will not interfere with the liberty of the
subject, and are willing to advance the
temperance cause without incurring a vast
number of other and greater evils than
drunkeness itself; for I do conceive that
to lead men who are, if :ot amongst the
best subjects, at all events honest men, to
avoid breaches of the law-to cast stumbling blocks in their way-is a most objectionable policy. I do not question for a
moment the sincerity of the hon. gentleman, and I should like to see him jo
hands with other temperate men such as I
nyself claim to be ; I would be prepared
to give him every assistance in my power.
I do not wish to occupy the time of the
House on this question, but I really could
not allow the amendment of the hon. gen.
tieman to pass without saying this much.
HOx. AlR. VIDAL -My hon. friend
,has just reminded me that I left out a part
of the argument which I intended to address to the House when speaking on the
amnendment that is with reference to this
mitroduction of light wines, beer, etc. I
vant to tell him that so far from being
guided by the principles which he seems
to attribute to us, we are guided by a strong
sense of public duty and by the light of
experience and of the instruction which we
get from historv and from recorded facts.
HON. NMR,1EVER -Soý are we.

89T

land, the drunkeness and consequent
pauperism that prevailed in that country
attracted attention.
It was felt to be a
necessity in Parliament that something
should be done to arrest the downward
progress of the nation into drunkenness and
crime and poverty, which was so marked
that no one could escape noticing it.
What was done? The very theory advanced here was advanced then-oh, let
us give the people beer and ale and that
will stop their drinking gin and strong
liquors.
With this design the celebrated
beer Act was passed under which the beer
houses sprung up all over the kingdom.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE about education in those days?

What

HON. MR. VII)AL Education does
fot affect this iarticular question at ail.
I am spcaking of facts. I say %vhen that
ber syste
was introduced, o far trom
lessening drunkeness and iowering the
poor rates or in any way benefitting the
country by the introduction of those malt
liquors, it was found by examination of
the statistics furnished by the Government
that the saine amount of distilled liquors
was used the foliowing year as had been
consumned the previous year, plus ail the
beer. 'The effect vasdrunkenness was
greatiy increased; therc were hundreds of
people who wouid not have been seen
going into a gin shop, but who feit no
objection to going into a beer shop where
they went mereiy to -et a glass of aie.
The consequence was the taste for aicohol
-for it is for the aicohol that is in it
people drink beer - increased.
Take
the alcohol out of the beer and what is it?
HON. MR. SMITH
pecr cent in i)eer.

There is not

1 HoN. MR. VII)AI. -Take that does
R. VIDAI,
speak in the n cent. ot of it, and people woul not
per
nine of 10,000 peopIe in this country drink the residaee.
HON.

"iho have petitioned Parliament. I know
their sentiments, and I challenge anyone
Hsni. MR. F INT
to deny that stateient.
dirty water.

HoN. ',\IR. KAJBCH- I deny it.

The balance

is

HON. MR. VIDAL-So ail these attepts to substitute aie and beer for spirits
HON.R.
VIDAL-Nov, as a
of tatter found to be a failure the use of
were
fact in the year 1830, when the î
of tuke
strong liquors was
increased by them.
Wellington w-as Prime Minister of Eng- No, in
there was a repetition by
;6o
G

2,

898

Civil &vicé

Act8

LSENATE] Amendment Bill.

Mr. Gladstone, of the same experiment,
by encouraging the use of wine, because
he had then the same argument that is
addressed to us now, that those delightfnl
light wines of France, if we let them into
the country, would take away the taste for
these stronger liquors, and people will
drink them. The sanie result followed. I
appeal to the statistics. There is no
denying the facts, because there was increased intemperance, crime and pauperism. There was again the same amount
of spirits, plus all the light wines. Now,
these are historical tacts which cannot be
gainsaid or denied, and upon these
grounds we take our stand. It is ot no
use, with a view to getting rid of intemperance, to supply light wines and ale ; it
will not cure the evil.
The committee divided on the amendment, which was adopted-contents, 42;
non-contents, 20.

THE SENATE.

Ottawa, Thursday, May 7th, 1885.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (U), " An Act regarding Canned
Goods," (Sir Alex Campbell.)
Bill (87), " An Act to amend the Act
intituled 'An Act to provide for the Employment without the walls of Common
Jails of Prisoners sentenced to imprisonment therein,' " (Sir Alex. Campbell).
CIVIL SERVICE ACTS AMENI)MENT BILL.
IN COMMITTEE.

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLThe order of the day having been
Does my hon. friend from Halifax propose called,
to move the other two amendments?
Coninittee of the Whole House on (Bill
31) To anend and consolidate Civil Service
HON. MR. ALMON-I think I am Acts, 1882, 1883 and 1884.
satisfied with having carried this one tonight.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBE L said : I
have been asked to postpone this order of
HON. MR. POWER-I give notice the day and put it to the foot of the list,
that I will move mine at the third reading. in order to enable my hon. friend from
Sarnia to proceed with the Temperance
HON. MR. VIDAL moved that the fol- Bill. I had no objections to doing so, but
lowing be inserted as clause A:I understand now from himi that he is not
" Section one hundred and eight of the first ready to go on.
above recited Act is hereby anended by inserting after the word 'provisions' in the fifth
HoN. MR. VIDAL-The hon. gentleline thereof the following words: 'Of the
Temperance Act of 1864 or,' and section one man from Ottawa, who takes a very deep
hun dred and nine of the said first above interest in this Bill, and is anxious to be
recited Act is also herehv arnended by insert- here at its final stage, and vote upon it, is
ing alter the word 'provisions' in the second not able to be present to-day.
line thereof the folwing words: 'Of the
Temperance Act 1864, or,'
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-- He ought
to be here.
The motion was agreed to.

HoN. MR. VIDAL-Very serious and
HON. MR. McMASTER, from the
committee, reported the Bill with amend- important alterations have been made in
the Bill since it came into this House. I
ments.
should like to have the order postponed,
because I want to confer with the memThe Senate adjourned at 10.50 p.m.
bers in the other House who promote the
Bill, to see how far they can assent to the
amendments which have been made here,
or how far they should be resisted. I ask
HON. MR. VIDAL.

Civil Service Acts [MAY 7, 185] Amendment Bil.
what has never been denied to any member of this House, to be allowed time to
consider the effect of important amendments made to a Bill which he has in
charge.
HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELLWhatever may be done ultimately with
the 'Temperance Bill, it seems to me that
I have no right to put the hon. gentleman
in a worse position than he now occupies,
and, therefore, I should go on now with
the bill which stands first on the orders of
the day.
The House resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole on Bill (31), " An
Act to amend and consolidate the Civil
Service Acts of 1882, 1883 and 1884."
In the Committee,
Ho-. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL said:
In Clause No. 3, the following words are
added :
And such other officers and employes in
the North-West Territories holding positions,
which, if held in other parts of Canada,
would bring them under the provisions of
the Civil Service Acts, as the Governor-inCouncil brings under the provisions of such

Acts.

I explained, at the second reading of
the Bill, that the object of this is to bring
under the provisions of the Act those
menibers of the civil service who are
serving in the North-West Territories as
far as possible.
HON. MR.

899

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
became desirable to pass it in ithis way ;
that persons who are in the civil service
were transferred from one Department to
another, and in the new Department they
got above the rank which they had held,
and in that way derived an advantage over
other officers, which was not quite fair. It
is proposed to make it imperative that the
officer should be classified in the class in
which he was appointed.
The clause was adopted.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Now,
we come to the Board of Examiners. The
hon. member from Halifax objected to certain features in that clause beause the expense is increased. I askedforanexplanation
in regard to that, and I think the committee will believe that the explanations which
I shall give are satisfactory. In the first
place, the expense is as stated by the hon.
gentleman-that is, it was $r,6oo and it is
proposed to increase it ; but that was not
the whole of the case as it stood. It turns
out, on inquiry, that the examiners have
been unable to get through the examination
within the 6o days mentioned by law.
Therefore, additional supplementary sums
were asked for to augment that sum, so as
to give them $5 a day for the time in
which they were employed, and a sum of
$9oo was provided to indemnify them for

the work in excess of the 6o days. I under tand from the Secretary of State, who
has charge of the matter, that they demonstrated that it was not possible for them to
get through in 6o days, and therefore, this
POWER-Do you not think additional sum was provided.
I have

that the word " other " is objectionable ascertained how the remuneration now
there ?
proposed was fixed. I find from that

officer that it is paid out of the fees which
those who come out for examination pay,
I think it would be better to strike it out. and these fees enable the additional sum
to be paid. In 1884, the fees from canHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,

The clause was amended by strking didates for preliminary examinations
out the word " other," and adopted as amounted to $2,052, and for promotion
amended.
examinations, $5oo, making altogether
$2,552.
There was paid to sub-exHON. MR. POWER-Would the Min- aminers $550 leaving $2,o02.
Thereister of Justice explain the 7th clause. Il fore, the Secretary of State thought he
is as follows :might very fairly give the examiners,

7. Any person who is a inember of the
Civil service at the time of the passing of this
Act shall be classified in the respective class
in which he bas been appointed.

the $6oo which this Bill proposes to
give them and which they are getting now,
though they are now only receiving it
partly under the Act and partly by a spe-

ý900

Civil Ser-vice Acts [SEN ATE] Anendment Bill.

cial vote. If these gentlemen work, 'as
they do, for more than sixty days, and that
work is necessary, they ought to be paid
for the whole period of their labor, and as
the fees from the candidates sufficiently
meet the amount, there is no reason why
they should not be paid. I have asked,
also, about the other point which was
taken with reference to the number of
candidates who go up, and what becomes
of them. I find that the candidates who
passed preliminary examinations are 8oo,
and the qualifying examinations 400 ; but
a good many of the 400 must have passed

the previous preliminary examination, so
that must have reduced the 1,2oo to, perhaps, 8oo or goo. The qualifying examination is the second one, and a candidate
cannot usually go to the qualifying examination until he has passed the preliminary,
so when we say that 400 passed the one

and 8oo the other, we are speaking of the
same persons, so far as a great proportion
who passed the qualifying examinations
are concerned. Altogether, i,6oo passed
either one or both examinations. There
have been appointed, of those who passed
the preliminary examination, 200, and of
those who passed the qualifying examination 3oo, and temporarily employed 50;
so that there are about 550 out of the

whole number that passed, who have been
employed. I understand ftom a gentleman who is more inmediately concerned
with the examiners, that many candidates
went up for examination only to obtain
a certificate of having passed-as he has
learnt verbally-and when in April, 1884,
circulars were sent to those who passed
the first examinations, asking particulars
of their nationality, religion, &c., about
25 per cent. of the number could not be
found at the addresses given
I asked for specimens of the replies of
those who had answered. The officer
could give me only one, although he had
received several. This is a reply to the
circular which he sent out:DEAR SiR-Yours of the 29th ult. to hand
concerning myself and the questions to be
answered. I enclose the saine with answers.
You will see from above heading that any
intention of ever going into the civil service
on my part is banished; however, I presume
yon only want information required for sake
of returns.

This is addressed to Mr. McGee, Clerk
of the Privy Council, and I learn from
HOS. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

him that he had received many such
replies, though he could not lay his hand
upon them this morning. He believes
that those who pass examinations and are
not employed do derive great advantages
from the civil service certificate, and they
get employed more readily elsewhere, and
in that respect it is an advantage to them,
although they have not succeeded in the
immediate object of their ambition ? I
was mistaken the other day in a statement
I made to the House, that the names of
the persons who pass these examinations
appear in the Gazette, graded according to
their respective attainment and the number of marks which they get. I find that
they are arranged alphabetically, and not
according to merit. The reason of that is
this : the complete competitive system has
not been introduced. Neither this Government nor the late Administration
thought that the purely competitive system
could be introduced into this country at
this stage in its history, and personally I
venture to doubt whether a man who passes
the competitive examination, and gets the
highest number of marks, is of necessity
the best man for an appointment. The
House will see that it was a grave question
for any Government, in a comparatively
young country, to adopt a competitive examination system, pure and simple. It is
only recently that they adopted it in England, and ours is an approach to that system. We have, at all events, secured some
advantages. First, that no one can be
appointed who has not passed an examination, and second, that no one can pass
who is not of a certain age. These two
changes exclude many things which might
be used to the disadvantage of the service.
They prevent the appointment of a person
who has not proper attainments, or whose
age would render his appointment undesirable by entailing unnecessary expense upon
the country, inasmuch as he would the
sooner come to be superannuated. I
think that these grounds are sufficient,
at present, for the limiting of the system in the sense which I have mentioned and to the degree which I
have described. Now, to go back to
clause No. 8, I should add also the explanation that a secretary is to be appointed. The salary of the secretary is
now paid to one of the members of the
board of examiners. He does not get his

Civil Service Acts [MAY 7, 1885] Amendment Bill.

901

salary as a member of the civil service candidates, which, speaking for myseif,
board in addition to that of secretary, but I knov I could fot answer, and it was
he gets $i,ooo.
The expense of the thought that was an unnecessary severity
Board is increased by the present Bill, but shown to young men coring up for exthe whole expense is covered by the fees. amination, and there was a general feeling
The experience the Department has had that the examination should be made Iess
shows that it is desirable to have a secre- ditficult. That matter could only be distary devoted to that duty. For instance, posed of by the Privy Council. It cormes
the duty of the secretary has been dis- up ofl the recommendation of sorne mincharged by Mr. leSueur, who is a men- ister, and the minister who has really
ber of the board. The fact that he
has
done it ir, the past, is the Secretary of
had to act as secretary has prevented him State ; this is merely expressing in
ganfrom taking tpart in the exartinations as guage what has been the usage up to this
fuhly as it was desirable to do. The ex- time. The board has been attached to
amination papers got very much behind that office, and orders have been given
in consequence of bis fot being able to through the Secretary of State.
The
give his whole timie to his duties as ex- papers, after having been examined by the
aminer, and in consequence of not board, are sent up to his office, and remain
having tbefulclerical assistance. Peopleare on file there for a year, wben they are desanxious to know whether they have passed troyed.
The Secretary of State is the
or not, and it happens now that months man through whom the intercourse beafter the examination the examiners are tween the commissoners and the Governstill behindhand with the papers, because ment is conducted.
The hon. member
it takes a long time to go over them. from Halifax wvas mistaken in supposing
Long papers are sent in and each paper that there was any control over the serrequires a close examination. It takes a vice at large. The Secretary of State has
long tirne for the board of examiners to no such control ; it is only over the board
report-onths in fact - oI think that of examiners.
perhaps the change is an improvement
and as the expenses are met by the fees, I
HON. MR. POWER-With respect to
hope the House wihl concur in believing the second sub-section, while I do not feel
that it is an improvement on the present altogether convinced as to the necessity
system, that it is expediting the work of the for, or desirability of, the enactment, 1 may
commission, and doing so within the say the explanation made by the Minister
amount which those who code up to has removed a great part of the objection
be examined pay for their certificates. I felt to that clause ; but the Minister has
Tey pay for certificates, fot only fot at ail rets oved my objection to the
with the idea that they have a chance change made in the payment of the memof enterint the civil service, but also bers of the board. In the first place, the
with the possîbitity of those certificates Minister's calculations were based on the
being useful to thei if they do not supposition that as many men would conenter the civil service,p-engaging in other tinue to go up in the future as have gone
pursuits and occupations. Then, there 1 upa in the past two or three years. I think

a clause which provides that the board
shal be supervised by tThe Secretary of
State, but that is done substantially now.
0f course the board of exarniners; must be
placed under the control of some one Department which wihl convey communications from the Privy Council to the board
ofexa iners, selesubjectsofexaminations
which are from time to time altered, &c. It
was mentioned hast session of Parhianent,
that there was a general outcry that the
examinations were too severe, particularly
hn sote branches-arithmetic, I
think,
Was one. Questions were submitted to

that is in the highest degree improbable,
because, according to the statistics which
the Minister gave us, there are already
sorne hundreds of young men who have
passed the examinations and for whorn
places have not been found. For one
year alone it appears that nearly one haf
of those who passed the examination were
stihunplaced, and of course the number
of persons who have passed the examinations and have not found situations will
increase with each succeeding year if they
continue to go up in such numbers. It
is reasonable therefore to suppose that thE

902

Citvil Service Act8 [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

number of persons who go up will diminish, and consequently I do not think the
Minister can calculate upon that. I think
he said that $2,500 each year were
received from fees paid by the candidates;
but I think that the Minister has been
misled, if he supposes that even at present
the fees paid by the candidates meet the
expenditures of the board. As the board
stands as constituted by the existing law
two members receive $300 a year ; that
is $6oo, and the secretary receives $i,ooo.
That makes the total expenditure authorized by statutes $i,6oo a year. Now, let
us see what the total expenditure will be
under this Bill.
There are three commissioners at $6oo a year each ; that is
$1,8oo; the secretary $1,ooo; that is
$2,800, and there is a provision for a
third-class clerk.
The salaries of thirdclass clerks range, I think, from $400 to
$i,ooo. I take the salary which stands
half-way, $7oo. Add that to the $2,800,
and you have $3,500.
HON. MR. KAULBAC H--What is the
third-class clerk for?

that way will see that $3,5oo a year for

conducting examinations at two periods of
the year is altogether too much. Those
examiners prepare those papers ; they
have sub-examiners-persons whose services are provided for in the next clausewho police examinations in the diffcrent
centres-that is, the examinations held in
Toronto, Halifax, St. John and other
places. The papers are sent to the subexaminers; and it is a very simple matter,
and the expense to be incurred should not
be great. As to the length of time taken
in examining those papers, anyone who is
familiar with examinations as conduc te
in universities, or who understa nd
the way in which examinations for teachers'
licenses in the different provinces are
conducted, must know that a man who is
skilled in his business can dispose of a
large number of papers in a short time.
I think the permanent expenditure that is
proposed to be fastened on the country by
this Bill is altogether unjustifiable.
If I
thought there was any probability of the
amendment passing, I should move an
amendment to the effect that the exanining board should be constituted and naid
as heretofore, but I do not think that,
under the circumstances, there is any
object in doing that. The Minister nade
a statement with respect to the impracticability of adopting the cornpetitive
system in Canada. I do not think that he
gave us any reason for that statenient.
When we fmd that in the small colonies
in the West Indies they have adopted the
competitive system as they have it in
England, and when we find that in the
United States, where the system of political appointments had a much greater hold
on the people than here, and that in
several states of the union also, this
system has been adopted, it must be clear
that the minister has no foundation for the
statement that the adoption of that system
would be impracticable here.
The truth
is, that the ministry-I do not say the
Hon. Minister of Justice, because I think
in that way he differs from a good many
other members of the Government-do
not wish to give up the power of appointing solely their own political friends, and
consequently while they adopt a portion

HON. MR. POWER-He is to act as a
clerk to assist the board. Instead of costing $1,8oo, the board will cost $3,5oo a
year-that is $1,ooo beyond the amount
which even now is received as fees from
candidates. I think, therefore, that that
in itself constitutes a serious objection to
this change. Then this sum of $3,500, I
think, is too much, looking at the work
done. The Minister stated in reply to
something I said the other day, that there
were only two examinations held in the
year. Hon. gentlemen will see that there
are examinations to be held twice a year.
The examiners have to prepare papers
for the preliminary examination, which is
a very simple one, and the papers for
which require very little trouble in preparation. They will have to prepare papers
for the qualifying examinations, which
are more difficult. The papers for the
promotion examinations are chiefly preI
pared in the different Departments.
know there are hon. gentlemen here-I
think the chairman of the committee (Mr.
Allan) is one-who is familiar with the
conducting of examinations in universities.
I happen to have had a little experience of the skeleton of the civil service system,
that way myself. The chairman, or any the backbone of the system they leave out
hon. gentleman who has had experience -that is, the competitive examinations.
HoN. MR. POWER.

Civil service Aets [MAY 7, 1885] Amendment Bill.
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-I do not believe that the competitive examination is
sufficient of itself for an appointment to
office. A man may stand at the head of

the list, and yet be utterly unqualified for

the service. That is very well known. I
doubt whether the increased cost which
this Bill must entail, will be commensurate
with the work to be dorie. I am with the
hon. member from Halifax in believing
that the work must decrease instead of
increase, and that the number of persons
fnow qualified will be sufficient to deter
many from going up for the purpose of
being examined. As to making the Secretary of State the medium between the
Government and the Examining Board, I
think it is a very proper provision, because
there should be some control over the
Board by the Government. I know myself, from what I have heard from persons
who have gone before the Board, that the
examination in arithmetic has been very
severe ; so much so, that although at one
time I thought I was a good arithmetician,
yet I am sure I could not have answered
half the questions that were proposed to
the candidates.
Therefore, upon the
whole, although I approve of the Bill, yet

I do not think we can expect that the fees
will increase, but rather that they will
-diminish, for the number of those who go
up for examination must be smaller in the
future than in the past. I doubt very
much whether the advantage to be gained
will correspond with the increased expenditure that will be required.
HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE-I ventured at the second reading to make a few
remarks as to the publication of the lists
and the standing of candidates, and the
explanations of the hon. Minister do not
at all tend to elucidate the objections that
I took then. It appears that the lists which
were spoken of in the debate on the second
reading are not published in the order
of merit, but are published alphabetically,
and it appears also from the explanation
of the Minister that appointments are not
made on the competitive principle at all.
The Government do not acquire the services of the best candidates, and they
leave it optional with themselves to take,
or appoint, or leave out whom they may.
Unless the competitive system is to be adopted, we are going to undertake a very

903

considerable and useless expense, because
those expensive examinations can only be
justified on the plea of the necessity of
getting the very best men that can be obtained for the service ;yet the Government
will not take the only means to secure the
best men; they will take whom they
please out of the list, and that is the very
point that it ought to be the duty of this
body to prevent. I cannot see that there
is any analogy between the competitive
examinations in England and competitive
examinations in Canada. If the system is
a good one, it is equally applicable on

both sides of the Atlantic, and I cannot
charge my mind with having listened to
any arguments coming from the other side
that at all bear against the propriety of
adopting competitive examinations in
Canada. Another remark which fell fr m
the hon. member, was as to the great ti e
that would be occupied in examining
those papers. I think if hon. gentlemen
were to enquire as to the results of the examinations in any of the numerous colleges in Canada they would find that there
is no great difficulty in examining papers.
They are all identical in form, and a skilled examiner will master the details of
them in a very few minutes. There must
be some very bad management, either from
want of perseverance in the work, or from
some other cause, if the objection
taken is really valid, that too much time
elapses before the papers are finally examined. I principally rose for the purpose
of suggesting to the hon. gentleman opposite to introduce some clause into the Bill
that will enable the candidates to receive
their papers within a given time after the
examination-that the property in the examination papers should remain in the
candidate, and that the candidate should
have the papers on application.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.-I
have no objection to that.
HON. MR. TRUDEL-I would, if the
Minister of Justice will allow me, suggest
that the examiners should he chosen from
amongst the members of the civil service
who are superannuated. It might be a
means by which to avoid paying so much
for examiners, and it would also meet
another difficulty. If it is the fact that
the examination takes a great deal of the

90A4

Civil Service Acts [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

time of the examiners, it might interfere
to a considerable extent with the efficiency
of the service. I understand that all the
members of the civil service are supposed
to have plenty to do in the performance of
their ordinary duties. There is also a
class of public officers who retire from the
service because they are not able to do
very severe work, but who would be in a
position to make those examinations, and
a slight salary would be beneficial to them,
and they might be in a position to give
more time to those examinations. We
may suppose that those officers who are
superannuated, after the experience of
many years in the public service, would be
better qualified to conduct those examinations than many officers who may be
appointed under the operation of this Act,
and who may be quite new to the civil
service.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
difficulty in that suggestion would be that
you might not always get members of the
civil service that have been superannuated,
who are fit for the position of examiners.
They are men usually advanced in life,
and although in their youth they may
have had sufficient knowledge to conduct
such examinations, they might not be so
well qualified in later years. Undoubtedly
it may be a good thing to employ superannuated officers as examiners, when they
are qualified for the position, and I can
assure my hon. friend that it is done. We
-have, for instance, Mr. LeSueur on the
Board of Examiners at this moment, and
I have no doubt that the Government,
when they come to appoint other examiners, may avail themselves of the services
of superannuated officers ; but I do not
think it would be desirable to tie the Government down to appointments in that
class. I think it should be open to them
to employ whom they think best. With
reference to the suggestion of my hon,
friend from Prince Edward Island, I will
prepare an amendment before the Bill
goes through finally, to provide that the
papers belonging to the candidate shall be
returned to him within a given time, say
two or three months, on his making an
application for them.

that the following be substituted : " Each
member of the Board shall be paid $5 per
diem when actually engaged in that work,
not however to exceed sixty days in one
year." That is the provision in the existing law. I think that probably hereafter
in a great many cases it will be quite
sufficient to have only one examination in
a year, and to pay $6oo for a man to conduct one examination is altogether unreasonable.
HO-. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
not think there is any occasion to substitute anything, for if this clause is stricken
out the matter would naturally fall back to
the old Act. I do not think my hon.
friend is right in proposing that the committee have power to change the salaries.
The salaries must either be taken as they
are or be left out altogether. I do not
think there is any power on the part of
this House to change them, and certainly
the proposed substitution is not necessary,
because if this clause is stricken out we
naturally fall back on the provision in the
clause of the old Bill. In fact, the whole
matter presents itself to the committee in
this light ; are these improvements or not ?
If not, we reject them and fall back on the
old Bill. After the explanations given, I
think the House will be satisfied that the
increase will be reasonably provided for
by the fees, and also that it is not such an
increase as the hon. gentleman supposes.

HON. MR. POWER-There
crease of $9oo.

is an in-

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We
all know that if we want to get good examiners we must pay them ; you cannot
expect men to work on a tedious task of
examining papers, and going through this
round of duties year after year without
you pay them reasonably, and $5 a day for
the time they are employed does not seern
to be unreasonable, and I cannot yield to
the hon. gentleman.

HON. MR ALEXANDER-I am very
much inclined to agree with my hon.
friend from Halifax. It is very well known
with regard to those examinations, that
they are upon subjects of the most elemenHON. MR. POWER-I beg to move tarycharacter. Aclerk in the civil service is
that the 4th sub-section be struck out and required to understand well the elementary
HON. MR. TRUDEL.

Civil Service Acts [MAY 7, 1885.] Amendnent Bil.
branches of education, but is not examined
on subjects of science. It appears to me
that some steps should be taken by the
Governient to meet the objection raised
on the floor of this House, respecting apWe know that twice as
pointments.
many men come up for examination for
the civil service as can ever hope to get
appointment. There is some deception
with regard to this matter, that young men
are led to come before the board to be examined, without having the most distant
hope of getting any appointment. Why
should not the examination take place
after the applicant gets the appointment?
Why should he be required to be examined
before getting the assurance that he will
be appointed ?
We flnd numbers of
young men leaving their homes and incurring railway and hotel expenses, in
order to be examined, and, after perhaps
passing the board, they find that they have
no hope of obtaining an appointment
without the direct influence of a ministerial supporter.
There are cases of this
kind in my own county.
HON. MR. POWER-I think the effect
of striking out the 4 th sub-clause would
not be what the minister thinks it would,
because if he looks at that clause of the
Bill he will see that it repeals all previous
Civil Service Acts. Then, as to our right to
make a change, I do not care to speak
positively, but I think we have no right to
do anything which shall increase the
charge-

Hox. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--Or
dininish, or alter.
HON. MR. POWER-I think we can
reduce-I do not speak positively.

905

hat he will either have to move to strike
out the clause altogether or withdraw his
amendment.
The amendment was withdrawn, and
the clause was agreed to.
On the

4 th

clause,

HON. MR. DICKEX---I understood
on a former occasion that the Minister of
justice stated that he was under the impression that the list of the persons who
are found qualified, and published in the
Canada Gazette, showed the grading of
those who had passed?

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
did say so, and I explained the inistake
just now.
HON. MR. DICKEY-It has been
urgedthatthe selection from these persons who are qualified should be according to order of ment. That has fot been
conceded by the Government, and the
point has not been pressed; but it is very
important that the two Houses of Parliament should know exactly the proper
grading of those candidates, their names
and so on, and therefore I would propose
in order to provide that, that the clause,
at the end of it, should read this way,
Ishowing the grading of the candidates
in such examination, and a similar list
shah be laid annually on the table of both
Houses of Paliament within 15 days after
the openîng of each session."
That
would give members an opportunity of
seeing how the promotions or appointments agree with the grading and the examination, and we would give them that
sort of information that they now have
flot.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
think, under the circumstances, it is safer
for me to take the objection that this
amendmîent is not in order. I do not
think we have a right to make this change,
and I hope my hon. friend will withdraw
his amendment.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
hardly think that that would be desirable,
for one or two reasons. In the first lace,
we are not adopting the competitive
system, and then to publish the names of
the candidates and their grading would
only increase the disappointment to thern of
HON. MR. POWER-If it is held to be fot being employed, and in that way
out of order, of course I have to withdraw it. would seem to make their failure more
THE CHAIRMANI think the hon. be. The gradieng couldwould otherwise
than perhaps it
always be ogentleman from Haoifax is out of ordern; tained by Parsiament-for instance, if
a

*906

Civil Service Acts 8 SE NATE] Amendment Bill.

they wished to bring an accusation against
the Government for some departure from
the rule, they could move for a return of
the papers. We have the grading in the
Privy Council, and it could be brought
down, but I do not think it should be
published in the Canada Gazette, or laid
on the table of Parliament, unless Parliament desires it, for the reasons I have
given. As long as we do not adopt the
competitive system, pure and simple, that
should be sufficient. Say there were 30
candidates, one of them would be at the
top of the list, and no doubt it would be
gratifying to him, but the 29 men who
would not be at the top of the list might
not desi1re that their grading should be

published.
HON. MR. DICKEY-I am afraid that
the reasons given by the Minister of Justice for not publishing the grading, would
rather lead people to suspect that it is absolutely necessary it should be published,
for although the principle of appointing
the first on the list has not been urged,
yet I think it is desirable, if there is any
Teason at all for grading them, that Parliament should know, and that members who
desire to see how candidates are graded,
should be in possession of the information.
It is a very simple matter that the list
should be laid dn the table of Parliament
.each year. We find, in another part of
this Bill, although perhaps the matter is a
little more serious, the legislation proceeds
in exactly the same direction. The iith
clause provides, that when a deputy head
is removed from his office, a statement of
the reasons for so doing shall be laid on
-the table of both Houses of Parliament
within the first 15 days of the next following session. That shows that the desire
on the part of the friends of this Act is to
give information to Parliament of what is
done'in that case, and with respect to can-didates who have passed the examination,
I think it is quite necessary that Parliament should also have full information as
to their grading.
HON. MR. POWER-I am quite surprised at the regard the Minister of Justice
shows for the feelings of the candidates
who go up for examination. I think it is
an almost universal rule, where candidates
go up for public examinations, that their
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

names are published in the order of merit.
I think the rule works altogether differently
from what the Minister says it does, and
that it would be a great source of satisfaction to the candidate who passed a good
examination to know from the publication
in the Gazette that he stood first, second
or third on the list, even though he did
not get appointed, rather than to be left
completely in the dark as to where he
stood on the list. Looking at the advantage which the minister or some of his
friends claim as arising from candidates
passing those examinations, that parties
were made more eligible for appointments
in banks and other offices of private persons or companies, I think it is exceedingly desirable even in that view that the
names should be published in the order of
merit, because if a bank, for instance,
wanted a clerk, and wished to select a
man who pas'ed this examination, they
would naturally be disposed to take a candidate who had passed high up on the list,
and it is information that the public who,
after all, are paying to a great extent for
the carrying out of this system, are entitled
to, and I move that these words be added
at the end of the clause: " and the names
shall be arranged in the order of merit."
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It might so
happen that the candidate who stood at
the head of the list might have been, in the
previous examination, at the foot of the
list, so that it would really not show the
position in which he stood on the whole
roll of candidates qualified for clerkship.

HON. MR. DICKEY-The words whiéh
I proposed to put in as an amendment are:
" showing the grading of the candidates
on such examination," but the hon. gentleman from Halifax seems to have been
more successful with the Minister with his
amendment than I a-n.
HON. MR. POWER-I did not know
that the hon. gentleman from Amherst had
moved his amendment.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I think it is objectionable to adopt the amendment of the
hon. member from Halifax, for many
reasons. In the first place, it is invidious
to those who go up for examination and
It is not a competitive
do not succeed.

Civil Service Acts (MAY 7, 1885] Amendment Bill.
exanj,, iun ; its i erely to ascertain who
are qualified for certain positions, and I
think the Government of the day might be
trusted to make their own selections.
There may be reasons, and very sound
reasons, why the candidate at the head of
the list ought not to be appointed. There
Ought to be no claim even implied by the
Publication of such a list that the candidate would receive an appointment, and I
think it would be exceedingly undesirable
that such an amendment should Le
accepted.
The anendment was declared to be
lost on a division, and the clause was
agreed to.
On the

3 7 th

clause,

HON. MR. POWER-Whenever this
rneasure has been before us, I have protested against those exceptions-at least
Some of them - provided in sub-section 2.
I think there is some reason perhaps for
·exempting some of the Customs officers
frorn the operation of the Act with respect
to examination, but as to city postmasters,
there is no reason why they should not
corne under the law. There is no officer
who requires to be more thoroughly informed as to the manner of prosecuting
business in the Department, than a city
POstmaster, and it is a very serious defect
in the systen that that officer is not re
quired to be appointed under the Act. It
Is lot necessary to go very far to flnd
instances of the abuse of this power by
the Government. In the city of Ottawa,
the postnaster, an old and experienced
and thoroughly well-qualitled officer, died
sorme three years ago. His assistant was
-a man very well qualified to fil the position as postmaster. The Government,
infstead of promoting the assistant, or apPointing any one who was farniliar with
the post office business, appointed a gentleman who had been a supporter of theirs
in the House of Commons. I do not
think any one will say that that gentleman,
although he was a very amiable and good
Man, was at all qualified for the office
which he filled. The work was undoubtedly done by the deputy, and the large
salary was paid to the gentleman who was
Put at the head of the office, and who
gave no value for the money he received.

907

That postmaster died, and within the
last few months we have had another
appointment
made.
I think the
last appointment more objectionable
than
the previous one.
The late
postmaster was a gentleman who had
served his party in the legislature for
many years, and had a political claim
upori the Government, but the gentleman
who has been recently appoirted is a man
who is not a bit better qualified to fil the
office than his predecessor, and who has
not even the claim that he had done much
political service. His occupation as an
hotel-keeper could not have qualifled him
to be a postmaster, and what claim it
gave him upon the Government for the
appointment is something I cannot understand. The Minister of Justice was very
careful in a former clause of this Bill as
to what the feelings of candidates might
be on seeing their names published in the
Gazette, when they did not stand as high
up on the list as they might have expected
to be ; but I think he should have some
regard for the feelings of an officer who
has been in the employ of the Department
for many years, who has served the country faithfully, and who is entitled on every
reasonable ground to be promoted. I say
that the minister should have some consideration for his feelings when he sees an
incompetent man without any claim whatever to the position appointed over his
head. I think it would be hard t,) find a
more glaring case of the abuse of the
power which this clause gives to the
Government than the one tg which I refer.
I did speak before as to collectors of inland revenue; but the officers of the Department, fortunately, have been able to
remove the objection with respect to that
Department, and those collectors, who are
most important officers, are hereafter to
be subject to the provisions of this Act.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
not think my hon. friend should assume
that the gentleman has been appointed as
postmaster for Ottawa is incompetent, or
that he will not, and cannot, adequately
That
discharge the duties of his office.
the deputy was not promoted, I myself
regret. I acknowledge the merit of that
officer. I know him well, and having
been once at the head of the Post Office
Department, I know his merits, and should

908

Civil &rvice Acts [SE NATE] Amendnent Bill.

have been very glad to have seen him
The
made postmaster of this place.
truth is, and it is qulte understood, that it
is necessary to have some of those offices
at the disposal of the Government for the
time being-that they should have some
few offices to give to political friends, not
because they are better qualified than
their neighbors to be postmasters or inland revenue collectors, but because it is
necessary to carry on the Government.
HON. MR. POWER-That is honest,
at any rate.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
is a reason which may not recommend
itself to the mind of my hon. friend, but
it is a good, sound reason nevertheless,
and, if the latitude is not too great, I think
it is only fair that the Government should
have that patronage, whether we are in
the Government, or whether my hon.
friends opposite are in the Government.
They are not tied down in England as we
are here ; they have a variety of patronage
at their disposal ail over the world, wvith
which they can reward their political
friends.
HON. MR POWER-High
sionerships, for instance.

Commis-

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Here
we have few appointments of the kind,
and I am glad that this was originally
done by the Conservative Government;
they came boldly to the point, and said
that some few-half a dozen officesshould be left at the disposal of the Government, with which they could reward
gentlemen who have been serviceable to
the party to which they belong. My hon.
friend who has raised the objection does
not know the services which the gentleman
who has been appointed postmaster at
Ottawa, may have rendered to the political
party to which I belong, he not being in
I dare say that some future
our secrets.
Government, in whose secrets he may be,
may know what the merits of some future
Mr. Gouin may be, and I dare say he may
be then defending such an appointment
to a postmastership.
HON. MR. HAYTI{ORNE-It seets
te me that the Minister of justice has
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL.

made some large admissions in these few
remarks.
I could not help reverting in
memory, while he was speaking, to the
period of the two Georges, oo years ago,
when it was thought essential to the conduct of the Government service that the
ministry of the day should have control of
certain Government berths, but I cannot
see that the point would corne in here at
aIl. It does seem to me that if you contemplate improvements in the pest office
management, you must introduce into,
that Departrent the very highest ability
that it is possible te obtain, and that sort
of tact and ingenuity that is so desirable
is fot common m--I was going te sayworn out politicians, but perhaps it is
going too far; but it is less likely that the
proper qualifications are te be found in a
man of that sort than in a young nan who
has his spurs to win in the Department. It
is not the time te speak of the position of
our Post Office Department; we are certainly making great imprevements in
Canada, but there are a great many more
te be made. Compiring it with the Post
Offic Departmcnt of the United States,
we find that they are taking the lead of us
in many important points-for instance, in
the reduction of postage, and other facilites given for the convenience of the public. These are matters that the stereotyped politician does not trouble himself
about, but if young blood is introduced
into the Department, it will fe at once
that it does fot consist with the reputation
of the public service that the Post Office
Department of Canada should be behind
the postal service cf any other part of the
world. The Hon. Minister of justice says
that in Canada there is ne such patronage
at the disposai of the Governrent as there
is in England, and he points te her possessions aIl over the world where she can
dispose of her young people who aspire te
positions in the public service ; but if you
take the proportion in population, it is
very true we have net got the Indies or
the Australian or African colonies as England has, and a great many dependencies,
but we have our great North-West, a
country where the organization of the
postal service is of the utmost importance,
and ail these things just peint te the one
fact, that we must get into that Departnaent the very best and mbst intelligent
young men te be found in the service,

Civil Service Acts [MAY, 7 1885] A mendment Bill.
and not fill up the different offices with
politicians, who may have been very good
men, and very serviceable to their party
in the House of Commons, but are
utterly unfit for such a position as postmaster.
HoN. MR. ALEXANDER-The leader
of the House says that it is very proper
that the Government must have the disposal of half a dozen offices in the service;
it is very well known to every one in the
country that every office in the Civil Service is held as value to be given as rewards for political services. It is perfectly
well known to be the case.

HON. MR. POWER-1 am glad to have
got the admission from the Minister of
Justice that in this case there had been an
abuse of the power of appointment.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL -No
I did not admit anything of the kind.
HON. MR. POWER-I understood the
hon. Minister to say that if he had been
at the head of the Department he would
have made a different appointment.

909

appointed to the ordinary branches of the
civil service without an examination, still
the examination is easy in itself, and when
appointments are all made from the one
political party, I think there is the less excuse, therefore, for appointing men who
are not qualified to those offices.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
does not always follow that the best man
for the appointment is always to be found
in the Department. It does not at all follow that you may not get new and useful
blood outside. Of course, it depends a
good deal on the selection, and I admit
that the probabilities in the post office
Department are that you will get the best
men inside of the Department; but it
does not always follow. I know instances
where men have been appointed from outside who are as keen in their duties, and as
anibitious to make the Department a success and to adopt every new means, and
are as jealous in every way, of the progress
and efficiency of the service as anybody
who might have been appointed to the
saine position after years of experience in
the Department.

HON. MR. ALMON- The senior memHON.

SIR A LEX. CAMPBELL--My ber for Halifax will remember a case in

hon. friend is mistaken ; I did not admit point, in Halifax itself. During the time
of the Mackenzie Govern ment, there was
anything of the kind.
a vacancy in the post office at H-alifax, and
HON. MR. POWER--I was going to who did the Mackenzie Government apSay further that the Government cannot point as postmaster there? Did they take,
complain of not having a sufficient num- as the hon. member tells us this Governber of appointments to bestow on a rea- ment ought to do-did they take the
sonable number of followers, because if senior officer in that post office and prothis Government have not as many gifts mote him to the position of postmaster?
absolutely at their disposal as the Imperial If I remember right, they took the editor
Government have, I think that propor- of one of the most rabid papers in Halifax,
tionately they have a great many more. a man without any experience in the postTake, for instance, the number of coh- al service, and made hin uosthiaster,
missions that have been issued since this
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-And
Government came into power. It is perfectly astounding, almost everything that a very excellent postmaster he has made.
it is desirable to acquire information on,
work which ought to be done by the GovHON. MR. ALMON-He knew no
eriment themselves, is made an excuse more of the post office business than to
for appointing a commission, and these go there and get the letters.
Commissioners are handsomely paid, and
the Government have succeeded in rewardHON. MR. POWER-That appointing many of their followers very hand- ment was made years before the Civil
SOmely for labors of very small value. As Service Act was passsed, and consequently
the member from Woodstock has sug- it was not a violation of the Act ; and in
gested, although a man may not get the next place, if my memory serves me,

910

Civil Service Acts [SENATE] Amendment Bdll.

the senior officer there was not altogether the head of the Department ; he must be
it liberty to reject the party promoted,
qualified for the position.
;hould the appointment not be a proper
HON. MR. KAULBACH-He was )ne.
perfectly qualified.
HON. MR. POWER-He should give
HoN. MR. POWER -In the next place, some reasons for it.
and my hon. colleague cannot deny it,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-He
the hon. gentleman who was appointed
was one of the ablest, most clear-headed, is obliged to justify himself to his own
and best business men in Halifax, and he government, but why should he give
reasons to the party rejected ? He may
has made an admirable officer.
prove to be dissipated, or lazy, or incomALMON-How was that petent ; or half a dozen reasons may occur
HON MR.
that it may not be wise to inform him of
known at the time he was appointed ?
why the promotion should not take place.
HON. MR. POWER-I had the good In any business office the employer does
fortune to serve on the school board with not always give an employé reasons for disthat gentleman, and in the city council pensmg with his services if he does not
with him, and in both capacities he was require them any longer. If it is done
remarkable for his business tact, clear- here with the head of a Department, who
headedness and soundness of judgment. has a much larger responsibility, you
might have the young man questioning the
reasons assigned and getting the head of
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
desire to say that he has made a very the Department into the newspapers-I
think you must trust the Government with
good postmasLer, an excellent officer.
that.
HoN. MR. ALMON-I do not say
anything against that ; it is simply the
modeof theappointment Iwas pointing out.
The clause was agreed to.
On the 43rd clause,

The clause was agreed to.
On the 47th clause,
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-There
is an amendment in this clause to which I
would direct the attention of the conmittee, because we think that it is an
improvement in this Bill:"Such person (that is a temporary
employé) shall not be continued in such
temporary employment after the period in
which a preliminary or qualifying examination is held, unless he presents himself
for examination and obtains a certificate
of having passed the necessary examination."
Now, whatever abuse there may have
been in the past, and my hon friend from,
Ottawa scemed to think there had been,
in the way of continuing persons employed
temporarily, this will have a tendency to.
put a stop to it.

HON. MR. POWER-The 43rd clause
provides that promotions made by the
head of the Department shall be subject
to a probation of not less than six months ;
but at any time during the first year the
head of the Department may reject the
person pronoted, and so on. It might be
desirable that the head of the Department
should not be allowed to do that without
assigning some cause for the rejection,
because it gives him a very arbitrary
power. I have no doubt that my hon.
friend from Lunenburg thinks it is a very
proper thing now ; but supposing that
most improbable event, a change of Government, should take place, then it would
put it in the hands of an iniquitous MinHON. MR. POWER-This clause gives
ister to reject a man who probably did not
the Government power, even after a great
deserve to be rejected.
many persons have passed an examination,,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
to select some other person, and it opens
think not. I think that you must trust to the door to the abuse that the hon. gentleHON. MR. POWER.

Civil &rvice Acts M AY 7, 1885] Amendment Bill.
man from Ottawa has referred to. Persons
come out from the old country, and are

put into the Departmants for temporary
ernployment, or the understanding that
if they pass the next examination they will
be appointed permanently, while young
men who belong to the country, and who
have passed the examination are not
enployed.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
change is an improvement ; the employMent can only be for aishôrt time before
an examination can be held. You cannot
get all these things perfect at once.

The sub-section was agreed to.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL- -Subsection 3 provides that the temporary
clerks so employed shall be paid only out
of money voted by Parliament for payment of the contingencies of the Department in which such clerks are employed,
or out of money voted by Parliament, for
the constructing of works upon which
they are employed, so that the vote must
be not only for the Department, not only
for the division, but for the office or service in which the clerk is emDloyed.

911

On the 51st clause,
HON. MR. POWER-I see that it is
provided in the 2nd sub-section of this
clause that when the duties of any superior
officer, during his absence for a period of
more than three months, are performed
by an officer ot an inferior class, that the
latter is to receive in addition to his ordinary pay, the difference between it and
the pay of the officer whose duty he performs, I do not see why he should get the
salary of his superior officer. As a rule,
the duties of the superior officer are not
any more onerous and probably not as
onerous as those of the inferior officer,
and the dignity of the position is greater,
and one would suppose that that would be
compensation enough for the officer who
has discharged the duties of the superior,
without increasing his salary.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
not see why the officer who does the duty
of his superior officer should not be paid
the salary that would be paid to the
senior if he were there. I will show the
committee how this operates. Take the
case of the deputy postmaster in this
city, a very excellent officer, who, after the
death of the late postmaster, for a year I
dare say, discharged the duties, and had
all the responsibilities of postmaster, and
did the duty admirably. It was a favor to
him, and one which the Government was
willing to grant to him, and why should
he not be paid the salary of the postmaster while he had his duties and responsibilities ?

HON MR. I-OWER-The Minister will
see that there is a very large door left
open for expenditure by the last provision
" or out of money
lfl that sub-clause,
voted by Parliament for the construction
of works upon which they are employed."
It is alleged that a great many clerks,
vhose services are not necessary, will have
their salaries paid out of rnoney voted by
HoN. MR. POWER-Yes, that is a
Parliament for important public works.
clear case.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL
There is no avoiding that ; you are conStructing vorks ; you want a certain number of persons to be employed on that
work to keep accounts to look after it,
etc., and what are you to pay them out of ?
For instance, we are putting up a building
here opposite this one, for a patent office,
and there are no doubt clerks employed
there, and what are they to be paid out of
unless it is out of the appropriation for
that building ?

The clause was agreed to.

The clause was agreed to.
On clause 52,
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-This
clause is to meet the case of an officer who
has left the service of the Government,
believing that he is in bad health, but it
turns out afterwards that whatever had
been wrong with him his health has been
improved, and he is again fit for his duty,
and this clause permits the reappointment
of an officer in such a case. I think that
it will be found a very useful provision.

'912

Civil &rvice Acts [SEN ATE] Amendment Bill.

We had, not long ago, an officer who sup
HON. MR. DICKEY-I do not see
posed, for the time at all events, that he the slighest objection to showing the
was unable to discharge his duties, and he grading as well, because it can possibly

tendered his resignation. When he re- do no harm, but it may do a great deal of
covered, he applied to be re-appointed, good to persons who stand high on the
and it seemed at the time a very desirable list. The public and Parliament should
thing that he should be re-employed, and know who were the highest on the list,
his request was granted.

HoN. MR. POWER-There are cases
of officers who have been asked by the
Government to send in their resignation
for misconduct, and who have done so,
and under this clause an official of that
kind could be, after the storm had blown
over, re-appointed by the Government, so
that there are two ways of looking at it.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That,
of course, might be a very wrong thing to
do, or perhaps it might be a right thing to
do; one cannot say without knowing the
circumstances. If a man had been asked
to send in his resignation, he certainly
ought not to be re-employed if he had
done anything which required that step.
But, perhaps his resignation might have
been asked for under misapprehension,
and after the misunderstanding had been
explained, it might be only proper that the
officer should be re-habilitated. It all depends on the spirit in which it is carried
out, and there are certainly cases in which
it is desirable that men should be reenployed. I have two or three cases of
the kind in my mmd at present.
The clause was agreed to.
On the 58th section,
HON. MR. DICKEY said : On that
clause I feel bound to say that my criticism is made to appear very absurd,
because this clause provides that the proceedings of the examiners under the Act,
and the names on the list shall be laid
before Parliament. It does not show the
order of merit, but it shows all the information which is supposed to be very
objectionable, and all of which is to be
laid before Parliament.

and who were the lowest.
If there is no
objection, it would be a great advantage
to gentlemen who wish to criticize any appointment, or- to raise any question as to
preference shown to some applicants over
others.
We can do a very good thing
for them to have that information furnished to members of Parliament.
It
was only in that view that I suggested it
should be so. I am very glad to find in
the latter part of the Bill, the very principle which I proposed, and which was not
accepted in its proper place.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER--I would
avail myself of the opportunity afforded
me by the wording of this clause, which
requires a list of those employed, of offering a suggestion to Parliament and to the
Government with regard to the appointment of an officer to a position which is
now vacant. I refer to the position of
Chief Librarian. Now, the members of
both Houses have felt, ever since the
death of the late lamented Mr. Todd,
most deeply his loss.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I rise to a
question of order. The hon. gentleman's
remarks have no refence to the clause before the committee.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER --My
marks are relevant to this Bill.

re-

HON. MR. SMITH- -'Fhere is a bill
coming up about it.
HoN. MR. ALEXANDER -I
about to offer this suggestion -

was

HON. MR. KAULBACH--I have raised a question of order; I ask the Chairman to decide whether the hon. gentleman is in order.

HoN. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
does not show the grading, but it shows
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I would
the names and the examination papers if sirnply suggest the propriety of appointing
necessary.
Mr. Bourinot, the present Clerk of the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Civil Service Acts [MAY 7, 1885] Anendment Bil.

913

House of Commons, to the position and fixed the minimum at $360 to get an inpaying him a salary of $5,ooo.-

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I have rais-ed the question of order and I ask for the
Chairman's ruling.
THE CHAIRMAN-I think the apPointment of the Librarian hardly cones
within the compass of this Bill.

On the schedules,

crease beginning with the date of their
appointment ; so that the men who were
appointed in 1882 should not be in a
worse position than those appointed in
1883. I think that possibly some arrangement might be made by the Government
which could effect that, and I think my
hon. colleague agrees with me.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
not remember the hon. gentleman speaking to me on the subject, but I recognize
the possible hardship of the case. I think
the only remedy would be, not to alter
this Bill at all, but to give a special vote
to these letter-carriers who have suffered.
I will mention the matter to the Postmaster General and see if anything can be
done.

HON. MR. POWER said: I wish to
call the attention of the ininister to one
item in the schedule. It is a matter as
to which I have spoken to the minister in
private before-at least I think I haveand I think my colleague has spoken to
him also, and I regret that I had not
thought of it earlier so that something
HON. MR. POWER-I make the sugmight be done about it. On the second
last page, in schedule B, there is this pro- gestion, not at all on behalf of political
vision-" letter-carriers, messengers, box friends of mine, but on behalf of friends
.collectors and porters, $360 to $6oo, by of my colleague.

annuai increase of $30."

The matter to

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
which I wish to call the attention of the
minister is this-I hope he will remember only thing new in the schedule is the
when I refer to it. The salary of these inspector of letter-carriers. I mentioned
letter-carriers was originally $3oo, at the at the second reading of the Bill, why the
time that the Civil Service Act was appointment was desirable, and I think
passed. In 1882 or possibly 1883, their the House concurred in it. The only
minimum salary was increased to $360. thing remaining over is the question put
Previous to that, certain letter-carriers by the hon. member from Halifax with
had been appointed by the hon. gentle- reference to clause 1o, from which certain
man himself when he was Postmaster words were struck out-" or until he has
General or by some of his colleagues, at obtained the certificate required by law."
the rate of $3oo a year. They complain, I think if the hon. gentleman does not
and I think with reason, that the men object, I will move that the committee
who were appointed after them, receive rise and the Bill be reported, and on the
larger salaries than they are getting, be- third reading I will give that explanacause the men who were appointed after- tion.
wards began at the rate of $36o while the
others had begun at the rate of $300. It
HON. MR. DICKEY-I hope the minis a thing I suppose that is not very easy ister will allow me to suggest that as the
to avoid, but it is a very hard case indeed. Bill has to come up again, he will take
A salary of $3oo a year is altogether insuffi- into consideration the propriety, as it is
cient to enable a man to support his now quite clear that this information
family. A letter-carrier must be a man of which I thought desirable should be laid
a certain amount of intelligence and res- before Parliament is to be submitted by
pectability. He is a man to whom you this Bill, that a few words shall be put in
feel you can intrust these important docu- to show the order in which these men
ments. The question which i wished to stood on the list. That could be done in
ask the minister was whether some means the 41st line of clause 58, by inserting
could not be taken to enable those men after the word " candidates" the following:
who were appointed two or three years " in the order of merit, which report shall
previous to the passing of the Act which include a copy of the examination papers
H 2

914A

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

and statements of all the examinations sitting, intimated my intention of asking
held, &c."
I think it
a postponement of this order.
would be convenient that my hon. friend
HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
behind me (Mr. Bellerose) should bring
understand my hon. friend's point, and I forward his motion for adjournment,
will make an inquiry about it.
because my proposition to postpone the
consideration of these amendments
HON. MR. ALLAN, from the commit- depends a great deal on whether his
tee, reported the Bill, with amendiments, motion succeeds or not. (No, no.) That
which were concurred in.
being the case, I move that the order of
the day be discharged, and that the
CONSTITUTION OF THE TREAS- amendments be taken into consideration
to-morrow. (Now, now.)
URY BOARID BILL.
SECOND

READING.

HON. MR. POWER-I think it is
unusual to refuse a trifling courtesy like

Bill (104), " An Act to amend the sec- this which is asked for by the hon. member
tions of Acts therein mentioned, relating from Sarnia.
tothe Constitution of the Treasury Board,"
HON. MR. DICKEY-I object to this
was introduced from the House of Commotion, although objection has been
mons, and read the first time.

alluded to as somewhat discourteous.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
think the House will allow me to have the
Bill read at length at the table. It is to
add a member to the Treasury Board.
The Treasury Board consists of the Ministersof Finance, Customs, Inland Revenue
and Justice. It is proposed to add the
Secretary of State and one other of the
Ministers composing the members of the
Privy Council. The Secretary of State is
added, because he has charge of the
Board of Examiners, and the Privy
Council is empowered to choose another
because it often happens that there is no
French Canadian on the Board, and that
gives rise occasionally to jealousy.
The Bill was read the second time at
length at the table.
TEMPERANCE ACT AND LIQUOR
LICENSE ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
AMENDMENTS

CONCURRED IN.

The Order of the Day having been
called,
Committee of the Whole House on (Bill
92) The Canada Temperance Act 1878, and
The Liquor License Act 1883,further Amendment B11.
HON. MR. VIDAL said :-I
have
already, at an earlier period of to-day's
HON. MR.

DICKEY.

I

do not understand the relevancy of that

remark with reference to a public bill,
especially under the circumstances in
which we are placed, having on the order
of the day a notice of motion for to-morrow, which would have the effect of
adjourning the House for ten or twelve
days.
Under the circumstances, it is
very desirable-I speak of it now as a
matter of public business-that this Bill
should be disposed of one way or the
other before the adjournment takes place.
That is the starting point; otherwise, if
it be left in an unfinished state, it will
come on in the Greek Kalends, perhaps
-at all events a fortnight hence, probably in the absence of gentlemen who
would like to be here, and necessarily in
a comparatively thin house. That is not
desirable; and in regard to an important
matter like this-I hope I am not speaking
in an offensive way-it is trifling with the
House to ask us, after the long delays
which have occurred and after the full
discussion which took place yesterdayand which might very properly have been
terminated last night by a motion to concur in the amendments-to ask us to let
this order stand for another day. The
amendments have been fully discussed
already, and there is no reason why the
House should not concur in them now.
As to the 3rd reading of the Bill, that is a
matter which perhaps might well stand
over until to-morrow; but, speaking of to-

Temperance Act, &.,

[MAY 7, 1885] Amendnent Bill.

morrow, we know what day of the week it
is, and we know that on Friday many
gentlemen-not myself or any of the
members from the Maritime Provincestake the opportunity of going home,
leaving in the afternoon at an early hour,
and it is not possible that these amendments could be taken into consideration
and disposed of properly to-morrow.
Under the circumstances I do say that if
there ever was a case where a bill should
be disposed of it is this. There is another
reason. This is a measure which is in the
hands of the House; it is a public bill
which has been standing for weeks and
weeks ; it has been fully discussed and is
thoroughly understood. On a former
occasion, when an appeal was made to
postpone it because of the absence of an
hon. gentleman who was unable, through
illness, to be here, I at once rose and,
notwithstanding the murmurs of some of
ny friends, agreed to the postponement.
My hon. friend stated to-day that he
wished to have it postponed because of
the absence of my hon. friend who sits
below me, (Mr. Scott.)

915

part. These are the two grounds on
which my hon. friend asked to have the
matter postponed. I beg to move in
amendment to his motion, that the House
do concur in the amendments to the said
Bill.

HON. MR. VIDAL-I think hon. gentlemen cannot have failed to observe the
exceeding want of courtesy which has been
manifested towards me on this occasion.
I have not even had an opportunity allowed me to state the reasons why I wished
this Bill postponed. The hon. member
from Amherst without waiting to hear my
explanation, rises and makes his statement,
not even allowing me the common privilege of stating the ground on which I asked
the House to assent to the proposal which
I now make. I may be wrong in my judgment, but I think it is a want of courtesy
in this House which has never before been
displayed to any member who has had
charge of an important bill, to which many
amendments have been made-some of
them important, and which are not now
before us in such a way that we can deal
intelligently with them-to refuse a postHON. MR. VIDAL-That was one of ponement. We have not this bill with
the reasons.
the amendments printed in it, and that is
my principal reason for asking for this
HON. MR. DICKEY-That was the delay. For instance, I wish in connection
with this matter to resist the motion for
chief one.
concurrence with one particular amendHON. MEMBERS-It was the first ment, which was made in committee, and
one.
having no number attached I cannot designate it.

There is no possibility for me

HON. MR. DICKEY-The appeal was to refer to it in giving the notice that I
made, and if the hon. member had not wish to give of moving that it be referred
come into his place shortly afterwards back to the committee to strike out the
there would have been some grounds for clause.
Now, I think hon. gentlemen
the appeal, but now that reason has van- must concede that there is ample ground

ished. The other ground was that the
hon. gentleman wanted to consult certain
rnembers of another body. Really that is
a ground which I will not exactly say is
childish, but it is trifling with us to give
such a reason, because my hon. friend
knows very well that he has had an oppor.tunity to confer with members in another
place during the last 24 hours, and he
knows very well that the only constitutional way of having intercourse on such
subjects, after a Bill has arrived at this
stage, is quite open to him, when the
Bill cornes back with the amendments
accepted or rejected either in whole or

for the position which I take-that the
important amendments which have been
made should be printed in this Bill
before we are asked to concur in them.
It is true they are in our minutes, but
if you read these minutes, they leave
an impression on the mind that important
changes have been made, but what the
effect of them is we do not clearly know.
I am asking, simply, the concession that
we may have the Bill before us in such a
shape that we may understand it. What
are the amendments that I may feel it my
duty to resist, I do not yet know. I do
not propose to enter into any of those

'916

Temperance Act, &c.,LSENATE]

miatters which have been fully discussed;
I merely propose to place a motion before
the House, on which a vote may be recorded in our Journal: I want the country
to know who they are that give respectful
attention to the petitions which have been
presented here, and who refuse to listen
to them.

Am,îendnent Bill.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I must say
I do not think it is necessary- -

HON. MR. VIDAL-I have not yet
concluded my remarks. The hon. gentleman is in a great hurry to oppose my
request; he is fanatical in his oppositon
to the Bill. I cast myself on the House,
and I do not think the Senate will be so
HON. MR. SMITH-They know well lacking in the courtesy which they usually
extend to members in charge of important
who it is.
measures as to refuse my request.
HoN. MR. VIDAL-No; they have no
opportunity of knowing. The votes in
HON. MR. KAULBACH---The hon.
committee are not recorded. I want the member from Sarnia accuses me of fanaticountry to know who, among us, in the cism. I think if anyone displays fanatidischarge of their public duties, turn a cism it is the hon. gentleman himself ; he
deaf ear to the prayers of the people. has not convinced me, and I do not think
Another reason why I ask for a postpone- he has convinced the House, that there is
ment is, with a view to facilitate the action any reason why the concurrence in these
of the House with reference to this matter. amendments should be postponed. I am
There are certain amendments made, and quite willing that every one should have
however improper it may seem to some an opportunity to show how he votes on
hon. members, that I should have con- this matter. We have a full house toference with members of the other House, day ; the division in committee yesterday
I think it would be a wise and proper course was 42 to 20; but my hon. friend would
to pursue. This Bill comes from the other prefer to postpone the Bill until to-morrow
House, where its friends and promoters because he knows that a good many
are. If those promoters say that they members will then be away, or he would
accept these amendments, I will at once like to postpone it to a later date when
consent to their being concurred in, and there would be a thin House and he
a great deal of time may be saved. My would have a chance to get his Bill
expectation is that they will concur in all through.
of them but one, and, if so, that will
HON. MR. VIDAL-I deny it.
greatly expedite our dealing with the Bill.
I think it a very proper request to make
that I should have an opportunity to conHON. MR. KAULBACH-Any memsuit with them, especially when we know ber can see the drift of the hon. gentlethat the Bill has to go back to that House, man's manoeuvre.
and that by consulting with its friends there
now, we may facilitate its passage by
HON. MR. POWER-Order, order.
coming to an understanding on the subject. I present my request to the House
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It
is a
to be allowed to postpone the consider- proper word to characterize it-I say it is
ation of these amendmentsuntil to-morrow. a manouvre to prevent a full vote being
In saying so this afternoon, I prefaced my taken upon the Bill. I am not content to
remarks by stating that I wished my hon. have the House placed in that position.
friend (Mr. Bellerose) to make his motion He gave us two reasons why there should
for an adjournment that I might know what be a postponement; the first was that the
the decision of the House was with refer- leader of the Opposition was not present.
ence to it. I honestly confess that should That was settled by the appearance of the
the House adopt that motion, my idea hon. gentleman from Ottawa in his place.
would be to let the matter stand over Then he wanted to confer with members
until we meet again. (No, no!) Well, of the other House. Does not every one
I have no objection to either way, but know that he is in continuous communithat would appear to me to be the very cation with members of the other House ?
I say it is not a proper reason to advance
best way to deal with it.
HON. MR.

VIDAL.

-TemiperanceA ct, &c.,

[MAY 7, 18851 A endment BiW.

to obtain a postponement of this Bill.
Every important amendment to the Bill
but one emanated from the hon. gentleman himself and those who act with him.
There is nothing therefore which requires
any great deliberation, and those of us
who wish to put our views on record want
to have the vote taken when there is a
full House. We had last night probably
as large a house as we have ever had here,
and my hon. friend could not choose a
better occasion to obtain an expression of
opinion from the Senate on this important
question. I am anxious to show the
opinion of this House upon this iniquitous
measure, and their opinion of the degradation which the temperance people are
bringing upon the country by such
legismation.

917

quently I shall have to abstain from voting
altogether. I am sorry to think that this important question should be treated in such a
manner by the najority in this House. I
was in hopes that we wouid have some
useful amendments made to the Scott Act,
but, instead of that, the very reverse has
been done, because the amendment of the
hon. member from Halifax renders the
Bil useless.
I do not care what the
members of the other House are going to
do, but 1 want to know what I ar going
to vote for. I have not the education of
some hon. gentlemen here; for instance,
the hon. member from Lunenburg; and
I cannot understand what A, B, C, is for,
unless I have something else to explain
the letters; therefore, I cannot vote upon
this Bi
t.

HoN. MR. FLINT-I am surprised at
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLthe position taken by the hon. member Might not my hon. friend's object be atfrom Lunenburg. He talks about fanati- tained in this way : He says the House
cism. I think that is a word which should is anxious to vote on this Bill ; and it is
not be used in an august assembly like very desirable that a vote should be taken
this. I want to know what I am going to on it when the House is full. Those who
vote for, and when I take up the minutes are opposed to the Bill, including myself,
of yesterday's proceedings and look are just as anxious and ready to record
through them, it is a moral impossibility their votes as the supporters of the Bill.
for me to tell what I am going to vote for, Could not my hon. friend allow the
With the exception of the amendment of amendments to be concurred in, and let
the hon. member from Halifax. That is the Bill stand for third reading to-morrow ?
the reason why I should like to have the He can then move that the Bill be not
Bill re-printed with the amendments, so concurred in, but that such and such a
that we can see what we are going to vote thing be done. In that way he can move
for. I have been in this House ever since to strike out anything which he considers
it was constituted, and I believe this is objectionable in the Bill, and attain all he
the first time that I have ever known, desires, and, at the same time, a vote can
when a member having charge of a Bill be taken upon the amendments in a full
desired to postpone it to a later day, such House.
a request to be refused; but, of course,
the opponents of the Bill are in the maHON. MR. DIKEY-I am perfectly
jority, and if they choose to put down the willing to adopt that plan.
rninority by insisting that they shall vote
upon a question without quite understandHON. MR. VIDAL-I really do not
ing it, we must only submit ; but the understand my position. I do not want
Country will understand the position in the concurrence of the House in these
which we are placed. I am not ashamed amendments to go on record unopposed.
to record my vote on this question, nor is My difficulty is that the particular amendanyone else who advocates this measure. ment that I want to divide the House
I cannot see any ground for objection to upon, I cannot designate.
It is not
the proposai to postpone this order until clause number so and so, and it is not
tO-morrow. We have no other work be- described in any documents before us.
fore us, and we can get through with it Some of the amendments made in comto-morrow as easily as we can to-day. I mittee, I do not object to; but there is
cannot record my vote intelligently on this one that I object to, and I cannot desigBill under the circumstances, and conse- nate it.

An

918s

[SENATE]

Adjournment.

Trudel,
HON. MR. KAULBACH-You can do Girard,
Grant,
Vidal,
it on the third reading.
Haytho rue,
Wark,-22.
Leonarc
HOX. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-You McCleli d,
can do it on the third reading without
HON. MR. VIDAL moved that the Bill
notice.
be read the third time to-morrow, and
HON. MR. TRUDEL-There is very that it stand the first order of the day.
little doubt that the majority of the House
The motion was agreed to.
is against the Bill, but I think the feeling
The Senate adjourned at six o'clock.
expressed by a respectable portion of the
House is, that the hon. gentlemen who
ask for the postponement should not be
refused their request.
THE SENATE.
< HON. MR. VIDAL-I wish to repudiOtta7a, Briday, -May 8t, 1885.
ate the charge of any intention on my part
to take advantage of the absence of any
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
gentlemen who are opposed to this
measure in calling on a vote on this Bill. o'clock.
I am willing, if it can be done by the
Prayers and routine proceedngs.
amendment of my hon. friend from
Amherst, to have the division taken and
AN ADJOURNMENT.
let it pass, with the understanding that I
am not to be debarred froni making my
MOTION.
motion on the third reading of the Bill.
The House divided on the amendment,
HON. MR. WARK gave notice that he
which was carried on the following would move, on Monday next, that, when
division
the House adjourns it stand adjourned
CONTENTS:
until Wednesday, the 28th inst.
Almon,

Hon. Messrs.
McKay,

Archibald,
McKindsey,
Baillargeon,
McMillan,
Bolduc,
Macfarlane,
Botsford,
Montgomiery,
Nelson.
Boucherville de,
Campbell, (Sir Alex.),Northwood,
Carveil,
Odelli,
Clemow,
O'Donohoe,
DeBlois,
Ogilvie,
Dever,
Paquet,
Dickey,
Plunb,
Ferguson,
Read,
Glasier,
Robitaille,
Guévremont,
Ross,
Hamilton,
Smith,
Kaulbach,
Sutherland,
Lacoste,
Thibaudeau,
Turner.-38.
McDonald,
NON-CONTENTS:

Alexander,
Allan,
Armand,
Chaffers,
Chapais,
Ferrier,
Flint,

Hon. Messrs.
McInnes,
MeMaster,
Macdonald,
Miller (Speaker),

Poirier,
Power,
Stevens,

HON. MR. BELLERU:eE :noved that
when this House adjourns to-day, it do
stand adjourned until Wednesday, the 2Oth
,nst. He said : It is unnecessary to give
the reasons for making this motion. The
orders of the day show that there is no
work for us after to-day, and there is
no legislation coming up from the other
House. One bill has occupied the time
of that House for a week or ten days and,
from what we can see, it is likely to occupy
their time for some weeks to come. They
only pass one or two clauses a week, and
the probability is, when we return on the
2oth inst., you will find them still debating
the measure.
Next week there will be
two non-sitting days-Thursday and Saturday; that leaves only four sitting days
next week. I have no objection to vote
for the amendment of my hon. friend from
Fredericton, to adjourn for a fortnight
longer, because a week from Monday next
will be the Queen's birthday celebration.
However, as there are some members of
this House who would probably object to

An

[MAY 8, 1885]

Adjournment.

919

it on the ground that sufficient notice has to be persevered in to the exclusion of all
not been given, I will merely move the other business ; if it is, there can be no
motion which appears on the paper.
objection to the adjournment that I have
suggested. I have named Wednesday,
HoN. MR. McDONALD (C. B.)- - because it gives most of us an opportunity
When notice was given of this motion I to remain at home over Sunday. I do not
thought it was not for a sufficiently long like the idea of adjourning at the end of a
period to enable those of us who live in week, because those of us who live in the
the Maritime Provinces to visit our homes. Maritime Provinces would have to spend
If the House would consent to an adjourn- Sunday on the way home.
ment until the 26th or 27th of the month
HON. MR. VIDAL-Perhaps the MiniI do not think it would make any material
difference, so far as the business of the ster of Justice may be able to answer the
session is concerned.
Judging from question now.
appearances, we are not likely to have any
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am
business from the other House for three
quite ready to give an answer now. When
weeks to come. They have been several
days debating the Franchise Bill, and they I saw the notice on the paper I considered
have only reached the 3rd clause ; as the it my duty to inquire, and I did make an
Bill contains 63 clauses altogether, we can inquiry as carefully as I could, whether the
believe
imagine how long it will take to reach the adjournment should take place. I as proend of it. If the House will adjourn until the adjournment may take place, DeLanthe 26th, we will lose only nine sitting posed by the hon. member from
days. If we meet on the 2oth of the audiere, without any prejudice whatever to
month there are only two more sitting days the public business. I think it would not
of that week. Then follow three non- be desirable to prolong the time more
Sitting days, and therefore I think it would than that. My hon. friend. from Cape
be much more convenient to adjourn until Breton says that we only lose, by the longer
adjournment, two days. n the week,
the 26th.
Thursdayand Friday, and that the Queen's
we
HON. MR. WARK--I did not give the birthday being celebrated on Monday,
probably should not meet on that day, and
notice because I thought the House should
adjourn. I think that the important events therefore it would not make much differwhich are transpiring in different parts of ence. It would make a difference of a
the Dominion, the troubles out in the week, and that perhaps might be inconNorth-West, and other events, would venient. I can only say, in answer to the
render it desirable that we should remain hon. gentleman's question, that I believe
here, but if an adjournment is to take the adjournment proposed by the hon.
place, we who live a great distance from member from DeLanaudiere will not prethe Capital, and who have been here ioo judice public business in any way.
days now, ought to have an opportunity to
HoN. MR. WARK-It would be of no
spend a few days at home. I therefore advantage to those who live a greater dishave named Monday as the day on which
an
the motion should be offered. I believe tance from the Capital. I move as adamendment that the House stand
that is the day on which the adjournment
the 28th inst.
ought to take place. It will give the Gov- journed until Wednesday
ernment time to consider whether we are
object
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I
likely to have anything to do during the to the amendment, and I think it cannot
next two or three weeks. I am satisfied if be put. It could not be put as a subthe Bill before the other House is pressed, stantive motion, and it cannot be put now
there is very little prospect of its passing as an amendment.
Soner. It is likely to remain under
discussion, and consequently, if that
THE SPEAKER-It can be put only
Bill is persevered in, and we have to by the unanimous consent of the House.
adjourn, we might just as well adJourn until the 2 7 th. I should like to
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Then I
know whether the Franchise Bill is likely must oppose it, as I oppose the motion of

920

An

[SENATE]

the hon. member from DeLanaudiere.
We have a Bill before us which cannot,
without great pressure, be put through today, and besides there are four or five
other matters before the House, all requiring a great deal of consideration and deliberation. I believe also that other bills
must necessarily come before us in a few
days. There is one, especially, for the reorganization of the Library of Parliament.
The hon. member from Woodstock was
so anxious yesterday for that Bill to come
up to us that he wanted to discuss it before it reached us. I think we have no
right to anticipate the action of the House
of Commons. If there is a delay, whether
proper or otherwise, it is no reason why
we should be relieved of our duties in this
House. There is ample business before
us, if properly considered and debated, to
occupy all our time until further measures
come up from the other Chamber. I certainly shall not allow this motion to pass
without asking for a division upon it. We
cannot get through the business before the
House to-day ; that is quite evident. I
dare say the leader of the Government is
quite ready to be relieved of the presence
of gentlemen in this House, and I understand facilities have been offered to some
members to go to their homes. I have
had no intimation of it myself, but I
understand that some members from the
Maritime Provinces have been told
that they could avail themselves of free
passages over the Intercolonial Railway.
If that is the case, the offer should not be
confined to individual members, and I
think it is a proper question to ask the
leader of this House whether the Government railway, or any other railway, is to
furnish free passes to members from the
Maritime Provinces? If so it should be
general. I do not care to ask the Departrfient of Railways as a favor for a pass. I
have never done so and I never shall ; il
any passes are being issued to members of
the Senate we ought to be informed of it,
and every member should be treated
alike. I oppose the motion, because we
are here to do the business of the country.
Hardly a day passes that I do not receive
communications on business which I have
to submit to the Government or to the
House. I believe that the session ought
to be over by this time and that we should
be at our homes. It is bad enough to be
HoN. MR.

KAULBACH.

Adjournnent.

detained here such a length of time, but
it would be worse still to go home for a
few days and have to return again.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-This motion is brought before us by an hon.
member from the Province of Quebec.
We all understand that such a lengthened
adjournment is either inspired or sanctioned by the leader of the Government
in this House.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I wish to
set the hon. gentleman right. I may tell
him that when I gave notice of the adjournment, the Minister of Justice seemed
to be opposed to it, and it was only because so many appeared to be in favor of
it that he took the trouble to ascertain,
whether it could take place or not.

HON. Mrs. ALEXANDER-At all
events the leader of the Government in
this House since the motion was first
brought before us has shown how anxious
he was to have it carried.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-He opposed

it at first.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-At this late
period of the session, and certainly at this
eventful moment, an adjournment will not
be approved of by the country. It will
make this impression that the members of
the Senate are not alive to their responsibilities. As the hon. member from Lunenburg has said we have no right to
anticipate the action of the House of
Commons.

HON. MR. ALMON-We
their want of action.

anticipate

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-The First
Minister may find immediately such an
outburst of public indignation throughout
the Province of Ontario with regard to
that infamous Franchise Bill as will compel him to drop it.

THE SPEAKER-It is not in order
for the hon. gentleman to introduce a
discussion of this kind, and he knows it.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-We do
not know but that on Monday or Tuesday

An

[MAY 8, 1885]

the First Minister may do as he did two
days ago-suspend all further discussion
of the Franchise Bill and go on with the
business of the country and give us full
employment. Between now and the 2oth
of this month the most momentous events
nay transpire in the North-West, and if
so what will the public say when they
learn that the members of the Senate, who
can afford to give their time and services
to the country, are away from their post ?
There are measures of the utmost consequence to corne up before us this session ;
there is the question of further advances
to the Canadian Pacific Railway.
HON. MR. POWER-That will not be
here for some time.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-There are
other questions besides, those relating to
the finances of the country and the large
amounts required to be raised in order to
rneet the public liabilities. It is not the
object of my hon. friend from DeLanaudiere to prevent discussion, but it is the
desire of the Government that there shall
be as little debate as possible in this
Chamber. What a sham it was, his moving the other day for the appointment of
a joint committee to consider the best
means of providing public business for
this body. (Order, order).
THE SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman
should observe the rules.

Adjournment.

921

HON. MR. McINNES (B.C.)-There
are some who cannot get home at all.
HON. MR. O'DONOHOE-I am sure
that those gentlemen will not stay in the
way of those hon. members who hive
nearer to the Capital, and who can reach
home in a shorter time. I am quite sure
that they will see the propriety of allowing
everyone who can avail himself of the adjouriment to do so. Why should they
play the dog in the manger ? I am sure
they will not do it. The hon. member
from Lunenburg says that some members
are offered passes to go home to the Maritime Provinces. If such an offer has
been made by any company, I venture to
say that it is only the member from
Lunenburg who has heard of it. My hon.
friend also states that the public business
demands that we should remain. The
Minister of Justice tells us that the public
business will not be prejudiced by this
adjournment. Which authority shall we
take-the hon. member from Lunenburg,
or the leader of the Government in this
House ? Unless, indeed, a change has
taken place, and my hon. friend from
Lunenburg has a position in the Government that enables him to speak with
authority to the Senate. I am quite sure
that there is not a member of this House,
however anxious he might be to go home,
who would think of leaving the Capital if
there was a prospect of any business coming before us within the period of the
proposed adjournment.
It is because
there is no prospect of any business
coming up that an adjournment has been
proposed, and I trust that the House will
see the propriety of allowing the largest
number who can go home, to visit their
families, and to take part, perhaps, in proceedings going on in relation to public
affairs.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I will not
refer to that extraordinary sham, but we
certainly do desire that the measures
which come up before the Senate should
have due consideration here, and that they
should not, as during past sessions, be
brought before us within 48 hours of the
end of the session, when there is not time
for debating them, and we have to pass
thern, as a matter of form, just as they
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I consider
corne from the Government who have that it would be far more becoming if this
brought so much disaster on the question of adjournment were debated
country.
upon other than personal grounds, as it is.
scarcely possible to meet the convenience
HON. MR. O'DONOHOE-There are of all hon. members. In my judgment, it
some hon. gentlemen whose homes are so is the lowest style of argument that can
far from the Capital that it is hardly possi- be adduced here, that of private convenble for them to leave here and spend more ience. For my part, I intend to vote
than a day or two at home and return by against both propositions for adjournment,
the 2oth.
and to take a wider view of it. I concur

922

An

[SENATE]

very much in the view of the hon. gentleman from Woodstock. It seems to me
that the dignity of the Senate is concerned
in keeping this body together, and that
we should be in our places, ready for any
contingency in public affairs that may
arise. We are now at an important crisis
in the affairs of the Dominion, a political
crisis and a national crisis, and if these two
objects united are not sufficient to keep
hon. gentlemen in their places there is
very little hope in doing so. The leader
of the Government has stood up in his
place and stated that there is no Irobability of any work coming up from the
other House for some time.
No doubt
the Minister speaks to the best of his
knowledge and belief, but it is not
unlikely that events may occur in the
Commons, or in the North-West Territories, that may make the united action of
this Senate necessary, and what would the
country think if the members of this House
were dispersed all over the provinces, when
their services were required in this
Chamber ? Another view of the case is
that the regulations concerning the indemnity of senators are obviously framed with
the intention of keeping members in their
places until the close of the session, and
we cannot, with impunity, override those
regulations.
HON. MR. READ-It is quite evident
that the leader of the Government would
not have given his consent to the adjournment if he had reason to believe that the
interests of the country would suffer by it.
We have been here fourteen weeks; we
have sat regularly, from 3 to 6, as a general
thing, and have had three night-sittings;
ve have accomplished all the work that
has come before us, and from present
appearances we will have little more to do
for some time to come.
As to this
"political crisis," referred to by the hon.
gentleman from Prince Edward Island, I
do not know where it is. I hope it will
not arise very soon, but if it does we will
be back here in time to take hold of any
question that will require our consideration. In the meantime let us go home
and see how the country feels on this important " political crisis."

Adjournment.

one of those adjournments since I have
been in the Senate, and I cannot do so
to-day. My hon. friend from DeLanaudiere, I look upon as the chairman of
the standing committee of adjournments
connected with the Senate, from the fact
that he is the only person who ever moves
an adjournment of the Senate.
The
Minister of Justice may feel that it is a
very easy matter for him to give way under
the circumstances, but it is not for me to
say, because the Minister of Justice favors
an adjournment, that I do.
THE SPEAKER-Under the objection
raised by the member for Lunenburg, I
consider the amendment is out of order.
An amendment of this kind to be in order,
must have notice of it given ; an amendment extending beyond the notice would
not be in order.
The House divided on the motion,
which was carried on the following division:
CONTENTS:

Hon. Messrs.
Allan,
Ainon,
Archibald,
Arm-and,
Baillargeon,
Bellerose,
Bolduc,
Doucherville, de,
Campbell (Sir Alex.),
Carvell,
Chaffers,
Chapais,
Cormier,
Clenow,
DeBlois,
Ferguson,
Ferrier,
Girard,
Glasier,
Guévremont,
Howlan,

Mclnnes,
McKay,
McKindsey,
MeMaster,
McMillan,
Macfarlane,
Miller (Speaker),
Montgomery,
Odell,
O'Donohoe,
Ogilvie,
Pâquet,
Pellet er,
Plumb,
Power,
Read,
Robitaille,
Smith,
Stevens,
Thibaudeau,
Trudel,

Lacoste,
McDonald,

Turner.
Vidal,-46.
NoN-CONTENTS :

Alexander,

Hon. Messrs.
McClelan,

Dickey,

Macdonald,

Flint,
Grant,
Haythorne,
Kaulbach,

Nelson,
Poirier,
Sutherland,
Wark.-12.

THE SPEAKER-As no hour is menHON. MR. FLINT-I am opposed to tioned in the motion, I will declare that
the adjournment. I have never voted for the Senate, when it adjourns to-day, will
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

Temperance Act, &c., [MAY 8, 1885] Anendment Bil.

923

stand adjourned until the 2oth instant, at many members of this House think a very
three o'clock-at the usual hour.
valuable one ; therefore there should be
HON. MEMBERS-Eight o'clock.
THE SPEAKER-It is too late now,

without the unanimous consent of the
House, to make it eight o'clock.
HON.

o'clock.

MEMBERS -

Make it eight

HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE - As a
matter connected with the question just
now under discussion, it has been said in
the corridors to-day that free passes over
Government railroads are to be had for
the asking by members going to their
homes. I ask the Government whether
such passes are to be given to all who wish
to travel to their homes, or whether they
are to be confined to a few ? It is rather
an unpleasant predicament for a gentleman
who has bought his ticket to find that he
is travelling in the same car with other
hon. gentlemen who have free passes over
the road.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am
not aware what the rule is as to free passes;
but i vill take care, whatever the rule is,
that it shall be made general.
CANADA TEMPERANCE ACT AND
LIQUOR LICENSE ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
THIRD READING POSTPONED.

The order of the day having been called
for the third reading of Bill (92) " An
Act further to amend the Canada Temperance Act 1878, and the Liquor License
Act 1883,"
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL said:
I rise to ask the hon. gentleman who has
Charge of this Bill to postpone the third
reading until after the adjournment. It
seems to me that there would not be a full
OPportunity to day to discuss the amendInents which still remain to be made by
the hon gentleman from Glengarry, and
the hon. gentleman from Halifax. The
anendment proposed by my hon. friend
OPposite (Mr. Power) particularly is one
which is of great importance, and which

time to discuss it, and to give my hon.
friend who has proposed it an opportunity
for developing his own arguments in favor
of it, and time for others who are opposed
to it, and who believe that it should not
carry, to discuss it. I do not think that
the Bill can be prejudiced by the postponement of the third reading, because the
amendments which have been already made
in comrnmittee have been concurred in, and
the Bill stands with those amendments
concurred in before the House. After
the vacation, the House will probably assemble with very nearly its present strength,
and the Bill will then stand as amended,
and ample time will be given for the discussion of the further amendments that
are proposed. I think that would be a
more reasonable mode of disposing of this
measure, and it could still go down in
ample time to have our amendments discussed in the other branch of the legislature.
HON. MR. DICKEY-Before my hon.
friend from Sarnia answers the appeal
made to hini, I rise to express my regret
that the Minister of Justice has made this
suggestion, because I think it will place
several hon. members in a very, very awkward position ; but if the appeal is to be
entertained at all I think it is desirable
that we should know now, as doubtless my
hon. friend who has charge of the Bill is in
a position to tell us, what portion of the
amendments that have been concurred in
he accepts, and what he rejects, so that
we may know intelligibly when we come
to discuss thern hereafter. There can be
no inconvenience in that course, because
the question of the 3rd reading will not be
taken up to-day, and it will simply be a
question which of these amendments are
to be agreed to, and which are to be
opposed.
HON. MR. VIDAL-I am taken completely by surprise at the proposition which
is now made to me. I cannot conceive
what wonderful change has come over the
Senate, which yesterday, when I asked one
day's delay, treated me personally with
great discourtesy, extending to me a treatment that has never before been extended
by the Senate to any other gentleman,

92A

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

refusing me a postponement for 24 hours
for the concurrence in those amendments
asked, in order that 1 might ascertain the
very points that my hon. friend now asks
me to speak on, and to say which of those
amendments I would concur in and which
I would resist. The House would not
give me the time, and would not even
give me the Bill re-printed with the amendments, but insisted that the measure
should be pushed on and disposed of,
The House has thus taken the matter out
of my hands, leaving me entirely powerless
and I shall not condescend to ask the
House for any indulgence whatever in
respect to this matter; I have no reason
to expect any, when the common courtesy
was denied me yesterday that has always
been extended to any other member in
making a similar request ; I am quite
prepared to go on and take the third reading of the Bill, but, of course, the matter is
in the hands of the House.

those amendments which are proposed;
they can be discussed and voted upon
hereafter, just as thoroughly as if time had
been given yesterday, so I think my hon.
friend feels a little too sore on the course
which was taken by the House yesterday
in this matter. 1, myself, think it is an
honor to address the House instead of a
condescension, and as I will have some
remarks to make on the question, I therefore move that the third reading of the
Bill be postponed until Thursday, May
2 ]st inst.

HON. MR. VIDAL-I did not say it is
a condescension to address the House ;
but it is a condescension to ask a favor of
the House.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I am sorry
that the proposition has been made by
the Minister of Justice, because I believe
we have a fuller House now than we will
have after the adjournment.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--I
am sorry that the hon. gentleman does not
accept the suggestion in a better spirit, as
some of his friends were very anxious today that the Bill should be pustpuned. I
had a message to-day from the hon. gentleman who usually sits at the head of the
room, begging me in very earnest terms to
postpone this measure until after the vacation ; and now, when I make the suggestion, my hon. friend meets it in a spirit
that surprises me very much. My idea is
that the Bill ought to be postponed. I
am anxious, myself, to justify to the House
and to the country, the course which I
propose to take in reference to this amendment. It could hardly be done this afternoon ; hon. gentlemen are going away,
and it seems to me that in a matter of this
kind it would be more convenient to postpone the third reading ; it will do no
harm, if my hon. friend does not oppose it.

HON. MR. FLINT-I was very anxious
yesterday and the day before that the
matter should be )ostI)oned for a time ; I
thought it would be better to have the
Bill re-printed with the amendments in it,
so that we could understand what we are
voting for. I certainly, as I stated in my
place yesterday, could not understand
how those amendments stood, and although I would not be willing to second
the motion to adjourn the third reading,
I certainly should not object to it. I do not
think the Bill will lose anything by postponing its consideration until the House meets
again. I think, in all probability, it will
be the best thing that can be done. My
hon. friend from Sarnia felt a little sore,
as I did myself, in reference to the treatment we had received, because I do not
think we were deserving of it. I think
that we should have been treated in a
more courteous manner. As it is I am
HoN. MR. VIDAL-I do not con- willing to extend mercy to those who
descend to oppose it ; it is in the hands of showed no mercy to us yesterday. It will be
recollected that at the time the member
the House.
from Amherst saw fit to withdraw his mo-

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Perhaps my hon. friend may feel a little sore
because of what took place yesterday. It
is not a matter of condescension ; he is
not prevented from taking any step that
he could have taken yesterday on any of
HON.

MR. VIDAL

tion for the three months hoist, the Minister of Justice suggested that we should
allow the Bill to go into committee, and
that the speeches could be made on the
third reading. I rose to ask if that was
the case, and stated if so I had some

Temperance Act, &c., [MAY 8, 1885] Amendmnent Bil.
remarks to make on it which I would
reserve until that stage. As a matter of
fact the speech I intended to make on it
I have kept in abeyance. However, I am
quite willing to postpone what I have to
say for the convenience of members who
wish to delay the 3rd reading of the Bill
until after the adjournment.
HON. MR. ALMON-I rise, not so
much to speak to this motion as to do
justice to the senior member for Halifax.
He told me this afternoon that because of
illness in his family he was obliged to go
home immediately, and he asked me to
move the amendment which he has prepared, on the third reading. In my remarks
yesterday I rather alluded to him disparagingly, thinking that he had no serious
intention of moving the amendment, because he had not done it on two occasions
that I thought had offered. His conduct
has shown that he was in earnest, and I
beg leave to retract what I said against
him on the matter.

HON. MR.

McCLELAN-I thought

that the request made by the hon. member
from Sarnia yesterday was a very proper
one under the circumstances, to enable
him to maturely consider the amendments
which had been made in committee. The
delay which he asked for was not an unreasonable delay, and, with him, I am
very much surprised to-day that a different
idea is manifested altogether, and the
opinion is expressed that a long delay
should take place for the consideration of
these amendnents which have been on
the notice paper, and of which we are
quite as well apprised as we were of the
others. Of course it is a question of very
great importance. It is so considered, I
am sure by this honorable House from the
interest which hon. gentlemen seem to
have taken in promoting the amendments
which have alreadycarried. It is a question
in which all parts of the country are interested, and a great many good citizens
have petitioned Parliament concerning it.
One can readily understand the very
keen interest that is taken in the question
throughout the country. I think the delay
until after the adjournment will be prejudicial. It will be another one of those
steps which are so well calculated to defeat the objects of the petitioners, and

926

impair the efficiency of the Scott Act. If
the Act is to be made useful at all to
restrict the liquor traffic, the sooner the
accepted amendments pass in this House
and are sent to the House of Commons,
and the sooner it will become fully known
what is the result of them, the better it
will be for all parties concerned in the
proper administration of the law. If it is
to be delayed at this stage until the concluding week of the session, the effect may
be to impede and interfere with the securing of such legislation as will make the laws
which we have more effective. If, for
instance, this Bill had a third reading today, and was sent to the House of Commons, Parliament would know, and the
country would know, exactly what will
and what will not be concurred in, and
there would be time left then for certain
other proceedings to be taken. Another
bill might be introduced and carried
through, or such action taken as would
supply any defects that are found to exist
in the Act; but if the legislation is to be
delayed further by postponing the third
reading of the Bill, and the sending of it
to the other branch of the legislature,
there will be no time allowed for further
action. It will be too late in the session
then to institute other legislation de novo,
and the result may be that those who are
friendly to the Temperance Act would be
put in a much worse position than they
otherwise would be if this Bill were to receive its third reading now.
The
tactics of the Government, and the majority of the Senate, are, however, in accord,
and the minority must submit.
HON. MR. DICKEY-After the reference that has been made to me by the
hon. gentleman from Sarnia, it can hardly
be expected that I should remain silent.
This matter has got into a curious complication by the gentlemen who support
the Bill being so anxious to push it on.

I

am one of those who oppose the Bill with
the amendments; but the amendments
having carried, I am most desirous that
the Bill should receive every facility for
being carried through, and in that respect
I stand alongside of the hon. gentleman
from Hopewell, because I am against the
postponement of the third reading. At
the same time I am not prepared to take
the responsibility of dividing the House

926

Temper)ance Act, &c, [SE NATE] Anendment Bill.

upon it. I wish, however, to give no un- that they should be disposed of now. So
certain sound as to the impropriety of post- anxious were we that there should be no
poning it. I am surprised that the hon. delay that 1, at all events, was one who
gentleman who has charge of the Bill, and stated distinctly that we were quite willing
who was so anxious for postponing it that the hon. gentleman who has comyesterday, is not prepared to say whether plainedof discourtesyshould havethe saine
he is for or against the motion to post- opportunity of moving to-day with regard
pone it to-day. But the hon. gentleman to these amendments as he had yesterday.
spoke on a former occasion in very much He can move as he pleases before the
the same strain as he did to-day, and I third reading, that any of those amendthought my hon. friend, at that moment, ments can be struck out. There is no
was under some little excitement-excite- doubt about that. Therefore there is no
nient arising no doubt from a very proper injustice done ; and, on reflection, my
cause; but I did not think it wise to say hon. friend can hardly say that he has
anything. I thought it better to let it been discourteously treated, when we only
pass. But my hon. friend has renewed ask that the amendments, which were
the matter to-day, and it is necessary, on adopted by a large vote of the House,
behalf of the majority of the House, that should be concurred in. He has had the
I should notice what he has said. He opportunity ever since ; he has it now, to
has charged us with discourtesy. I fail to say whether he objects to any or all of the
see where the discourtesy comes in. The amendments, but at the same time I agree
application was that the amendments with a great deal of what my hon. friend
which had been agreed to by large majori- on my right, from Albert, says, that there is
ties, on the day previous, should be con- a great deal of inconvenience in this
curred in. The hon. member stated that course, and I am surprised that my hon.
it was discourtesy, because he was not friend has not stated whether he agrees
allowed a day more to consider them. or disagrees with the suggestion that has
These amendments were upon the paper been made. That suggestion was as great
a week or ten days before they were con- a surprise to me as it was to him. It is
sidered by the House at all, everyone contrary to my feelings ; I should rather
of thern except one, and that, as I stated have the matter disposed of now. At the
when it was moved, an unimportant same time, as the leader of the Governamendment. In that opinion I was forti- ment has suggested the postponement,
fied by the opinion of the Minister of and as the hon. member from Sarnia is
Justice. With that exception every one not prepared to say that he is opposed to
of them was on the paper, and how my it, what position am I left in? I have
hon. friends from Belleville and Sarnia nothing more to say, except to express my
can say that they do not understand them dissent.
or know what they mean, and could not
read the Bill with them, I cannot comHON. MR. PLUMB-There seems to be
prehend. That was the situation. The a good deal of difference of opinion with
amendments were there. They were reference to this question, and it is a matagreed to on one day, and my hon. friend ter of indifference to me whether it is dewho had charge of the Bill, had the whole cided now or postponed. I cannot help
of that evening and the next day, until thinking that if the postponement has any
the meeting of the House, to confer with influence at all, it will be to the advantage
his friends, if he desired to do so. He of the hon. gentlemen who support this
has not told us yet which of these it is he Bill. The hon. member from Belleville
does not understand. He will not rise thinks that on the whole it will be advanto-day and respond to my appeal to tell tageous to postpone the Bill. The hon.
the Flouse which of these arnendments member from Albert is of the other opinhe concurs in, and which he rejects. I ion, and the hon. gentleman who has
wish him to understand distinctly that, so charge of the Bill has not given any opinfar as delay is concerned, it is not on our ion at all; therefore, we are at a loss to
part. I think I can speak for the gentle- decide, from this conflicting testimony,
men who voted for these amendments, whether it is better to go on with the Bill
when I say that they are most anxious or not. I regret that the hon. gentleman
HON. MR. DICKEY.

Civil Service Act8 [MAY 8, 1885.] Amendnent Bill.
from Sarnia has seen fit to characterize
the treatment which he has received at
the hands of a majority of this House as a
discourtesy. I think it was the desire of
the House last night that the Bill should
be put in a position to be discussed to-day
on the third reading, and my hon. friend
was assured that he would have a full opportunity of making any motion he
pleased, and discussing the Bill at as great
length as he deems advisable. I agree
with the suggestion that it is desirable to
postpone the third reading of the Bill until
after the recess, inasmuch as the bon.
member from Halifax is not present, and
it is well that he should be here to give
his views on the subject. He stands
in the position of the quasi leader of
the Opposition, and it is desirable
that we should know the exact grounds
on which he is moving his amendment. I think, on the whole, the hon.
member from Sarnia and the hon. member
from Albert, have nothing to complain of
if this Bill is postponed until the next
meeting of the House. A day is fixed so
that members can be here, if they wish, to
take part in the debate. I trust that there
will be a full House and a full discussion
on the Bill, so that those who support it
will have an opportunity to express their
views, and take such a course as, under
Parliamentary rules, they may think best,
to carry out their wishes on this question.
We, who favor the amendnents, have no
desire to do anything which will thwart
the machinery which works the Scott Act ;
but we have the right, when a Bill is
brought here, to make amendments to
that Act, to discuss it ; and every time a
Bill of this kind is brought before us, they
must expect similar discussions to take
place. They ought to receive it in good
part, and if they will receive it in the
kindly spirit the majority have manifested
towards them, there will not be so much
irritation, or so much difficulty, on the
part of the hon. gentleman, in getting a
favorable consideration of his measure.

927

must remain in this way, that with respect
to that question there is a difference of
opinion between us. He adheres to his
opinion and I adhere to mine. Only I
state this fact ; turn to the history of this
Senate since its origin, and you will not
find any other instance in which a member bas been treated in the way I have
been treated with reference to this Bill.
Now, that is the fact, and you can draw
any inference from it you please. I wish
to make the amende honorable to my hon.
friend from Lunenburg. I entirely misapprehended yesterday his action and his
words ; I thought he was interrupting me
and endeavouring to put me down. I
have ascertained that I was entirely in
error in that supposition, and I wish
frankly and fully to make the amende
honorable.

HoN. MR. KAULBACH-I am sure
that it is accepted as fully as it is offered.
The motion was agreed to.
CONSTITUTION OF THE TREASURY BOARD BILL
THIRD READING.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the third reading of Bill (104) "An Act
to amend the sections of Acts therein
mentioned relating to the constitution of
the Treasury Board."
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the third time and passed.

CIVIL SERVICE ACTS AMENDMENT BILL.
THIRD READING.

HON SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the third reading of Bill (31) " An Act to
amend and consolidate the Civil Service
Acts of 1882, 1883 and 1884."
He said :-I promised yesterday to
inform the hon. gentleman from. Halifax,

HoN. MR. VIDAL-I do not intend to who is not now in his seat, why the words
reply to the hon. member froni Amherst "nor until he received the certificates

in detail. I still adhere to the statement required " were omitted from sub-section
which I made. It is a statement not A of clause io. That sub-section is as
nmade under the influence of excitement, follows -but on the calm reflection I have been
" All appointments to the civil service shall
able to give it since last evening. It be during pleasure, and no person shall be

928

Civil Service Act

[SENATE] Amendm2ent Bill.

appointed or promoted to any place below that be retained in the Department, because
of of a deputy head unless ie lias passed the they constitute the only explanation or
requisite examinnation and served the pro- justification of the examiners ; but there is
bationary term hereinafter mentioned."
no reason why the candidate should not
The words were omitted because it have a copy of the answers which he has
sometimes happens that delays take place given, and I hope the hon. member from
in the granting of certificates, delays owing Prince Edward Island will consider this
to the number of persons who have pass- amendment sufficient to meet the necessity
The amendment
ed, and sometimes certificates have not which he suggests.
yet been given. The meaning is preserv- which I propose as a sub-section of 34,
ed, because the appointment cannot take will read thus :
place unless the candidate has passed ; but
Any candidate who shall have atfended at
whether he gets his certificate, that is the any examination held under this Act shall,
absolute paper itself, before or after his upon application to the Secretary of the
appointment is a matter of little conse- Board of Examiners, made within three
from the date of such examination,
quence. As it is not necessary to insist months payment therefor at a rate to be
and upon
on that, the words are omitted, but the fixed by Order of the Governor-in-Council, be
meaning is there. I promised the hon. entitled to obtain a copy of the answers given
gentleman from Amherst to consider a by him at such examination.
suggestion which he made, that the list of
This will give him the information
the successful candidates placed before which he desires, and will still leave his
Parliament should disclose the precise original answers in the hands of the exposition of each candidate-that is, that aminers for their justification for the course
the grade of each clerk should be shown which they have pursued with reference to
on the list. I have made the inquiry that candidate. If the original papers
which I promised my hon. friend to make, were given up, perhaps
the candidate,
and I must still repeat the hope that he having them in his hands, might so alter
will not insist on his suggestion, for the them as to show that the examiners had
reason I then gave. It would place the been wrong in their estimate of the
persons who have passed in an invidious strength of his examination. I will move
position. It would increase the difficul- therefore, that the Bill be not now read
ties of the Government inasmuch as the the third time, but that this clause be
competitive system has not been adopted. added and form sub-section 2 of secIt would cause a sense of injustice in the tion
34.
mind of the man who obtained the greatest number of marks if he did not receive
HON. MR. DICKEY-As the House
the first appointment, so I hope my may not exactly remember the opposed
hon. friend from Amherst will not amendment suggested by me, I will call
insist on that. The information which their attention to what passed in the comit would give can be obtained indirectly mittee on that subject as the foundation
under clause 58. The papers laid on the for the action which I propose to take
table of the House might, if gentlemen here. On the reading of clause 34, which
chose to go closely into them, disclose the is as follows :precise condition of the candidate ; and if
" Immediately after each examination, a
it became necessary, in consequence of
the persons who
any abuse, to have the exact paper which list of be made out, and are found qualified
published in the
shall
he speaks of laid before Parliament, an Canada Gazette."
address from either House would procure
I proposed to add this: "showing the
it, because the Government is aware of
the grade which each candidate has ob. grading of the candidates on such examiI promised the hon. member nations and a similar list shall be laid
tained.
from Prince Edward Island to prepare an annually on the tables of both Houses of
amendment which would have the effect Parliament within 15 days after the openof placing at the disposal of each candi- ing of each session." That was the sugdate the answers which he has made to gestion which I made at the time and I
the questions. On inquiry, I find that it did not desire to move it adverselv to the
is desirable that the original answers should Bill, but it was not entertained for a moHoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Civil Service Acts [MAY 7, 1885] Amendnent Bill.

929

ment. It was treated as a thing that of merit, and therefore I proposed to
could not be done-out of the question. amend that 58th section when attention
was called to it, by adding, after the words
" and the names of the successful candiHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
dates," these words : "iin the order of
think I said I would make an inquiry.
merit," so that the public might know who
HON. MR. DICKEY-I will come to stood at the top of the list. No answer
that; I gracefully subsided. Then the has been made to the suggestion upon
hon. member fron Halifax, who has made that point at all, except this, that it would
a good many objections to the Bill, did be inconvenient for the Government.
not seern to think there was anything in
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-And
it, and the consequence was the section
passed. Then we came down to the end invidious to the candidates.
of the Bill. I had not read it, for the
HoN. MR. DICKEY-Why should it
reason that it was a consolidating Act and
I desired to take it very much on the be any more invidious to candidates becredit of the authors of it ; but when we cause the order of merit is stated and the
came down to the 58th clause I found, to man who is at the top of the list on an exmy astonishment, the very thing enacted amination, shall stand at the top of the
that in the last branch of that amend- list as published ; why should that be any
ment I asked for. That 58th clause more invidious to these gentlemen than it
is to see, as we all have seen in the
provides :

London Times, the nanes of, perhaps,

The Secretary of State shall lay before Par- hundreds of young men with their differliament, witiuin fifteen days after the coment marks ?
iencement of each session, a report of the
proceedings of the Board of Examiners under
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-But
this Act during the preceding year, which report shall include a copy of the examination there they act on the competitive system.
papers, a statement of all examinations held,
and of the number of candidates at each, and
HON. MR. DICKEY-I am speaking
the naines of the successful candidates, and

also the rules and regulations made during now of the invidious distinction.
the year under the provisions of section five
of this Act:
2. The Secretary of State shall lay before
Parliament in like manner a return of the
names and salaries of all persons appointed to
or promoted in the Civil Service during the
said year, specifving the office to which each
bas been appointed or promoted.

But the Bill does not stop there, because
in the next clause it provides something
further which was perhaps equally necessary. Clause 59 is as follows:The Secretary of state shall cause to be
printed each year a list, to be called the Civil
.ervice List of Canada. of all persons employed
in the several departmerts of the Civil
Service, together with those employed in the
two Houses of Parliament, upon the first day
of July last preceding, showing the dates of
their several appointments and promotions,
their age, rank in the service, and sal4ry;
and shall lay the sanie before Parliament

HoN. SIR CAMPBELL-It is not invidious in that case. If the man at the
head of the list succeeds there is nothing
wrong then.

HoN. MR DICKEY-Where does the
invidiousness come in ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Because the man at the head of the list does,
not always succeed.
HON. MR. DICKEY--Why should the
members of parliament not have an oppor-

tunity of seeing who are appointed and
who are not, especially when the very rext
clause requires the Government to furnish
a list of the people employed to be laid
before Parliament ? What they want is to
within the first fifteen days of each session.
ascertain who have been selected out of
Now this Act was well drawn and well those lists of successful candidates. If
guarded, and it proposes a good deal more they are to have that information, why
than I suggested, and indeed something should they not know who stood at the

that I had not thought of at the moment, head of the list and who stood at the foot,
but it left out any reference to the order and what is there invidious about it after
J2

930

Canned Goods [SENATE] Bil.

all ? When young men come up for
examination they know that they cannot
all be first. Some must be last ; some at
the middle, and some at the top.
I do
not see that there is any reason in the
objection that has been given. I have no
desire to interfere with the Bill if other
hon. members do not see it in the same
light. I confess, I was a little astonished
when my proposition would not be entertained for a moment at the tiine I made
it ; but when it was found at the foot of
the Bill, my hon. friend said he would
consult the Department whether the words
I suggested should be added.
I see no
reason why they should not be added, but
I leave the matter in the hands of the
House.

Government nothing to furnish them.
They can set one of their clerks to make
out the return and hand it to the young
man.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I think there
is great force in the objection of the hon.
Minister to the suggested amendment.
Unless the competitive examination would
secure the appointment of the candidate
at the head of the list, you would not find
young men willing to come up for exam
ination at all. As I urged yesterday, it
does not follow that because a man stood
at the head of the list at one examination
it would show his relative position to the
whole list of persons who passed the examination. It would be unfair, therefore, and
no proper conclusion could be drawn from
it. Unless all the candidates who passed
at the different examinations were thoroughly graded the list would be worthless.
You could not tell at all how they stood
on the list. So long as the Government
have the right to choose from among the
successful candidates, such as they think
proper to appoint, there is no object in
publishing a list such as that indicated by
the hon. member from Amherst; and, as
I stated before, it does not follow that because a man is at the head of the list in
an examination that therefore he is the
best qualified for appointment. Therefore,
I cannot agree with the hon. member fron
Amherst, whose views I generally endorse.

SECOND READING.

HON. MR. WARK-There is one expression in that amendment that I do not
approve of-that is, that these young men
should pay the expense of getting copies.
I think that copies should be furnished to
them without any charge. It will cost the

Hlox. â1.

D!C"E.ï

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
cost would not be great, but I think it is
desirable that there should be some charge
so that they may not ask for copies from
mere caprice, to justify them and to show
that the examiners were wrong. I do not
think any candidate should object to paying a small sum for a copy.

The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was then read the third time and passed.
CANNED GOODS BILL

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the second reading of Bill (U), " An Act
respecting Canned Goods."
He said:
This is a Bill which I have introduced at
the request of the Minister of Inland
Revenue. It proposes to take some additional precautions by having the name
and address stamped on the packages, and
providirig a penalty for violation of the
Act, and to give standard sizes for
packages.

HON. MR. McINNES (B.C.)-I wish
to call the attention of the Minister of
Justice to the 3rd clause of the Bill. It
says :"The Governor-in-Council may declare
certain sized packages to be the standard
size; and after the publication in the Canada
Gazette of the Order-in-Council establishing
such standard size, every person who places
on any package containing goods or articles,
in respect of which such standard size has
been so established, and which package does
not correspond with the standard size, any
label, stamp or mark, purporting to specify

the quantity or weight of the contents or the
size of the package, shall incur a penalty of
twenty-five cents for each package in respect
of which the provisions of this section have
been violated."
I should like to know what is to be the
standard size ? If it is a certain size different from what we have in British
Columbia-I am speaking now specially
of the salmon canning establishments of
our province-it may affect plant to the
extent of probably half a million of dol-

Bill8 [MAY 7, 1885] Introduced.
lars. I think it would be an improvement
to the clause, and I cannot see that any
injustice would be done, if the quantity
contained in each can was marked upon
it-if it was compulsory that the quantity
in the can cculd be stated, no matter
what the size. It is true that most of the
cans out there contain one pound ; some
of them are put up in two pound cans.
That would be better than fixing a standard size. I am afraid that the Bill will
interfere materially with the plant in the
large canning establishments of British
Columbia, which have been in operation
for the last ten or twelve years.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am

glad that my hon. friend has called my
attention to the subject, because it will
give me an opportunity of conferring with
the Minister of Inland Revenue, and I
will be in a better position to deal with
the question when it comes before a committee of the whole House.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-The Bill
does not require that the weight shall be
stated on the can, but where the weight is
stated on the can, a penalty is prescribed
if it does not come up to the weight. I
think that is the provision.

Hox. MR. TURNER-The Bill, as I
understand it, is merely permissive. I
have taken a good deal of interest in it
and consulted with the Minister. One
great difficulty in reference to the matter
is that by putting the weight on you are
bound to have it that weight. Fixing
standard sizes gets over the difficulty.
HON.

MR. McINNES-How so ?

HON. MR. TURNER-Because it is
permissive. He need not put the weight
on the can unless he likes, but when he
puts the weight on it must be there.

We found a
great difficulty in having the weight put
on the cans before. The matter was
pressed very much on the House, but it
Was over-ruled, and the Bill passed in such
a way that inconvenience resultcd, which
it is proposed to rermedy now. That being
the case, I am very glad that attention has
been called to the point. It had not escaped my notice, and I hope it will be
HON. MR. DICKEY -

931

considered in the committee, especially in
the light of the experience we have had in
the past.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
PRISONERS' EMPLOYMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
that Bill (87), "An Act to amend the Act
intituled, 'An Act to provide for the employment without the walls of common
gaols, of prisoners sentenced to imprisonment therein."' be read the second time at
length at the table. He said : This is a
Bill to enable prisoners who are confined
in common gaols to be employed at hard
labor outside of the walls. It seems that
now, if they are sentenced to hard labor,
it must be found for them within the walls
of the prison.
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-I am very
glad that this Bill has been introduced; I
have seen the necessity for it. In Nova
Scotia some prisoners have thought that,
when sentenced to hard labor, it must be
hard labor within the walls of the prison,
and I think that they are right. The Bill
will have the effect of a deterrent to crime,
because prisoners sentenced to hard labor
will be exposed to the public gaze. This
hard labor to which prisoners are sentenced under the existing law, is never
done, and the imprisonment is often injurious to their health. This Bill will not
only act as a deterrent to crime, but it
will prove beneficial in other directions.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read at length at the table.

BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (118), "An Act further to amend
the Acts relating to weights and measures."
-Sir Alex. Campbell.
Bill (V), "An Act respecting the Administration of Justice and other matters in the
North-West Territories."-Sir Alex. Campbell.
Bill (W), "An Act respecting the Adulteration of Food, Drugs and Agricultural
Fertilizers."-Sir Alex. Campbell.
The Senate adjourned at 5 o'clock.

932

Canned Goods

[SENATE]

Bill.

HoN. MR. ALMON-The Bill should
be printed as amended, as I see it has
been stated in some of the meetings reOttawa, Wednesday, May 20th, 1885.
cently held that the amendinent permitting
THE SPEAKER took the Chair at eight the sale of ale and light wines did not
provide that they should be under any
o'clock.
degree of strength, and it was considered
that "light wines " is a term that might
Prayers and routine proceedings.
embrace any liquor, whereas it is distinctly
There being no business upon the order stated in the amendment that they shall
paper, the Senate adjourned at 8:15 p.m. be under a certain degree of strength. It
is evident that the public do not understand the amendment.

THE SENATE.

HON. MR. VIDAL gave notice that on
the third reading he should move to strike
out the amendment permitting the sale of
Ottawa, Thursday, May 21st, 1885.
ale and light wines.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
The motion was agreed to, and the
o'clock.
order was discharged.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
PRISONERS' EMPLOYMENT BILL.

THE SENATE.

BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (8o), "An Act to incorporate the
Fort McLeod Ranche Telegraph Co."
(Mr. Girard).
Bill (76), " An Act to amend the Acts
respecting the London Life Insurance Co."
(Mr. Vidal.)
CANADA TEMPERANCE ACT
AMENDMENT BILL.
THIRD READING POSTPONED.

THIRD READING.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the 3rd reading of Bill (87), "An Act to
amend the Act 40 Victoria, Chapter 36,
intituled : 'An Act to provide for the
Employment without the walls of Common
Gaols, of Prisoners sentenced to imprisonment therein.' "
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the third time and passed.

CANNED GOODS BILL.
The order of the day having been
called, for the third reading of Bill (92),
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
" An Act further to amend 'the Canada
Liquor
Temperance Act, 1878,' and 'the
The House resolved itself into a ComLicense Act, 1883,"
mittee of the Whole on Bill (U), "An Act
respecting Canned Goods."
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
that the order of the day be disIN THE cOMMITTEE.
charged, and that it be made the first
order for Tuesday next.
On clause 2, sub-section 2,
HON. MR. POWER asked for an
HoN. MR. SCOTT said he thought it
was desirable to have the Bill printed, explanation.
with the amendments, and it was difficult
HON. MR. TURNER-The object of
even to get the copy of the Bill as it was
the sub-section is that fruit dried this seasent to the Senate.
son, and soaked the next and put in tins,
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL quite it is provided that such cans shall be
agreed with the hon. gentleman, and labelled or stamped with the word " soakhoped that the Speaker would give the ed," so as to show what they really are.
The clause was agrced to.
order to have the Bill printed.

Caenned Goods [MAY 21, 1885]
On the third clause,
HON SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL said:
This section relates to the standard size of
packages, the object being to fix a standard, and to make it contrary to law to
Put any label upon any package of canned
goods asserting that it is of that standard
,unless it is really so. I do not think,
however, that the expression in the clause
is very well adapted to carry out that
rneaning, and I propose to amend it so as
to carry out the object intended.

HON. MAR. POWER-I think the hon.
Minister might have done well for the
people who have to construe this clause if
he had re-cast it altogether. It is very
*clumsily worded. It says that the Governor-in-Council may declare certain sized
packages to be the standard size. That
is an incorrect expression to begin with,
because a package may be declared to be
of'the standard size, or they may fix certain dimensions for packages ; then, after
the publication in the Canada Gazette of
the Order-in-Council establishing such
standard size, " every person who places
on any package containing goods or
articles in respect of which such standard
size has been so established, &c." Now,
the standard size is not established as to
the goods or articles ; it is established as
to the packages. I do not suppose that
any mistake may occur fron it, but the
clause appears to have been drawn very
hurriedly in the other chamber.

Bill.

933

pound short. He does not put a label on
it that it is warranted six pounds, but it is
really sold as a six-pound can without having this mark of guarantee. It is recognized amongst the trade that there is a
specific quantity for each can, and no wellestablished house thinks of putting up
goods with a fraction over. The cans are
graded as a rule-one pound, two pounds,
three pounds, and so on-and not any
broken quantity or fraction, and it would
be very much simpler if we required, after
a certain date, that all these cans should be
put up in fixed quantities, and not in fractions of pounds, and then it would not be
necessary to have the Governor-in-Council establish a standard, and it would apply
to all manufacturers alike, whether they
put on the mark or not. It seems to me
that we are inviting a clear evasion of the
law, because we are only proposing to
punish parties where they practically
decide not to name the standard-that
the can does not contain the quantity provided for in the proclamation. I think
the Bill is really an excellent one, and it
would be much more simple and perfect
and harmonious if we adopted the simple
rule of having those goods put up, after a
certain time, in round quantities.
HON. MR. TURNER-The Act of
last year just called for what the hon.
member from Ottawa has stated, but it
was found to be impracticable.
Fruit
put up this vear, for instance, if it is a
good year, and fruit put up next year may
be very different in weight, and this standard size is suggested by the merchant as
well as by the manufacturer instead of
measure by weight. It is found to be
utterly impossible to put up goods one
year the same weight as the saine class of
goods put up another year, and the
remedy suggested is to adopt a standard of size instead of a standard of
weight. There is one thing I would like
to suggest to the Minister and that is the
words " and each which package does not
correspond with the standard size," should
be changed to "and which package is less
than the standard size."

HON. MR. SCOTT-As I read this
Bill, it does not appear to be contemplat,ed to make this standard compulsory ; it
is still open to every one to put up goods in
any sized can or package they please,
provided they do not mark it a particular
standard unless it be so. It appears to
me it would be a more simple one, and
One more satisfactory to the public, and I
dare say not unsatisfactory to the packer,
if it were declared that the goods should
be put up in proportions of one pound,
two pounds, four pounds, as the case
rnight be-regular quantities-and that
that should be the standard, because this
Act will naturally be evaded. A man will
HON. MR. MACDONALD (B. C.)have a tin that is very near the size ot a Would it not be necessary to have the
'Six pound tin, for instance, but it does not weight and quality of the stuff stamped
-contan six pounds,; it is perhaps half a on the label as well as the size ?

934A

Canned Goodâ [SENATE]

HON. MR. HOWLAN-I think the
hon. gentleman is quite right in that. The
object of this bill, as I understand, is this,
that the Government may have authority
to declare a standard size, and that a party
putting up goods under this standard size
shall put his name on it, and shall put his
stamp on it, and the weight whether it is
two pounds, three pounds, or five pounds.
If on examining those stamps, for instance,
a tin is stamped three pounds, and it is
found to be only two pounds and four
ounces, then the party is subject to a
fine.
It is very important that the
label shall specify the weight and contents.

Bill.

found to be wholly unworkable, and this
repeals the Act of last year and puts it in
a workable shape.

HON. MR. SMITIH-It has been found
that, in putting up tomatoes, and even
salmon, it is impossible to put the same
quantity always in the same sized can,
and if you provide that there must be one
pound weight in a package which is supposed to be a pound, it will sometimes
be short a quarter of an ounce, and any
crank that wants to take advantage of the
packer or seller could do so. They have
found in the United States, that the
proper way is for every factory to put
their stamp on the package-ones, twos
and threes, as the case may be-and sell
HoN. MR. MACDONALD (B. C.)If there is no weight stamped on the can them from the factory, such a packer,
according to the number, and they find it
there is no penalty for light weight.
to be the best way. You cannot, in all
HON. MR. POWER-In section four cases, get the cans to weigh alike.
there is a.provision for weight.
HON. MR. DEVER-Make them large
HON. MR. OGILVIE-I know, at the enough.
present time, tomatoes, green corn, fish
HON. MR. SMITH-Make them large
and all those things are notoriously short
in weight when compared with the label. enough, and the packers will put the full
A two-pound can seldom contains more weight in them, and the goods will sell
than a pound and a-half, or one pound according to the character of the packer
and three quarters, and a four-pound can and the marks. Say, there are 20,000
rarely exceeds three and a-half or three cans now made for a certain weight, and
if they are a quarter of an ounce less than
and three-quarter pounds.
that weight they would have to be thrown
HON. SiR
ALEX. CAMPBELLaway. They find it impossible to have
Is not this provided for in the next the weight exact, and, therefore, it is better
for the whole community to have a standclause ?
ard size for packages. In the United
HON. MR. MACDONALD (B. C.)States, they have got back to this very
Suppose the packer does not mark the principle, and it is better to leave the Bill
weight on the can at all, he does not come without providing a standard weight, as
under the penalty.
every packer will have his character and
starding at stake in putting in the right
HON.SIRALEX. CAMPBELL-There weight.
may be some practical difficulty in marking
the weight.
HON. MR. TURNER-There is a bill
now before the New York Legislature of
HON. MR. TURNER-The theory of the very same character as this. They
marking the weight on the label is right, have ceased to attempt to carry out what
but in practice it is thoroughly wrong. is impossible, and have adopted this very
The only plan by which this matter can principle.
be arranged is simply by providing a
The clause was adopted.
standard size for the packige, and keeping
to that size, and then preventing it from
On the fourth clause,
being interfered with. The Bill of last
year contains the very clause that is now
HON. MR. POWER-There is a prosuggested respecting weight, and it was vision in this clause that a variation of

Canned Goods [MAY 21, 1885]

Bil.

935-

half an ounce in each pound shall not be
HON. MR. TURNER-The packer is
deemed a violation of the provisions of not compelled to stanp the weight on the
the section. Some articles are put up in can, but if he does stamp it, and the weight
is short, he is liable to a fine. The Engvery small packages.
lish law is this: you can buy a package

MR. SMITH-There is nothing unmarked as a package, but if it is stamped
Put in less than one pound in those cans. as weighing two pounds, and it does not
HON.

contain two pounds, the packer is liable to
HON. MR. HOWLAN-In clause three a fine; but he is not compelled to stamp

the Governor-in-Council may declare a the weight.
standard size.

HON. MR. HOWLAN-This Bill proHON. MR. TURNER-There are no vides that the Governor-in-Council may

goods of this kind put up in less than one declare certain sized packages to be the
standard sizes, and if the Order-in-Council
Pound packages.
goes on to say that the standard size shall
HON. MR. SMITH-This applies to be 1, 2, or 3 pounds and so on, it provides
rnustard as well as other canned goods, for weight.
and under this clause you cannot import
HoN. MR. TURNER-The Order-inmustard.
Council makes it emphatic that the size
HON. MR. POWER-The sixth section shall be so and so, but this Bill does not
exempts foreign goods imported into provide for a specific weight ; but if the
Canada from the operation of the Act.
party takes upon himself to stamp his
packages as containing a specific weight
HON. MR. HOWLAN-If I under- he is liable to a fine if they do not contain
stand the hon.'gentleman, this is a Bill not that weight.
to conform the size of packages, but on
HON. MR. WARK-Most of the
the contrary to conform the weights.
canned goods sold are composed, to a
HON. MR. TURNER-It is only per- certain extent, of solid and liquid substances. Supposing that the solid and
missive.
liquid, of which the goods are composed,
HON, MR. HOWLAN-The Bill pro- contain a little more of the solid in one
vides that the Governor-in-Council may can than in another, the one containing
declare certain sized packages to be the the greater portion of solid matter is the
standard size for canned goods. These heavier, and I do not see how you can
are called standard sizes. The next adjust it, except by establishing a standard
feature of it is that the man who packs the size for the package.
goods shall put his name on the package
and after that he shall stamp on it the
HON. MR. POWER-The Act of last
number of pounds contained in the year provided that the canned goods
package.
should have the weight marked on the
packages, and also provided a penalty of
HON. MR. TURNER-He may do it two dollars for each tin, or can, or packThen it
or not, as he pleases.
age, that was not so marked.
was provided that it should only come
HON. MR. HOWLAN-If he does, into force on the 1st of January, 1885. I
and the number of pounds in the can do understand, however, that the Department
not compare with the number on the found that this section was unworkable,

label, he is liable to a fine.

If he does and they never put it into operation. It
not have a stamp on the package, he is was suspended by Order-in-Council, conliable to a fine ; and in certain cases he is sequently that ounce of experience is
allowed a variation of half an ounce. worth a great deal of theory. I think the
Now, if the packer is not compelled to Minister has suggested as to the point that
stamp the weight on the can, and it is I raised about the variation of half an
short in weight, he cannot be fined.
ounce, that it might be made not exceeding

936

Canned Goods

[SENATE]

Bill.

the rate of one-half ounce in each pound. I
HON. MR. SMITH-The hon. gentlethink the better way would be to say man does not understand the difficulty of
C'
provided always, that a variation of three putting the date on each can in that way.
per cent. shall not be deemed a violation
The clause was adopted.
of the provisions of this section," because
it relates to weight and size as well.
On the sixth clause,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
HoN. MR. KAULBACH said: I think
have no objection to that amendment.
the Minister of Justice will see the necesHON. MR. KAULBACH-I would sity of requiring packers to put the date of
suggest to the Minister of Justice that packing on each can. You can tell the
that should be made five per cent.; three capacity and weight of a can, but not how
long it has been kept in stock.
per cent. is too small.
HON. MR. POWER-I should like to
HON. MR. TURNER-The Departknow what the hon. member from Ham- ment have gained some experience since
ilton (Mr. Turner) thinks of that ?
the passing of the last Act. They found
that they had got themselves into an
HoN. MR. SMITH-You cannot bind awkward position in working it out. This
people to an exact thing in canned liquids. year they have adopted the more cautious
policy of feeling their way. A great nany
HoN. MR. TURNER-I think three of these changes are improvements, and
by-and-bye, when everything is in good
per cent. is quite enough.
working order, other improvements can
Hox. MR. SMITH-I want to save be effected. If you want to have this
those who have cans already made.
Act working properly, let it pass as it is
now, and we can afterwards deal with
HoN. MR. POWER-These canned other improvenents.
goods are sold in very large quantities. A
packer puts up perhaps a thousand packHoN. MR. KAULBACH-It will give
ages and sells them to one individual at grocers a chance to work off stale goods.
such a weight or quantity. Five per cent.
on that is a considerable quantity-fifty
HON. MR. DEVER-Above all things,
packages.
I believe the date of packing should be
marked on the package. What merchant
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It is very to-day would like to buy a hundred barrels
little to each purchaser.
of fish without knowing the date of
packing ?
ION. MR. POWER-Under the proposed amendment there might be the
HON. MR. SMITH-This Bill does not
weight of fifty packages in a thousand
deal with fish in barrels.
short. That is going a little too far.
Better leave it as the Department fixed it.
HON. MR. DEVER-Everyone knows
Three per cent. is what the other House
sent up, and what the Department fixed. that if the date of packing the fish were
not marked on the barrel, the greatest
Hox. SR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It imposition would be practised.
seems to be the opinion of the House
that it should be three per cent.
HoN. MR. TURNER-If herrings were
packed in scaled cans the date would make
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-Why should no difference.
not the date at which the article was
packed be put on the can ? The public
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLcan tell the weight, but they have no Crosse & Blackwell, and other well-known
means of knowing how long the contents firms do not put the date of packing
on their cans.
have been packed.
HoN. MR. POWER.

The North- We8t [MAY 22, 1885.] Rebellion.

937

HON. MR. HOWLAN-The next clause and there is, therefore, nothing fictitious
permits the packer to put the date of about them.

packing on his cans.

It is not compulsory.

THE NORTH-WEST REBELLION.
The clause was adopted.
INQUIRY.

HON. MR. GIRARD, from the Com-

mittee, reported the Bill with amendments,
HoN. MR. ALEXANDER rose to
which were concurred in.
call the attention of the Government to
the destitute condition of the wives and
The Senate adjourned at 4.25 p.m.
families of certain volunteers, who have
been killed or wounded in suppressing the
outbreak in our North-West, and ask the
Government whether it is their purpose to
grant immediate aid in those cases, where
THE SENATE.
such families are in a state of destitution?
He said : The question which I now
Ottawa, Friday, May 22nd, 1885.
submit to the House, is one which, in
The SPEAKER took the chair at three my judgement, calls for our most earnest
The dread calamity of
consideration.
o'clock
open insurrection has been brought
upon the country, which has led to much
Prayers and routine proceedings.
loss of life and to the maiming and
THE CANADA TEMPERANCE ACT. wounding of many of our young patriatc
and noble volunteers.
The whole united press and people
PETITIONS.
of the country are deeply sensible of the
nficingi, spirit manifested
HoN. MR. SMITH presented a number nanly and se/f-sam
of petitions, praying that ale, porter, lager by one and aIl of the force ordered to
beer, light wines and cicler be exempted proceed to the disaffected districts. The
from the operation of the Canada Tem- manner in which they have faced every
perance Act, and that the said Act may difficulty-undergoing great bodily sufnot come into force unless supported by a fering and privations, without a single
three-fifths majority of those voting. lie instance of rnurmuring-and the extrasaid : I can only say, in support of those ordinary valor which they have displayed
petitions, that they were not thought of in every conflict with the half breeds and
until last Saturday morning, and it shows Indians-displaying,as General Middleton
you the feeling of the country on this observed, the steadiness of the regulars of
subject.
I know a large number of the Her Majesty's service,-I say, when we
gentlemen who have signed those petitions calmly consider ail this, we must admit
in the several counties and cities from that they merit the most profound gratiwhich they come, and I can say that more tude of the country, and if, through
respectable petitioners have never pre- rendering this noble service-leaving their
sented a prayer to this bon. House. Take houses and avocations and trades-many
them ail in all, they are the true temper- of their families have been brought to
ance men of our country. They are men destitute circumstances-there cannot,
of wealth and standing, men who have surely, be two opinions, namely, that it is
the welfare of our country at heart, and the duty of the state to aid and relieve in
I earnestly hope that the House will give some measure such afflicted families.
their petitions that consideration to which Such affliction has not arisen from any
the standing and number of the petitioners improvidence on their part, but from their
entitle them.
The petitions presented praiseworthy desire to serve their country.
here to-day are signed by 35,526 electors They have gone forth as a nost exemplary
in the province of Ontario. In a great and industrious class of our young men
mnany cases where the petitions come upon a national public emergency to
from cities, the residence and number of restore law and order, where life and
the street are given with each signature, property were being daily sacrificed.

938

The North- West [SENATE] Rebellion.

Those men have risked the loss of their
regular employment and their lives, receiving little compensation for the services
they have rendered, and when we consider
that many of then are the fathers of
families who have been depending upon
them for their food and clothing, while
others are in the position of sons support-

ing a parent or other members of the
family ; I say, when we consider this, I
think we must all agree that in such cases
where the men have been killed or
wounded, or disabled upon that important
service, their families should not be left to
depend entirely upon private charity and
bounty.
I say, without hesitation, that we should
recognize the just claims of such families
thus deprived of their protectors, and of
their means of support, as claims upon the
state, and as claims richly deserving to be
recognized.
Special pleadings may be advanced:
ist.-That the men volunteered to go
on their own risk, and their families must
run the risk-and many other pleadings
may be made.
But I believe I express correctly the
feeling which generally animated our citizen soldiers to go to the front so cheerfully and without a murmur, when I say that
it was a feeling of duty and a high sense
of honor. They exclaimed :
" We entered the volunteer service in
times of peace, and it shall not be said
that we now shrink from the hardships,
and privations, and toil of long marches,
or from even facing the ambush mode of
warfare adopted by the Indian tribes."
Why, about a week ago the Queen's
Government cabled to us an announcement that £ioo stg. shall be given to the
widows of Canadian boatmen who perished on the Nile, and half that amount to
families who lost a son. Let it not be
said, that as a Parliament or a Government, we are insensible to the common
claims of humanity-which, in this case,
are so clear and conclusive. Let it not
be said that the action of this Parliament
is to appropriate moneys for the most contemptible party purposes-to enable one
party to defeat the other-but that we have
no moneys torelieve in any degree the families of those men who have been maimed
and wounded and shed their blood to
suppress an alarming insurrection.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER.

HON. MR. SCOTT-The subject that
the hon. senator from Woodstock has
brought to the nocice of the House is one
of great interest. We all deeply feel that
there is a great debt of gratitude due by
the people of this country to the volunteers who have so nobly performed the task
of subduing the rebellion in the NorthWest. They have, as the hon. gentleman
has observed, encountered very great
privations and hardships. Many of them
were not inured to that style of life. It
was perfectly novel to them, and for the
people of Canada they have risked their
lives. Many valuable lives have already
been taken in the short period since the
rebellion has broken out, and I am quite
sure that the people of Canada will feel that
it is a proper thing that no man who has
risked his life in the defence of the Dominion should suffer either in his own person
or in that of his family. Many public institutions fromwhich young men weredrafted,
had with a spirit of patriotism and propriety,
directed that their pay should go on, althcugh the volunteer was absent on service;
but there are many, no doubt, who have not
the kindly care that some employers have
manifested towards the volunteers. The
condition of those, if it is as at all represented by the hon. senator from Woodstock, (and I fear there are such cases)
should at once meet with the attention of
I am quite sure,
the Government.
whether their attention is drawn to it by
direct appeal or not, it should be at once
anticipated and every care taken that any
of the families of volunteers who have left
them dependent in any way, either upon
municipal charity or on the kindness of
friends, should be seen to ; that no family
should in any way suffer by the absence of
the bread-winner. We can all feel alike
on the subject. We all feel that too. much
cannot be said or too much done on behalf
of those who have risked their lives in order
that this rebellion might be put down, and
I hope, therefore,, to hear that the
Government duly appreciate the importance of this subject, and that
they will recognize those services with no
niggardly hand. The pay of a volunteer
we know is a bagatelle. It is preposterous to talk of a family being supported on
it. Many of the men now fighting our
battles in the North-West have had to
make large sacrifices. Those sacrifices.

Veights and Measgures [MAY 22, 1885] Act Ainendment Bill.
ought not to fall on them, but on the
people of Canada, by whom it will not be
regarded as a burden, but as a debt of
gratitude that will be gladly paid. The
families of any men who are lost in that
country should receive attention, not on
the old basis, not rated on the basis that
the pension is paid on in the regular arny,
but on a basis which will show that the
people of Canada duly recognize their
patriotic service. Most ample remuneration should be left to the families, that the
pecuniary loss of the head of the house
shall not be felt. The keen anguish of
mind will have to be endured, but so far
as sympathy and consideration for support
hereafter are concerned, I am quite confident that the whole of the people of
Canada are in accord on that subject, and
it ought not to require any proposition on
the part of Parliament, although it is the
correct avenue through which opinion
should be expressed, to assure the Government that they cannot overstep the
line in that direction. Our acts should be
generous rather than fair, and I trust here
that the Minister of Justice, when he
discloses what the policy of the Government will be, will inforrn the House that
it will be such as will assure the people
of Canada that they have not been unrnindful of, or ungrateful to, the volunteers
who have so nobly gone to the front on
short notice.
HoN. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL The hon. gentleman from Ottawa will, of
course, perceive that it requires time to
get the necessary information together, in
order to deal with those cases. No specific cases have come yet under the notice
of the Governmeut. We only know generally, as all the world knows, and as the
newspapers assert, that there are cases
such as the hon. gentleman describes.
The Government are quite sensible of the
obligation which the country owes to the
volunteers who have been fighting their
battles in the North-West, and will not be
found wanting in their duty in regard to
them. But until all the information
which is necessary to deal with the cases
0f those who have suffered has been got
together, it will be impossible for us to
take any step. It will be necessary that
we should deal with all of them, and in
order to get this information some time

939

will be required. In the meantime, I can,
only express my concurrence in very much
of what has fallen from my hon. friend
and assure him that the matter is under
the consideration of the Government, and
that they duly appreciate their position
with regard to these unfortunate sufferers.
HON. MR. ALMON-Have the Government received any information to-day
from the North-West ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I understand that the telegram announcing
that Poundmaker had asked on what
terms he could surrender, is true. I do
rot know whether the Minister of Militia
has received any specific information himself on the subject, but he tells me that he
has no doubt the information published
to-day is true.

HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEHas any news been received concerning,
Mrs. Delaney ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
do not know that the Government have
received any tidings about her.
HON. MR. DEVER-It is reported
about town to-day that she is safe.

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
AMENDMENT BILL..

ACT

SECOND READING.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the second reading of Bill (i 18), " An
Act further to amend the Acts relating to
Weights and Measures."
He said: The
first clause of this Bill repeals the section,
cf the Weights and Measures Act which
provided that 25 gallons should mean a
barrel, and substitutes in lieu of it " two
gallons shall be a peck, and eight
gallons shall be a bushel." It also provides certain weights for various products,
and what a barrel of apples shall mean.
The reasons why some of these alterations,
are made I will give in committee.
There is one with reference to bituminous.
coal. It would seern that where coal is.
retailed it is frequently sold by measure,
to the injury of those who buy. The
effect of the Bill in that respect would be.

940

Veight8 and Mea8ure8 LSENATE] Act Azmendment Bill.

to compel persons to sell coal by weight ;
it will be much safer for those persons
vho buy coal in small quantities.
The
barrel adopted as the standard for apples,
is a flour barrel.
HON. MR. POWER-I think that the
plan adopted by the draughtsman in preparing this Bill is calculated to mislead.
The only effect of the second clause is to
add " bituminous coal 70 lbs.," to the
lexisting law. The attempt to enforce the
sale of goods by weight, instead of by
mieasure, is of questionable wisdom. I see
it is open for parties by special agreement
to sell by measure.
I know that in the
city of Halifax, the law provided that coal
should be sold by weight in large quantities, and I think the same provision exists
as to potatoes and turnips and things of
that sort, but it has been found so inconvenient that the law is almost uniformly
disregarded, and such products are sold
by measure. I think that the better way
would be to leave the parties to decide for
themselves whether the goods should be
sold bv measure or by weight, provided,
of course, if these goods are sold by weight
they shall be at the weight specified in t.he
second clause of this Bill. I think it would
be better to modify the second clause so
as to leave it optional with the parties to
sell either by weight or by measure, simply
providing that if they do sell by measure,
the weight of a bushel shall be as set out
in the clause.
HoN. MR. DEVER-I rather disagree
with my hon. friend about coal. I do not
know what the practice is at Halifax, but
I know in the city of St. John hard coal is
universally sold by weight.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is
safer.
HON. MR. DEVER--All respectable
wholesale dealers in coal provide themselves with a large platform scale and
the weight of each cart is known, and
the coal is weighed in that way. It is a
municipal law; whether it will be satisfactory or not that the Dominion
Covernment should take possession of
the weighing scales, I cannot say. Soft
coal is more universally used in Nova
.Scotia. I do not think soft coal could be

HoN.

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL

as safely weighed as it could be measured ;
so, to meet the requirements of the trade
in both soft and hard coal, it would be
well to have the two means of weighing
and measuring; that is, weighing for the
hard coal, and measuring, perhaps, for the
other. Soft coal is liable to absorb wet,
and it would not always be fair to sell it
by weight, but hard coal is a different
commodity. I think the fairest way to
both parties would be to have it weighed
and see that proper scales are provided
for the purpose.
HON. MR. WARK-Have the Government ascertained how far this will interfere
with the shipment of apples ? I believe
it is now the rule in Canada to use barrels
of the size indicated in this Bill ; but in
the United States the barrel holds only
two bushels. We ship very large quantities
of apples now from the Annapolis valley to
England to compete with the American
apples, and it might be very awkward to
have to make our barrels larger than the
American barrels. It would be well to
inquire how this would affect the export of
apples from Nova Scotia.

HON. MR MCINNES (B.C.)-I hope
when this Bill is referred to a committee
of the whole House, that the Minister of
Justice will accept of a suggestion, to do
away with bushels and pecks, when applied to solids, altogether. I think it is
high time that we should drop the old and
rather tedious way of disposing of solids
by the bushel. I speak after some years
experience on the Pacific coast, and I say
that the system of selling by weight prevails there from Mexico to Alaska. If
you buy anything solid, whether it is
potatoes, hay, grain or anything solid, it
bought by weight, whether it is 10, 20 or
ioo lbs. or a ton or 1oo tons, and I think
it is by all odds the fairest way of buying
or selling. You know what you are buyng then. So far as fluids are concerned,
that is an entirely different matter. I
cannot agree with the hon. member from
Halifax with respect to dispcsing of coal
by measurement.
It would be only a
short time, if bushels were done away
with, until they would fall into it, and it
would be a great deal more acceptable
and convenient than the present system.
It is within rny own recollection when we

Weights and Ieasures [MAY, 22 1885] Act A mendnent Bill.
had the Halifax currency and figured up
the price of everything in pounds, shillings, pence and farthings. We all know
how readily we got into the decimal currency, and I believe as great an improvement could be effected in the present
system if the bushel were expunged in the
case of solids. I merely throw out the
suggestion, so that when the Bill is referred
to a committee of the whole, the matter
can be considered.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-While I agree
with the hon. gentleman from British
Columbia, there would be some hardship,
I think, in adopting selling by weight in
the Maritime Provinces, unless it is made
optional. A vessel might go for a cargo
of potatoes to some place in Prince
Edward Island, where there is no means
of weighing, and it would be better under
such circumstances to leave it optional to
sell either by weight or by measure. This
Bill provides what a bushel shall be.
While I am strongly in favor of the decimal system and of weighing all solids,
still until we get further advanced in that
direction this is a good Bill, because it
leaves it optional with the purchaser and
vendor to make their arrangements either
to weigh or measure. I think the hon.
member's suggested amendment would
cause a great deal of inconvenience to
vessels taking cargoes of turnips, potatoes
and oats from small ports in the Maritime
Provinces where they would have no
means of weighing them. It is difficult to
weigh roots except on a large scale, where
they can be weighed by the cartload.
With regard to the apple question, the
hon, gentleman from Fredericton is misinformed as to the American system of
Putting up apples. This Bill is to conform to the American system. The barrel
provided for here is the flour barrel.
Section 3 is as follows :" All apples packed in Canada for sale shall
be packçed in good and strong barrels of
seasoned hardwood or bassv ood made as
nearly cylindrical as may be; the staves of
such barrels shail be 27 inches in length from
croe to croe, with heads from 16 and one-half
to 17 inches in diameter; and sucli barrels
shall be sufficiently hooped, with a lining

94t

is proposed, because I know last year,.
myself, a large quantity of apples came
from Nova Scotia to Charlottetown, and
at an auction sale there was as great a
variety of barrels as there were coopers.
who made the barrels. There was a
difference of from one-fourth of an inch to
one inch in the length of the staves. This
Bill provides for a uniform size, and in.
the United States apples are packed in
barrels of this size. Each barrel holds.
two bushels and three pecks.
HON. MR. POWER-My hon. friend
behind me (Mr. Dever) was mistaken in
his criticism of what I said, because this
Bill refers only to soft coal and consequently the hon. member agrees with me..

I think our countrymen on the Pacific
slope are a little further advanced than
we are on the Atlantic coast, but if our
people are benighted enough to prefer to
remain in their present condition for a
little while longer, I do not see why our
advanced friends should not allow them,
to do so. The hon. member from Alberton has given a very good reason why the
sale of roots by weight should not bemade compulsory, and I had in my mind,
when I spoke, the case of a Halifax merchant visiting the province of Prince
Edward Island to purchase a cargo of
roots, and that is why I said that the
purchaser, as well as the seller, would
prefer that the sale should be by measure
rather than by weight, and the vessels
which bring coal from Cape Breton are in
somewhat the same position. If it suits.
the buyer and seller to have goods sold
by measure rather than by weight, I do
not see why they should not be allowed to
do as they please about it. My suggestion

was that the necessity for a special agreement should be done away with. The
Bill says that a bushel shall be determined
by weighing, unless the bushel by measure
is specially agreed upon. If a man buys
a bushel of anything he understands that

it is measured. If he wants to. buy so
many pounds of an article then of course
it is weighed, and I think the better way
would be simply not to require a special
agreement where the article is bought by
hoop within the chimes, the whole well the bushel.
secured by nails."
That is the exact size of a flour barrel,
HoN. MR. McINNES (B. C.)-In
and it is to conform to that that this Bill reply to the arguments advanced by the

942 Administration of Ju8tice [SENATE] in the 1V.- West Territories.
hon. imembers from Alberton and Halifax, with regard to the difficulties which
might arise from not having scales to
weigh those articles, it might be made
compulsory on vessel owners to have
scales on board their vessels-that is, those
that deal in produce or coal. It would
not cost a great deal. As far as bituminous coal is concerned, that is the quality
we have in British Columbia, and they
never think of buying it there by measurement; it is all by weight.

tended to be in the interest of poorer
purchasers.
Poor people want sometimes to buy a half a bushel of oats for
instance, and, however it might answer
the purposes of those who deal wholesale,
sale by weight does not so answer the
purposes cf the poor man. It is the
same with coal. A poor man goes into a
coal store and buys perhaps enoügh for a
week's consumption, and for the convenience of those poorer purchasers, we must
have some such systern as is here proposed. I am quite in favor of the adopt.
HON. MR. POWER-We do not want ion of the cental system in dealing with
to interfere with you.
the rest of the world, but we must retain
on the statute book a measure of this
HON. MR. McINNES-I venture to kind in the interest of the poorer classes.
say if you put that once on the statute
book the majority of the people living
HON. MR. SCOTT-The 17th section
down there by the sea will prefer it to the of the Act of 1879, provides for precisely
the same articles being sold by weight.
systern of measurement.
HON. MR. READ-It will be in the
recollection of many of us that an attempt
was made a few years ago to introduce the
decimal system of measurement on this
continent, and it has been, in certain
places, established. To-day all grains are
sold by the ioo lbs. in Detroit. In Liverpool, England, all grain is sold by the ioo
lbs. and the sooner we can come to that
system, also, the better. They speak of
the inconvenience of selling potatoes or
coal or turnips by weight, but it is certainly
as convenient to weigh them as to measure them. I say it is more convenient to
weigh them, and it is decidedly safer and
more just, and I look forward to see that
system adopted entirely, and that this antiquated system that 34 lbs. shall be a
bushel and 6o lbs. shall be a bushel, and
so on will be altogether done away with.

HON. MR. ALMON-I would like to
ask how oysters are to be sold ? I sometimes buy a bushel of shell oysters, and I
would not like to be told that I was buying
them illegally in that way.
LON. MR. FLINT-The hon. gentleman, being a surgeon, ought to know how
to separate the oyster from the shell, and
then he could measure his oysters.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I think it
is very just when applied to wholesale
transactions, but this Bill is evidently in-

HON. MR, McINNES.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
clause has been repealed and re-enacted
in this Bill.

The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE IN
THE NORTH-WEST TERRITORIES BILL.
SECOND READING.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the second reading of Bill (V), "An Act
respecting the Administration of Justice,
and other matters in the North-West
Territories."
He said: This Bill proposes to make
certain changes in the law of the NorthWest, which changes are not very importart except as regards the final one, which
is to prohibit the sale of arms. The earlier
changes are to remove some defects which
have developed themselves from time to
time in the law as it now stands with
respect to the North-West Territories.
The first one is to remove the restrictions as to penalties which are imposed
respecting certain offences. The original
Act restricted it to $io. The Stipendary
Magistrates there thought it doubtful
whether this penalty did not interfere
w.th the 'power to impose imprisonnent
as well as a fine, and it was thought better

Adminitration of Justice [MAY 22,1885] in the 1.-We8t Territories. 943
to repeal the fine altogether, and allow
the magistrates to impose any fine they
please. The next one is to provide more
certainly for taxation there. Some doubt
has arisen respecting the power of the
Council to impose a tax for school purposes, and we want to remove any doubt
with regard to that. The next is with
regard to the electoral districts. It seems
as the law stands that where an electoral
district is once constituted that it becomes
crystalized and cannot afterwards be
changed. After the population increases
they may want tochange a district and there
is no reason why they should not have the
right to change the electoral districts from
time to time. The next clause is held
back for the House of Commons, it is with
respect to the appointment of Stipendary
Magistrates. The next clause is to provide for a man being tried, if he pleases,
by the Stipendiary Magistrate without the
intervention of a jury. With regard to the
sale of arms we think it better, considering the disturbed state of that part of the
Dominionthat the sale of arms of precision
should be restricted for a time at all events,
and we have adopted the same language
that we adopted here some years ago
when we thought it desirable to impose
some such restriction with regard to the
sale of arms. A district may be proclaimed, and within that district so long as
the law remains in force, the sale of arms
of precision shall be restricted.
The exception is smooth-bore arms, muzzle-loading arms, inasmuch as smooth-bore breach
loaders are liable to be used with an inside
rifle barrel, by which they are enabled
to be converted into rifle-shooting arms.
The power will be exercised by the Governor-in-Council, and the proclamation
may be revoked by Order-in-Council. I
think the House will agree that under the
circumstances now prevailing in the NorthWest some such restriction is necessary.
When first the news came down from the
North-West it was generally believed that
the half-breeds and Indians were well
armed with rifles, and that we were going
to encounter a foe that were well armed.
Happily it has turned out that they were
only partially provided with arms of precision. After a district has been proclaimed
under this Act, anybody that sells arms to
an Indian will be liable to a penalty. I
think the House will agree with me that

the sale of such arms should be restrained
and that this will be a safe provision in
the interests of the country.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I entirely approve
of the proposition of the Government to
prohibit the introduction of what is called
the rifle, and superior small arms into the
North-West. Some years ago when I had
to do with the administration of that
country through the Mounted Police, I
was very much impressed with the danger
that was likely to arise from the introduction of superior arms into that country.
It was brought to my notice, as far back as
1876 or 77, the number of superior arms
that were being brought into the NorthWest by the traders, and without legislation
I endeavored to stop it in a moderate way.
I remember at the time being deeply impressed with the probable dangers that
might arise with the distribution of improved fire-arms amongst the nomadic
population of that country ; therefore, I
think it is not too soon to adopt a
positive enactment that what are known
as the Winchester and Snider, and
superior arms, apart from the smooth
bore, should be prohibited. In addition
to that, I think that in future settlements that will have to be made with
the Indians, more particularly those who
have taken up arms in rebellion, that one
of the conditions on which peace should
be made with the savages is the surrender
of all rifles in their possession. The shot
gun, of course, must be permitted. They
will largely depend upon the game that
they kill for their living and the shot gun
should be left to them. But I think, outside of what is known as the ordinary shot
gun, all the superior arms should be taken
away and. only permitted, in that country,
to volunteers that will, no doubt, now meet
and form companies in the various
centres, where population has gravitated.
Outside of that I think the rifle ought not
to be permitted to be sold. My hon.
friend proposes to exclude also the breach
loader. I do not know that that is
material, because I do not see any special
difference as far as the bullets are concerned, between the breach loader and
the muzzle loader. We all remember the
old Brown Bess as a muzzle loader, and
the execution that was done with it. Shot
guns will carry bullets whether you put

94A4A

The Adulteration [SENATE] Act.

them in at the muzzle or at the breach, This is a Bill prepared in the Department
but they will not carry such a long dis- of Inland Revenue for the purpose of
tance.
preventing the adulteration of agricultural
fertilizers, and also to make some alteraHON. MR. MACDONALD - What tions with respect to the adulteration of
will become of the stock of rifles in the food and drugs. The changes, I think,
hands of traders ? It may be a very great down to sub-section i of G, on the second
loss to many of them who would be de- page, are not very important. That one
requires that the component parts of any
terred from selling.
mixture sold as a fertilizer are to be menHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
tioned on the label in conspicuous
should not think there would be any very characters forming an inseparable part of
large stocks of rifles in the hands of the general label, which shall also bear
traders out there. However, I will con- the name and address of the manufacturer.
Then there is a clause adding:sider that point.
(À.) Every agricultural fertilizer shall be
HON. MR. DEVER-I do not wish to deemed to be '- adulterated " within the imeaninterfere, in any way, in anything that ing of this Act, if, when sold, offered or ex-

would be the means of making that country safer than it is for persons who reside
in it, but I would say to the Minister of
Justice that the breech loader is the gun of
the day as a fowling piece. In fact, the
muzzle loader is completely obsolete.
Nobody will have it who can get a breechloader, and I do not know that the
breech loader is any more dangerous
than the muzzle loader. I have both at
home, and I know if I were to use a
rmooth bore for bullets, I would use the
muzzle loader and not the breech loader.
HON. MR. POWER-I think we had
better leave the Bill as it is. I do not
think there will be, for some time, any
danger there from muzzle loaders, or
I think General
breech loaders either.
Middleton, with his shrapnel shell and
gatling guns, has put an end to any
danger of trouble in the immediate
future. The provision is a very wise one
I think that reas it stands in the Bill.
stricting the people out there not to kill
game, except with muzzle loaders, would
drobably be very inconvenient.

The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
THE ADULTERATION ACT.
SECOND READING.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the second reading of Bill (W), "An Act
respecting the adulteration of food, drugs,
He said:
and agricultural fertilizers."

HON. MP SCOTT.

posed for sale, the chenical analysis thereof
shows a deficiency of more than one per cent.

of any of the chemical substances, the percentages whereof are required to be specified
in the certiticate bv " ihe Fertilizers Act,
1885," required to be affixed to each barrel,

box, sack or package containing the same,
or, if the agricultural fertilizer is in bulk, to.
be produced to the inspector; or if it contains
less than the minimum per centage of such.
substances required by the said Act to be
contained in such fertilizer.
Clauses 20 and 21 are entirely new.

They provide for the detention of the
article until the sample is analyzed and
also for the confiscation of adulterated
Clause 25 is also new and proarticles.
vides a penalty for attaching a false label.
The other changes in the Act, I will explain to the Committee when the Bill is.
being considered clause by clause.

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I thought
that we had dealt satisfactorily last session
with the subject of agricultural fertilizers,
and I was therefore rather surprised to see7
the subject alluded to again in the Bill
before us. It strikes me that the percentage mentioned here is rather large..
It seems to be supposed that an agricultural fertilizer contains a certain
percentage of some specific article and
that the whole of the rest is of a
uniform value; but the actual soluble
contents of oo lbs. weight of an agricultural fertilizer is a comparatively small
proportion-and one per cent. deficiency
in that, seerns to be a rather large proportion. I arn not sufficiently conversant
with the subject myself to be able to offera decided opinion, but on looking over-

An [MAI 20, 1885.] Adjournrnent.
the Bill is struck me that i per cent. was a
large percentage of the more valuable
proportion of the fertilizer, the percentage
of which is specified on the label; I therefore took the opportunity of communicating with a competent person on this subject, and I have not had time yet to receive a reply; but perhaps if the Bill is
not hurried through, if nobody in the
House at present is able to enlighten us
on that point, it will be settled in another
way.
HON. MR. WARK-It will depend upon what construction is put upon the term
" i per cent." If it is i per cent. of the
whole 100 lbs., or i per cent. of the ingredient which is supposed to give value
to the mixture, that ought to be carefully
defined.

945

FORT McLEOD RANCHE TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
SECOND

READING.

HoN. MR. GIRARD moved the second
reading of Bill (8o), "An Act to incorporate the Fort McLeod Ranche Telegraph
Company." He said: The object of this
Bill is to incorporate a company to establish telegraphic communication between
Calgary and Fort McLeod. As it is very
desirable that that part of the country
should have as mûch telegraphic communication as possible, I am sure there will
be no disposition on the part of this
House to oppose the second reading of
the Bill.

The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
HON. MR. POWER-I am very glad
to see a measure of this kind introduced.
AN ADJOURNMENT.
The adulteration of food, and drugs and
agricultural fertilizers, is just one of those
things vhich, in the interest of the pubHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
lic, the Government should deal with, and ought to have moved yesterday that when
I am very glad to see that the Department the House adjourns to-day it do stand adot Inland Revenue has taken hold of this journed until Tuesday next, over the
matter, and when we come to examine Queen's Birthday. I now move, with the
the Bill in detail I trust it will be found as permission of the House, the suspension
good as we expect it to be. I shall now of the 14th rule, which is the one requircall the attention of the Minister to one ing an intermediate day's notice, in order
expression in this Bill which I do not to enable me to move that when the House
understand. In sub-section D of section adjourns to-day it stand adjourned until
2 there is a reference made to the Fertiliz- Tuesday next
ers Act of 1885. As far as I know, no
such Bill has been passed this session.
HON. MR. POWER-I do not object
There may have been, but if there is I am to the Minister's motion, but I do not
not aware of it.
think the two motions should be coupled
together. I think the first motion should
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-This be to suspend the rule and then when
is the Bill.
that motion is carried the motion for ad
jouriment should be moved.
HON. MR. POWER-This Bill is cited
as the Adulteration Act. I have been
THE SPEAKER-The usual course in
looking at the Act of last year, respecting
agricultural fertilizers, and it does not this House has been to couple the two
refer to any officer who is authorized to motions together.
Procure those samples and it has no shor t
title, and it occurs to me that possibly
HON. MR. POWER-That may be, but
there is some error there.
I do not think it is regular, because any
single member, by objecting to the motion
H1ON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-There on the ground of want of notice, may stop
rnay be some error there ; I will inquire. it altogether, whereas once the suspension
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill of the rule is agreed to the majority of the
was read the second time.
House can carry the adjournment.
K2

946

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

THE SPEAKER-The motion as put have an opportunity to speak on the third
to the House is, I think, the usual one, reading of the Bill. I therefore desire to
and quite regular.
enter at some length into the question
because a great many others have done
The motion was agreed to.
so, and in approaching it I intend to do
so as calmly and as considerately as I can.
The Senate adjourned at 4.35 p.m.
It is not necessary to mention my principies here ; they are well known in this
House. But I think I have a right to
give my views on this question, and I
THE SENATE.
shall endeavor to do so in as frank a manner as I possibly can in touching on such
Ottawa, Tuesday, May 26th, 1885.
subjects, as I think most proper for me to
do as a supporter of the great cause of
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three total abstinence. It may be recollected
o'clock.
that when my hon. friend from Sarnia
first rose to address the House, he
Prayers and routine proceedings.
mentioned the number of places where
the Act had passed and the majorities in
CANADA TEMPERANCE ACT, AND its favor, and he contended from that, that
LIQUOR LICENSE ACT
if the majorities were of that nature he
could claim for the Act that wherever it
AMENDMENT BILL.
had been adopted it was by a fair majority.
The hon. gentleman from Niagara took
THIRD READING.
issue with him on that question and stated,
The Order of the Day having been if I mistake not, that where the majority
called for the third reading of Bill 92, did not amount to more than half the
" The Canada Temperance Act 1878, and total vote, those that did not vote niight
the Liquor License Act 1883, further be considered to be opposed to the Scott
Act. The hon. gentleman from Amherst
amendment Bill " as amended ;
also took that ground, but I think both
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL said: gentlemen are mistaken and I shall give
I hardly remember how this Bill got into myreasonswhyI think they were mistaken.
my name, as I had not charge of it ; it is The great question of the re-passing of the
Mr. Vidal's Bill, but I will move the third Act in the county of Halton was one which
reading, pro forma, seconded by Mr. was taken up very strongly on both sides of
the question, and at that time it was cur
Vidal.
rently reported, and I believe correctly
HON. MR. VIDAL - I decline to reported, too, that $io,ooo had been raised
for the purpose of endeavoring to defeat
second it.
the Act in the county of Halton. Some
HON. MR. FLINT-It will be recol- persons stated that they had subscribed
lected that on the withdrawal of the mo- largely towards it and mentioned it as a
tion to throw out the Bill, it was stated matter of fact that persons were employed
that if we would allow the Bill to go into to lecture against the Scott Act, and they
committee any one who wished to ad- were well paid, but unfortunately for those
dress the House on the subject would who spent their money in that way their
have an opportunity to do so on the third efforts were a failure, and the Act was
reading. I intended to have spoken on sustained by a much larger majority than
that occasion, but as my hon. friend on the first occasion.
Now, I hold that if with that noney the
the Minister of Justice rose at the
same time that I did, I took my seat for Anti-Scott men could not bring sufficient
the purpose of knowing what he intended support to vote down the Act, it certainly
to say, and on finding what he intended showed that those who did not vote at all
to do, I informed the House that I would were as much, or even more, in favor of
speak on the subject, and the hon. gentle- the Act than they were opposed to it.
man very courteously told me I would This is a principle which I think may be

Temperance Act, etc., [MAY 26, 1885] Amendment Bill.
laid down as perfectly sound-that those
who were opposed to the measure, with
the large amount of means that they had
at their command, used all the influence
that they possibly could exercise, and
they certainly failed to defeat the Act
there ; they having failed to do so, I have
a right to assume that those who remained at home did so from a belief that there
would be a majority in favor of the Act,
and that they were as much supporters of
the Act as if they had voted for it. What
took place there has occurred in other constituencies, and consequently 1 must differ
from the hon. member from Niagara and
others who have used the same argument,
and I have a right to claim for our side
those who did not go to the polls ; if they
had not been in favor of the Act they
certainly should have made some effort to
prevent its being carried.
The hon. member from Niagara mentioned, though I did not notice it just at
the time, that the 145th clause of the Act
was being dealt with in the House in
reference to what is called the McCarthy
Act, which embraced all that was necessary on that subject, and, therefore, that
that amendment was not necessary as far
as regarded the Bill before the House ;
but unfortunately it happens that that is
not so. I do not accuse the hon. gentleman of wishing to misstate the case, but he
certainly was incorrect, because I flnd on
page 472 of the Votes and Proceedings of
the House of Cominons that a resolution
was passed in the following words :Resolved, That in the opinion of this House

such

vortions of the Liquor License Act of

petition, and to read some portions of it,
in order to present the views which I
entertain. The second paragraph is as
follows :
Your memnorialists are informed that so far
from the expectations entertained by the
advocates of the Act, of beneficial effects of a
moral nature having been realized, the quantities of ardent spirits sent into counties where
the Act is in force, and consumed therein,
have been greatly increased, but your memorialists are not thenselves in posses>ion of
sufficient official information to enable them
to vouch for the correctness of this statement.

Now, here were the liquor dealers themselves, petitioning in reference to this Act,
and dealing in the article, as they must
have been, or they certainly would not
have signed this petition, they must have
known whether there was an increase in
the sale or not; but they were very
cautious, far more so than some hon.
gentlemen in this House, in making the
statement that there was more liquor sold
and used in those localities than before.
They took the precaution to say that they
could not make a statement in reference
to that matter.
So far as that goes, it
shows, at least, that the liquor dealers
thenselves ought to have the best opportunity of knowing whether a greater or
less quantity of liquor was consumed in
those places after the adoption of the Act
than before, because those who sold it
must have known most about it. There
could not have beenl a much larger
quantity consumed in those places than
formerly, because, as a matter of fact,
there was not as much liquor manufactured
in Canada in 1884 as there was in 188 3 ,
by some 25 per cent.

1883,' and the Act to amend the Liquo
License Act of 1883, as the Supreme Court of
Canada has declared to he ultra vires, should
be suspended inless and until the saine shall
HoN. MR. DEVER-Was there
be decided by the Judical Committee of the more imported ?
Privy Council to be intra vires of the Parlia-

ment of Canada.
Now, that certainly excludes the 14 5 th
clause which is contained in the amendment now before us, and consequently my
hon. friend is mistaken on that subject. I
believe he would not intentionally misstatc
the case, and I wish to correct the error
now.
The junior member from Halifax pre
Sented a petition to this House which ai
his request was read at length at the table.
I feel that it is necessary for me, in discus
sing this matter, to make mention of thai

94A7

no

HoN. MR. FLINT-I wish the hon.
gentleman to understand this: that I do
not interrupt anybody, and I do not like
to be interrupted myself.
HON. MR. DEVER-It is as well to
have the thing fairly stated to the House.
HON. MR. FLINT-At all events there
was far less beer and far less liquor manufactured in the country in 1884 than there
was in 1883.

948

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Anendment Bill.

HON. MR. DEVER-But there was pended by Act of Parliament, in order
more imported.
that its opponents may have a chance to
try and break it down again? I do not
HoN. MR. FLiNT-That being the think they could do so, but nevertheless,
case, certainly it must have come from it would place the supporters of the Act
somewhere, and if it was imported it can in a very wrong position. The districts
easily be shown. If it was smuggled it that have adopted the Act, have done so
would be difficult to ascertain ; but if there with their eyes open, and they have a
was such a large quantity over and above right to protection for that Act, and there
what was manufactured in the country is no reason why their right should be
used, and particularly in those localities taken away from them in the manner sugwhere it is alleged to have been used, gested by the opponents of the Act.
then it must have come from some- Some hon. gentlemen have said a great
where.
I repeat we have reason to deal about the value of property and so
believe that the liquor sellers them- on, and the effect that the adoption of
selves who signed that petition would this Act would have on the banks holdknow as much or more about it than ing promissory notes and other commergentlemen who did not sell the article. cial paper of men in the liquor trade. I
Now, these petitioners ask us to have a ask what better positions should these men
commission appointed to examine into hold in relation to the banks, than men in
this matter. It is very singular, indeed, any other branch of trade ? 1, as a lumthat after this Act has been on our statute berman, another gentleman as a merchant,
books for eight years they find out when and another as a manufacturer, are we
it is being carried in another part of the not subject to the same difficulties and
country that it is necessary to have a com- the same vicissitudes of trade that the
mission appointed to examine and ascer- liquor dealers are ? And when the banks
tain whether their allegations are true. It advance money on their paper, they have
seemns to me it should have been taken in to run the same risk on it as they have to
hand long ago by those who think that run with the paper of the liquor dealer.
the Act has been a failure. How are we Those who are engaged in other branches
to examine the question ? Will liquor of business have just as good a right to
dealers act fairly or will they not return protection from Parliament in relation to
more liquor as sold than really has been the banks as the liquor dealers have. It
sold ? We have got to depend upon their is absurd, however, for the liquor dealers
own honesty, and I am afraid, from my to say that the banks are going to stop
knowledge of some liquor dealers, that advancing them money where the Act is
very little honesty will be found in some carried, or that it is going to ruin them.
of them. Now they want this important I do not believe it will. I do not believe
commission and they ask that the Act be it will from the fact that I do not see any
suspended. Here is an Act which has necessity for it. If a tavern keeper is debeen on the statute book for eight years. prived of his license under this Act he
Up to the present time over 6o counties does not lose so much of the value of his
and cities have adopted it, and most of property or his credit. Nothing but the
them are endeavoring to work it to the bar room is taken out. The house is
present day, and notwithstanding that open, and the travelling community have
these petitioners want rý come down now the benefit of peace and quietness instead
and have the Act suspinded.
of, as in many instances now, being deThey want to have t he Act suspended prived of their ease and comfort by the
pending this great inquiry that is to be noise and excitement in the bar rooms.
made by this proposed commission, and I know, of my own experience, where it
then they want to turn us back again, and has been impossible for me to have an
they want the whole thing to be done hour's rest at a hotel, in consequence of
over in orderto accommodate those gentle- the rows corried on in the bar room. I
men, or they will not be satisfied. Why do not see how the banks can suffer
should that be the case? Why should under this Act. Then, as to loan comthe Act be passed in so many counties panies, all I have to say is, from my own
and cities, and then its operation be sus- knowledge of them, the more they lose

Temperavce Act, etc., [MAY 26, 1885] Amendment Bll.

949

the better, and the quicker they break up as a vested interest exists, and that, subject

the better for the country.
HoN. MR.

McMILLAN-You

have

no stock there.
HON. MR. FLINT-I have no stock
there, and I never intend to have. I
have no stock except in my own self, and
in my own pocket. A great deal has
been said about vested rights ; now, hon.
gentlemen, what are vested rights ? Is a
grant, under an Act of Parliament, to
certain persons to sell liquor for twelve
months to make a vested right-that they
have a right for all time to come-and if
the licenses are not issued to them for all
time to come, that they have a right to
compensation ? I say not ; I say it cannot possibly be. I, as a lumberman, and
others in the same business, obtain
licenses in the same way for our limits,
as the liquor dealers obtain their licenses
for the sale of liquor. There is a law in
reference to timber lands, under which
the Government give a timber berth, and
we pay our license fee, and at the end of
the year we have to renew that license ;
supposing the Government see fit to withdraw one, two, or twenty lots from the
license, we have no right to go back to
the Government and say that because we
have built a mill, we have a claim
for damages for lots being sold out of our
limits. I have had some of the most
valuable lots taken from my limits in that
way and sold after I had been paying ten
or fifteen years ground rent for them.
Under all the circumstances the liquor
dealers cannot claim on vested rights. In
reference to vested rights allow me to
read an extract from an English paper

to appeai, the magistrates can refuse to renew
the license of the largest, most useful and
best conducted hotel in England."
If those are not vested rights in England they are not here, and 1 cannot
admit that a vested right can be given for
anything which the Government might
take away ; consequently, as far as that
goes, I think vested rights are out of the
question in relation to the liquor trade.
If you come down to compensation, I do
not believe in it generally, but notwithstanding that, I would be willing to vote
a sum of money sufficient to give a fair

compensation if we could only get rid of
the liquor traffic. I say it, not because I
believe I would be doing what I ought
to do, but because I feel desirous
to get rid of the liquor trade. When
the great demonstration came down
here from Toronto last winter, at the
interview with Sir John Macdonald in the
Opera House,it was therestated'bythe gentleman who represented their case that the
country would save $3o,ooo,ooo a year
by getting rid of the liquor traffic, and that
the Government could afford to give
$1o,ooo,ooo in compensation for the sake

of getting rid of that traffic altogether. If
the country would save $3o,ooo,ooo by
taking that course it would not take long
to make up $1oo,000,ooo at that rate, and
$1o,000,ooo would be a small matter if

we could save $30,ooo,ooo the first year.
Taking them on their own ground, I contend that each year we could save double
that amount in the expenses of the country.
When we come to take into consideration
the amount that is expended in liquor, the
waste of grain, the amount expended in
supporting our jails, penitentiaries, judges
and juries, and all those things, and the
COMPENSATION.
losses by fire and water occasioned by
The way in which licenses are renewed drinking customs, I say it would be more
*clearlyshows there is no such thing as vested than double that, and we could afford to

rights.
lose the $5,7oo,ooo revenue from the
This point has been discussed and prac- liquor traffic when we would save
tically settled in England.
I have
abolishing it.
''In the Orvil Darwin case, when 34 $3o,oooo,ooo by figures by me, and at
licenses were withdrawn without any assigned not got these
reason, Mr. Nash, an eminent lawyer, who present I have not the time to go into
was counsel for the liquor sellers, whose them; but it is quite evident that we
licenses had been withdrawn, said: I an would be making money by getting rid of
sorry to say, having looked into this question the liquor traffic, and it matters not if we
most exhaustivelv, and compared notes with
tany of my brethern well versed in these had to suffer a little at first, we would
One hon.
rnatters, that there cannot be the smallest surely make it up afterwards.
doubt that in the strictestsense no such thing gentleman from Toronto spoke of the loss

950

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

to the revenue being five or six millions alcohol ? Are we to appoint officers to
of dollars per year; supposing it is six inspect the liquor sold at every bar,
millions, how many souls are lost for that and to see that there is nothing sold
six millions of dollars ? How niany go over the bar containing more than 12
to the drunkard's grave because of that per cent of alcohol ? It cannot be done.
$6,ooo,ooo ? It is computed to be 6,ooo. It is only opening the door for carrying on
souls every year-probably it may be more the same system as now prevails, and it
and it may be less ; at all events it is a would be better, as a hotel keeper told me
vast loss of human life for the sake of the other day, to strike out that amendgaining $6,ooo,ooo for the revenue, when ment altogether and let the Bill stand as
every dollar must be represented by five it is. You may depend upon one thing,
or ten dollars that are lost. I hold, under and that is if this Bill as amended becomes
the circumstances that we are not gaining law there will be a stick in almost every
anything by the amount of revenue which glass of beer, wine, or cider that is sold.
the Government derives from the liquor
HON. MR. ALMON-Does the hon.
traffic. I am satisfied in my own mind
that it is a losing concern, and any gentle- gentleman intend me to answer the question
man engaged in business, if he found that how the strength of wines is to be ascerit took $io expenditure to gain $1, would tained.?
at once abandon that business and go at
the
HON. MR. FLINT-That is
something else, and I think the sooner the
Government abandon this source of question.
revenue, and obtain their money in another
HON. MR. ALMON-It is a very
way, the better for the country. The
money expended in liquor means not only simple thing to do. Sikes' hydrometer
the loss of the money itself, but loss of shows the strength of different liquors.
time. Those who are in the habit of It cannot be had in every bar room, but
drinking continually lose their time, and all through the provinces there are pertime is money in a country like this, and sons in cities who analyze food and drugs
for every dollar spent in liquor, we may under the Adulteration Act. All they
consider that there is another dollar spent have to do is to get rid of the saccharine
in loss of time. If this money were taken matter in wine and the coloring matter,
and used for other purposes, to purchase and then they can easily ascertain the
food, clothing and luxuries for families by strength. It cannot be analyzed in every
those who spend it in liquor, the Govern- bar-room, but the party who keeps the
ment would soon make up the loss of bar-room buys from some wholesale house.
revenue on liquors, from the duties which There is some particular brand on the
would come from that source; therefore, liquor, and it is easily ascertained whether
it would be no loss to the Government it is correct or not, or whether it is a
after a year or so, but a great gain. I think brand of liquor that has already been
that on that principle if Parliament passed tested and the strength ascertained. I do
an Act abolishing thesale and manufacture, not think it is a very difficult matter at all.
and importation of liquors altogether, it
HON. MR. FLINT-There is nothing
would be an actual saving to the country.
These are the views that I entertain in in the hon. gentleman's amendment to
reference to this subject, and I am perfectly compel any analysis of that kind. It is
just left an open question. It is like laysatisfied that they are correct.
Now, with regard to the remarks of the ing down a set of bars for a flock of sheep
junior member from Halifax (Mr. Almon) -they may all run through it or stay in
who brought in the amendment to the Bill the field, as they choose. There is nothwhich was carried by a large majority, ing to show that anything is to be done to
exempting from the operation of the Act, find out whether there is more than 12
ale, light wine, and cider containing not per cent. of alcohol in the liquors sold
more than 12 per cent of alcohol, I would under this amendment.
ask the hon. gentleman how is it to be
HON. MR. ALMON-If the Billt is
known that the liquor sold under that
provision will contain only 12 per cent of amended to provide the means to ascertain
HON. MR.

FLINT.

Temperance Act, etc., [MAY 26, 18851 Amendment Bill.
that, will the hon. gentleman withdraw his
opposition to my amendment ?
HON. MR. FLINT-No, I will not. I
arn not going to tell you I will vote for
that, because I know it would not be a
fact. I shall now quote a few extracts
bearing on the liquor question. I have
taken a little pains during the past few
days to look into it, and I have an analysis
here of the different liquors. I am not
going into the whole question because it

951

"i f a man drinks daily eight or ten quarts
of the

best Bavarian beer-equal to lager

beer-in the course of twelve months lie will
have taken into his system the nutritive
constituents contained in a five pound loaf of
bread."
That certainly could not keep a man
alive if he drank beer all the time and got
nothing else. Professor Draper says :" Al kinds of inebriating beverages con.
tain, as a general thing, from four to fifty per
cent. of alcohol, and sometimes more of thlis
poison. And though the. balance is water it
is no very uncommon circumstance for a
person to fall down dead after drinking a pint

is not necessary, but I will take an analysis
of beer as given by Professor Draper
of whiskey or brandy."
Alcohol - - - - - - 4 o/o
I have known that myself.
Extract - - - - - - 5.66
" The eflect in some instances, is as fatal as
Acetic acid - - - - - -. 17
prussic acid. Dr. Percy injected two and a
Water - - - - - - 90.17
half ounces of alcohol into the stoinach of a
doc, which gave immediately a loud, plaintive cry, and fell lifeless. Never, says Dr.
100.
Percy, "did I see every spark of vitality
more effectually or instantaneously extinHON. MR. ALMON-Hear, hear.
guished."
HON. MR. FLINT-The hon. gentleman says "hear, hear." What I want to
say is this; if they will take 22 2Y glasses
of water and put a glass of whiskey into
it, and a man drinks it, I do not think it
will make him very drunk, because before
he gets the whiskey into him he will have
to drink so much water that he will burst.
Then it must be borne in mind that this
is not pure water, because, when you extract spirit from that beer, you cannot
drink the water that is left.

HON. MR. FLUMB-It was hard on
the dog.

HON. MR. FLINT-It is hard on the
man, too. I would rather be the dog than
be the man.
" It would be difficult," says Dr. Gordon,
"to find a more destructive poison than
ardent spirits."
Dr. Johnson says, " Prussic acid and
ardent spirits are equally poison." You may
ask, " Do you wish it to be understood that
a simple glass of beer is a poison ?" Emphatically, yes ! Beer and ail kinds of malt
gentlemen liquors contain, on an average, not less than
HON. MR. PLUMB-You
4 per cent. of alcohol, thou there are malt
would not drink it if you could.
liquors that contain as muc as 8 and 10 per
is injurious
HON. MR. FLINT-We do not want to cent. Whatever beer. The in ardent spirits
only difference
is contained in
drink it after the liquor is extracted. The between distilled spirits and malt liquors is
analysis shows that in order to get a glass one of degree. It is a great mistake to think
of alcohol a man must drink 222 glasses that malt liquors are less injurious than
brandy or whiskey. The ingredients of malt
of water.
liquor seem to produce an unnatural thirst.
Some men will drink a couple of gallons of
HON. MR. CARVEL-The objection ale or beer in a day, and the alcohol conis to the water and not to the spirit.
tained will be almost equal to a quart of
brandy or whisky.
The reaular users of malt liquors are the
HON. MR. FLINT-I have some further extracts which I shall quote to hon. most unIealthy class of drinkers, for a very
injury or a simple disease often proves
gentlemen opposite who think they have slight " A copious London beer-drinker,"
fatal.
some knowledge of the effects of drinking says Dr. Grinrod, " is ail one vital part. He
spirituous liquors. I will quote from au- wears his heart upon his sleeve, bare to a
thorities which the hon. gentleman from death-wound, even from a rusty nail or the
Halifax (Mr. Almon) will recognize as be- claw of a cat." The worst patients in the
are the London draying of some importance. Baron Liebig, Metropolitan hospital are apparently models
men. Though they
the German chemist, says,:of health and strength, yet, if one of them

952

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

receives a serious injury, it is nearly always
necessary to amputate, in order to give him
the most distant chance of life. The draymen have the unlimited privilege of the
brewery cellar. Sir Ashley Cooper was called
to a drayrman. He was a powerful, freshcolored, healthy-looking man, who had suffered an injury in his finger, from a small
splinter off a stave. The vound, though
trifling, suppurated. He opened the small
abscess with his lancet. He found, on retiring, he had left his lancet. Returning for it
he found the man in a dying condition. The
man died in a short time. Dr. Gordon says,
"The moment beer-drinkers are attacked
with acute diseases, they are not able to bear
depletion, and die." Dr. Edwards says of
beer-drinkers," Their diseases are always of
a dangerous character, and, in case of accident, they can never undergo even the most
trifling operation with the security of the
temperate. They most invariably die under

HON.

MR.

McMILLAN-Then

it

would be fermented.
HON. MR. FLINT-I do not know;
but whether it is fermented or not, this
amendment would not prevent the use of
it. I know a man who lives on the Bay
of Quinte who used to drink cider until it
made him tight. One day, while under
the influence of cider, be went out to feed
the hog%, mistook his way and would have
been drowned in the bay if his wife had
not followed him and pulled him out.

I wish now to refer to what has been
stated on this question by some clergymen and others. And first I come to a
letter emenating from his Grace the R. C.

Archbishop at Toronto, in which he conI will read no more of those extracts. demns the Scott Act. I dare say you

it."1

I do not suppose it is necessary to do so, have all seen Grnfp's caricature comparing

and what I have read is quite enough to the liquor traffic to a mad dog.
show at all events that those eminent
HON. MR. PLUMB-He caricatured
physicians believe that liquor in any
the Senate, too.
shape is injurious to health, and I agree
with them. There has been a great deal
HON. MR. FLINT-And I think he
said pro and con in reference to this ques- did it justice ; I am willing to take my
tion, and most of us have had thrust into share of it. But while the Archbishop at
our boxes envelopes containing views of Toronto is opposed to the Scott
Act,

various individuals, and we have all had other prelates of the sanie church take the
an opportunity of reading them. I know opposite view, and we can set one against

there is a difference of opinion even the other. I happen to hold in my hand
amongst the clergymen on this subject.
the Scott Act, as published by the Arch-

bishop at Quebec.

He has given it his

HON. MR. GLASIER-Doctors differ, official signature, and I think we can
also.
fairly set off one Archbishop against the
other. I find also that several of the R.
HON. MR. FLINT-No doubt doctors C. Clergymen in the province of Quebec

differ, too, and the patients die.

endorse the Scott Act and wish their

people to adopt it. Bishop Lafleche and
HON. MR. ALMON-The hon. gentle- the Bishop of Sherbrook have given it
man has demolished the light wine and their approval, and they say :ale, but he has not explained what the in- " The recent elections in the counties of
Druiinond and Arthabaska, where Catholics

jurious effects of cider are.
HON. MR. FLINT -The hon. gentleman ought to know at his time of life that
cider will make a man drunk.

are in large majority, were won principally
through the exertions of devoted and enlightened priests.
Bisliop Latleche, of Three
Rivers, and Bishop Racine, of Sherbrooke,

If he does aniong otier high authorities, have given
their active help to promoting the success of

not know it I do. You take a barrel of
cider fresh fron the press, put it out of
doors in the cold and let it freeze until

the Scott Act.

In the Arthabaska election,

the French-Catholic clergy issued a stirring
appeal to the electors to vote for the Act,,an d

only the cider in the middle is left. we quote a few paragraphs here:"'Comipatriots, to the poil, without lai]l
Bottle that up and put six raisins in each
bottle, and in 6 months afterwards the Let your vote be given to God, our Master,-

and not to our eneny, Satan, as the liquor

hon. gentleman will find that a bottle sellers and their miserable friends would [ike.
of it would knock him endways.
Let your vote be given to temperance, in
HON. MR.

FLINT.

Tainperance Act, etc., [MAY 26, 1885] Amendment Bil.
favor of the Scott Act.
Protect you '">

Go, and may God

953

taken from a Toronto paper on the subject
of whiskey peddlng :-

This document is signed by " J. N.
Heroux, archipretre, cure ofSt. Christopher;
Ls. Pottrier, archipretre, cure of Warwick;
E. Lafleche, priest, cure of Ste. Victorie;
O. Manseau, priest, cure of Tingwick;"
and several others.
It is obvious, therefore, that the clergy
hold divergent opinions on that subject,
but we will go a little further ; I wish to
give the opinion of Cardinal Manning,
who is, I believe, a high dignitary of the
Church in England. At a great temperance congress in Liverpool, last fall, one
of the chief speakers was Cardinal Manning, head of the Catholic community in
the British Isles.
His Eminence declared himself uncompromisingly on the
side of prohibition. Here are the words:
" I admit that a Maine Law may be called
an extreme remedy; but have I not already
proved that there is an extreme evil ? An

WHISKEY PEDLERS' PROFITS.
Toronto, Jan. 31.-A number of whiskey
pedlers on the Canadian Pacific Railway
construction camps norti of Lake Superior,
have struck Toronto for the double purpose
of having a good time and purchasing fresh
supplies of liquor for next season. One of
them told a reporter that a great deal of
whiskey he sold came down from Port Arthur
in tin boxes packed in sugar-barrels and was
doctored after itgot to the north shore. Highwines diluted with water, " flavored " with
pain killer, was sold to the navvies at $2 to
$3per bottle, or 25 cents a drink. One pointed to 6 barrels which lie was taking up into
Muskoka, and as he stood on the platform
ready to go aboard the train lie remarked :
" There's $500 profit for me in them six, and
don't you forget it."
When we find that men can go so deliberately to work to adulterate liquor and
sell it for the sake of making money, it is
high time that we should take every step
if temporizing measures will not remedy the
it.
evil, let us have an extreme remedy. I charge that we possibly can to do away with
upon this drink-traffic nine-tenths of the
HON. MR. NELSON-That is a part
rnisery and distress and wicked homes of our
people. ....
So long as the revenue is of the country where prohibition exists.
raised upon intoxicating drinks, I hold that
we all are partakers of the crime and the
HON. MR. SMITH-How can you tell
mnisery, and the disease and cruelty, and the
evils of the body and soul in time and eter- whether that statement you have read is
lity, which are caused in such prolific true or not ?
abundance by the trade in strong drink!"

HON. MR. FLINT-How can you tell
Cardinal Manning, in speaking of the
whether your petitions are all right or not ?
liquor traffic, delared :
" It is mere mockery to ask us to put down
HON. MR. SMITH-I say the signadrunkenness by moral and religious means,
when the legislatures facilitate the multipli- tures cannot be questioned.
cation of the incitements to intemperance on
every side. You might as well call upon nie
HON. MR. FLINT-The hon. gentleFs the captain of a sinking ship, and say, man has given his word that they are all
" whv don't you punip the w'ater out," when
You are scuttling the ship in every direction." right and I do not dispute it. This article
concludes as follows:I think he could not have made it
A camel will work for 7 or 8 days without
stronger than that. Now, I will not quote
the opinions of the Ministers of other drinking. In this lie differs from some men
who will drink 7 or 8 days without working.
churches. It is not necessary that I should
do so. I know that a great many of them
Having gone thus far, I must now come
are in favor of the Temperance Act, while down to the speech of my hon. friend besome of them are opposed to it. But the low me (Mr. Smith), and I shall endeavor
question is simply this-is the liquor to deal with it in a way that will astonish
traffic an evil or is it not ? That is the him ; but whether he is astonished or not,
question which we should decide candidly I shall endeavor to treat it fairly
My
and fairly. If it is an evil, then we should hon. friend spoke on the subject of vested
do all in our power to legislate it away in- rights. I have already referred to that,
stead of endeavoring to foster it in the and it is not necessary for me to say anyway we are doing in this House. I will thing more on the subject. I do not be
Just read you a short extract which I have lieve there is any vested right in the liquor

954A

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Amendnent Bill.

traffic at all, and if my hon. friend were to
take it to the Supreme Court or to the
Privy Council in England, he would find
that there was no vested right in the liquor
traffic. The hon. gentleman said :"If the temperance people would advocate
their cause in a moderate way, I, as one who
has served this country for upwards of fifty-

two years, would be with then. Standing in
my place here to-day, I can saT that I have
never advocated intemperance.
I do not suppose the hon. gentleman
has, but he no doubt has dealt in liquor.
That was his business as I understandif I am incorrect he can tell me so. As
a matter of course, the more liquor he
sold the more profit he had, and I ask
what kind of temperance would he give
us ? Will the hon. gentleman, between
now and next session of Parliament, lay
down a platform such as he is satisfied
will be in the best interests of the country ?
If he can do so and convince me that he
is correct in the principles which he would
advocate, I certainly am prepared to go
with him, because my object is, to get at
the best method of doing away with the
liquor traffic; but I cannot see how it will
be done away with if we continue to
permit the sale of liquor. However, he
may give me more light on that subject,
and if he does, I shall be happy to receive
it. He says: "The liquor dealer comes
honestly by his business." No one says
that he does not. A man cannot sell
liquor without a license. If he does sell
without a license, he sells it dishonestly.
The man who gets his heense is selling it
honestly, by Act of Parliament; but while
he is doing so, is he not doing damage to
his fellow creatures ? If he is, then I say
he should not sell it any longer. The hon.
member speaks of the men who received
their hotels from their fathers. Now, I
have been a close observer of hotel and
saloon keepers for many long years-I
may say for more than sixty years, and
with the exception of two or three instances, have never known the trade of
the father to descend to the son. As a
general thing, the sons have either become
themselves inebriates, or they have left
home altogether. They do not take up
their father's business. Some of them will
not stay at home to sell the liquor. I
have known instances where they would
not ; they would rather work for the
HON. MR.

FLINT.

farmers or do anything than engage in the
liquor traffic ; and, therefore, so far as that
goes, I do not think the hon. gentleman's
argument has much force. The hon.
gentleman spoke about my selling liquor.
I can say to the hon. member in the first
place, that while I was engaged as a clerk
in my father's establishment, 1, of course,
had to sell liquor for him, but I can tell
him further, that the moment I left my
father's establishment I never sold a glass
of liquor, and never would have anything
to do with it. I even refused to seil
liquor in ny father's establishment some
6 months before I left it, which annoyed
him very much. I could not bear the
idea of having a man come in with a tin
pail, when I was waiting on decent
respectable ladies, and say to me with an
oath, " give me a quart of whiskey."
HON. MR. SMITH-But you told
your father to sell it wholesale, and make
more money by it.
HON. MR. FLINT-I did, to get rid

of it.

I told him this, I would never sell

any more whiskey for him,

it he said,

" will you sell out the barrels now on
tap ?

I said " no! " I said, " I will tell

you what I will do ; I will gauge it, and
sell it all before night," and so I did, at
the rate he had sold it by the quart, and
after that I never sold any more.
HON. MR. SMITH-But you sold the
liquor by the barrel.
HON.

MR. FLINT-Was

not that

better than to retail it ?
HON. MR. SMITH-No, r.ot according

to your principles.
HON. MR. FLINT-Had I owned the
barrels I would have knocked the heads
in and let the liquor run away and made
a bonfire of the barrels. The hon. gentleman speaks of the old-fashioned country
taverns going out of existence. I am glad
to hear of it ; it is a good thing that
they are going out of existence ; but I can
tell the hon. member that I have travelled
perhaps as much as any other member of
this body; I have had to make my home
very often at those country taverns, and I
know that, taking thein as a general thing,

Temperance A et, etc., [MAY 26, 1885] Amendment Bill.
with rare exceptions, there is no rest or
peace to any traveller that enters them.
In country places the neighbors come in
after night and have a jollification until
three or five in the morning before they
go away, and even in some of our most
respectable hotels in large villagesvillages that will soon become towns-it is
a fact that you can get no rest, day or
night, from the rowdyism at such places.
The hon. gentleman spoke of the effects
of the Scott Act upon the farming industry,
and mentioned particularly its effects upon
the sale of barley. I think I have written
Sufficient upon the subject to convince any
man that the quantity of barley consumed
in this country is but a small proportion
of the amount raised. There is a little
Over 1,000,oo

bushels in this country

consumed in making beer; and we all
know what a small part that is of the entire
quantity of barley raised. The greater
part of our barley is sold in the United
States or shipped to the old country, and
if in those countries the peope were to
give uD their beer, of course the trade in
barleywould diminish ; but even if it did,
the farmer could raise other kinds of
grain. They did not get a very good
price for last year's crop of barley, and it
is very probable that if they do not
diminish the production it will go still
lower this year. It is the fault of the
farmers themselves when they do not get
better prices for their products, because
they should limit the production to suit
the demand.
The hon. gentleman said there was not
5 per cent. of drunken men in the city
of Toronto. I do not know if there is ;
but if there is one per cent. it is just one
per cent. too many. The value of one
Soul is greater than the whole city of
Toronto, and it is most unfortunate
indeed if one soul in the city of Toronto
is lost through drunkenness. The question is simply this-what shall we do to
Prevent the people from going down to
destruction through drunkenness? My
hon. friend had a good deal to say about
the effect of the Scott Act on the tavern
keepers ; he spoke about their families
being turned out of doors through its
Operation.
He pleaded hard for the
liquor dealers who, in his opinion, were
going to be ruined, but he never said a
Word to us about those who have been

955

turned out on the streets through the
liquor traffic. -upposing the hon. member
should bring before us all the liquor dealers
in Toronto and set them in battle array ;
supposing he should place at their head
the gentleman who came down here
covered with gold chains and jewels to
the value, as was stated, of $1,8oo, what
is that compared with the array on the
other side ? His jewelery was worth
$1,8oo ; that is the price of 36,ooo glasses
of whiskey, at five cents a glass, and he
would have to sell more than that number
of glasses to make the profit of $1,8oo.
That amount of money would have
bought 18,ooo loaves of bread, at io cents
a loaf, for the poor people of Toronto. I
want to know which would be the better
way to invest the money-which would
do the greatest amount of good ? That
is a question which we should decide
calmly and candidly. Now, so far as that
is concerned, I will say no more on the
subject, but I will ask the hon.
gentleman to marshall his forces, and
array them with their gold chains,
rings and fine clothes.
Then let
him bring up the drunkards that are now
in Toronto, their wives and their children
and place them in another row; then let
him take the widows and orphans of
those who have died within the last ten
years from the effect of the liquor traffic
in Toronto-let him place them there
clad in their rags, with their haggard faces
and their emaciated bodies-let him array
them before these tavern-keepers and say
then where the charity should begin,
whether it should begin with the liquor
dealers, because some of them happen to
fail in their business through the operation of the Scott Act, or with those who
are suffering and who are dying from day
to day from starvation and rnisery produced by drunkenness? Let him put one
against the other and then he will see, as
he never saw before, the terrible effects of
the liquor traffic. But I will go further.
Let him bring, if he could, those who
have gone down to drunkard's graves, and
place them there before the liquor dealers
and see what has been the effect of this
traffic on men. Let them tell him what
they think of the liquor dealers ; let those
who have gone to perdition point to these
men and say: "You, and you, and you
are the men who enticed us to enter

9õ6

Temperance Act, etc, [SE NATE] Amendment Bill.

your saloons; you took our money in the street, to clothe him and try to
from us and made us drunkards, restore him to his right mind and save his
you dragged us down from one soul, than to have all the plaudits of the
step to another until some of us committ- liquor dealers in the universe. I care
ed suicide and others died :in delirium neither for their praise nor their blame,
tremens, from the liquor you sold us; and but I will do what I can to pronote the
our wives and children have been made cause of temperance and although I see
beggars because you took the last money plainly that our opponents have the
we had for liquor and sent us home with- advantage of us here, yet the day will
out a cent in our pockets to buy bread for corne when we will succeed and the liquor
our faniishing families. I am drawing a traffic will be banished from the land.
true picture, and I wish hon. gentlemen to
look at it in its proper light. With the
HoN. MR. DEVER-I rise to avail
experience I have had, dealing with myself of my privilege to speak of the
people of al] classes, I know I principle, the details, and some of the
am right when I say that all these evils arguments of gentlemen on this Bill, and
proceed from the liquor traffic; that being in doing so would ask permission to give
the case, I want to know if we are pre- a short sketch or history of this terrible
pared to allow this destruction to go on " Sphinx," this frightful " Scare-Crow,"
unchecked because perhaps some families this dangerous "Goblin,"commonly known
amongst those who are connected with the as wine, spirit, alcohol.
liquor traffic may be injured by the
First, then, from the best information I
operation of the Scott Act. The difference can find, wine was knbwn to the ancients.
between the liquor dealer and the drunk- Noe, who was a great favorite of Deity,
ard is that the drunkard has lost every- planted a vineyard, and he drank of the
thing, and the liquor dealer has taken it ; wine and was made drunken, or drunk,
and if he has not accumulated sufficient to Gen., 9 chap., and 20, 21 verses, an event
maintain him, it is his own fault. I know supposed to have happened 2,344 years
it is said that people need not go to the before the birth of Christ, or 4,229 years
taverns to drink, but those who have a to this date.
slight inclination that way are enticed to
Wines and fermented liquors are also
such places, and induced to drink until mentioned by the earlier profane historians,
all their money is spent, and then they but the exact period at which they were
are turned out of doors into the gutter. I first submitted to the art of distillation is
knew a man who had as good a 240- not clearly settled.
acre farm as lay on the banks of
By some, the Chinese are thought to
the St. Lawrence.
Under the old have possessed the earliest knowledge of
system, the son was the heir at the process; others think that the northern
law. On the death of his father he nations of Europe were the first who were
became the owner of the farm, of the acquainted with the art.
large stock of cattle, of the grain and hay
Herodotus (the father of history) menaccunulated from the harvest, and $200 tions " date spirit" as an article of comin cash in the house. The very day his merce in Babylonia (B. C. 445), and
father died he went to a hotel in Brockville, Albucasis in the 12th century taught the
and one year from that date I saw him method of procuring spirit from wine, but
kicked out of that hotel having lost every- the secret was doubtless known long before
thing that had been left him. He raised that time. Raymond Lully, in the 1 3th
himself on his elbow and said, " A year century, showed the way to concentrate it
ago to-day, I went to your house and the by means of carbonate of potassa, after
best room was placed at my disposal; which time it gradually rose into note as
now, when you have got everything that I an article of trade and commerce, and toowned you tell me ' get out you drunken day more capital is perhaps embarked in
dog."' I have seen such things and my wines, brewing, and distillation than in any
heart is steeled against the liquor dealer similar branch of business. It may be
in consequence.
asked here what is alcohol, chemically
In conclusion, I wish to say to you that speaking ? I will answer, it is oxygen,
I would prefer to take the veriest drunkard hydrogen, and carbon, and is latent in all
HoN. MR. FLINT.

Temperance Act, etc., [MAY 26, 1885] Amendment Bill.
vegetable juices containing saccharine matter capable of conversion into sugar. It is a
principal part of all wine, brandy, gin,
rum and whiskey, and these four latter, at
proof by Sikes hydrometer, contain about
half their bulk of alcohol, the other hall
being water, or in other words, 49 parts
alcohol and 51 parts water. Alcohol may
be procured by distillation from all fernented liquors, and when drawn from
wine, as in France, is called brandy; when
from the juice of the sugar cane, raw
sugar or molasses, it is called rum ; when
from grain alone, it is called whiskey, in
Britain and in the United States, but in
Holland it is called gin, or geneva, when
flavored with the juniper berry.
These different liquors now mentioned
consist of dilute alcohol, having in solution, various small quantities of essential
oils, and coloring matter.
It is the
presence and different proportions of these
ingredients which give them their distinguishing names or character, and by subsequent rectification, alcohol of equal
strength and purity, can be procured from
all of them. In conclusion, I may say,
that the sugar and grain we use in all our
food every day, contain-in a latent statefrom 20 to 40 per cent. of alcohol, whilst
our bodies, in a healthy state, perform the
function of distillation by generating and
throwing off the component parts of it,
from morning till night. Hence alcohol
used with wisdom, commingled with
plenty of water-as in wine-can be taken
in safety by those who want it. But gentlemen, the mere use of alcohol, for drinking purposes, is but a small part of this
great industry, as the manufacturer, the
chemist, and the thinker well know. But
to the extremists, and cranks, on this subject, the value to labor, to the husbandMan, to the wine-grower, and to the general
wealth and commerce of nations, is of no
consequence : they are made rabid by a
blind and inistaken frenzy, and are " barking up the wrong tree " to stop drinking
habits.
In other countries, the harvest of wine
is looked on as one of the greatest gifts of
God to man, as the following prayer at
storing it sets forth. This prayer says -

957

and as thou hast blessed this drink of the
apostles, 0, Lord thou who wast present at
the wedding in Cana, of Galilee, and by
changing water into wine revealed thy
gloryto thy disciples, send thy Holy Spirit
on this wiae, and bless it in thy name."
In the Island of Madeira alone the harvest of wine consists of 30,000 pipes,

some of it valued at £1oo a pipe. But
what may we put down to the world's
wealth in wine, beer, and spirit for France,
Spain, Portugal, Germany, the British
Isles, the West Indies, and now the United States ? May we not fairly say it is
beyond our comprehension ? and yet
those people speak as glibly about this
vast industry as if talking against some petty
gambling house.
Surely they had better see themselves
as others see them, and cease their prating
till they become better informed what wine
and spirit are ?
My honored friend from Belleville,
(Mr. Flint) I cannot allow his statement
to go to the public uncontradicted, that
wines are not as good now, as they were in
other days. I say they are better and flmer
now, than they ever were before, if you go

to the price for them, because nature's laws
are better known now, than they were

formerly. What were imputed in other days

tothesupernaturalareknown now to be fixed
laws that man can handle, and appropriate
with art and skill to suit his purposes.
Such is the conversion of sugar into wine
or alcohol; water into steam, as a vast
motive power for ships and railroads ;
electricity into an instantaneous messenger, the world over, the telephone and the

electric light. But to men who are
blindly obstinate it is useless to talk ; they
have their faith, yes "fanatic faith, once
wedded fast to some dear error, they hug it

to the last." I am sorry to see gentlemen
who have seats in this Senate, where we
are supposed to be men of some information, send forth statements that might do.
very well in lumber camps, but are wholly
unfit to be placed before gentlemen who
have any pretentions to knowledge. I
have reference to the speech of the hon.
gentleman from Belleviile especially, (Mr.
Flint.) He says, " I would tell the hon.
gentlemen if they will give us such wine
to-day as our Saviour made at Cana, of
" O, Lord God, thou who lovest mankind,
direct thine eyes to this wine and those who Galilee, I will go in for it, but I do not go
drink it; bless our vessels, thrice blessed as in for stinking, poisonous whiskey, mixed
the walls of Jacob, and the pool of "Siloam," with dirty water and logwood that they

958

Temperance Act, etc., LSENATE] Amendment Bill.

call wine ; I want the pure juice of the
grape, such as our Saviour made, and
if I could get that I would be willing to
drink it." The question might be asked
here would the hon. gentleman know it if
he saw it ? I rather think not. Yet the
hon. gentleman would condescend to partake of " the wine of the gods," though it
might not be amiss to remind the hon.
gentleman that ordinary people ought to
be satisfied with common. fare.
"Sweet virgin can alone the fair express,
Fair by degrees and beautifully less;
But let the hoiden rough hewn vurgin
Engross the homage of a major sturgeon."
Coarse wine ought to satisfy coarse
people. I also differ with my hon. friend
(Mr. Vidal) about his sumptuary laws. I
contend that wines, beer and spirit are
food, and are given and taken by invalids
to recruit them, and that his Scott Act
seeks to regulate them as to price and
difficulty of obtaining them, and therefore
that we are right in calling it a sumptuary
law on this account, and on the other that
you deprive people of what thay want to
eat and drink suniptuously of, at a fair
price. I would also remind the hon. gentleman that the state of Maine does not
seem any more moral than any place else,
notwithstanding its extreme position on
the temperance question, if we may judge
by the number of divorce cases reported,
and which are as follows:" Rev. S. R. Dyke, secretary of the New
'England Divorce Reform League, delivered a
lecture in Centre Cliurch ,this evening, in
which interesting statisties were given, shiowing the increase of divorce-not only in the
New England States, but also in other parts
of the United States.
In Connecticut, there
were, in 1849, but 91 divorces, but there are,
now, an average of 440 divorces each vear,
Over 6,000 women die in the United States,
each year, from attempts to destroy unborn
children.
"I n Connecticut, the ratio of divorces to
inarriages vas 1 in 10 ; in Vermont, 1 in 13;
in Massacbusetts, 1 in 21; in New Hanpshire, 1 in 9 ; and in Maine, about the sanie
nunber, while in Rhode Island it was i in 10."
We might well say here, they had better
turn their attention to this deplorable
state of morality, and let minor laxity of
habits alone.
I will now, hon. gentlemen, proceed to
discuss the principle and details of the
Bill, and will say that I always opposed
the Scott Act as a piece of legislation not
HON. MR. DEVER.

to be tolerated by freemen : not that I
favor intemperance, for I am not an admirer of drunkards. In fact, I rather look
on the drunkard who befouls his body
with excess of drink, as being worthy of
contempt. But I would ask, on what authority do these people expect to compel
us, to their ideas, of what we shall not eat,
or what we shall not drink, when we
have to pay for it ourselves? Are we to be
considered as felons, to be fed on bread
and water, to please these people ?
Who are those apostles who assume
more arbitrary power, to preach their little
gospel, than did the Lord of the Scriptures
himself ?

Paul, who claimed to be converted by
a miracle, going to Damascus, took no
such liberty with the people. but reasoned
them into his doctrine and morals, and
advised " to not still drink water, but to
use a little wine for the stomach's sake."
Christianity then went on gently, as it
should : but how was it when it
got the influence of the State ? We
all know, gentlemen, history tells us ;
and here, I exclaim against no particular
church more than another-they are all
inclined to be intolerant when they get
exclusive statutary law to back them up,
so would the Scott Act men (if they had
the power). I would, therefore, say keep
them down to simple persuasion. But
these people are not satisfied with eating
and drinking what please themiselves, but
want to deprive others from enjoying the
fruits of the earth as given them by

nature's God.

They are as dogs in the

manger and forget that what is one man's
meat is another man's poison. They also
forget good breeding-and here let us see
what good breeding says on this point

It says :
" Every gentleman has wine on his table
when he lias invited guests. Indeed, wine is
considered an indispensable part ot a good
dinner, to which a gentleman lias b6een
formally invited, even you are a totalabstinence man vourself, you will not, if you
are a gentleman, attempt to compel your
guests to be so, against their will. If
you are so fanatical that you have
what is called 'conscientious~ scruples'
against furnishing vine, then you should
invite none to dine who are not as fanatical
and bigoted as yourself. You must consider
that a gentleman may have 'conscientious
scruples' against dining with yon on cold
water, for there are even temperate and sober

Temperance Act, etc., [MAY 26, 1885] Amendment Bil.

959

gentlemen who would go without meat a- men want to bring on the farmers, brewers,
soon as be deprived of their glass of wine at distillers, shop-keepers, merchants, workdinner.
" The vegetarian who would force his guests men, ships, rents, schooners, railroads,
to dine on cabbages, turnips and onions is loss of commerce with other countries, and
hardly guilty of a greater breach of etiquette narrow trade policy. Then the loss of
than the total-abstinence fanatic, who would industry in the manufacture of vinegar,
compel his guests to go without wine."
liniment of various kinds, washes for the
These people are like the fanatics and hair, burning fluid, preserving animal
witch burners of the 16th century, who bodies, duties of excise, on spirit, beer and
burned some one hundred thousand eight malt, which, in 1884, aggregated $4,030,hundred witches in France, Germany and 110, the grain used in spirit alone being
other places, in their wild idea of doing 75,095,450 pounds weight. And there is
good. People get crazy, hon. gentlemen, no limitation to the quantity we should
on subjects that are too abstruse for them. grow and use for spirit, beer and malt, to
I heard of some ladies lately who, anx- be exported if properly looked after in
ious to appear on the platform, to this vast grain growing country of ours.
In 1883, we exported 45,218,572
speak on this subject, actually passed a
resolution advising clergymen to use no pounds weight of Malt, but the year
wines for sacramental purposes, only 1884, only 8,022,606 pounds weight, and
unfermented wine. And these are the the Scott Act men want to bring the inkind of people who want to force the new dustry of the country down lower.
religion of coercion on us, people who do Certainly, the farmers and all others
not know what they are talking about, for if interested, must be delighted with such
they did they would certainly know there people, when these facts come to be
never was, nor cannot be, such a thing as known.
We exported in 1884, barley alone
unfermented wne.
But who ask for this
Bill, this "apple of discord " amongst the 7,780,262 bushels, valued at $5,104,642
people, and want to inform the world that but if manufactured and shipped to other
we must be great drunkards to require such countries, gentleman can see the advana Bill?
Certainly not the voters or tages would accrue to the industry and
thinkers of this country, for if they did by trade of the country. But what care they
petition or vote, I, for one, would cheer- about the loss and disruption of trade?
fully give it to them.
It was argued by Are not these gentlemen great reformers ?
another hon. gentleman (Mr. Scott) that What care they about driving poor men
we should retain this Act because some into bankruptcy and pauperism ; are not
wines and spirit are spurious and adulter- these people great philanthropists, and
ated.
I can tell the hon. gentleman that some of their nearest relations, they say,
wines and spirit are no more adulterated died from the effects of the demon. They
now than - they ever were, since they can tell nice little stories, too, on the platbecane an article of commerce. They form to libel their neighbors. They take
are no more, if as much, adulterated as pride in smashing other people's property.
butter, cheese, sugar, tea, cream of tartar. They sing psalms, and the end justifies
spices, coffee, milk, &c. ; and are we not tc the means.
use any of these articles of food because
"O0, Liberty, sole passion of the generous
some dishonest people adulterate them heart!1 thon who art the life of comîmerce antI
Is not our best plan to pass a gooc Ithe inspiration of noble deeds; thon wvlio
who
rapture;
inspection and license law which wil canst be lovei but with youth, andthou subthe
enable the Government to see after peopl art the first aspiration of age; thou, Libertv,
lime invocation of old
who deal in such goods ?
wvho, after lîaving broken their chains, wilt
But what will the Scott Azt end in if conduct the last slaves, %vitlî palmi br.nches
continued ? It will end in the destructioi 1 in lîands, amid hymns of glory, at the latest
of vast industries affecting the revenue ýfuneral of despotism and fanaticisini."
the farmer, the trader, the general busines s
Gentlemen, 1 will vote against the Scott
and then be displaced by a license law', Act, with aIl its accompanying espionage,
after a period of anarchy, ill-will, an 1 pimps and spies, as being an insuit tw
perhaps bloodshed.
commerce, truc liberty and truc temperAnd let us see what loss these gentle ance.

960

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] .Amendment Bill.

HON. MR. POWER-I have a good
deal of hesitation in undertaking to address the House in my prosy way, after
the very eloquent and poetic remarks of
my hon. friend from St. John ; but I rise,
under a sense of duty, to move the amendment of which I gave notice some time
ago. The substance of that amendment
is to require a three-fifths vote of the
electors in a district to bring the Canada
Temperance Act into operation, instead
of a bare majority as at present.
I do not propose to discuss the principle of the Canada Temperance Act at
any length ; but one or two suggestions
have occurred to me from the speech of
the hon. gentleman from the Trent division. That hon. gentleman seems to feel,
as a great many enthusiasts in the cause
of temperance feel, that total abstinence
from intoxicating liquor is not only a
virtue, but is almost the only virtue that
is worth advocating. Those gentlemen
also seem to feel that all who do not
agree with thern in thinking that the proper
way to bring about the adoption of temperance principles is by prohibitive legislation, are enemies of temperance, and
friends of intemperance. I began almost
to feel, when the hon. gentleman drew
that awful picture of the drunkard inSheol, I suppose wemust call it,since the issue of the revised edition of the Old Testament--when the hon. gentleman drew
that picture of the drunkard's soul in tortures, and his widow and children in
misery on this side of the grave, that I
was responsible for that state of things if I
did not, to use a cornmon expression, go
the whole animal. I wish to say that this
is all a mistake. I believe that temperance in everything is a virtue,
temperance in eating as well as in drinking;
and I venture to say that there is probably
as much harm done in the world by eating
too much, and eating improper food, as
there is by drinking too much and drinking improper drinks. That theory, which
occurred to me some time ago, is borne
out by a very high authority. I find that
in the last number of the Nineteenth
Century, Sir Henry Thompson publishes
an article on Diet, and that most eminent
authority avows it is his conviction " that
more mischief in the form of actual disease, of impaired vigor, and of shortened
life, accrues to civilized men from er-

roneous habits in eating than from the
habitual use of alcoholic liquors," great as
he deems that to be. " I am not sure," he
adds,"that a similar comparison might not
be made between the respective influences
of those agencies in regard of moral evils
also."
I do not intend to pursue that any
further, but I wish to state that that is my
opinion. Now, as to the Scott Act itself,
it is just an instance of a kind of legislation
which is contrary to the true principles of
liberty. My own idea of freedom has
always been-my idea of the best government, the freest government-is that which
allows to every individual and every family,
to every little hamlet or settlement, to
every township, county or province, and so
on, working up from the individual to the
largest community, the utmost amount of
liberty and self government that is consistent with the safety and general welfare
of the whole state. There is nothing novel
about that ; it is the English idea of liberty
as distinguished from the idea of liberty
that is entertained in other places. We
find that, on the continent, when they establish a republic, the men who attain
power inmediately begin to hinder the
people who happen to be in the minority
from exercising their own free judgment,
or free thought, or free action. In England
and in kindred countries-the United
States, for instance-where English ideas
prevail, it is altogether different.
HoN. MR. PLUMB-In this case it is
the minority that proposes to hinder the
majority, so far as I can see.
HON. MR. POWER-This theory, I
think, finds expression in that saying
that "the Englishman's house is his
castle." The English theory is that
the public have no right to go into a man's
house and to interfere with his private
life or private affairs, even though he is
misconducting himself, unless his evildoing interferes with the public in a substantial way. The public do not undertake to interfere in the case of a man's
follies and vices, other than that of intemperance in drinking ; and I think
that as long as those follies and vices
affect only the man himself, and do not
affect the public at large directly, the
public have no right to interfere with him.

Temperance Act, &c., [MAY 26, 1885] Amendnent Bil.

961

" There is a limit to the legitimate interWhen it becomes a case of direct injury to
his neighbors, then, of course, the public ference of collective opinion with individual
independence; and to find that limait, and
have the right to interfere.
maintain it against encroachment, is as indispensable to a good condition of human
HON. MR. McINNES (B. C.)-Does affairs as protection against political despotnot the law direct that a person not able ism.'
"
day gross usurpato take care of himself, and who is likely tionsThere are in our ownprivate life actually
upon the liberty of
to destroy himself by poison, or some practised, and still greater ones threatened
weapon, authorize the officials of the with soine expectation of success, and opinland to step in and take possession of ions propounded which assert an unliniuted
that individual, even in his own house ? right in the public, not only to prohibit by

law everything which it tbinks wrong, but to

HON. MR. POWER-I do

prohibit a nuniber of things which it admits

not exactly to be innocent. Under the nmie of prevent-

catch the point of the question.

HON. MR. McINNES-You say the
law of the land has no right to interfere
with a man in his own house, even if he
is doing wrong. We have laws on the
statute books that authorize the officials
to go into a man's house and take possession of a man who is incapable of taking
care of himself, or is liable to destroy his
own life or to inflict injury upon others.

ing intemperance, the people of one Englisli

col ony, and of nearly half of the United States,
have been interdicted by law from making
any use whatever of fermented drinks, except
for medicinal purposes; for prohibition of
their sale is in fact as it is intended to be,

prohibition of their use."
" There are questions relating to interference with trade which are essentially
questions of liberty ; such as the Maine law.
* * These interferences are oljectionable, not as infringements on the liberty of
the producer or seller, but on that of the
buyer."

" The Acts of an individual inay be hurtful
HON. MR. POWER-If a man is
mnsane he becomes a source of danger to others, or wanting in due consideration for
their welfare, without going to the length of
to the lives of the people around him.
violating any of their constituted rights.
'T'le oflender may then be justly punished by
* * *
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Here opinion, though not by law."
" The individual is not accountable to
they propose to adopt this course towards society for his actions, in so far as these coneverybody else.
cern the interests of no person but himself.
Advice, instruction, persuasion, and avoidHON. MR. POWER-I hope the House ance bv other people if thought necessary by
will excuse me if I quote fron one or two them for their own good, are the only
ineasures
well known authorities on the point. express itsby whichor society can justifiably
dislike
disapprobation of his
Blackstone, who, though a little old, is condict * * *
looked upon as a very good authority,
"For such actions as are prejudicial to
tie interests of others the individual is
siays:accountable, and nay be subjected either to
That systen of law's is alonîe calcilated social or legal punishment, if society is of
to maintaiti civil liberty, wlhich leaves the
opinion that the one or the other is requisite
subhject entire master of his own con- for its protection."
<uict, except in those points wherein the
Public good~reqIuires some direction and restrai t."

I quote this because hon. gentlemen
lay think that because a man is doing

what they think is a wrong thing, they
have a right to stel) in and interfere with
dA
d
his
%-Jiut, when he oes not nterfere
with his neighbors at all. There is a quolation from John Stuart Miil, on Liberty,
which I presume most hon. gentlemen
have seen. I take it trom a very able
Pamphlet, which has been distributed, entltled, " Shall I vote for the Scott Act?"
It is as follows -av-ng
L,2

Laws of this kind, that undertake to interfere with the private lives of citizens, have
occasionally been passed in England and
in English speaking countries. As far as
I know they have never been successfully
enforced. I do not think that there is
ib
ili
hIl a
ayrcr
iaysc
vtr
u
successfully enforced. They bave heen
most frequently enacted, and the iW)st
strennous attempts bave been made to
enforce them in those portions of tbe
United States, wbich are peopled by the
descendants of the old Puritans. Those
were the people w:o,
been perse-

962

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

cuted in a certain degree in England, fled
from persecution there and came out to
America to persecute more vigorously
people whose opinions happened to differ
from their own. I have said that experience goes to show that these laws have
not been effectual in gaining their ends in
English speaking countries, nor I believe
in any other country ; but I venture to go

even though they could be enforced they
are not desirable enactnents. It is not
desirable and it is not necessary that we

should enact any such law. As to that
point-although I am afraid I am repeating what has been saiçi already-I find in
this pamphlet, to which I have already
referred, a very convenient

table which

shows the yearly consumption of alcohol
further and say that it seems to me, with per inhabitant of the different leading
respect to those prohibitory laws, or laws countries of the world:-

like the Canada Temperance Act, that
DRINK OF ALL NATIONS.
MILLIONS OF GALLONs.

ALcoHOL
PER
Equiva- INHABI•
TANTSpirits. lent in

Wine.

United Kingdon........ ....................
France ........................
............
Gerinany ........
..........
............
Holland ................................
Belgium ........ ...........................
Denmark ........................
..........
United States .......... ..... ...... ........
Canada................................
It appears trom this table, taken from
Mulhall's Dictionary of Statistics, that
Canada really stands almost at the head
of all countries in the matter of temperance.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
stands at the head.
HON. MR. POWER-Yes, at the head.
We know of no more temperate country.
It is a mistake to suppose that any member
of this House who expresses an opinion in
any way hostile to the Canada Temperance
Act is necessarily an enemy of temperance.

In fact, the most sincere-at any rate, if
not the most sincere, the most judicious

friends of temperance--are on the other
Take the prac ical man who has
side.
been referred to by the hon. gentleman
from Trent Division, Archbishop Lynch,
and what does he say about it ? He says,
in a letter which all honorable gentlemen
have seen :
" I have, as well as my priests, exercised
all ny influence to suppress intemperance,

and, thank God, we have no reason to be discouraged at our efforts.

HON. MR. POWER.

Drunkenness is not

Beer.

15
760
120
3
4
2
30

1,007
190
880
35
170
35
440

37
34
60
12
10
27
76

13

4&

A.lcohol.
67-2
101-0
72·4
8·2
11·4
5-1
66-5
3.3

1·92
2-65
1-60
2·05
2·07
2-60
1.31

0.74

the besetting sin of our good Canadian people.
We have les~s drunkenness in Canada, I think,
than in any other country of the same latitude.
If we had a population of a character such
as is reported of that of Glasgow, Edinburgh,
London, or a city in Ireland, we could then
vote for any act that would suppress the
terrible scandal of intemperance. I have not
heard of a sincle county in Ontario where the
people are so seoetted as to require the Act.
The few drunkards that are anongst us can
be reformed b good nourishi ent and by severe
punishnient, and above all, by a strict inspec.
tion of intoxicating liquors."
That is the voice of reason and of common sense, and-I do not speak it in a
denominational sense-of sound religion,
too. We will suppose that the friends of
the Canada Temperance Act had their
way, and that the Act was in force all over
the country ; these gentlemen's occupation
would be gone then. Suppose the effect
of the enforcement of the Act was that no
more liquor would be consumed ; the probabilities are that the turn of tobacco
would corne after liquor ; and in fact some
friends of total abstinence have alreadydevoted a little attention to tobacco.
HON. MR. McINNES-Quite right.

Temperance Act, etc., [MAY 26, 1885] Amendment Bill.

963

HoN. MR. POWER-And a number which I may as well take here to those
of other harmless indulgences would fol- statutory enactments to make people
low and life would soon become a wretched virtuous-that their effect is to put an end
desert, so that one would almost sooner to voluntary effort.
The temperance
be dead and done with it. I have said, people and the common sense of the
and quoted the authority of Sir Henry country, and the exertions of the friends
Thompson for it, that drunkenness is not of humanity have done an immense deal
any worse than eating to excess. I am towards promoting temperance since the
not going to deal with the Scriptural argu- beginning of the century. It was looked
ment, but the denunciations of the glutton upon 8o years ago as the right and
in Scripture are stronger, I think, than fashionable thing for a man to get drunk,
those of the drunkard. There are many and end his dinner under the table. That
other most mischievous vices. There is, has all passed away ; no man who wishes
for instance, a vice which, at the present for the respect or admiration of his friends
day, does perhaps more harm than drunk- or the public can afford to be known as a
enness-in this country, at all events. man who habitually gets drunk; and
That is the vice of avarice. Why do not intemperance is very unfashionable and
hon, gentlemen begin a crusade against very much discredited and has almost
that ? It is more the vice of the present disappeared except amongst a limited class.
day than drunkenness ; because drunken- Now, this fortunate result has not been
ness has ceased to be fashionable, while brought about by legislation, but by the
avarice and fraud are vices which more voluntary efforts ofmenlikeFatherMatthew,
prevail. Take any sin in the decalogue in and by the growth of education and the
fact; and the picture which my hon. friend labors of those temperance associations
across the chamber drew of the man whc which, while they limit themselves to
indulged in drink to excess might be voluntary effort, do an immense amount
drawn of the man who indulged in that of good. But I have noticed this, that
sin to excess. The effect of crime is when these temperance people reach a
ultimately to ruin a man in this world, and certain stage in their agitation they want
to imperil his chances for the next. There to get prohibitory legislation. They appear
is no prohibition of wine in the Scriptures more anxious to get prohibitory legislation
I am not going to talk about that matter than to prevent drinking; and as soon as
but we have the best authority for the the prohibitory legislation has been obtained the tendency is to abandon moral
statement. Archbishop Lynch says:" It bas been asserted that the use of win suasion and to depend on prohibition.
is prohibited in the Bible. This is not the case There is an objection in man-in the
Our Divine Redeemer instituted one of Hi Canadian man, certainly-to coercion, and
greatest sacrainents in bread and wine ; an L think moral suasion will take him a
t. Paul advises his disciple, Tinothy, to usi
a little wine for his stoniach's sake, for theri Sgreat deal further than prohibitory legisiaare persons of weak constitutions that requir p tion.
such nourishmnent."
Some of my remarks have been based
He endorses Archbishop Purcell on tha t on the supposition that these laws can be
point; and Canon Farrar, who has writteî i enforced. They cannot be, as L have just.
a very strong article in favor of prohibitor y indicated.
That L think is the uniforni,
legislation, in a recent number of th e verdict of history. L shahl now quote from
Nineteenth Century, does not pretend ti San article in the Popular Science Monthlysay that there is any prohibition in-Scripture by Mr. Johnston, in which he points out.
It has often struck me, when I have seein the total failure of the prohibitory law in,
men who were total abstainers and wer e the United States. Vermont is one ofvery fond of eating heartily, and did nc ýt those states where the people are descendrestrain their appetites in other direction ;, ed in a great measure from the old Purithat the words of Butler describe thern tan stock, and it is one of the four states,
with great accuracy. They
in the Union where they have a prohibi-"Conpound for sins they feel inchned to, tory provision in the constitution.
Mr.
By damning those they have no mind to. Johnston gives the experience of the
That is a very cheap and easy sort )f attempt to enforce prohibition in Vervirtue. There is one other objectio n mont:

964

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

" But the practical operation of this severe
and sweeping law-there is the rub i It is a
fact, which cannot be controverted or denied,
that for all practical purposes the law is an
absolute dead letter. According to the returns
of the United States revenue officers, the
Government tax on the manufacture and sale
of intoxicating liquors in the state (Vermont)
amounted last year to fourteen thousand
dollars in round numbers. On the same
authority, there are in the st ate at the present
time four hundred and forty-six places where
intoxicating liquors are sold ; and, though the
population is well-nigh stationary, there is a
marked increase in the number of these places,
last year's returns showing four hundred
and twenty-six, and those for the preceeding
year only four hundred and nine. In the city
of Burlington, there are about threescore
places where liquor is sold, and in Rut.
]and, St. Albans, and all the larger towns, a
proportional number; and in every village in
the state, with the exception of a few inconsiderable hamlets, there is at least one such
place. A large proportion of the dram-shops
are located upon the principal streets, and
there is no concealment or attempted concealment of the illegal traffic conducted within
them. As these facts and figures sufficiently
indicate, the law, broadly spaking, is not at
all enforced. The sale of hquor, it is hardly
too much to say, is alnost as free and open
as though there were no such thing as a prohibitory law. The principal exception to the
general rule consists of an occasional spasmodic attempt to enforce the law in larger
places, and the fining of liquor dealers on
what are termed " disclosures." In the latter
case, a person arrested for intoxication is
compelled to "disclose" the person of whom
he procured liquor, and that person is then
Such cases are very
tried for the offence.
common, but as oniy the lowest class of liquor
dealers is concerned in then, generally speaking, and as the prosecution is invariably for
a " first offence," no effective purpose is
served in repressing the liquor traffic. In the
larger towns, an effort to enforce the law is
occasionally made, but such efforts have
invariably proved short-ived, and im almost

every instance the people have, at the earliest

"The cause of the failure of the law is not
far to seek. It is obviously that the law is
not sustained by public sentiment. It is that
tthe world can not be dragooned into virtue.
The supporters of the prohibitory lav are
well meaning men and women, who are sincerely desirous of benefiting their fellow
ihuman beings and advancingbod's kingdom
upon earth: but not even by these will
1
inmanity suffer itself to be driven to loftier
heights of thought and action. The people
of Vermont are not singular in this rnatter;
and there would seem to be no reason wh
the prohibitory system, a failure in a niora,
God-fearing community, should be successful
anywhere in the United States."

The experience of the state of Iowa and
the other states where they have this prohibitory provision in the constitution, is
the same. As Archbishop Lynch says :'' It is difficult to enforce any moral virtue
on an unwilling people. They will always
claim the right of doing as they please, provided they do not injure their neighbors."
The experience of Canada is sinilar. I
do not propose to refer to many speeches
made by hon. gentlemen in this House ;
but there were one or two which were
very suggestive upon this point. One was
the speech made last year by the hon.
gentleman from Charlottetown (Mr. Carvell) and the other the speech made this
year by the hon. member from Marshfield (Mr. Haythorne). Both hon. gentlemen come from a province where that Act
had been tried under the nost favorable
circumstances. The whole island is under the Act; and when one flnds a
gentleman like my hon. friend from
Marshfield, who voted for that Act and
was a believer in it, viewing it as a total
failure, and giving his opinion to that
effect as the result of his practical experience, that ought to to have a great deal
of influence with us. The truth, as I believe, is this : that it will be found in every
place or county where the prohibitory or

opportunity, rejected at the polls the officers
who have attempted to enforce the law. These
are the principal exceptions to the general total abstinence law has been in force
the
rule of non-enforcement. Of enforcing the
as the laws against burgiary and effect has been to stop the progress of
law,
larceny are enforced, no one dreams for a temperance ; that uI) to the time when
Such is the unsatisfactory result you enacf your prohibitory law the conmoment.
of Vermont's thirty years' experience of sumption of liquor becomes less and less
I might
prohibitory liquor lawv.
the
and drunkenness diminishes, but that after
go estill further, and speak of the peurn and
the av is the prohibitory law has been in operation
subornation of perjury, for which

in a sense responsible; of the disregard and
contempt for all law which the operation of
this law tends to foster and encourage, and
of cognate matters which will occur to the
reflective reader; but, perhaps, enough has
been said in ehowing the failure of the law to
accomplish the object for which it was enacted.
HoN. MR. POWER.

for a little while the effect is to cause the
consumption of liquor to increase.

Per-

haps some hon. gentleman might natural-

ly ask me why I voted for the Scott Act,
as it is called. The reason is this : mnthe
province of Nova Scotia we had a prohibi-

Temperan ce A ct, etc., [MAY 26, 1885] Amendment Bill.

965

tory law before Confederation, and before will be comparatively pure and wholesome.
the passing of the Canada Temperance Inail these ways under the prohibitory law
Act. That law was really to my mind a the circumstances are much worse. Liquor
more unreasonable one than the Canada is sold at improper times and places.
Temperance Act, and I voted for the lat- The vilest compounds are sold, and sold
ter Act, partly because it was a measure to minors and to drunken men, while, as
introduced by the Government whom a rule, a respectable man who holds a liI generally supported, and partly because cense will not sell to a man that has
I looked upon it as a less tyrannical already taken too much. One of the
measure than the one that we had in force worst features in the whole matter is that
at the time. Nova Scotia is not a very large people grow accustomed to violating the
place, but still perhaps it is large enough law, and that is a most unfortunate
to try the experiment of prohibition ; and lesson to teach the public. When a man
the experience of Nova Scotia under the has got into the way of thinking that ie
old prohibitory law justifies the views that can violate this law, it is a very easy step
I have expressed to-day. In the country for him to conclude that he may violate
districts, where the people were not given almost any other law, and that is one of
to drinking, and were naturally temperate, the very worst effects of these enactments.
there was very little drinking under the Our experience shows that. The reason
prohibitory law ; but, in the places where for the amendment I have proposed has
the people did drink, and where the law already been made clear enough ; the
if it was good for anything was required, present system does not guarantee the exit did not stop drinking, but it changed istence of a preponderating sentiment in
the character of drinking and changed it favor of the Act where it is proposed to
altogether for the worse. In the debate put it in force. The passing of the Act,
which took place in 1878, if I am not instead of proving that there is an overmistaken, the friends of the Canada Tem- whelming majority of the people of the
perance Act who advocated its passage district in its favor, very often indicates
admitted that the Dunkin Act had not nothing of the sort; and it has frequently
been a success. Our experience in Canada, been carried by a comparatively small minthen, has been the sane as elsewhere. The ority. Statistics on this point have already
prohibitory laws in the Lower Provinces, been submitted by the hon. gentleman
the Dunkin Act and the Canada Temper- from Amherst who is not here and by two
ance Act have all been failures.
or three other hon. gentleman, but I may
The conclusion which one must draw be allowed to give some in a tabulated form:
NEW BRUNSWICK.
fron that--admitting that any number or
proportion of the people have a right to
dictate to their neighbors what they shall
Nane of
eat or drink-is that, unless there is an
overwhelming popular sentiment in favor County orCity
E
of the Act, the mere adoption of it does
much more harm than good. In the first
place, as I have already stated, the cause of Fredericton... 403 2O8 788 18781 s'soi ,218
4,179
temperance suffers, because voluntary York......... 1,229 214 3,ffl 18
6
23,365
effort in a great measure ceases. That is Carleton...... 1,215 149 4,220
Charlotte.....
867
2802 26,087
17508 12,359
one of the first effects ; then liquor is Albert......... .718 114 2,300
798
245 4,409
8,001 25.611
drunk under worse circumstances. When Kings .........
Queens.......
35
131 2,59
1,970 14,017
Westnoreland 1,082
299 5,754
the license system is in operation, the Northumberl'd 875 (78 3,321 1880 4,8 37,719
2,90
25,109
176
41 1,369 1881
1,155
6,651
hiquor trade is under the control of law. Stinbury
The police have a right to go into licensed Total... 7,678 20
25,478 216,2q1
18
houses at all times. Liquor is sold only
pRINCE, ED)WARD ISLAND3.
at certain suitable hours. It is not sold
on Sundays ; it is not sold to persons
nce....1,762
271 5,434 1878
4,512 84,347
11,485
under a certain age; it is not usually sold Charlottetow6 .1,076827 258 1,829 1879 *
Kng.
59 5,68
«
3,880 26,487
to drunken men; and there is some Queens.
.1,817
w 6,321 1880
6,082 36,26
guarantee in the character of the personwho Total....... 4,982 682 19,287 ... 2,47 108 91
sells it that the article which he furnishes
* Included in Queens.

966

Temperance Act, etc, [SE NATE] Amendment Bill.
NOVA SCOTIA.

the real explanation of the small vote
throughout the country. There is another
fact, that you have on one side the tem
perance organizations, who are very influential and who are well organized.
They carry on the campaign; they get
1882,
people to come up and vote ; while there
1881
Inverness ....
1882
is no regular organization on the other
1883
cumberland..
side, and the people do not turn out to
Yarnouth. ..
18841
vote against the Temperance Act. In the
Total....... 13,7041 1,9121 42,069
280,613
Lower Provinces the people are hard to
The province of Ontario is the only move. It is difficult to get them to vote
one where there has been any respectable at an election for a member of the House
portion of the voters on the roll who voted of Commons, and if a man is not asked
for the petition. The following are the to go he generally will not take the trouble.
I think these are sufficient reasons for the
figures for the province of Ontario:
apparent majority in favor of the Act in
the Lower Provinces. I feel quite safe in
saying that if of those who vote you cannot get three-fifths to vote in favor of this
E:.
Act, there can be no popular sentiment
in favor of it ; and if there is no popular
sentiment in its favor you cannot enforce
1,488 1,402 4.664
8,561
21,919 it; and if the Act is not enforced then
alton...
4,073 3,208 11,127
Oxford.
50,098
6,897
siincoe...
5,712 4,529 18,915
9,946
have scandals such as have
76,129 you
Storniont..
1,967
described by the hon. gentleDundas.
4,590 2,884 12,210
8,349
56,113 been
Glengarry.
2,775
men from Charlottetown and Marsh.
#4,501 3,189 12,150
Bruce ."
8,242
64774
such scandals as we read
Huron.
7C),970 field, and
5,957 4,804 13,810
O 290
Norfolk.
2,781 1.694 7,005
6,59E 83.593 of in other places; for this reason I believe
R.enfrew.:
1,748 1,018 5,66
40,125
3,751
J.eeds & Gren. 5,058 4,884 10,134
48,661 that the amendment which I have the
7,755
rant...
1,690 1,088 8,063
24,253
4,725
honor to propose is an amendment in the
Total ...
27,790 98,964
64,578 492,630 interests of temperance and in the interest
of the Canada Temperance Act itself. It
I think the hon gentleman from Sarnia will prevent the Canada Temperance Act
and some other gentlemen have taken from being put in force in places where
this ground-they have asked: " Why has there is no popular sentiment in favor of
the Act been carried, if there is not a it. It will prevent the occurrence of these
wrong sentiment in favor of it ?-Why do scandals which have discredited the Cannot the men who do not believe in the ada Temperance Act and enabled people
Canada Temperance Act come out and to ridicule it and to point to its inefficacy.
vote against it ? " I think the reasons This amendment which I propose is not
are very simple. The principal reason is at all contrary to the prayer of the various
this, that aithough this country or a por- petitions which have come in here asking
tion of it is supposed to be in a very that nothing shall be done to diminish the
benighted condition on this question of efficiency of the Canada Temperance Act.
temperance, the truth is the temperance
sentiment in the country is so strong-the
HON. MR. VIDAL--Or "to render it
feeling that drinking is not a respectable more difficult of adoption or enforcething is so strong-that men who do not ment."
believe in prohibition at all, who think
that a man should be allowed to eat and
HON. MR. POWER-Those petitions
drink what he pleases, will not go out to should have been worded a little differently.
vote as they think and feel, because they
suppose that it is not as respectable as to
HON. MR. VIDAL-The hon. gentlevote the other way, or to refrain from man should quote them as they are; you
voting. The consequence is that these are leaving out the most important word
people stay at home I believe that is te suit your own end.

Digby.
Queens.
Shelbourne...
Colchester....
Annapolis ....
Kings ........
Hants .......
Pictou ......
Cape Breton..

HON.

944
768
807
1,418
1.111
1,478
1,082
1,555
739
960
1,560
1,287

2.882
1,574
2,266
4,147
3,205
3,431
8,642
5,780
3,656
8,546
4,653
8,361

MR. POWER.

1880
"
1881

1 994
1:232
1,687
" ,8839
2,798
3,064
2,727
5,153
2,803
2,974ý
8,498i
2.107

19,881
10,577
14,918
26,720
20,598
23,469
23,359
85,585
31,258
25,651
27,378
21,283

emperavce Act, etc., [MAY 26, 1885] Amendmenbt Bill.
HON. MR. POWER-That is a temperance argument at once. I do not know
how it is that temperance men are so extreme. If they could only be temperate
in their temperance it would be much
better. I had no intention to misstate the
prayer of the petitioners.
HON. MR. VIDAL-I do not mean to
accuse the hon. gentleman of any wrong
intention. I take that back.
HON. MR. POWER-I do think,
hon. gentlemen, that this amendment is
in the interests of temperance and of the
Temperance Act. Some of my friends
have asked me why I did not choose twothirds rather than three-fifths. The law
has been in force with a bare majority ;
and I thought that three-fifths was about
the smallest majority that would give a
reasonable guarantee that the popular
sentiment was in favor of the Act, and it
was about the smallest proportion that
would afford any guarantee against the
scandals and abuses that have arisen where
the Act has been put into operation by a
bare majority. I beg to move the amendment of which I have given notice as
follows :That the said Bill be not now read a third
time, but that it be further amended by

967

counties where the Scott Act had been
in force were correct. He insinuated
that because those men were dealing in
liquor, therefore they were not capable of
giving true returns to the country. He
insinuated that most distinctly. He also
went on to question the honesty of these
men because they were dealing in liquor.
Now, that comes very badly from the
mouth of a gentleman whose father had
made money in that particular business.
It comes very badly from a man who, up
to middle age, had dealt out liquor himself by the quart, and afterwards, as a
means to make more money, sold it
wholesale.
I am sorry to make any
allusion to that peisonal matter, and
when I do so it is not because I think any
the less of that gentleman for being in the
liquor trade, in his early life, nor because

I think anything the less of his father
before him for earning an honest living in
that trade in his day, but I do think less
of gentlemen who stand up here to-day
and insinuate that no man could be honest
and respectable if he dealt in anything in
the shape of intoxicating liquor. Any
gentleman who stands on the floor of this
House and makes such a statement as
that to the world must be thought a
fanatic, and cannot have the mind of an
upright, honorable man.

adding the following section thereto:
HoN. MR. FLINT-The hon. gentle" Section fifty-six of ' The Canada Teniper- man puts words into my mouth which I
ance Act, 1878,' is amended by substituting
the words ' two-filthe' for the words 'one- never used. My speech explains that.
half' in the first line thereof as printed ;

section fifty-seven of the said Act is amended
HON. MR. SMITH-The hon. gentleby substituting the words 'three-fifths' for man said it in his speech.
the word 'hall' in the first line thereof as
printed, and sections fifty-eight, and sixty-two
HON. MR. SCOTT-Does the hon.
are amended by inserting the word 'required'
before the word ' majority' whenever it gentleman from Toronto persist in bringoccurs."
ing us back here to-night ? We usually
consult each other's pleasure in these
HON. MR. VIDAL moved the adjourn- debates.
ment of the debate.
HON. MR. SMITH-We have conHON. MR. SMITH-I will not detain sulted the hon. gentleman's pleasure for a
the House very long, but I could not let long time on this subject. The hon.
this opportunity pass, after the speech gentleman and his friends may shuffle as
delivered by the hon. Senator who repre- much as they like, but we will consult the
sents the Trent division, without making pleasure of the large majority of this House
some comments on it. That hon. gentle- now, and have this vexed question
man, in the course of his remarks, has settled to-night.
imsinuated that persons dealing in liquors
would not give correct returns ; that he
It being six o'clock, the Speaker left
did not believe that the returns made in the chair.

968

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.
AFTER RECESS.

THE SPEAKER-Perhaps the hon.
member from Sarnia will withdraw his
motion for the adjournment of the debate.
HON. MR. VIDAL-With the leave of
the House, I have no objection to do so.

The motion was withdrawn.
HON. MR. SMIT H-It is not my desire
to detain the House at any great length,
but simply to enter a protest against the
language made use of by the hon. member
from Trent division in regard to those who
have been and are in the liquor trade. A
large number of our fellow citizens have
been in the liquor trade in this country for
years. It is well known that the character
of those merchants, as a rule, is straight.
forward, high-toned and honorable. It is
well known that they willcomparefavorably
with any other class of Her Majesty's
subjects in the Dominion, and it is for this
reason that I stand here to-night not to
make any great defence, because it is
unnecessary, and if it were, there are other
hon. gentlemen who could do it more ably
than I can, but simply to enter my protest
against the remarks of the hon. gentleman
from Trent, and I do so more particularly
because he drew the attention of the
House to the fact that I am in the liquor
trade. I have been in the liquor trade to
a certain extent, but it is not one-twelfth
part of my business. I have been an
importer of wines and liquors for the last
thirty years, and I will allow the public of
this country and those who are within
hearing of my voice to-day to say whether
I have conducted my business in an
honorable, straightforward manner or not ;
and I am one of those liquor dealers whom
the hon. gentleman from Trent division,
casts a slur upon in his reference to all
parties who import, sell, drink or handle
intoxicating liquors in any shape or form.
The man who makes such a wholesale
attack upon a respectable class of people in
the country where we have so many intelligent men must be considered either as a
fanatic or a crank. After many years of experience in the liquor trade, I must say that
I have found those who are engaged in it
to be as honorable men, in every shape
and form, as those who profess extreme

temperance principles, and as nierchants
there is no comparison.
As liberal,
whole-souled men-men who will put
their hands in their pockets and give
their money freely to help their fellow
citizens-there is no comparison. Liquor
dealers are whole-souled men, liberal in
their opinions andliberal with their money,
yet they are denounced as being everything that is bad by som2 hon. gentlemen
who have temperance on the brain. We are
expected to allow our temperance friends
to say what they like in this House, and
we must not say a word on behalf of those
who have followed an honorable calling
for the last 30 or 40 years, and who have

paid their debts honorably, and have
always been ready to assist their neighbors
and to contribute their money towards
any enterprise for the public welfare. I
say that is the character generally of those
who deal in liquor in this country, and I
am prepared to compare them, man for
man, with the temperance men, and let
the public decide as to which of the two
classes is more valuable to the country.
Which of them is it that carries on the
trade of the country? Is it the temperance crank ? By no means. Who is it
that pays the revenue of this country?
Is it the temperance crank ? It may be
said that this is hard language, but hard language has been used against those who have
not the opportunity to defend themselves
in this House. I am responsible for my
language, and I am not afraid of anybody,
or any power, or any class of people in
this country, let them be temperance or
otherwise. My record for the last 30 or
40 years will show what I have been and
what I am, and, therefore, it is not necessary for me to give any further history
of myself. I am still in the liquor
trade, and when the day comes when
age or infirmity calls me from that honest
and honorable calling, I will not stand in
this House or any other place and cast
reflections on the calling by which I have
made a portion of my living, or on those
who are still in the business in this country and who pay an enormous amount of
revenue into the public treasury.
I will never be the man to stand up and
condemn that calling as the hon. gentleman from Trent bas done. I would take
stronger ground against the hon. gentleman only for the fact that his age will not

Temperance Act, etc., [MAY 26, 1885] Amendment Bll.

969.

allow me to do so, because he knows well going too far ; he is bringing in
that his father before him made his money discord, discomfort, and deceit, because
in the liquor trade, and he knows that up the country will not observe the law. The
to a certain time, he made momey him- people of every country have been accusself in that trade, and I look around tomed frorn earliest ages to using liquors.
me, and see many of my fellow citizens In some countries spirit does not answer,
that have been in their early days import- and in some seasons of the year there is
ers and dealers in wines and liquors, and very little spirit drunk in this country, and
I do not think any the less of them because the people require some light beverage
of their connection with that trade. I say such as wine or ale to satisfy them. The
that by keeping this Canada Temperance hon. gentleman said that the adoption of
Act on our statute book we are making a this Act would not affect the farmer, belarge portion of our people law breakers. cause barley that would be grown by them
It encourages them to deceive the would be sent out of the country. Now, if
honest trader. It encourages them to de- he is right in principle, he will not advoceive each other ; it encourages drinking cate that the farmer should grow barley to
at home and in places where men would sell to our American neighbors to continue
not drink but for the prohibition caused the same evil that it produces here. If
by this Act. It wipes out the pure light he is true to his principle he will say, " do
wines and deprives a man of the whole- not allow barley to be grown at all, beThe hon.
some glass of beer, which the hon. gentle- cause barley will make beer."
man said contains but four per cent. of gentleman does not go that far ; he says
spirit. If a glass of beer has only four he will allow our farmers to raise barley,
per cent. of spirit in it, there is not much and we will sell it to our neighbors, and
danger of it doing any harm to the hard- let our neighbors destroy themselves as
working laborer or mechanic, or any per- they think proper. Can any man stand
son who uses it. What does the laborer up and defend such an argument ?
like better for his dinner than his pint of
HoN. MR. DEVER-He wants the
beer and his loaf of bread ? What will
keep better in the hot sun ? What will money.
give him more vigor to go on with his
HON. MR. SMIT H-I say that if the
work on a warm day than his glass of ale?
I say that the person who would deprive principle of the sale, manufacture and use
the poor person of his glass of beer is an of beer from barley is wrong, then do
intemperate man and will encourage in- away with the barley altogether, and do
temperance to a large degree, because not allow the farmer to produce it or sell
spirit is easily carried, easily smuggled, and it for malt purposes. I contend, however,
easily kept concealed on the person, which that the principle is not a correct one ; I
cannot be done with beer. Therefore the contend that the farmer ought to be enman who will not permit the use of beer and couraged to raise barley or any and every
light wines, is not acting in the cause of true grain in which there is money in this
temperance. We have a great many of country. By doing that, it encourages
those temperance speeches, and no doubt emigrants to come to and settle in this
if we were disengaged to-night we could country. I will not detain the House any
enjoy ourselves by hearing the celebrated longer. I simply wanted to make these
temperance lecturer, Mr. J. B. Gough, a few remarks so that the hon. gentleman
gentleman whom I have often heard lec- from Trent Division would not have his
ture on this question ? I like his speeches speech go on record without some protest,
very well. A great deal that he says is and all I can add is that I arn sorry that
correct, and if people would only do as he someone in the House, who is better
Says it would be all very well; but to en- qualified than I am to do so, should not
courage those people who go to hear him have made this protest. I may add that
to come to Parliament and ask for legisla- I know a number of gentlemen who advotion to deprive the honest people of this cate temperance, and who will not go to
country of their beer or light wine, I say the polls and vote for it, because they conis going too far, and interfering with the sider that it is the worst thing that can
liberty of the subject. I say that he is happen the country if the Scott Act car-

970

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Amendment Bil.

ries. In one locality it deprives a man of
the right to sell beer or light wines, and
shuts up his house ; while the municipality across the road, that did not adopt the
Scott Act, gets all the trade, and the
farmers go there where they can get acSome of those tempercommodation.
ance gentlemen say, " We will start a
temperance hoteL" In my experience of
the last forty years, no temperance hotel
has ever succeeded in this country, and if
there is a temperance hotel in a town or
city or village, ten to one the temperance
man will not patronize it ; he will go to
the licensed house, put his horse under
the shed, use the premises and accommodation, and will not call for anything,
but takes advantage of the accommodation he is offered, and pays nothing
for it. Is that true temperance ? Is
that common honesty ? Is it what the
people of this country should practice ?
If you go to counties where the Temperance Act is in force, you will find the
temperance men's horses are tied alongside
the fences ; they use the sheds of the
churches, and when those places are
closed against them, they drive some
distance to where they get a tavern to put
their horses up at. Is a British subject to
be told in this couatry what he has never
been told in England, that he cannot have
a glass of beer or intoxicating liquor of any
description ? The wisdom of England
has never deprived the people at home of
their beer, and why should the fanatics of
Canada, in the name of temperance, say
that British subjects shall not be allowed
their glass of beer in this country ? Let us
practice temperance, every man at his own
table, and in his every day life, and allow
the subject to use the judgement and the
brains that God has given him to be
temperate, honest and true, and if he will
do so we will find the country prosper
very much better than it would if ruled by
a minority, a very small minority of temperance cranks.
HoN. MR. VIDAL-I have had occa-

debate outside of the bar of this House
this afternoon would scarcely be able to
form any idea of the subject before the
Senate. My hon friend who has just
resumed his seat has scarcely uttered a
single sentence relating to the question
which is before us for decision. My hon.
friend from Trent I have to put in the
same category, and with the exception of
the few closing remarks of the hon. gentleman whose amendment we are now
considering, I should include him in the
same list also, because when he considers
them after they are published he will see
that nine tenths of his remarks have
nothing to do with the amendment which
he has proposed to the Bill.
HON. MR. POWER-The remarks led
up to it.
HON. MR. VIDAL-Like the creation
of Adam did to our present generation.
What is the question before us? It is
shall this House sanction the adoption of
a principle with respect to the voting on
the Scott Act, which does not prevail anywhere else in this Dominion with respect
to the decision of any question by the vote
of the people? It is an attempt to introduce an entire novelty, and I contend that
where any such thing is attempted to be
introduced there should be shown to us
most cogent reasons, most powerful and
irresistible arguments, why such a proposal
should be placed before us. It is somewhat extraordinary that such a change
should have taken place in the mind of
the hon. gentleman from Halifax (Mr.
Power) from the views which he entertained last year. I admit the propriety of
a man changing his opinion in less than
12 months if he sees a reason for doing so,
but the hon. gentleman has given no reason
whatever for the wonderful change which
has come over his sentiments- and his
course of action with reference to this
particular question. Last year the hon.
gentleman from Amherst bróught in the
identical proposition that is now before us.
In referring to our Journals of the 4 th of
April last year, I find in amendment to
Sir David Macpherson's motion for the
3rd reading of a bill like this one, Mr.
Dickey moved:

sion before this to remark on the very
wide departure, in the consideration of this
Bill, from the expression of those thoughts
and reasons which ought to be brought
before us in dealing with the matter which
is really now in our hands. I am quite That the said Bill be not now read a third
sure that any stranger listening to our time, but that it be recomnitted to a ComHON. MR. SMITH.

7emperance Act, etc., [MAY 26, 1885] Anendment Bill.
rnittee of the Whole House, with instructions
to leave out the words " half of al] the votes "
in the fifty-seventh section of the Act hereby
amended, and substitute therefor the words
"three-fifths of all the votes."
It is identically the same amendment
as the one now before us. In analyzing
the division on that amendment I find
Mr. Power voting with myself against it.
But he was not content with giving a
silent vote by any means ; his sentiments
were expressed, as he generally expresses
them, very clearly, and they were very
satisfactory sentiments to me, and I have
very great pleasure in reminding the hon.
gentleman that his view, as expressed last
year on this subject, was a very correct
view, and admirably expressed, and I, do
not see why he changes it now. On that
occasion he said :" There is a defect in the 96th section of
the Act which hinders it from going into
operation in certain cases, where the vote lias
been taken on it; and the sole object of this
Bill is to remedy this defect, and allow the
Canada Temperance Act to go into bperation
as it would have gone into operation if it had
not been for a contingency that was not considered by the person who drew up this Bill."
These words would apply exactly to
the Bill now before us. The hon. gentleman continued:" Now, can it be contended that a motion
to attack the principle of the Act is relevant
to this Bill ?"

Observe that, hon. gentlemen. It is a
clear admission that this is a motion to
attack the principle of the Act, and not
an amendment of any of its little defects.
But he continues :" I think not; and I think that even if
technically it were relevant, the feelingof the
House should be at any rate against the
Motion, coming in as it does now. E very one
Will admit that no more important amendment, except a motion to repeal the Scott Act
-which would be just as much in order-as
this, could be moved in relation to this Bill
than the one submitted to the House by the
hon. member from Amherst."
Surely, if anything can be distinctly
stated, we have here a very clear and distinct statement that in the opinion of my
hon. friend last year, the introduction of
such an amendment as he now proposes
was not to amend the Act, not to make it
nore operative, but entirely destructive
of the principle of the Act. A little further on he says:

971

" The hon. gentleman from Amherst, and
those gentlemen who are acting with him
now, are very fond of boasting of the manly
way in which they like to carry on a fight;
and the hon. gentleman himself is very apt
to talk about temperance people as being
addicted to doing things in a way that is not
manly or straightforward. I am not a temperance man,but I should say that those hon.
gentlemen in attacking the principle of the
Scott Act, under cover of this Bi are not
acting consistently with their professions of
manliness."
I hope the hon. gentleman will take

that to himself.

He is now doing this

very thing which last year he said was not
consistent with the professed principles of
manliness. He continues:
" This amendment is certainly an attack on
the principles of the Canada Temperance Act,
and it is not made in what I regard as a
manly or straightforward way. If hon.
gentlemen think that the majority of voters
required to bring the Act into operation should
be larger than it is, the proper way to do
would b to introduce a Bill to that effect."
I hope my hon.!friend is satisfied that I
have at least made good my statement
that last year when this very question was
before the House, his views coincided
with mine as to the impropriety of any

such amendment as he now proposes to
make to this Bill. I have already said
that it is entirely unconstitutional ; that it
is a principle with which we are not
familiar in British practice, that is, giving
to the minority the power to control the
majority. I am not sure that my hon.
friend has thought of the other operation,
in cases where the repeal of the Act is to
be voted upon-that he has been equally
careful in that case to require that a three-

fifths vote should be necessary to repeal
the Act.
Now, besides my objection to it on constitutional principles, and believing it entirely unnecessary, I might also remark
that it is entirely uncalled for. We have
had no petitions addressed to this House,
because I except those introduced in the
Senate since this matter was brought before us, in support of the amendment of
the hon. member from Halifax. Without
any person asking us throughout the
whole length and breadth of the country,
we have voluntarily amended this Bill and
interfered, as my hon. friend said in his
speech last year, with the very principle of
the Act, doing the best we can to destroy
it. It so happens that a similar amend-

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

972

ment was proposed in the House of Commons. It was not precisely the same motion ; Mr. Ives' proposition was to
require that the Act shall be adopted by
an actual majority of the voters on the
list-a very similar proposition to that of
my hon. friend. What was done there ?
By a most decisive vote-1 7 voting for it
to

109

rejected.

against it-the amendment was

You have here a very clear and

distinct expression of the view of the
House of Commons with respect to this
particular point of requiring more than a
majority vote to bring the Act in force in
any county. While we are not bound to
register the acts of the other House, it is
certainly due to that body that we should
give very full consideration to matters to
which they have directed their attention
and on which they have recorded their
judgment, and we should not take action
exactly contrary to that which they have
taken, without good reason, and without

character. The other is if any measure
were very suddenly sprung upon the
House, on which the views of the people
were not known, in that case, I think it
would be the duty of the Senate, and we
would be acting with great propriety, to
refuse our sanction to such a measure ;
but neither of these cases will apply to
the present question. We cannot call it
a new matter. Here is a measure which
has been for several years on the statute
book, which has received in a very remarkable way the endorsation or approval
of a large number of the electors of this
country, and we have had before us no
complaint whatever of injustice or wrong
doing, or even of any desire for a change
such as is now proposed. I do trust that
due consideration will be given to these
things, and that hon. gentlemen will
follow my example, and keep to the text
in discussing these motions. I hope the
House will not agree to the amendment
proposed by my hon. friend from Halifax.

grave and mature deliberation upon it.
I know that when I have made remarks
The Senate divided on the amendment
about what has been done in the other
House, hon. gentlemen have spoken of which was rejected by the following vote:
the independence of this body, and have
CONTENTS:
asked what is the use of us if we are to
Hon. Messrs.
accept everything coming from the other
MeMillan,
House. There is no doubt we are called AInion,
Campbell, (Sir Alex.),Mclnnes,
upon, as an independent body, to exercise Carvell,
Montgomery,
our judgment on the legislation coming Clenow,
Northwood,
O'Donohoe,
from the House of Commons, but I still Dever,
Ogilvie,
contend in a matter which has been very Glasier,
Plumb,
fully and fairly considered by them and Guévremont,
Power,
Hamilton,
on which they have recorded their de- Kaulbach,
Robitaille,
cision, that we ought to be exceedingly Lacoste,
Smith,
Turner.-23.
careful before we take a step in direct McDonald,
contradiction to theirs, and send back to McKindsey,
NON-CoxNExT
thern an amendment on a subject upon
which they have already given their deHon. Messrs.
cision in the negative.
It is a very un- Alexander,
Haythorne,
Leonard,
wise thing for us to do. There are times Allan,
McKay,
when it is our bounden duty-when the Armand,
Macdonald,
very raison d'etre of this House requires Baillargeon,
Miller (Speaker),
Bellerose,
that we should work as a check upon the Boucherville de,
Paquet,
legislation of the House of Commons, but Chaflers,
Pelletier,
Poirier,
only two particular instances occur to me Chapais,
Scott,
now where such a step becomes necessary. DeBloie,
Ferrier,
Stevens,
One is in case there should be any move Flint,
Vidal,
for party purposes by the majority whc Girard,
Wark,-25.

happen to be in power in the othet Grant,
House. I think the duty of this Chambei

Ho-. MR. McMILLAN moved:would be to exercise its functions to pre
vent a general wrong being done for part
That the said Bill be not now read a thir
interests, and to check legislation of tha t tinie, but that it be referred back to a ComHON. MR. VIDAL.

Temperance Act, etc., [MAY 26, 1885] Amendment Bill.
mittee of the Whole House, with instructions
further to amend the fifth clause by inserting
therein immediately after the first amendment
thereto already made the following:" Provided also that nothing in this Act
shall be held to interfere with the sale by
legally qualified physicians, chemists or druggists of the following articles, that is to say:"1. The officinal preparations of the authorized pharmacopæas when made of full medicinal strength, and sold only for medicinal
purposes.
" 2. Physicians' prescriptions containing
spirituous liquors if sold in quantities of not
more than eight ounces at any one time.
" 3. Any patent medicine, unless such
patent meficine is known to the vendor to be
capable of being used as a beverage, the sale
Of which is a violation of' The Canada I emperance Act, 1878.'
"4. Eau de colonge, bay rum. or other
articles of perfumnery, lotions, extracts, varnishes, tinctures, or other pharnaceutical
preparations containing alcohol, but not intended for use as beverages.
"5. Alcohol or methylate spirits, for phar.
Maceutical, chemical or industrial uses."

973

1. The rights of druggists to sell liquor are
interfered with by the Scott Act to the same
extent precisely as those ot all other persons.
The Pharmacy Act does not expressly authorize druggists to sell liquor-as sucli-and the
Temperance Act deals with them in precisely
the same way as with others, except that it
names druggists as persons who may be
specially licensed to sell for lawful purposes
intoxicating liquors, subject to the conditions
of sub-sections 3 and 4 of section 99, namelv :
(1) wine for sacramental purposes, on the
certificate of a clergyman; (2) intoxicating
liquor for exclusively medicinal purposes,
such sale to be in quantities of not less than
one pint, to be removed from the premises,
and to be made only on the certificate of a
medical man having no interest in the sale,
and affirming that such hiquor has been prescribed for the person named therein; (3)
intoxicating liquor for bona fide use in some
art, trade or manufacture, to be made on a
certificate signed by two Justices of the
Peace that the application is bona fide, and
accompanied by the affirmation of the applicant that the liquor is to be used only for the
particular purposes therein set forth ; (4) the
certificates are to be kept on file, and ail sales
He said : I wish to make just two under the two preceding sub-sections are to
alterations in that amendment ; one is to be registered, shewing the namne of the
add after " interfere with the," the words purchaser and the quantity sold, and an
annual return of all snch sales is to be made
purchase or." It would then read, on the 31sL of December in each vear to the
"provided also that nothing in this Act Collector of the Inland Revenue within whose
shal be held to interfere with the purchase division the county or city is situated.
V. In localities where the Scott Act is in
or sale by legally qualified physicians
ordinary tinctures
etc." And at the suggestion of my hon. force, rua y compounds be soldand spirituous
mnedicinal
by druggists
friend from Belleville, I ask that the word who have not obtained licences under the
"industrial" in the fifth paragraph be section 99 of that Act?
V. '1 he Act (section 99) forbids the sale or
struck out, and that the word " mechanical" be substituted therefor. I do not gift, exce t under conditions and for the
know that it is necessary for me to add purposes thlerein prescribed, of " any spiritous
or other intoxicating liquor, or anv mixed
anything to what I said when I introduced liquor capable of being used as a beverage, or
the amendment with reference to the part of which is spirituous or otherwise
ami, in section 2-" the
medical profession. However I may state intoxicating"
that the druggists went a little further expression intoxicating liquor tneans and
an and
or
than the medical men in order to ascer- comuprehends an every every spirituous and
malt liquor,
wine and any
tain the legal construction put upon every combination of liquors or drinks that is
section 99 of the Canada Temperance intoxicating."
We are of the opinion that compounds preAct, and they obtained the opinion of
a legal firmi of good standing in the city pared by chetnists and druggists are clearly
within the Act, and that chemists and
of Toronto, from which I may read the druggists are forbidden to expose or keep for
following :sale, or sell, or barter, or in consideration of
the purchase of any other property give to
OPINION OF MEsSRS. MOWAT, MACLENNAN,
any other person any medicinal preparations,
whatever, which corme within the definition
DOWNEY AND BIGGAR ON THE SCOTT ACT.
of " spirituous or intoxicating liquor, or
Our opinion is asked, on behalf of the mixed liquor capable of being used as a
Ontario College of Pharmacy, upon the fol- beverage, and part of which is spirituous or
lowing questions arising out of the Canada otherwise initoxicating." Whether
any part em erance Act, 1878, conmonly known as ticular tincture or spirituous mediena conmthe ceott Aet:
pound comes within this definition in not a
1. To what extent are the rights ofdruggists question ot law, but a matter of tact to be
to seli liquor under the Pharmacy Act Inter- determined in each particular case.
fered with by the Scott Act?
April 9th, 1885.

HON. MR. McMILLAN.

974

Temperance Act, etc., LSENATE] Amendment Bill.

Having obtained this opinion, the druggists are applying to this House to amend
the Canada Temperance Act, so far as
their calling is concerned. Of course it
does not affect any principle that is contained in the Bill as far as the question of
temperance is concerned ; it is simply
giving to them, an important body numbering over

2oo

in the Dominion of

Canada, the privilege of carrying on their
trade without interference. It was only
recently that they discovered the position
in which they stood, and they wish to be
relieved from any annoyance or from
suits which might be entered against them
for acting in contravention of the law.
They are, as I have said, an important
body ; a great many of them have a large
amount of capital invested in their business. Besides their capital, I may say it
is almost a profession which they cannot
enter upon without undergoing a long
period of training and a critical examination and that is also a part of their capital.
Of course if they should be prevented
from carrying on their legitimate trade by
this Act, which I am sure was not intended by the framers of it, it is a hardship
and grievance which no hon. member in
this House would like to see them
suffer.
MR. SCOTT-When the TemAct was up before the House this
perance
question was fully considered, and I do
not think that the amendment is desirable.
I do not think it is wise or proper to-I
won't say tinker-I do not think that is a
parliamentary word-but to undertake to
make an important amendment like this
when really no necessity exists for it. The
druggists when dispensing the various
compounds within their legitimate calling
have not been disturbed. No prosecution
has been entered against them nor has
any complaint been made in the courts
against them for selling for the purposes
herein disclosed. I will read a subsection of section 99 of the Canada Temperance Act which covers it. The fourth
sub-section is as follows:" Provided also that the sale of intoxicating
liquor for exclusively medicinal purposes or
for bona fide use in some art, trade or manufacture, shall be lawful only by euch druggists
and other vendors as may be thereto specially
licensed."
HON.

HoN. MR. McMILLAN.

Now, if it is to be used in any trade, art
or manufacture, it is permitted under the
statute as it is, and I do not think it is
desirable that we should widen the door
or point out in what particular way the
spirit of the Act can be evaded. There
would be no objection to the first and second paragraphs of this amendment, but it
is a matter of notoriety that patent medicines are being sold simply as a cover for
the sale of alcohol. The Government
have been obliged to interdict a number of
them in the North-West, where the Act is in
force aganist the sale of intoxicating liquors.
I think it has been found on examination
that what is called Perry Davis' Pain
Killer, as prepared in the North-West,
is simply another name for alcohol ;
and other medicines, the Minister of
Justice will probably recollect have been
interdicted in the North-West, simply because they were a medium for distributing
alcohol. On that ground I do not think
it is wise that the House should accept of
the propositions of the hon. gentleman.
To the first and second one there is no
objection ; to the third and fourth there
are objections; to the fifth proposition
there would be no objection. The third
and fourth should stand their chances
and come under the provisions of subsection four, and if the alcohol is simply
produced in a bona fide manner it will be
protected, but if bay rum, or any extract
or tincture, or any other preparation is
simply to be used as a cover for selling
alcohol, then it ought not to be permitted,
because it is simply a mode of evading the
Act. I, therefore, must ask the House
not to accept the third and fourth propositions of the hon. member from Glengarry. I would move, therefore, that the
amendnent be further amended by
striking out the sub-sections three and
four in the proviso contained in the
notice.
The House divided on the amendment
to the amendment, which was lost on the
following division :CoNTENTS:
Hon. Messrs.
Allan,
Miller (Speaker),
Paquet,
Boucherville de,
Chaffers,
Pelletier,
Chapais,
Power,
Dever,
Poirier,
Ferrier,
Scott,

TempeanceAct, etc., [MAY 26, 1885] Amendment Bill.
Flint,
Girard,
Grant,
Haythorne.
Le6nard,

975

Stevens,
Trudel,
Vidal,

Governor General in Council for the
bringing of the second part of this Act into force in any county or city may be in
Wark.-21.
the form of Schedule A to this Act, or in
words to the same effect." In the Bill beNoN-CONTENTs:
fore us the words, " electoral district "
Hon. Messrs.
simply take the place of the word " counAlexander,
McMillan,
ty," and the effect of this amendment will
Almon,
Macdonald,
be simply to place British Columbia in
Baillargeon,
MacInnes,
Campbell (Sir Alex.), Montgomery,
the same position as the province of OnCarvell,
Northwood,
tario or any other province. This amendClem ow,
O'Donohoe,
ment was made in the House of Commons
DeBlois,
Ogilvie,
at the instance of one of the members
<loevrenont,
P umb,
from the province of British Columbia,
Kaulbach,
Robitaille,
Lacoste,
Smith,
who had the support and authority of all
McDonald,
Turner.-23.
the other members from that province,
McKay,
and was carefully looked into before it was
The amen Iment was declared carried adopted.
on a division
HON. MR. VIDAL-I think the hon.
The House resolved itself into a Com- gentleman is wrong in stating that there
mittee of the Whole on the Bill.
is an exact similarity between the electoral division in British Columbia and other
HON. MR. GIRARD, from the Com- provinces of the Dominion. The term
mittee, reported the Bill with the amend- " electoral districts " there includes cities
ment, which was concurred in.
within the territorial limits of the electoral
district, and if this amendment is acceptTHE SPEAKER-The motion is now ed, the city will not have the right to vote.
on the third reading of the
amended.

Bill as

HON. MR. NELSON moved,
That the Bill be not now read a third time,
but that it be referred back to a committee of
the Whole House to re-insert the words
" except a city " in the tenth line of the
second section.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
House will see almost immediately that if
the words "except a city " are inserted it
will mean that the city of New Westminster is excluded from voting on this Act,
because it will be excepted from the electoral division.

HON. MR. NELSON-It will he exHoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am
sorry that the hon. gentleman from New actly in the same position as a city in
Westminster is not in his place. It struck Ontario. There is a provision in the Bill
me when he was arguing the question, that for cities voting, and I will ask the House
he had the right on his side, because if to divide on my amendment.
the words now proposed to be inserted
HON. MR. POWER-I think that this is
were adopted, the city of New Westminster would be deprived of its vote alto- a matter of some considerable consequence,
gether. The city has no representation in and the House ought to be informed
the Commons, and unless it votes as part before voting, which construction is the
of the electoral district it will have no vote correct one. The hon. gentleman from
at all.
British Columbia says that the effect of
his amendment would be to place the
HoN. MR. NELSON-I beg to say cities of Victoria and New Westminster in
that the amendment which I propose will exactly the same position as the cities in
just put British Columbia in the same Ontario. If that is the only effect of his
predicament as all the other provinces of amendment, it is a fair and proper one.
the Dominion. I hold in my hand the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
old Act. I will read clause 4 of the Act.
It provides that " Any petition to the will exclude them from voting.

976

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Anendment Bill.

HON. MR. POWER-If the interpretation of the hon. gentleman from British
Columbia is correct, then the vote may
be taken in New Westminster itself, or in
Vietoria itself.

the question, by discussing the whole
principle of temperance legislation.
wish to speak to hon. gentlemen

I
as

reasonable men, and on a matter of very
great importance, more particularly when

I think the House is making a grave misPLUMB-It cannot be take in the course it is adopting in
I wish to
relation to this particular Bill.
taken in either alone.
place before the country the fact that the
HON. MR. POWER-Are there not action, taken by this Senate,is taken intellicities in Ontario which are not electoral gently, calrmly and deliberately. I wish that
divisions, in which elections are held every member who votes for or against
under the Scott Act ?
this measure should be held responsible for
HON. MR

HON. \IR. VIDAL-Ves.
HON. MR. POWER-I think that some
gentleman who has a special interest in
the Bill ought to inform us from the
original Temperance Act what the provisions respecting cities are.

it, and I wish, therefore, that the statement shall be put clearly and distinctly
before the people of this country, that
they may know the grounds on which we
claim that the Senate ought not to allow
such a clause as this to be attached to
this Bill. The first ground we take is
that we have before us a very large number of petitions, signed by a vast number
of the most influential and respectable
people of this Dominion.

HoN. MR. NELSON-1 refer the hon.
gentleman to clause 4 of the old Act ; the
word " city " in British Columbia takes the
HON. \IR. ALMON- Hear, hear!
place of the word " county," and I cannot
see why a city in British Columbia should
HON. MR. VIDAL-The hon. gentlebe affected differently under this Act from
says " hear, hear !" but he cannot deny the
any city in Ontario.
fact that petitions have been sent in here

The amendment was declared lost on a signed by a large number of the most
division.
influential people in this Dominion praying
that no amendment be made to the Can'l'HE SPEAKER-The question is now ada Temperance Act of 1878, which will
impair its efficiency or render it more
on the third reading.
difficult of adoption, or enforcement. Are
HON. '\R. VIDALT-Moved in amend- we entirely to disregard these petitions,
ment that the said bill be not now representing as they do over 1oo,ooo of
read the third time, but that it be amended our people, and are we to turn a deaf ear
by striking out the section which permits to their prayer ? I think hon. gentlemen
the sale of ale, beer and wine and cider in if we do we are going beyond our province
counties and cities where the second part when we endeavor to enforce our own
of the temperance Act of 1878 is in force. private views and feelings on a country
He said : I think this is a matter of too that does not approve of them, and is not
great importance to allow it to pass with- in accord with the action taken by the
out expressing the views which I entertain Senate on this question. Not only are
on this subject. If I were to occupy the those numerous petitions respectably
time of the House for a whole hour, I signed urging us to take no step that may
would not be intruding on it, or taking any impair the efficiency of this Act, but we
more time than is rightly my due. In in- have the indisputable proof that the Act
troducing this measure, I merely dealt with meets with the approval of a large majority
the principle of the Bill before us, and so of the people in the counties and cities
in the discussion which has gone where it has been submitted for their apon in comnittee, I have not followed the proval.
example set by other hon. gentlemen,
HON. MR. ALMON-The hon. gentleand which has been so abundantly
followed by those who have spoken on man must also remember that a large

Temperance A ct, etc., [MAY 20, 18851. Amendment Bel.
number of petitions have been presented
to Parliament prayirig that ale, beer and
light wines be exempted from the operation
of the Scott Act.
HON. MR. VIDAL-I am not to be
turned from my purpose by those remarks.
These interruptions may gratify the
persons making them but they have no
effect on my argument, and cannot shake
the truthfulness of the statement which I
make, and the country even now is
responding to it. It is true we have not
many petitions presented to this House
now, because the impression has gone
abroad that we finished:our part of the
legislation on this Bill after we had
adopted this amendment ; but petitions
are presented in large numbers in the
other House, asking them not to concur
in the amendment, and setting forth the
reasons why it is incumbent on them to
refuse their assent to any such destrucI hold, then, that in
tive proposition.
addition to those petitions we have the
evidence of the votes cast in favor of the
Scott Act, thatitis one which meets with the
approval of a very large number of the
people of this Dominion, and in the
action we are taking we are doing them a
wrong and are really departing from the
line of conduct we ought to follow in this
House and committing an outrage on
those people who, placing their faith on
the action of Parliament, have taken a
great deal of trouble, expended large sums
of money, and have succeeded in having
this Act adopted in some 6o municipalities
in this Dominion.

-97

unsolicited, but contrary to the express
prayer of a large number of petitioners,
is taking a. step entirely , destructive of
that Act. What county would ever adopt
it with such a clause as that in it ? No
temperance man would cross the street to
vote for such an Act. I say it is a gross
injustice to those who, believing in the
integrity and honesty of intention of Parliament, have taken the trouble to bring
it in force. Then, again, look at the result. I am afraid hon. gentlemen have
not thought of this matter, and it is on
this ground that I think it;may not be en,tirely without hopeto.urge on them a reconsideration of this.question-what is to
be the result of ýthe. adoption of this
amendment? It is to bting about free
trade in liquor in every county. where the
Scott Act is in force. There is no provision for the restraining ér putting ary
check on the liquor trade, and it will result in free trade in liquor in every county
where the Scott Act is in force.
HON. MR. SMITH-Not in spirits.

HON. Mr. VIDAL-The hon. gentleman will admit there is. from four

to

twelve per cent. of spirit in these
liquors, but that is not the question. We
know very well where these beverages are
in use, the right quantity of spirit will be
introduced to suit the public taste. It is
done now and it is still more likely to be
done under the amendment.
HON. MR. SMITH-Where is it done?

HON. MR. VIDAL-All over the counPLUMB-Expended large try. This is the real state of the caseby passing this amendment to the Act you
sUrs of money?
are virtually giving free trade in liquor in
HON. MR. VIDAL-Yes, and the every county where the Scott Act has
country has also expended large sums of been adopted. Are you prepared to take
Every election has cost the this step in the face of all the earnest
mloney.
country a large sum of money, and what petitions which have been presented?
is it all for? The people have adopted Are you prepared to take this retrograde
this Act in those municipalities, and are action in the face of the decision of the
satisfied with it, and this House, in its other House on the amendment of Mr.
Supposed wisdom, disregards the wishes Gigault, which amendment was rejected?
and prayers of the people, and set aside the It is not an amendment to the Act; it is a
claims of these 1oo,ooo petitioners for completely destructive clause added to the
fair, even-handed justice.
Act-it is even worse than destructive. I
They have been induced to bring this Act would rather see the Act fairly and honestinto operation, putting their faith in Par. ly repealed by a direct vote than by this
liament : and Parliament here, not only unfair and unmanly amendment.
HON. MR.

M2

978

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] .Amendment Bill.

HON. MR.

PLUMB-Unmanly?

HON. MR. VIDAL-I am speaking of
the act, not of the individuals who are
responsible for it. I say the amendment
is a dishonest and unmanly one, because
it is intended to destroy the Bill. I suppose the House wilt probably affirm its
prior action. I should hope that some
minds will be open to conviction when
they see the evil result of the amendment
in the counties where the Act is in force,
and that they will withdraw from the position which they have taken and not
inflict such a curse on the country. I
have already shown the result of laws
passed in the Mother Country to encourage the use of light wines and ale. I
could, if time permitted, read the evidence
taken before committees of the House of
Lords and House of Commons in England, where they pronounced the Beer
Act, introduced there to accomplish the
very purpose for which this amendment is
introduced here, to be the greatest curse
ever inflicted on the country, showing that
it increased crime and pauperism more
than anything else that could possibly be
conceived. I do not purpose further to
trespass on the time of the House, but I
wish to place permanently on record the
position in which hon. gentlemen stand
on this question-I wish the country to
see that whatever course they take is taken
with their eyes open as to the result which
must follow the adoption of this amendment-that it will have the effect of establishing free trade in alcoholic drinks
wherever the Scott Act is in force.
HoN. MR. ALLAN-If the House vill
bear with me for a few moments, I should
like to explain the reasons why I, who an

I voted for the
the present session.
amendment with regard to the numbers
required to carry the petition in the first
instance ; I voted for the permission to
sell light wines, ale and lager beer, and
for several other amendments to the Act
Those amendments were lost, and the
Scott Act becarne the law of the land.
Although I did not believe that it was the
best means that could be adopted for
bringing about temperance in the country,
although I did not believe in making men
temperate by Act of Parliament, still I
knew that the feeling of a very large number of my fellow subjects, at all events in
my own part of the country, in the province of Ontario, was in favor of the Act,
and I made up my mind that I would not
again vote for any amendment to the
Bill, which could, in any way, hamper
its working, or against any amendment
which might be brought to facilitate the
carrying out of its provisions, until it had
a fair trial in the country, and for a reasonable length of time. In the first place, if
I may be permitted to say so, I think
that some deference is due from this
House as from the other branch of Parliament, to the opinion, of the people of
the country. I attach very little impoitance indeed to the number of the petitions
with which this House has been flooded.
I know very well how signatures to these
petitions are very often obtained ; I know
the pressure that is brought to bear in communities and in congregations in order to
obtain signatures to those petitions and,
therefore, I do not attach any great weight
to them, though I do not intend to speak
for any p)rovincee outside of iny own. I
am perfectly aware, and 1 think 1 speak
witb some knw]edgc of the subjCct wben
I sa) that, attach as litie
as you
like to the petitions with v,hich this flouse

neither a total abstainer myself, nor a
believer in prohibition, yet have voted bas leeflooded during the present
throughout against every amendment that
is; oféred to this 13i1, and what 1 say
hope will, at ai] events, justify my course,
if not in the eyes of all the menbers of
this flouse, at least in the eyes of nany
b)oth inside and outside of the louse.
and iay peradventure have sone littie
weight also with sonie bon. gentlemen
whom I have the honor of addressing.
When the Scott Act was lrst introduced,
I voted for some of these very. amendments which have been proposed during

session, therè can be no denyin- this
i that there is a vcry large nuinh r o
thoughtful peopile in the province of
Ontario who are firmrly persuaded that
intemperance is a very great e\ il in the
inîdst of our comnmui v and that soine
such renedy as the Scott Act is required
in order to put an end to it. Theure is 110
doubt whatever that sone of the niost
earnest-minded, and thoughtfui men in the
country representing the different denomimations, take that view. The very case

Temperance Act, etc., [MAY 26, 1885] Amendment BW.

979

quoted by the hon. member from Sarnia
the other day of the representation made
by the Synod of the Church of Scotland
in Ontario, in reterence to temperance
legislation, can be quoted as an instance.
I can also quote as an instance the part
taken by the Church of England in
Ontario, the Methodist Church
in
Ontario-

core fror representative bodies like those
to which I have alluded. I have no
doubt whatever, in my own mmd, that
very much injury has been done to the
cause of temperance by the "intemperance" of those who have advocated it.
There is no doubt whatever, that the
course which has been pursued by some
of the rost earnest advocates of temperance, who would set down everyone who
HON. MR. ALMON-What has been is fot a prohibitionist and total abstainer
done by the Church of England ? What as "a heathen man and a publican," is
has the Church of England done with fot the course best calculated to advance
regard to this question, because as far as the cause they have at heart, but because
I am aware-- and I am an humble member the total abstainers are so extreme in their
of that denomination-I do not know that language towards those who do fot agre
the Church of England has interfered in with them, that should fot blind us to the
magnitude of the evil which exists throughany way whatever vith the Scott Act.
out our country. It is ahl very well to say
HON. MR. ALLAN-I say the Church that in Canada we are, as corpared with
of England has taken a very active and other countries, a very temperate people.
energetic step in the cause of temperance. I am very glad and very thankful that this
I do not pretend to know anything about can be said to any extent to be the case,
what the Church of England may have but no man can go throughout this coundone or may be doing in the hon. gentle- try, observant of what is going on around
inan's province, but I say the Church o him, and taking an interest in the welfare
England in Ontario have taken up this of the people-no one especially can be
question of temperance very warmly and mixed up in any way in our cities or
energetically. I say, also, that a very large towns with différent societies and organnumber of members of the Church of izations for the relief of the distressed
England are in favor of total prohibitionl and the poor-without having forced
others, again, are not in favor of it ; and upon hir beyond any qort of contradicin the organization which has been tion the enormous anount of niisery,
formed in the Church of England, crime and wretchedness which flows froin
I am very glad to say that it is that one source - intemperance - and
so formed that I, myself, who an therefore,
feel I arn fot justied as a
not a prohibitionist and not a total ab- Christian man in offering obstructions
stainer, can take part in their proceedings w any thing which rnay possihly offer
equally with those who are total abstainers. an>' renedy for this great evii which 1
We are united in our endeavors to du know does exist. That is one great reason
something towards promoting the caue of why I, though flot beof-nn, n rohiition
temiperance in the country, and wc are as the hest mode of reme(ving this great
happily abl t > (10 this without falling toul vi
l
eviný the scott Act is going
>f each other and thinking. that tiose w do ail that its promoters bcivc il willwhose cis
are opposed to our owl aI*c a))) not willing to take the
areeionsibility
of
ail wrong. Therorc, I sav the point 1
anthng in the
te successJas becc
tly
ration tif that .ct t tere
Hn endeav uring to make i a p r:
tine to show
l
ftm
t tcuyer a 1-(2
<1 onue, Iat this qstethir
anlce has ccupied th2 attcntnl
lc Ulett the oljectsthat Pariient
bad i
te 1m)ost t1ohtful mHn in tic ontre ry ,t
e
V.na.c
in passng it.
LncsLi(M
melcn whose oin ins arc (st
cltitlietd i Ht tuet it that very niuc> mjn ry P donc t
weight and aithough I do() not attach tleIlw cause tf teiperanc lv the cetra-

Samie imnportance

that the hon. member
those wo advo(atc t.
AIlu.rm(t Sarnia and bis friends do to thie son was made to the connty uf Siicoe i
Petitions which have been sent in herI the cou
is afron.
do attach very great importance indeed to happen to know somcuhing of the county
the expressions of opinion which have of Silncoe. I have property there, and o

Temperancé Act, etc., [SEINATE] Amendment Bill.

980

am there for a very considerable part of the man and the mechanic cannot go home
time. It was only last year that in one from his work if he has half a dozen streets
small town in that county I saw no less than to pass through on his way, without
four taverns, almost at the four corners of the encountering at every other corner a tavern
principal street, and round every one of or a saloon where he is tempted to enter
these taverns in the middle of the day and take a glass of liquor before he reaches
there were young men loafing about who his home-so long as such temptations
had been in for their mid-day drink. I exist and are thrown in the way of those who
am only giving this as the result of my cannot resist them, so long shall we have
observation in a single instance in passing intemperance prevailing with all its attendthrough the country, but I know that this ant miseries. But while I say all this, I
sort of thing prevails in many other places, am perfectly free to admit that I do not
and although I think the effect of the ex- think the Scott Act, whatever it will do in
travagant language wvhich has been used the country (and I am not at all persuaded
by the advocates of temperance has often that there it will be in a great measure
been to tempt those who do not agree a success) will succeed in townswith them to throw ridicule on the move- while I am perfectly persuaded of that
ment, to sneer at and make hght of it, and while I do not think that the working
yet, hon. gentlemen, I put it to you whether of the Act will turn out to be satisfactory
we should lose sight of the fact that intem- yet I am most anxious that those who think
perance in itself is a wrong, a sin, and a that it will, shall have the opportunity of
crime, one which brings other wrongs, sins having it fairly tried, and let ne assure this
and crimes in its train. Those who are House, notwithstanding all that has been
fortunate enoughnot to have it come home said, that they form a very large proportion
to them in their own personal experience, of those whose opinions are most worthy
do not often feel or think of it seriously of attention in the province of Ontario, at
enough, but ask the opinion of those into all events. I do not speak for any part of
whose families the curse has crept, and the country outside Ontario, but the symhear what they say; and when we know pathies of a very large proportion of
that that has been the experience unfor- earnest thinking men will go in a great
tunately of hundreds in our community measure with this Act, and therefore, I
we cannot wonder that they are so warmly desire to see that it has a full and fair
in earnest in seeking a remedy which will trial. If it breaks down, then it will be
put an end to an evil of so fearful a kind. time enough for us to see what other
Another reason which moves me for the legislation may be adopted. I am perfectly
present, at all events, not to throw any aware the Act will inflict in many places
obstacle in the way of the working of the -I do not think it is putting it too
Act is this: there are hundreds of people strongly-very serious injury and loss upon
who will go through the world without some individuals. There is no doubt
straying to the right hand or to the left- about it, there are many men who have
upright, respectable members of society-so invested their money in breweries for instlong as no temptations are put within their ance-I cannot say I have much sympathy
reach. Put thern within the reach of for the whiskey distillers-who will suffer
temptation and then the mischief comes. almost ruin, but bad as that is, I do not
Now, that was exactly the state of the case think it is to bea reason for settingasidethe
in many of the small towns and villages in ,hct if it will do all that which its promotOntario before the passing of the Scott Act ers are confident it will do-that is, to
and its adoption in some of our counties, put down intemperance throughout the
and it is still the case in our large towns country, because that is an object which
and cities. I say so adËsedly because I it is well worth making many sacrifices
know it and have seen' it. There are to secure. I perfectly agree with what
hundreds of men who will go through life has fallen from the hon. member from
perfectly upright honest citizens so long as Belleville to-night, that what we have to
they are not put within the reach of look at is not merely the question of
temptation, but when the temptation comes pounds, shillings and pence, but if the
they fall and when, as is the case in so liquor trafic brings ruin on the souls on
many of our towns now that the laboring hundreds, it is a question which this House:
HON.

MR. ALLAN.

Temperance Act, etc., [MAYS.6, 1885] Amendment Bill.
ought certainly not to treat lightly ; it is a
question which ought to be approached
gravely and ought not to be put aside
with a sneer or a jest. While I again re
peat, then, what I said on the first day
that this Bill was brought into this House,
and when I myself was one of those who
voted for amendments to it similar to those
now before the House-while I still say
I do not think the Bill is calculated to do
all that its promoters think it will do, yet
I am prepared to vote for it. I am prepared to give its promoters every facility
for making the Temperance Act more
easily and thoroughly worked until it shall
be proved by time and experience that it
is a failure.

981

the other-great division, the expediency of
the Scott Act. I claim that the Scott
Act has failed entirely in the object sought
by its friends. The question of temperance or intemperance, of men getting
drunk and being beggared and going to the
lower regions in consequence of being
drunk, has nothing more to do with this
Act, as I view it, than has the question of
the incorporation of a railway company.
Thequestion is, as I say inthis second division of it, as to the expediency or utility
of it. I say it has been not only an entire
failure, but worse than a failure, giving rise
to evils that are worse even than those existing in our country because of its intemperance. In speaking on this question two
years ago, I spoke of our own province. I
HON. MR. CARVELL-The hon. happen to have dropped across an official
gentleman from York (Mr. Allan) has told statement as to the working cf tbe Act in
us that he will speak only for his own Prince Edward Island, and I stand here
province, and for the most part the very now prepared to prove that not only has
few remarks I have to make will relate to it not aided the temperance cause, but
the operation, or rather the inoperation, of that intemperance'is greater to-day than it
the Scott Act in the province from which was when the Act was first brought into
I come. A good deal has been said on force in the province of Prince Edward
this question since the debate began, the Island, that drunkenness is greater, that
greater part of which I did not hear the temperance wave which was sweeping
because of my inability to be present, but over our fair province then has been
I have heard enough of it to satisfy me stopped and the reverse has followed.
that there are other forms of intemperance Our province has been spoken of by my
besides those arising froi the use of hon. friend from Sarnia as the banner
intoxicating drinks; and while the hon. province-as the one which was the first
members from Sarnia and Trent division to adopt the Scott Act, and the first to reassert that those who are opposed to their enact it. Wehavehad the Scott Act in force
views on this question are intemperate in throughout the island now for three years.
their language and wander from the point, In Charlottetown, where I live, the Scott
I can only say that we have had no Act was re-enacted in August last. As to
monopoly of that sort ot thing. They, at the result of its operation of three years
least, have an equal share with us. This we have an official statement, the report of
question strikes me as being divided into the stipendiary magistrate for the year past.
two principal divisions-one, the right or With the permission of hon. gentlemen I
expediency of legislation on the subject, will read from that statement. The report
how far Parliament has a right to deal gives all sorts of breaches of the law,
with it, how far any class of people in the headed by drunkenness, for the space of
country, be they ever so numerous, have eight years, 1877 to 1884 inclusive. The
a right to say what their neighbors shall figures are as follows
eat or drink, or wherewithal they shall be
.. 729
1878........ ......
clothed. That side of the question has
.357
1879.............
been dealt with by many hon. gentlemen
1880....... ........
.231
who are better able to discuss it than I
1881....... .......... 256
am myself, but I think it will not be oui
of order if I especially allude to the able
The first seven months of 1881 there
speech made by the hon. the senior was no Scott Act : the last five months of
member from Halifax this afternoon. I that year the Scott Act was in force. The
think he treated that question very ably two whole years under the Scott Act give
and very moderately. I will deal withi these results.

982

Temperance Act, etc., [SEN ATE] Amendment Bill.
1882....................218
1883............

.......

250

Take the two whole years previous to
1882 and 1883, that is 1879 and 188o,
and it will be seen that the number of
cases of drunkenness were almost equal.
Hon. gentlemen will see that a worse
condition, so far as the statement goes,
prevailed in 1877. At that time, as I
stated on a former occasion, there was
good cause for the temperance movement.
It was started, headed by the venerable
and estimable Bishop of the Diocese, with
a number of his clergy and other clergymen throughout the city, county and
island. The result of that movement
was, as hon. gentlemen will see, to reduce
drunkenness more than one-half. It fell
from 729 in 1877 to 357 in 1878. The
next year there was a still further reduction to 231, and then it goes on pretty
regularly. Making a coniparison between
the two years 1879 and 188o, when there
was no Scott Act, and 1882 and 1883,
when there was a Scott Act, the temperance wave was stopped ; and when I tell
hon. gentlemen that for the two years
under the Scott Act the arrests were made
by a police force of only six, while the
equal number of arrests made in 1879
and 188o were made by a police force of
nineteen, they will readily see that there
was an increase in the number of cases of
drunkenness, because 19 policemen would
arrest a greater number of drunkards than
six policemen would; and I know from
my own observation that on the street
drunken men passing on without arrest
were more numerous than I ever saw them
before-that is within the six years-so I
think these figures clearly demonstrate
not only that the Scott Act has not stemmed the tide of intemperance but, on the
contrary, has increased it ; because, as I
say, if the same number only are picked
up under the Scott Act by six policemen,
as compared with 19 policemen in the
former years, it shows that at least twice
as much drunkenness prevails. Leaving
Charlottetown we go to the eastern county,
and we find last year a state of things in
the county town there that has not been
equalled within my recollection, which
goes back 25 years-so much drunkenness
has
not prevailed
during
court week in
that
place.
The
HON. MR. CARVELL.

streets were taken charge of for days.
Going west, to the banner county of
Prince, there has been a great deal of
drunkenness there all the time-there has
been no decrease of it. Only the other
day a gentleman engaged in the tanning
business in the western part of the island
told me that they had never been so
troubled with drunkenness as last year in
all the years that they have been in business. So, if the Scott Act not only fails to
stem the tide of intemperance but allows
it to increase, it is a failure ; and when we
add to this the habitual violation of the
law, the many cases of perjury that arise
from it, the introduction of worse stuff to
drink than there ever was before with a
dozen other evils following in its trail, the
reasons for its repeal are, to my mind,
clear and sufficient. I am not fond of
speaking on this or any other subject, and
it is almost dangerous to speak on this
one. There was an amendment proposed
two years ago similar to the one that is
now before us, and I ventured then to say
something on the subject. A correspondent writing from Prince Edward Island up
to the province of Ontario, some twelve
hundred miles from where I live, attacked
the Senators from Prince Edward Island
generally, saying in his letter that if the
readers of the paper to which he wrote
knew anything of the habits of theSenators from Prince Edward Island, very
little importance would be attached to
anything they might say in reference to
the subject.
Again, with reference to
myself, he said it was well known that
being largely engaged in the West India
trade, I would feel the pinch of the shoe.
The writer of that letter either knew what
he was writing about or he did not. If he
knew that I was not in the trade, further
than importing sugar and molasses, he
wrote a deliberate falsehood ; if he did
not know it he was equally guilty.
It is only another proof that a man
may be a malicious slanderer even
though he writes the word " Reverend"
before his name.
I do not wish to say
anything more on this subject further than
to add that I know whereof I speak ; my
own observations are sufficient to satisfy
me, and I hope the statistics which I have
given will be sufficient to satisfy the House.
I shall certainly vote for the Bill as it has
been already amended.

Temperance Act, etc., [MAY 26, 1885] Amendnent Bill.

983

HON. MR. O'DONOFIOE-Listening forbid you from having. Is that temperto this debate, there are two aspects in ance ? To my mind, it is the strangest
which it appears to me; one is the coer- method of producing temperance in a
cive character of the Scott Act, and the community,thateverwasenactedorthought
other the question of temperance. To me, of. The man who might buy a gallon of
the coercive character of the Act is liquor instead of ten gallons, is prohibited
extremely objectionable. Much has been from doing it. He who might be able to
said of it by the different speakers, and I buy any quantity under 10 gallons, is profeel that with the views which present hibited ; but the man who has the
themselves to my mind, I would be means, and requires it, is enabled to purscarcely doing justice to myself if I failed chase ten gallons and take it home to his
to express my opinion upon that character family and friends. Is that temperance ?
of the Act and upon the general question. It is the most novel kind of temperance
I hold it would be entirely wrong that that has ever been known, or in regard to
there should be any enactment of Parlia- which any act has ever been passed. I
ment by any number of the people cannot conceive that to be temperance.
coercing any other number of the people I cannot conceive that, because a man is
to do this or to do that out of the natural able to buy ten gallons he is permitted to
order. I believe if you allow enact- buy it and take it home with him and
nients of the character of the Scott invite his neighbors and have a good time
Act to be placed on the statute book, with it, while he is not permitted to purthat no one can tell where the liberty or chase less than ten gallons, it is promotthe rights of the subject shall end. If to- ing the cause of temperance. The Act
day they can say " you must not drink," reduces the quantity of beer that may be
to-morrow they may say " you must not sold to eight gallons, but you can buy
eat ; " or they may say to you to-morrow nothing less than eight gallons under the
what you shall eat or what you shall Scott Act. Why make the quantity of
dYlk, or what you shall not eat, beer less than the quantity of whiskey ?
That I I have never heard any reason for that.
or what you shall not drink.
hold to be thoroughly wrong, and to be Eight gallons of beer does not contain as
a'proceeding that this House should not much alcohol as one gallon of whiskey,
countenance, and when this measure is and why reduce the quantity of beer ? I
before this House, it does seem to dare say that fifty gallons of beer would not
me to be our duty to eliminate from it its have as much alcohol as ten gallons of
objectionable features. I hold that it is of whiskey, and yet we are denied the beer
wrong, the Act itself ; that it is crude as on which drunkenness is rare, and allowWhat ed whiskey, on which drunkenness is comto the question of temperance.
does it say, and what are its provisions ? mon. They allow whiskey which creates
One of the leading provisions of the Act drunkenness, which fills the asylums,
is that you cannot purchase less than ten and prisons, and police courts, makes
gallons of whiskey to commence your families miserable, and brings ruin to the
career of temperance. I have been told masses; they deny beer, in which there is
by some of the hon. gentlemen who have only four or five per cent. of alcohol, of
spoken here to-night, that beer contains which everyone in the family can partake
4 per cent. of alcohol, and that wines may without drunkenness, without madness,
have more than 12 per cent. ; but no hon. without frenzy. If a man is drunk on
gentleman has ventured to say what per- beer he does not become wild or insane.
centage of alcohol there is in whiskey, What kind of drunkenness is it that is prowith which you can supply the people to duced by using too much beer? It is a
the extent of ten gallons each, under this kind of somnolent drunkenness ; it proAct.
duces sleep, and makes the drinker harmless. Some of those very energetic advoHoN. MR. McMILLAN--45 per cent. cates of temperance tell us that beer is of
no value but for the ilcohol that is in it,
HON. MR. O'DONOHOE- 4 5 per and if you take the 4 or 5 per cent. of
cent. of alcohol, the temperance men alcohol out of it, the rest would be dirty
permit you to buy, but 4 per cent. they water, and it would not be used at all. It

984A

E
Temngpance Act,,er, [SENATB]!

.endiMnt-BIL

would be perfectly harmltss as a drink; because I have my own peculiar views, in
still the temperance. people insist that depriving that man and his family of this
instead of 4 per cent. of alcohol, or the harmless recreation-a man not known to
liquor containing 4 per cent., and the courts or to the police, a hard-working
that would make a man sleepy and harm- man in the field and in the factory, deless, he must take the liquor that would prive him of that beverage to which he is
make him mad. That is the advocacy of accustomed-his glass of lager and his
temperance, as I hear it. I was very much pritzel, and other comforts that make him
pleased to hear the reasonable and calm happy and contented ? I think it is only
manner in which the subject was intro- unreasonable . legislation that would deduced by the hon. gentleman from York. prive him of it. If I or my family wish
If the advocates of temperance in this for a glass of beer or wine at our table,
House and elsewhere could only reason should any set of men, ask for an Act of
it in a like strain, their advocacy would Parliament to deprive me. of that luxury ?
certainly have more attraction. for, and Should the man who cultivates his vines
greater affect on, the minds of reasoning in western Canada, and manufactures his
men; but, on the contrary men who rea- grapes into light .wines, be prevented from
son with temperance advocates on the using the wine of his vineyard ? Should
subject are called hard and harsh names. I interfere, With those who buy his wine ?
Why have our temperance friends ntthe God forbid:that I should, or that I should
common sense to feel that those *bodiffer record my vote in favor of an Act of Parfrom theni on this important question have liament that would deprive him of the
honest convictions as well as themselves ? right to do it. Some of my hon. friends
We who are here to-day speaking of intro- spoke of the injury that this Act might be
ducing light wines and beer as a beverage, to certain interests. That is a point worth
hold, and believe sincerely, that these are considering. Should we, by Act of Parmore temperate beverages than whiskey in liament, take away the property of men
any quantity beyond ten gallons, and if we who have invested their all in it-mei
do, why should we be called unreasonable who have planted those vineyards, and
for advocating that view of it ? Surely, we who have built those breweries ? If the
ought to get credit for sincerity, as well as public want them, is it not easier and more
the advocates of temperance who hope to just that the people at large should put
be looked upon as being sincere. That is their hands in their pockets and contribute
the view with which, in my humble judg- to pay for the brewery or for the vineyards
ment, questions of this sort should be than that we should make the whole loss
presented to this House. If the views fall upon the man who created it, and who
expressed by hon. gentlemen here are their was justified in creating . it, and who has
honest convictions, and they are expressed had the law on.his side'in creating it? If
in the public interest, :they should get the public want land for a railway, do they
credit for sincerity, no matter from take it from the farmer without compensawhich side they corne. By this Bill, the tion ? Not at. all; the first thing that is
German would be deprived of his glass of done is to measure the land that the conilager. I for one would not deprive him pany is entitled to take, but they are
of it. On the other side of the line,. and bound to pay for it.. What difference is
in parts of western Canada, we see the there in value between that land, and the;
thrifty and industrious head of a family brewery and . its attachments?
The
with his wife and children on a Sunday public want the one, the public want
afternoon, or.a Saturday evening, enjoying the other.. If -the public want my
himself in the beer gardens over his glass brewery that has cost me $100,00o,
of lager, happy and contented, and going it is much easier for 4,000,000
home quietly and happily, to work harder of people, if they want it in the
the coming week, in the hope that the interests of the public, to put their hands
sane day of mirth and relaxation will recur in their pockets and pay for it than to make
op the coming Sunday. Ought we to take me, as an individual, lose the all that I
that pleasure away from that German fam- have invested in it, invested under a
ilywho have been accustomed to this Lenjoy- license, and under the law, as I had a perment all their lifetime? Ought I to assist, fect right to do. It is not only the brewer
HON. MR. O'DONOHOE.

Temperance Act, etc., [MAY 26, 1885] Amendment Bill.
that this Act affects, putting aside for the
moment altogether its coercive character,
but it interferes with almost every order of
business. You find the bankers petitioning against it. They have notes from
people who have invested their all in
these establishments. The breweries have
in connection with them the coopers who
make the barrels ; the men who produce
the staves ; the saw-mill that cuts the
wood---they have the whole system of
business in connection with those institutiuns. Shall we throw all those out of
business? Shall we disturb the business
of the country to such an extent 'under
this Act? No, this Act will do no good ;
what will dÔ good, and what have been
doing good are these : the platform, the
press and the pulpit-these are the proper
and natural means to ,bripg men to temperance. They have done it. Canada is
to-day first of all the lands in the world
in point of temperance. The people of
Canada are to-day the most temperate
people on the earth. .It may not have

985

force, that more liquor is sold and consumed than there was under the license
system. We find from the returns presented to Parliament that there has been
more liquor sold in the county of Halton
since the adoption of the Scott Act than
there was before. We find that large
quantities of liquor were sold there in the
name of medicine, and in every possible
illicit way liquor has been sold to the
people, and the revenue has been
cheated. No money was received for
license or revenue, but liquors were sold,
liquors of the worst kind, and in all kinds
of places. You make smugglers by this
Act; you establish espionage by this Act;
you make pimps and spies by this Act ;
you make men go into court and commit
perjury to save themselves from the gaol
and ruin. Let us substitute for the ten
gallons of whiskey, eight gallons of beer ;
let us have the courage of our convictions ;
we are here to-day to do our duty as
men. Our duty is to give to the people
sound light wines, and wholesome beer,
been so 25 years ago.' What has pro- and when we have given these and the
duced the change ?-the instruments to wine that we produce in our own country,
which I refer, the press, the pulpit and we will put them under proper examinathe platform. Send men forward in their tion and under proper surveillance by the
benevolence to speak to their fellow men Government, and we will let no wine or
of the danger of intemperance; let them beer be sold that is not up to the standard,
address them in their common humanity; and is not a sound and wholesonie beverlet them address them in their affliction, age. I give great credit, and shall always
and in love convert them from intemper- give credit, for much of the work that has
ance to temperance, and then, and not been accomplished by temperance men,
till then, will you have a wave of temper- but when they speak of us who oppose their
ance principles overspread the land as it Act as being intemperate, I take issue with
should do, not producing an election in them. Who are the temperate men ? I
this county and in that, but universal say that those who support the introductemperance.
What an anomoly it is, tion of ale and light wines and prohibit
having an election to-day in one county whiskey are the real temperance advocates
which adopts the Act, while the adjoining -men who will not forbid the use of
county rejects it ! In such cases you have what is reasonable. I appreciate very
temperance in one and intemperance in the highly what the member from Toronto said
other. What sort of systemis that checkered when he spoke of the intemperance of
system that enforces temperance upon an temperance men. Who are they who are
unwilling people ? You are drawing not in favor of temperance ? Are there
people to the polls, because temperance any men worth knowing in the Dominion
advocates tell us that they spend lots of who are not in favor of temperance ?
money.
Men who band themselves What matters it if a man is a moderate
together in that way and spend money drinker himself, at home or elsewhere, as
will bring people to the polls, whereas long as he does not abuse his liberty to
the masses of the people in those counties use liquor ? What business has he to
arequite indifferent; butbythose means the drag in his own habits of life into this
Act is brought into operation in some Chamber ? We are discussing this quesmunicipalities, and the result is we find, tion from a public point of view, and,
in the few counties in which the Act is in therefore, what we are urging to-night is,

986

Temperance Act, etc., [SEN ATE] Anendment Bill.

the substitution of ale and light wines for
whiskey as a beverage, that the people will
find more healthful, that the advocate of
temperance can recommend on the platform, and tell their hearers that they can
take it to their homes ; that there is no
madness in it, and they will bring about
a more satisfactory state of things than
now exists. These frauds on the revenue
by smuggling, the system of espionage
and pimpirg will be banished, and
temperance principles will prevail. Temperance men, I admit, have done a great
deal, but temperance men belong to no
side in politics. They belong to all sides.
We find every church engaged in the good
work. We have found gentlemen, in
debating this question, citing the opinions
of learned men, theologians of great
experience, and men who have travelled
through the world and have obseived the
habits of the people of other countries.
The opinions of those excellent men and
high authorities are against the Scott Act.
I, therefore, produce none of those
authorities. They have been well cited
by the senior member from Halifax. I
would take it to be a misuse of the
time of the House to repeat those
authorities. They are reported, and will
appear in the Senate Debates, where
the public will have an opportunity
to read them, and I consider that better
than to repeat what has been so well said
by others before me. There is one authority, however, to which I would refer
on that point. It is an editorial article
published in the~ Week of the 21St inst :_
"It cannot be too often repeated that the
question is not whether drunkenness is sinful

and ruinous, which nobody doubts, nor
whether wine is wholesome, but whether
coercive legislation is wise and just? If,
indeed, wine or beer were literally poison, it

principal meal burts no man in body, mind
or spirit. The man who governs England
and leads the House of Commons at seventysix with unimpaired-it might alnost seem
with ever-increasing vigor-drinks wine as is
well known, every day with his dinner; and
as we may venture to say that he bas never
been guilty of excess in his life, lie is also a
disproof of the preposterous assertion that
temperate use must lead to abuse. The
finger of reprobation is always pointed by
prohibitionists at England, as t he great beerdrinkingcountry ; but, if beer is the beverage
of a nation which in altnost every lineuf greatness leads the world, itseemsto fol low,however,
scandalous to the prohibitionist the inference
may be, that there is no great harin in drinking beer. The English navvy, who always
drinks beer, can do a harder day's work than
any other man in the world. What people
really mean when they say that wine or beer
is poison, is only that, in their judgment, it is
unwholesome, just as in the opinion of nany
are tobacco, green tea and pastry. They
speak, in short, figuratively, and penal legislation cannot be based on figures of speech.
After all, ought we not, in this as in other
questions of diet, to make allowance for
difference of climate, individual temperament
and occupation ? The preachers and the
ladies who are the most earnest workers in

favor of pr ,hihinon, Ieing sedantary in their
habits .nd not iuiuug mucunh budiv exertion,
Is not the
are naturally drinkers of tea.

navvy, the miner or the stevedore just as
naturally a drinker of beer ?"
With these observations, which I make
in all candor to this House, while the
Scott Act has had a trial of eight years, I
trust that the same generous trial which
was given to it will be extended to the
amendment proposed by this House tonight. I hope hon. gentlemen will see
the prudence of giving the amendment
the same trial as the Scott Act has had,
and if in the course of some years it is
found that better can be done, and that
an improvement is not made, this House
will not be tied to the opinions o! to-day,
but can take up the question again and do
the best for the public that can be done

would be necessarv and right to suppress the
sale. But who believes that wine or beer is
literally poison, either to body or to mind ?
HON. MR. SCOTT-As there are
Certainly not Canon Farrar. since he admits
that they are drunk by millions who not only several gentlemen who desire to take part
continue alive, but remain wise and virtuous. in this debate, myself amongst the number,
Whole nations drink the so-called poison I move that the debate be adjourned
daily without feeling themselves the worse
for it. Revular wine drinkers often live te until to-morrow.
patriarchaÎages. We could ourselves mention
some who have reached their hundredth year.
Cornaro, the fanious dietist and centenarian,
drank the light wine of bis country. Mr
Gladstone is an illustrious proof of the truth
of the opinion prononnced the other day by
Dr And rew Clark, that a glass of wine at the
HON. MR. O'DONOHOE.

HON. MR. PLUMB-The House will
understand that this matter has been
postponed day after day on the application of the hon. gentleman who now
moves for this adjournment. He has ab-

Temperance Act, etc., [MAY 26, 1885] Amendment Bill.
sented himself from the House on several
occasions when the question might have
been taken up and settled, and I do not
think it comes with good grace from hini
now that the debate should be adjourned.
The House has been sitting from the
early afternoon until half past ten o'clock
discussing this question, and I think it is
trifling with the House that the vote
should not now be taken. There are no
new arguments to be brought forward.
My hon. friend knows that there is nothing
to be said that will be particularly interesting to anybody-in fact, we have been
told that it is of the greatest importance
that this Bill should not be delayed, in
the interests of temperance. Several days
ago, there was a desire shown that the
House should be forced to take the final
stage on this Bill before the recess.
HON. MR.

McINNES-That was be-

fore the Bill was mutilated.
HON. MR. WARK-I think it comes
with equally bad grace from the hon.
member frorn Niagara to oppose the
adjournment of the debate, because he
addressed the House himself at great
length, and he now wishes to deprive
those who have not had that opportunity of
the same privilege he exercised himself.

HON. MR. PLUMB-I beg the hon.
gentleman's pardon; I have not taken
any part in the debate on those amendments at ail.

987

men who live within a few hundred miles
of Ottawa, and who can take a run home
occasionally and come back again wheri
any question in which they are deeply
interested comes before the House ; but
other gentlemen who have not had an
opportunity of seeing their homes or their
families for four months, feel that it is a
hardship, after being idle for a period of
two weeks, to be compelled to come up
here this evening to continue this debate
when there is really no business of any
consequence before the House to prevent
this matter being debated to-morrow or
next day. If we were pressed for time to
dispose of the business before us, I could
then see some good reason why this
debate should be brought to a close. I
have not said anything on this subject, and
it was not my intention to do so until
within the last 48 hours when I saw the
course that affairs were taking, and the
extraordinary way in which this question
is being dealt with, and I now feel it my
duty not to give a silent vote on it.
The amendment before the House was
proposed by the hon. member from
Halifax, and I was inclined to support it
in the first place, but after the other extraordinary amendment which will entirely
destroy the usefulness of the Scott Act,
and do more to retard temperance principles than anything I know of-that is, the
exemption of light wines, ale and lager
beer from the operation of the Act-I shall
certainly be compelled to vote aginst that
amendment.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I think if
there are gentlemen here who want to
speak on this subject and cannot do so
this evening, the debate should be adjourned to allow them an opportunity to
speak. Although I am in favor of the
amendment, and opposed to this Act
totally, I am in favor of adjourning the
debate to give ail who wish to take part
n it an opportunity of expressing their
views.

HON.
MR. HAYTHORNE-There
are many gentleman who wish to express
their opinions on this subject, and as it
will take some time to do so it will be inconvenient to keep the House sitting until
midnight when we will have very little to
do to morrow.

HON. MR. McINNES-I was very
rnuch surprised, indeed, when six o'clock
arrived that the request that the debate
should be adjourned was not complied
with. It is true that the plea was raised
that a number of gentlemen wished to go
home. Thatmay beverywellforhon. gentle-

CONTENTS:

The House divided on the motion to
adjourn the debate, which was carried on
the following division.

Alexander,
Allan,
Armand,
Baillargeon,
Bolduc,

Hon. Messrs.
Haythorne,
Kaulbach,
Leonard,

McInnes,

Miller (Speaker),

988

Temperance Act, etc.,

Boucherville de

Chaffers,

Chapais,

DeBlois,
Ferrier,
Flint,
Girard,

Grant,

(8FAT ]Ameandet BiU.

Paqut,
Pletier,

Poirier,
Power,

Stevens,
Vidal,

Wark.-26.
NoN-CoNTENTS:

Hon. Messrs.
Macdonald,

Almon,

Campbell (Sir Alex.), MacInnes,

Carvell,
Clemow,
Glaeier,

Hamilton,

Lacoste,

Montgomery,
Nelson,
North wood,
O'Donohoe.

Ogilvie,

IlON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
have no objection to allow the 3rd read
ing to stand over.
The order of the day was discharged,
and it was ordered that the Bill be read
the 3rd time to-morrow.
LONDON LIFE INSURANCE CO'S.
BILL
SECOND READING.

HON. MR. PLUMB moved the second

reading of Bill (76), "An Act to amend
the Act respecting the London Life In-

surance Company." He said: There are
several sections in this Bill that will
Smith,
McKindsey,
probably require the attention of the comTurner.-22.
McMillan,
mittee. I hardly care just now to take up
HoN. MR PLUMB called the attention the time of the House by referring at
of the Speaker to the fact that the hon. length to the different features of the
Bill, but I think they are all in the directmember from Quinte had not voted.
ion of proper legislation, and I would ask
that the Bill be read the second time and
HON. MR READ-I have paired.
referred to the committee.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
CANNED GOODS BILL.
was read the second time.
McDonald,
McKay,

Plumb,
Robitaille,

THIRD READING POSTPONED.

The order of the day being read for
third reading of the Bill intituled " An
Act respecting Canned Goods,"
as

amended,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
that the third clause of the Bill be struck
out.
The motion was agreed to.

The Senate adjourned at Io.5o p.m.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Wednesday, May 27th,
The SPEAKER

i88.

took the chair at

three o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
now move to strike from the 5th clause, CANADA TEMPERANCE ACT AND

which will now be the 4th clause, the
word "original."
The motion was agreed to.

LIQUOR LICENSE ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
DECLARATION PRESENTED.

THE SPEAKER-The motion is now
HON. MR. SCOTT-Before the petitions are read, I desire to bring to the
on the 3rd reading of the Bill.
notice of the House the fact that a declaHON. MR. CARVELL-I received a ration, under the statute, has been placed
communication this afterùoon from a in my hand, made by Alexander Macgentleman who is'larely interestedin the' dougald, of Greenfield, township of
canned goods trade, nd I would ask the- Kenyon, Glengarry, in which he states
Minister of Justice to allow the 3rd read- that his name is, attached to the petition
ing of the Bill to stand until to-morrow.
praying that certain changes be made to

lemperance Act, etc., [MAIrtt, A185] Amendment Bill.
the Catada'TemVerance Act, and'thatit
is there without his àtifhority; that li dgl
not give any authority to attach his nai,
nor did he put it there. I have examined
the petition, and I find the name A. Macdougall, Greenfield, therein. The 'declaration is as follows
CANADA:

I, ALEXANDKE MCProvince of Ontario,
County of Glengarry. DoUGALL, of Greenfield, in the township of Kenyon, in the
county of Glengarry, Postmaster, do solemnly
declare1. That I am informed that a petition,
signed, or purporting to be signed, by about
600 of the inhabitants of the county of Glengarry, has been lately presented to the Senate
of Canada by Hon. D. McMillan, praying that
the Canada Temperance Act, might be
amended so as to exempt ale, porter, lager
he
beer, light wine and cider from t operation
of the Act, and that, hereafter, three-fifths ôf
the votes passed in any county must be in
fav2r of the Act before it is adopted in such
countv.
2, That I am informed, among other names,
appears the name of A. Macdongall, Greenfied.
3. That I am the only person of that nane
residing at Greenfield in said county.

4. That I have not signed said petition.

5. That if my name appears on said petition
as aforesaid, it must have been signed by

some other person without my knowiedge or
authority, and is therefore a forgery.

And I make this solemn declaration con-

scientiously, believing the sanie to be true and
byvirtue of the Act passed in the 37th year of
Her Majesty's reicn, entitled " An Act for the
Suppression of Voluntary and Extra-judicial
oaths."
A. McDoUGALD.

Declared before me at
Township of Kenyon
in the County of Giengarry, this 26th day of
May, A.D. 1885.
JAMEs FRASER, J.P.,
A Justice of the Peace in and
for the County of Glengarry.
I desire to lay this on the table.

989CI

authorizèd ahy one'else to sign it on his
behalf or not. However, Mr. McDougall

does not tay in that declaration that he is
the only man of the name at Green-

field.
HON. MR. SCOTT-He does.
HON. MR. McMILLAN-He does not
say that he is the only McDougall residing
in Greenfield, but that Greenfield is his
post office.

HoN. MR. SCOTT-He says " That
I am the only person of that name residing at Greenfield in said county."
HON. MR. McMILLAN-The hon.
gentleman must remember that there are
a great many McDougalls in the county
of Glengarry. There are a great many
McDougalls in the township of Kenyon,

and I have no doubt there are a great
many McDougalls whose'post office is
Greenfield. I am not going to say whether this McDougall signed that petition,
but I will go a little turther and say if I
had been seeking names to that petition I
would not have asked him, because I
would be perfectly satisfied that McDougall would not sign an Anti-Scott Act
petition, although he would not be willing
to sign a petition favoring temperance,
yet he would be willing to sign the Scott
Act petition ; that is his character.
HON. MR. SCOTT-There is no imputation or any question respecting the hon.
gentleman who presented the petition.
HON. MR. McMILLAN-No, but it is
going a little out of the way to get up a
declaration of that kind. I know in a
great many instances the petitions that

were sent in here in favor of the Scott

Act were signed by two or three individuals, whereas there were two or three hundred names to some of them.

THE SPEAKER-Perhaps it would be
as well to have the matter stand over for
HON. MR. ALMON-Would it not be
a day or two.
well to appoint a committee to look over

the petitions for or against the Scott Act,

HON. MR. McMILLAN-I presented to inquire into the genuineness of the sig-

the petition to this House. Of course, I natures?
know nothing about whether Mr. Mc.
The matter then'dropped.
Dougall signed the petition, or whether he

Temperance Act, etc, [SE NATE| Anendnent Bill.

ý990

CANNED GOODS BILL.
THIRD READING POSTPONED'

The order of the day having been called
for the third reading ot Bill (U), " An Act
respecting Canned Goods,"
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL said:
The hon. gentleman from Charlottetown
asked me to postpone the third reading of
this Bill until this afternoon.
HON. MR. CARVE LL-From the time
I made 'he request until now, [ have not
had any opportunity to look at the Bill at
ail, and I do not know whether I am justified in asking the House to postpone the
third reading until to-morrow.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-o
have no objection to postponing it until
to-morrow. I move that the order of the
day be discharged.

The motion wasagreed to, and the Bill
was ordered for the third reading tut
hnorrow.
CONSOLIDATED RAILWAY
AMENDMENT BILL.

ACT

DROPPED.

The order of the day being read, the
House again in Committee of the Whole
on Bill (Q), "An Act further to amend the
Consolidated Railway Act 1879,"

HON. SIR A LEX. CAMPBELL said :
I propose, vith the consent of the Minister
of Railways, to drop this measure, and I
move, ther efore, that the order of the day
be dischargecd.
Tr<

them

t'.\N.I).\

a

1s

ard.

That (Bill 92), The Canada Temperance
Act, 1878, and The Liquor License Act, 1883,
further aniendment Bill (as amended) be not
now read a third time, but that it be anended
by striking out clduse B, which pernits the
sale of ale, beer and wine in counties and
cities where the second part of The Canada
Temperance Act, 1878, is in force.
HON. MR. SCOTT said: It was because I felt that the subject was worthy
of grave consideration and ought to be
approachcd very thoughtfully, that I had
to ask the Senate not to vote on the
question hast evening, believing that by
giving it consideration even for another
24 hours, some of us might think it
wise and prudent not to act in a way that
in my judgment would be inexpedient.
The subject is one 1 think of sufficient
importance to warrant a nuch longer
debate than we have already had upon it.
I think it is due to that very considerable
number of the people of this country who
have, in the nast two or three years,
adopted the Temperance Act Of 1878,
that they shoudnot be defrauded of the
right that they believed they had acquired
under the Act of Parliament. The people
chiefly interested in the advocacy of the
measure of 1878 had asked for a very
much broader one, but Parliament declined; Parliament said the people are
not ail equally educated in the various
parts of this country on this question of
temperance, but wherever there is a popular vote in any locality we wilh give it to
them, and we do so under what is known
as the local optior law. The law was
challenged at the outset. It received ail
the opposition that a Bill of that sort
could meet with from those interested in
defeating it, and hon. gentlemen are not
quite correct in saying that this Act has
had eight years' trial. It h-s not had
thrce years' trial. It has scarcelv had one
year's trial, because it was only in the var
1882 that it was fñnaliv dcded byth
iandthe
highest tribunal in the land that this lar-

liainent had
CV <
10\ Uf.<<t that 1,l\%-.
ANI) 1 jefore that, coll\ lolls Uncler thu Act
.NSI.\ ''\NIEN
~~C
wu~)V
vre peteifutile :It w\as left unitil thme
of Russel and he (,iun
would be
tinal dc~ded h' the hm4ýhVst t 'ourt of
<<n t : un i.the
<u\t
emnpire, time (Ouccois h C1 mulcil,

T Cll'ERAN CE AC

J~ ~
1
INcase

~

that it was Nvithin the power uf Parliamlunt
The )rder of the day being read for to pass the Canada Temperance Act. i
resuming debate on the Hon. Mr. Vidal's say, therefore, i is not correct to state
miotion, vii.: tha tphe Act had been on trial for seven

7emperance .Act, etc., [MAY 27, 1885] Anendment Bill.
or eight years; it had been on trial a little
over two years. During that time, so far
as the popular vote would be an indication
of what the popular feeling was, it has met
with general favor. I have in my hand
here the record of its adoption all over
this country, some of the elections have
been held very recently, many so recent
that the Act will not be brought into force
foranotheryear. It has received the support
of over 130,688-130,000 of the voters of

this country, not bogus names, but actual
voters at the poils. In those contests, the
Act has beencarried byavery large majority
in the aggregate.
I have not analyzed
every one of them, but I have taken some
of the larger figures with which it
has been carried, and I find that in 23
contests in which that Act was submitted,
it was carried by over i,ooo majority.
I find that in the counties where the Act
has been adopted, the people are represented by no less than 75 members in the
House of Commons. We know that in
some contests there have been as many as
six members interested, as, for instance, in
the counties of Durham and Northumberland, and there are other counties where
a number of ridings are included. Therefore, I say there are no less than 75 constituencies in which it may be said that
this Act has been carried. I ask hon.
gentlemen, is it a light thing for us to say
to these people, after they have gone to
ail the trouble and subjected themselves
to the difficulty and embarrassment under
sanction of an Act of Parliament to secure
the adoption of the Temperance Act, that
we are to change this ?
When they
adopted that Act, they understood that
the use of intoxicating liquors should be
entirely prohibited in those districts, but
it seems we have received new light, and
we now say

&
you are wrong ; you do not

understand the value of those nutritiouts

991

Their legisiature very unwisely swept away
ail restrictions on the sale of liquor, and
what did it lead to? Absolute national
demoralization and destruction, until peopie saw the evil and adopted the most
stringent legisiation that bas ever been
passed in any part of the world. They
were forced to do that to prevent the
destruction of their people.
Yet we
wish to remove ail restrictions fromthe
sale of liquor, and to say that every
man in those 75 constituencies may
selI liquor without license, because
tbat is wbat it reans.
We bave said
wberever this Act is carried probibition
shail prevail, and tbe provincial authorities shaîl no longer bave power to issue
licenses. While tbat Act continues in
force, the licensing power of the local
authorities shaîl be at an end, because
the supreme power of tbe Dominion
ýnacts that there sball be no more licensing tbere. After tbe people bave adopted
tbat Act, we say tbat everybody may sel
beerTheir
and light vey iely requires wa
leitren
wine ; it
swe no
license, and tbe provincial autborities
shaîl not come in because they bave no
power to intervene. That is tbe condition
of affairs that tbe Senate proposes to
force upon tbe people of Canada-to
force, I say, because it is against tbe will
of the people. We know that tbe popular
voice, represented in tbe House of Commons, expresses a very different conclusion,
and is not likely to accept the Senate's
amendrent.
We are simply putting ourselves in a false position before the people.
We are supposed to take a broad, reasonable, thoughtful view of tbis case, and,
yet, how few of us bave, for one moment,
reflected on the ultimate consequences of
passiflg such a measure as this.
if it
could reccivu the royal assent, the effect
of it w(uli be just what I have described.
I (10 no,,
here to go into the gravity

We in our judgment are (t tÂte
uol1,
although J have heen,
supremle ; we are not resos
i
at the
adway to you, and we sav thIt in
7te uloe
e
constituencIes where this
c\t Ias Ibniee ion
vo
i
1u
Il
h is I ies cast In j Âeasadop ted, t hcre shal I bc fi-ce t ra(i, Hl bUu
o4Itv
and xvine.
Everv mari ,hall have tIR ait lit
iI l hi as sieln no hou-ýCloh dluri-lit, Nvheîhe
liah.iý; )cCl a
tcr
or a
estiedc antin o te
srkard -oifliqo
an
tavrh
keiper, to put out a
diegha
t
t n
e
vîne for sale hcre.'l ''ie
saine thîn- wil p saud 1 thnk that the e'heil eoatc
arise 1i to
constittiences that. arts
t ries ant inteinrefi with th revertse
heverages.

in Switzerland wvben that mode of dealin'np indutis.
I
psk are ve
with this question was adoPted by thie.
day înterfcrin
with the

ot every
rights of

992

fJemperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

individuals? Is it not by common consent required no such stimulant, and could not
that the social systern is kept up by the be benefitted by the habitual employment of
in
or small uantities, that
rnajority ? Certainly, there is no greater such in either largemoderate doses alcoholuc
even
the most
evil, if I chose to take time to enlarge on drinks did no gooi, while large quantities
the subject, than the unrestricted use (such as may be thought moderate) sooner or
of intoxicating liquors. It is unneces- later proved injurious to the human constitusary to quote evidence in support tion, without any exceptions."
of what I say; I feel it would be like
The second declaration was originated,
reflecting on the intelligence of this House. and the many signatures published, by
Many of us have arrived at that time of Mr. John Dunlop, in .1847. More than
life when our conclusions on a question of 2,ooo of the most enminent physicians and
that kind should be sound. There are surgeons signed this, including Sir R.
few of us but have had experience of the Brodie, Sir J. Clarke, Sir W. Burnett, Sir
evils resulting from the use of intoxicating J. Forbes, Sir E. Holland, Sir A. Munroe,
drinks. We know the opinions of judges Sir J. McGrigor, Sir: R. Christison, Dr.
of the land, of grand juries who have had W. B. Carpenter, Dr. Copland, Dr. Neill
crimes brought under their notice, when Arnott, Dr. A. Farre. Professors Guy,
they have felt that it was largely owing to Allen, Thomson, Miller, McLeod, Easton,
the excessive use of intoxicating drinks Anderson, McFarlane, Rainey, Buchanan,
that those crimes were committed. We Paris, Winslow, Alson, Symne, Henderson,
know to-day that our asylums are filled, Lawrie, McKenzie, R. . D. Thomson,
largely owing to the improper use of Couper and Simpson.
stimulants; we know that it is impossible,
almost, speaking for one province more "This certificaté sete forth that perfect
compatible: with total abstinence
health
particularly, to get an idiot asylum large from allisintoxicating beverages; that all such
enough to accommodate our idiots. It is drinks can with perfect safety be discontinued
filled to overflowing, and the inmates are either suddenly or gradually; and that total
largely made up of the children of drunken and universal abstinence from alcoholic
liquors and intoxioating beverages of all
parents. Any man who has studied this sorts would greatly contribute to the health,
question, who has analyzed the causes of the prosperity, the morality and the happiidiocy, must have corne to the conclusion ness of the human race."
that there is no more potent factor in the
creation of idiocy than drunken parents.
HoN. MR. McMILLAN-They do not
It is a question which affects not us alone say anything as to its beneficial effects in
but affects prosterity ; it is one not to be cases of disease.
trifled with or lightly thonght of, if we give
it the attention which its importance
HON. MR. SCOTT-They speak of it
demands. Some hon. gentlemen seem to being useful in rare cases. The last decthink that the medical evidence is not in laration, which seems to have been signed
favor of absolute restriction I have in by the medical men, was on the ist of
my hand here the opinions of some of the January, 1882. It is quoted in the Lonmost prominent medical men of the day. don Times of that date, and I refer hon.
Of late years some very strong declarations gentlemen to the London Tmes for the
have been made by the leading men in names and statements set forth. It is a
Great Britain and other countries. I very decided protest against the use of
I will quote a few of them. There was alcohol in any shape. It is signed by 269
first a declaration drawn up by Mr. Julius of the leading members of the medical
Jeffries and signed by Sir H. Brodie, Sir profession. The Times says :
James Clarke, Sir J. Eyre, Dr. Marshall
"It is very seldom
a great social
Hall, Dr. A. T. Thompson, Dr. A. Ure, question, such as that of that limits between a
the
the Queen's physicians; Professor Part- wholsome and safe use of alcohol on the one
ridge Quain, Mr. Travers, Mr. Bransby hand, and the injurious excess on the other,
Cooper and seventy-eight leaders in evokes such a body of witnesses as that subscribed to the medical protest in ourcoluinns."
medicine and surgery.
to be
" This document declared the opinion
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-You
erroneous that wine, beer or spirit was beneficial to health, that man in ordinary health see it is against the abuse of it.
HON. MR. SCOTT.

Temperance Act, etc., [MAY 27, 1885] Amendnent Bill.
HON. MR.

993

SCOTT-If the hon. gentle- it is like a great fortress-it must be attacked

man will read the evidence he will find
that the abuse consists in using it even in
infinitessimal quantities.

by investment, by mine, by sap, and by direct
attack ; but whatever other agencies mav be
used, the strong conviction of all trose

who, like myself, bave been engaged in
parochial temperance work for many years,

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No, is, that we can do very little without the

that is not the abuse, the abuse consists in assistance of the legislature; and that so long
(as this memorial says) as the temptations
using it in immoderate quantities.
exist to the extent that they do exist now, we
shali scarcely be able to make any impresHON. MR. PLUMB-Let us have the sion upon the intemperance of the country."
document.
There is a direct appeal to the legislature to intervene and pass prohibitory
HON. MR. SCOTT-I have not got it measures.
here, it is in the Tines of january ist,
1882.
HON. MR. PLUMB-No. not prohibitory measures.
HON. MR. PLUMB-It would be absurd to talk about the use of alcohol in
HON. MR. SCOTT-That is the desire
infinitessimal quantities being an abuse.
of the society.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I should like to
read the testimony of other gentlemen.
We have heard that the clergy are not of
the opinion that anything more than
moral suasion should be used in endeavoring to put down intemperance. I find the
Church of England Temperance Society,
of which the Queen is patron, advocates
-restrictive legislation. Canon Ellison appeared before the H ouse of Lords in 188o,
.and speaking for that society, which he

HON. MR. PLUMB-The society is not
a total abstinence society.

HoN. MR. SCOTT-Here is Archbishop Benson's opinion before he became
Primate. He said that:" He would gladly and anxiously use any
opportunity which the nev position to which
God bas called him in the Church, may give
him to promote by legislation and other means
for the cause of temperance in this country."
Is not that very clear ?
said embraced 14,000 of the clergy of the
Church of England, he said :HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
4 I cail your lordshîip/' attention to the
prayer of 14,000 clergymen, from whon I be- that is not prohibitory legislation.

lieve the

call for this conmittee originated.
In their imeniorial to the bishops they ask
HoN. MR. SCOTT-He says, to
this: ' We, the undersigned, clergy of the
Chuîrch of England. venture respectfully to promote by legislation and other means
appeal to your lordships, as the only menbers the cause of temperance in this country."
of our order in Parliament as such, most Then, I find that one of the grounds on

earnest'ly to support measures of the turther which the society is founded is to promote
restriction of the trade in intoxic ting liquors wise and remedial legislation such as is
in this country. We are convinced, most of
us, from an intimate acquaintance with a found in the Society's Bill. I am sorry to
people, extending over nany years, that their say I have not seen the Bill, though I
-condition can never be greatly improved, should like to have it. It is clear they
whethier intellectually, physically or re- were convinced that moral suasion had
igionsly, so long as intemperance extensively failed and they asked Parliament to interprevails among thent, and that intem perance
vill prevail so long as temptations to it vene and legislate to remove the great
evil. I shall now read the opinion of
abound on every side."
another divine, a distinguished man who
That is the ground on which I have
takes a deep interest, as we all know, in
always put my advocacy of the Temper social reforms in England, and more esance Act. He adds:pecially in the city of London, with a
" I cannot help sayino, that seeing that the population larger than the whole of
excesive drinking of tiiis country now is of Canada-I mean Cardinal Manning.
I
such a wholesale character, and has its roots
go very deeply in the habits of the population, wrote to him sending him a copy of the
you must ai tack it upon every side. We beiieve Temperance Act of 1878, and giving him
N 2

994A

Temperance Act, etc.,

SENATE] Amendnent Bill.

some idea of what we were doing in legislating in this direction. Hie replied as
follows :ilA RcuBisHop's BOUSE,
Westminster, April 12th, 1881.
"MY DEAR MR. SCoTT,-I thank you much
for the papers you have sent me, showing your
successful progress in temperance legis lation.
We owe you hearty thanks, for the example
of the Dominion has more weight in the
Mother Country than any other part of the
empire. We are making way slowly becau8e
much hindered by burning questions which
take precedence, but we have gained much,
thank God. The Leatgue of the Cross is
spreading and saving nany."

ought to receive the support of more than
an ordinary majority of the people; I am
of that opinion yet, but as showing that
this action is a very hasty and ill-considered one, I point to the fact that in
1883, we passed another prohibitory law,
under entirely different auspices, and
no one rose in his place and said
wine and beer ought to be
that
Under
excluded from its operation.
the Liquor License Act of 1883,
amended in 1884, we made the proportion three-fifths, but we introduced a
prohibitory clause in which light wine and

beer were not permitted to be sold; they

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The were placed on the same level as spirit
was. No one said that light wines and
League of the Cross is voluntary.
beer ought to be excluded from the Act.
HCN. MR. SCOTT-Cardinal Manning We went further than that in recognizing

has been seeking to obtain similar legislation to the Act of 1878. This letter
arises from the Act of 1878, a copy of
which I sent him, and that is the opinion

the principle, because we admitted that

speaking of the proportion. That is a
mere matter of opinion. The hon. gentleman may be right in his view ; I have
always been of the opinion, myself, that
this local option law is of very little use

cils " may by by-law restrict or prohibit
within the limits of such town, village,
parish or township, the sale of intoxicating

unless supported by more than a bare
majority, but to vary the proportion would
be a departure from the principle on
which our system exists. We allow a

town, village, or parish, or township where
any such by-law had been passed, we

majority to control the minority in matters
as important as that. .\ ninority of the
people in this country (perhaps a majority)
do not believe in the N. P., yet it is forced
upon them by the vote of the majority.
A majority of the rate-payers of this city
have the power to mortgage my property

-that is the only exception we made.
We affirmed and approved of the legislation there.

in some parts of this country no license
should prevail, because the local councils
refused to issue licenses at all. The proof the most distinguished divine who vince of Quebec, many years ago, authorized the different parishes to pass by-laws.
speaks the English language.
prohibiting the sale of liquor without any
HoN. MR. POWER-If my hon. friend legislation at all. Fearing that that might
will allow me, I would call his attention be illegal, in 1884 we confirmed and
to the fact that the most radical legislation approved of that legislation in Lower
which has been sought for in England is. Canada. Only last session, what did we
legislation which would allow a two-thirds say? In the Liquor License Act Amendment Bill we added a sub-section to
vote in a district to prevent the sale.
section 45 of the Act, providing that in
HON. MR. SCOTT-I am not now the province of Quebec the municipal coun-

for years to support some scheme which I
do not approve of at all. The principle
runs through our whole system, that the
majority shall govern. I do not consider
this is a matter that ought to be altered
in that particular. Though I have never
hesitated to say that an Act of this kind
HoN. MR. SCOTT.

liquors."

Then, we added another as a

third sub-section, providing that in every
affirmed it, providing that it was not then
subject matter of litigation in the courts

HON. MR. VIDAL-And that was a
Government measure.
HON. MR. SCOTT-Yes,

a Govern-

ment measure. I ask this House is it not
extremely inconsistent, in the face of that,
for us to create all this confusion and
say to the people, "because you adopted
the Canada Temperance Act of 1878, we

shall create absolute confusion in your

Temperance A et, etc., [MAY 27, 18851 Amendment Bill.
counties ?" That is what it will result in.
It will be free tradein liquor. Any man may
sell it. He need not be a saloon keeper
-any man, in trade or out of trade, may
deal in wine and beer; every shop along
the street may be turned into a beer and
light wines saloon.
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-My
hon. friend must know that that statement
is not warranted. My hon. friend from
Sarnia called on me and suggested that
that was a possible difficulty, and I said at
once if this became law the Government
would introduce a measure to prevent anything of the kind.
HON. MR. SCOTT-Then I am perfectly right in what I say. If my hon.
friend's attention had not been called to it
by the hon. member from Sarnia the result
would have been as I have desribed.
HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
that would not have been the result.

MR. SCOTT-Was I wrong in
the statement that I made ? I knew nothing of the conversation which had passed.
between the hon. gentleman and the hon.
member from Sarnia. I am describing
what the effect would be if that Act were
passed. I am warning the Government,
and I suppose they will take counsel even
fromn me, in a case of that kind.
HON.

995

HoN. MR. SCOTT-The hon. gentle,
man made no allusion to it whatever
in the debate, and I speak, and am
warranted in speaking, frorn the condition of things as they are, and as I
found them, and as they were going to be
until I called attention to it, or told my
hon. friend from Sarnia to call attention
to it. But I trust the hon. gentleman will
not be forced to intervene. I do not believe that the members of the House of
Commons who represent the popular feeling, and who are comparatively fresh from
the people, are going to accept the amendment, and therefore I regret all the more
that the Senate has placed itself in this
position, in attempting, when the Act was
under amendment on a few technical
points, to completely subvert the original
intention of Parliament, because I call it
an utter subversion of the Act. The farce
of talking of light wines, as if such a thing
as light wine in its purity could be had.
HON.

MR. ALMON-Hear, hear.

HON MR. SCOTT-The hon. gentleman doubts it. I tell him that if he consults the London 7mes, he will find the
result of an official examination into the
purity of wines that were brought into the
city of Paris. As everybody knows, a
most careful analysis of the food and drink
taken into the city of Paris is made, and
in 1881 the Government analyst took

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Of 3,ooi samples of wine and analysed them,
and what was the result of his examination ?
course we would.

He found only

MR. SCOTT-It was my duty to
point out what would be the result. The
hon. gentleman when he tried to hasten
this bill through last night did not suggest
anything of that kind.
HON.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
should have done so.

279

out of the 3,001 sam-

ples of wine to be good, and that in Paris,
the centre, it is supposed, of the great
country where wine can be procured in
its purity, and where it is supposed that
the palates of those who can afford it, at
all events, will insist on having good wine.
Out of the 3,001 samples it was found
that there were 279 good ; 991 passable,

and 1,731 bad. The bulk of them were
found to be adulterated with tartaric, acetic,
tannic, sulphuric acids and alum, colored
with leaves of cherry, laurel and logwoôd.
These are the compounds that go to make
up those " pure light wines." As a mater
of fact, France has been for some foudor
five years importing more wine thari she
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLexports. Owing to the destruction of the
This Bill would have been followed by vines by the phylloxera, France could 'not
such a measure as I have spoken of.
grow her own wines. The wine merchaâfs
SCOTT-If I had fot risen
in my place and, through the kind consideration of the House, asked to have
another day in order that I might present
My views on this question, this bill would
have gone through last night.
HON. MR.

996

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Amendment BiU.

did not want to give up their trade, however, any more than the brewers did when
the hops failed in this country. They
found substitutes for wine, and so trade
went on; customers were not disappointed
in giving their orders, but the wine was
different, and the clever chemical compounds prepared by practiced hands
to-day are difficult to detect as a spurious
article, and that it is not genuine wine.
I might, myself, have no objection to light
wines-not the same objection that I
otherwise would if we could get the wines
that people some forty or fifty years ago
used, before the tricks of the trade had
managed to make wines out of chemical
compounds.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL Before modern philosophers had made
everything uncomfortablc.
HON. MR. SCOTT-Before the' greed
of man had become so insatiable, and
science had been called in to its assistance.
Money making was the main cause of
adulteration, and when the wine crop

failed, instead of waiting for another year,

HON. MR. SCOTT-He says, later on,

about sherry :" The wine, which forms the bulk of the
better class of sherries imnported into England,
is of the third quality, and is known as raya.
In its natural state it is sound and dry, of a
pale greenish-yellow color, and has no particular character.
Much of the low-class
sherry, shipped froi Cadiz, is blended, moreover, with poor white wine, froi the Contado
de Niebla. When the wine is designed for
shipment, it is sweetened and flavored to disguise its deficiencies of taste, and colored in
order that it may be palmed off as old and
matured-coloring matter and reddish-brown
1quid, strongly charged with sulphate of potashà ; then, to prevent fermentation, proof
spirits are added."
In the leading article of the London
Times, December ioth, 1873, there is this
article " The correspondence which we have lately
published on the manufacture of the liquid
sold in this country under the name of
"sherry," seems calculated to shake even
the robust faith of the British householder in
the merits of his favorite beverage. The
correspondence had its origin in the fate of
an unfortunate gentleman who lias found, by
the verdict of the coroner's jury, to have died
from an over-dose of alcohol, taken in four
gills of sherry ; and. as it proceeded, it gradu-

ally unfolded some of the nysteries of the
processes by which the product called sherry
is obtained. In the first place, it seems that
the grapes, before being trodden and pressed,
are dusted over witii a large quantity of
plaster of Paris (sulpate of lime), an addition
HON. MR. DEVER-The hon. gentle- which removes the tartaric and malic acids

without wine, the public had to be satisfied
with wine made out of compounds that,
by chemical analysis, contain no part of
the juice of the grape.

acid in
man is imposing on the credulity of the from the juice, and leaves "sulphuric contains
tleir stead, so that the
must "
people. It is all humbug.
none of the bitartate of potash which is the

natural salt of the

HoN. MR. SCOTT-I have an authority here. Mr. Viztelly, the British Wine
Commissioner to the Vienna Wine Exposition, who writes in his " Wines of the
World," (London 1875) as follows:Now-a-days spurious port is produced op a
large scale at Tarragon, in Spain, which imports considerable quantities of dried elderberries, presumably for deepening the color
if not actually for adulterating, the so-called
"Spanish Reds." A couple of years ago, I
tested scores ot samples of fictitious ports, in
every stage of early and intermediate development, rough, fruity, fierv, rounded and tawny,
in the cellars of some of the largest manufacturers at Cettp, and saw some thousands of
pipes of converted Rousillon wines, lving
ready for shipment to England, and various
northern countries as vintage ports."

vine, but sulphate of

potash instead, usually in the propertion of
about two ounces to a gallon.
" Besides this, the common varieties of
must ' receive an additional pound of
sulphuric acid to each butt, by being impregnated with the fumes of five ounces of
sulphur. When fermentation is complete,
the wine may contain from a minimum of
about 14, to*a maximum of 275 per cent.
of proot spirit ; but it is not yet in a state to

satisfy the deniands of the English market,

neither can it be trusted to travel without
undergoing secondary fermentation or other
changes. It is therefore treated with a variety
of ingredients to impart color, sweetness, and
flavor; and it receives an addition of sufficient
brandy to raise the alcoholic strength of the
mixture to 35 per cent. as a minimum, or in
sone cases to as much as 59 per cent. of
proof spirit. When all this has been done, it
is shipped in the wocd for England, where it
is either bottled as ' pure; wine, or is
HON MR. PLUMB-He made a good subjected to such turther sophistications as
article, and it did not hurt anybody.
the ingenuity of dealers may suggest."

HON. MR. SCOTT.

Temperance Act, etc., [MAY 27, 1885] Amendment Bill.
Here is what Mr. Cole, the Comptroller
of the Customs in the London docks,
says. We all know that large quantities
of wine are vatted and mixed in these
docks. He says of these mixtures himself, in October, 185o, they were:"'Spanish wine, 1,529 gallons; of Fayal
wine, 544 gallons; of French wines, 4,492
gallons; of Cape wines, 689 gallons; of Portugal wine only 117 gallons, with 155 gallons
of brandy, the result obtained being 7,524
gallons, minus 8 gallons lose; and the resuit
is 7,533 gallons ot wine.'
Dr. Baer states that in the adulteration
of wines the coloring matters play a deadly
part :" Not only light wines but mixtures, in
which there has never been any grape juice,
are artificially dved and brought into the trade
as precious red wines.

To this end vegetable

997

person who, by himself or his agent, compounds or mixes for sale hy wholesale any

of the articles enumerated in the schedule

to this Act."
The " compounder " is
bound to take out a license, and what is

that compounder authorized to do ? He
is authorized, on a payment to our Revenue
Department of $50, to manufacture imitations of British or foreign wines, of
brandy, rum, gin, Old Tom, Geneva,
Schnapps, British or foreign whiskey, and
bitter liquors and cordials when containing
alcohol. That is what he is entitled to do
by our own Inland Revenue Act, and that
he does it, there is abundance of proof all
over the country, and if you go into an
ordinary tavern you will findHON.

MR. PLUMB-Whose Act is the

dyes are used, such as nallow-bloom, whortle- hon. gentleman quoting from ?
berries, elderberries, cochineal, logwood * *
and in modern times the aniline dye, fuchsia,
HON. MR. SCOTT-I am quoting
especially dangerous, because of the arsenic
from the statute of 1883, and if the hon.
it contains."
gentleman does not interrupt me I will
Mr. Viztelly, the gentleman from whose give him an illustration of how it is done.
work I quoted before, devotes some atten- I stated at the outset that I was reading
tion to beer, and says:from an Act of the Parliament of this
lTie popular notion that the intoxicating country.
influence ot English beer is due exclusively to
its alcoholic strength is an erroneous one, for
HON. MR. PLUMB-I wanted to know
there are nany beers containing only a very the year, because I want to refer to that
small quantity of alcohol, that are highly
stupefying, most likely due to the use of Act.
cocculus indicus.
Of course the chief adulterations used for
HON. MR. SCOTT-I commenced by
beers are water and salt. To conceal the stating what we ourselves authorize. No
water (ilution, and as substitutes for hops, a doubt an effort would be made to show
num ber of bitter stuffs are used-picric acid,
aloes, quassia, buckbean, cocculus indicus, that we do not get these imitation wines
and gentian, supp'.y the taste of hops; phos- in this country. I tell you that we auphoric acid the hop aroma; and for the head- thorize them to be made here. The
ngs or froths there are concoctions of aluni, manufacturers do not require a pound of
copperas, sweet wort, molasses, and cocculus
indicus. As a substitute for alcohol, the grapes in order to make them and we
cocculus in licus berry which, in its poisonous allow them to make just the articles
power, surpasses prussic acid, is being iin- named in the schedule of this Act.
quantities into
orted in steadily increasing
ngland."
HON. MR. DEVER-There is no such
So much for the purity of English wine. thing as wine made out of grapes.
Now, what is our own view of spurious
HoN. MR. SCOTT-I am very glad
wines ? We have had a little legislation
on that ourselves. I will quote now from my hon. friend has admitted that.
the last Inland Revenue Act, which proHON. MR. DEVER-I say it is the
vides for the manufacture of " compounded spirits." The term " compounded sugar in the grape that makes the wine.
spirits " is interpreted to mean and include
" all articles containing Canadian or other
HON. MR. SCOTT-I will now read an
spirits which are enumerated in the sched- advertisement that I have taken from the
ule to this Act." The terrn "compounder" Montreal Gazette of recent date. It is a
is interpreted to mean and include "every very important matter, bearing directly

998

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

upon the question under consideration, these five analysts, and that every
boule and glass of liquor is to be
and is as follows:subjected to their analysis! I am surprised
CANADIAN WINESI
that a body of this kind, gentlemen who
Champagnes,8auternes, Clarets,Vernouth, have reached the years of maturity should
Sherries, Porte, Bourgoyne, Canadian and imagine that anything so childish and
other brands of guaranteed perfect purity, futile could be expected by the people as
excellent bodýy and flavour, fine bouquet and
otherwise suitable alike for luncheon, dinner that our wines are to be analyzed, and that
or ordinary use. Supplied in any quantities a correct result is to be obtained as to
whether they contains more than 12 per
in wood or bottle by
BARRE à 00.,
cent. of spirit. We must be very simple
Manufacturera of pure Canadianwines. indeed in our faith, if we believe that the
who are authorized to deal in
HON. MR. SMITH-Where does that people are going to adhere scrupulcusly to
wines,
firm do business?
the limit of 12 per cent. Every body
knows that it is extremely difficult to
HON. MR. SCOTT-That house carries control dealers in that trade as to the
on business in Montreal, at 186 and 188 hours at which they shall close their
Fortification Lane. I dare say my hon. saloons. hours which Parliament has from
friend knows them. They are a very
to time forced upon the trade.
successful wine house, and they have time been found to be extremely diffiIt has
authority, under that Act, by paying a cult, with constables in all directions, to
license fee of $5o, to manufacture and sell keep saloon keepers within reasonable
imitations of British and foreign wines, bounds, and yet, we are told that they are
and that is the compound that the hon. to be honest and sincere enough to sell
gentleman says should be foisted on this no wine that contains more than 12 per
country as a wholesome and nutritious cent. of alcohol. Does any one imagine
beverage.
for a moment, that if this amendment
were passed, and liquor dealers were free
HoN. MR. SMITH-What is the date to sell wines of not more than 12 per
of that Act ?
cent. of alcohol, that we would not find
whiskey of all degrees of proof retailed
HON. MR. SCOTT-188 3 .
from hour to hour over their counters ? I
am speaking to gentlemen of sense and
HON. MR. ALMON -- What is the judgment, andthey must admit that thisAct
strength of the wine ?
would be evaded, and that liquors of a
strength and density suited to the trade
HON. MR. SCOTT-Does the hon. and calling of the men engaged in it, and
gentleman imagine that one-tenth of one the demands of their customers would be
per cent. of the wines of this country are sold. I have shown pretty clearly that
tested as to their strength, except by the this light wine proposition is a fallacy. If
Excise or Customs Officers, when they are we could get good light wines, there
manufactured in or imported into the might be some sort of justification for it.
country ? I say no, not a tenth of one If we could get such wines as were used
per cent. of the wines are analyzed as to by the people of Europe 4o or 50 years
strength. Up to late years we have had ago, there would be less danger in drinking
but one analyst in the Dominion, Dr. them, and there might be some plausiEdwards, of Montreal. Recently, we have bility about the proposition; but when we
added four others-one at Toronto, one know that the wine that would be served
at Halifax, and one at some other im- out to the people would be largely poison
portant points ; and does the hon. gentle- -I do not hesitate to say it is largely
man mean to tell me that, because we have poison-I am justified in calling upon
these analysts, they are going to analyze this House to pause before they think of
all the wines used in the Dominion, thrusting upon the people of this country
from the Atlantic to the Pacific? That an Act which would not simply allow
all the saloons and taverns in the them, but would mislead them into using
country are going to be visited oy those poisons, because they are entitled to
HON.

MR. SCOTT

Temperance Act, etc., [MAY 27, 1885] Amendment Bill.
take the voice of the Senate as a guide,
as a direction, and as an example. And
when we tell them, as we do when we
adopt this amendment, that by permitting
the use of these " light, wholesome,
nutritious, and comparatively non-intoxicating beverages," we are giving the
sanction of our name to the presumption,
that the light wines that can be had here
are wholesome and nutritious, and are
not intoxicating beverages ? Are we prepared to do that ? If we are, we are
prepared to do more, I think, than even
the Senate of Canada are expected to do.
We are told by many hon. gentlemen that
the Canada Temperance Act is a failure,
and that more liquor *is sold where the
Act is in force, than where it is not. I
am free to confess that I am disappointed
in the Act, not from any intrinsic defect
of its own, because practically it was as
perfect as any ordinary Act of Parliament
could be made, passing through as it did.
It was defective in some of its machinery
only, but so far as the important portions
of that Act were concerned, it was
admirably suited for the purpose which
Parliament intended. But no sooner had
we passed it, the very year after the Act
was admitted to be a constitutional one, in
1883, we passed this important Act which
I have adverted to, the Liquor License
Act, which completely upset many of the
clauses of the Canada Temperance Act.
By the decision of the courts-at all
events, of one of the courts, that of New
Brunswick, I believe, it took away the
executing clauses, and substituted others,
and made many other important changes.
It altogether took away the control of the
Act from the provincial authorities.
My
own belief was that the Act could be put
in force only by the provincial authorities,
and we left to then the granting of
licenses under which liquor could be sold
for medicinal purposes, and arts and
manufactures ; but the License Act of
1883 stepped in and took away from the
druggist the authority that the provincial
Government gave him to sell liquor under
the statutes, and invested it in a board
that was opposed notoriously in a large
portion of this Dominion to the workings
of the Canada Temperance Act. As I
stated the other day, as an illustration of
the opposition to it, and the attempts to
rnake the Act a farce, to ridicule it and

999

turn it into a burlesque, in the county of
Bruce, when the Act came in force
recently, the tavern keepers, whose powers
to sell under license, ceased on the 3 oth
April, were on the ist of May authorzed
by the Board of License Commissioners
to sell under the License Act, with, of
course, a restrictive power ; but does any
body for a moment imagine that they
would be restrained in their sales ? The
temptation was too strong ; it is expecting too much of human nature to presume
that those men would be the best guardians to sell under the restriction contained
in the Temperance Act. In many other
ways has the Act of 1878 been mutilated
and destroyed. It is no longer the Act it
was at first, and since the Federal Governnient took away this power from the Local,
have they attempted to put it in force?
Everybody knows that the Act itself is a
lifeless piece of paper ; the temperance
people could do no more than vote for
the Act, and bring it into operation ; their
power then ceased. It is an Act that has
evoked the hostility of many of the minority. It is an Act that many people do
not regard as one of the ten commandments, having moral weight or power, or
like one of the Acts passed for the repression of crime, and there was no one
especially interested in putting the Act in
force, excepting the executive power.
We have practically removed that power
from the Provincial, centreing it in the
Federal authority, and the Act must be a
failure under such circumstances, as it
cannot go into operation on its own account. It has no vitality of its own. If
a man is assaulted he at once brings his
case under the notice of the police magistrate. If he is robbed he at once lays information, and the constables are put
upon the path of the robber. If his
house is burned, or any wrong is done to
himself or to his property, he is interested,
and all society is interested in enforcing
the law ; but there is no such motive, no
such impulse, in a case under the Temperance Act, and it is, no doubt, as described by the hon. gentleman on my right,
the hon. gentleman from Prince Edward
Island, last year, that free liquor is sold.
I say that it is a thing deeply to
be regretted that the Act should be
adopted in any municipality where
it is not intended to be put in force.

1000

'Temperance etc., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.
Act,

You cannot say the Act is a failure simply found, because they brought up the men
because it will not go into operation of its every day and fined them $i and let them
own niere motion. It cannot ; it must be go. So the town got a revenue from this
enforced. For two or three years, at all traffic in human degradation. I never
events, it will require a very considerable was more shocked in my life and never
staff of constables, and entail a good deal was more struck with the force of the obof cost, but it will remove the open servation I have made--that given the
temptation, the open bar; and our young opportunity the effect is to create a greater
men will not be seduced as often as they amount of tippling. It was simply due to
otherwise would be into habits of tippling. the fact that the open saloon was there
After all it is not the old toper, the man both by night and by day, at all times and
who has passed the meridian of life, who in all directions. There was, no doubt,
has formed habits that it is difficult to light wine and beer there, but it was al
break, it is the young men who are heirs made up of poisonous stuff. I would a
to this great heritage we are leaving them good deal rather see a man drink the pure
that they may be free from the vice of spirit, diluted with water, than those
intemperance. The object of this legis- poisonous stufis. But I do not believe,
lation is that they may grow up and not with the conventional taste of the day,
be tempted day by day. What father is that even Old Tom or Old Rye possesses
there that takes any pleasure or pride to the desired flavor. There is a dryness, or
see his son go into a bar, even if it is only some peculiar odor, that is needed, and
to drink wine or beer ? Does he not feel that can only be imparted by chemicals.
a thrill of horror through him as to what What has been the effects of chemicals ?
the ultimate consequence of that may be ? Let any man read of the drunkenness of
There are few of us who have not seen fifty years ago, and compare it with the
the skeleton in the closet, and every one drunkenness of to-day. The man who
appreciates this matter when it is brought got drunk fifty years ago, became jolly.
home to himself. We are here to protect
HON. MR. ALMON-Hear, hear!
the people from their weaknesses in that
direction, to save our young men from the
HON. MR. SCOTT-Yes ; I can redestruction which awaits them if this vice
is not removed. My theory has always member it myself. 1 can remember how
been that, given the opportunity, you are men shook hands and hugged each other,
sure to convert people into tipplers. I when under the influence of liquor ; but
have watched this question carefully, and what is the effect of drunkenness to-day ?
I have found that the more opportunities It leads to fighting, the drawing of the
for drinking, the more drinking there will knife, the wounding, the killing.
be. Say there are a dozen saloons in a
HON. MR. SMITH-Is that the effect
population of two or three thousand, and
I venture to say there will be more people that wine had on you when you drank it ?
entering those saloor3 than if there were
only half that number.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I do not give my
Last year, I
Probably my
passed through Port Arthur. Of course own personal experience.
it was an exceptional place, but I found own personal experience might be interthat the town was demoralized. They esting to the House. I speak of my
had availed themselves of the License Act observation on others as well as on myof the local legislature and the License self, and 1 say the liquor that is drunk
Act of the Dominion. They had no ob- to-day, is differeht from what was drunk
jection to either of them; and what was fifty years ago, when I was a boy.
the consequence ? In that little town
HON. MR. DEVER-I say it is not,
almost every shop in the main streets
was a saloon and every one of them was and I am a judge.
thronged with men whose hard earnings,
HON. MR. SCOTT-I have myself
when they came in to be paid, instead of
being deposited in the savings bank, were known a man to go to the gallows, who
swallowed up by the tavern keepers. The before his execution said that he had no
town authorities were interested, too, I recollection whatever of having done the
HON. MR. SCOTT.

Temperance Act, etc., [MAY 27, 1885] Amendment Bill.
act. He went out one night for a spree,
and unfortunately had a knife in his pocket. He was returning with his companions, and in passing along the street met
a total stranger that had never injured him.
The man jostled against him, and, quick
as thought, he drew his knife, struck back
and killed the man. The murderer went
home to bed, and there he was found dead
drunk. He was tried and found guilty.
It was no justification for him to say that
the Dominion of Canada derived a revenue
from the liquor he had drunk, or that the
town in which he lived received a revenue
from it. That man was punished with
death, and with his dying breath he declared that he had no recollection of having
struck that fatal blow. It was pure oblivion; and I believed that man. The effect
of liquor is to paralyze the brain. Every
man's brain is not equally strong, nor is all
liquor equally drugged; but the liquor of
the present day has that tendency, and a
man may be under its influence, though it
may not be noticed by the casual observer,
and he may do things while under its influence which he cannot remember when
he comes to his normal condition. I
believe that to be the fact, and it is one of
the consequences of the drugs introduced
into the liquor. We ought to pause in our
course to-day, and inquire whether we will
hold out to the people of Canada that
those light wines are pure and unadulterated. We have an awful responsibility if
we take that course. If we have no respect for the people of our day, we ought
to have some consideration for those who
are to come after us, for those who are to
fill our places when we are gone. The
best legacy we can leave them is our
opinion adverse to the use of those light
wines, although petitioners may pronounce
them as nutritious and wholesome.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I did not
propose to take part in this debate, but in
an important matter of this kind we, free
of prejudice, should do the right for the
right's own sake. I believe that those of
us who are opposed to the Scott Act and
total prohibition, are at least as temperate
in all our habits, even in our drinking
habits, as those who advocate the other
side of the case, and I believe that we are
influenced by as great a love for humanity
and all that is good and virtuous, as they

1001

are. In fact, if I wanted to draw a comparison at all, I would show that there is
more true temperance, virtue, and love for
all that is good in human nature, amongst
the opponents of the Scott Act, than there
is amongst those blirrd, narrow-minded
extremists who would unduly restrict the
liberties of their fellow men. It would
seem that instead of being animated by a.
sole desire to bring about temperance by
Christian doctrines, the love of God,
humanity, or by their own example, that
the promoters and supporters of the Scott
Act simply desire to rule, with but little
sympathy for the crushed and suffering of
our fellow creatures. This Act is inspired
by a sentiment which finds no basis in
Scripture. We have it from Holy Writ,
that we should fear God and keep his
commandments. Now, there is nothing
in the whole decalogue which says that a
man shall not drink wine or spirituous
liquors.
The great Creator Himself,
who knew all things from the beginning,
placed the use of wine amongst other
good gifts of His providence, and partook
of it Himself, and from His time down
through the Apostles, good men in all
ages have shown us by their example and
precepts that there is nothing injurious or
pernicious in the proper use of wine.
Paul advised Timothy to take a little wine
for his stomach's sake, and I saw a lankey
individual the other day in the garb of a
preacher, who came to talk about this
question (no doubt he was paid for it)
who would, I ihink, have been benefited
by taking a little wine, and I gave him St.
Paul's advice. I know something about
this Scott Act movement and the founders
of it ; I have had some experience of it,
and as far as my knowledge goes it is a
curse that has been inflicted upon this
country. It demoralizes society, makes
drunkards, and then hunts them to punishment. True temperance was making
progress amongst the people of Canada
until those would be rulers and fanatics
attempted to coerce the people to deprive
them of their vested rights, their inherent
rights and liberties to do as they please so
long as they do no injury to their neighbours. They were not inspired by the
highest motives of humanity, because I
find them not generally the most benevolent, not the good Samaritans who will
pour in wine and oil and help a man when

1002

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Amendment Bi.

he is down; they are as close-fisted as
any men in creation ; but they want to
deprive people of what is given them for
their good. You may, by Act of Parliament, restrain the abuse but not the use of
liquor. It will be used, and the moment
you try by law to forbid its use, you lead
people to abuse it. We have the Scott
Act in the county frorn which I come. We
had a good License Act, but those extremists who would dictate to us what we
-should eat and drink stopped the License
Act. Before that everything went on well,
drunkenness was gradually decreasing in
the county of Lunenburg ; but the moment
the License Act was abolished the vilest
stuff was diffused throughout the county in
every hole and corner, stuff that would
almost kill anyone by the smell of it. I
know when I went to the place where I
sometimes put up in the country, the
house of a man who had been married
some ten or fifteen years, and whose
family was growing up, I saw his wife in
distress, and I pitied her condition. .1
.asked if there was anyone sick in her
house ; she said no, but that her husband,
who had never been drunk before, had
now been away for two days drinking in a
rum shanty. My hon. friend talks about
.a man committing murder while under the
influence of liquor ; that is an isolated,
a peculiar case, but the cases such as I
speak of are common enough. There is
no restraint to the sale of liquor where
this Act is in force, and the effect of it is
to bring ruin on the country. It was
never intended that men should, by law,
attempt wholly to forbid the use of liquor.
The moderate use of liquor is not condemned in Holy Writ. I heard a man
once say, I think it was a colored preacher,
there is no more good scratching on the
.outside of the bible than it is on the outside of nature-you must reach the heart
- a man's reason and his highest
faculties. What you cannot do through
education, by moral suasion and religion,
and temperance societies, you cannot do
by coercive acts of this kind, but you
rather increase the vice of intemperance.
Everything is against coercion, and the
attempt to introduce it in any country has
been a failure. Take the state of Maine
as an illustration. Since Maine over 30
years ago adopted a prohibitory liquor
law, we find that state the least prosperous
HON. MR.

KAULBACH.

in the union. It is not progressing with
other states in wealth and population, and
the soil is actually becoming sterile. The
denial of the use of proper stimulants,
those which God and nature tell us we
can use with benefit and happiness, may be
the cause-or the tyranny of the law has
probably driven the better class of the
population out of the country, and we find
that pauperism is largely increasing in the
state. The people are either driven out
by the operation of this law, or the denial
of the use of what was intended for their
benefit prevents them from multiplying
and prospering on the earth. Everything,
all industries, seern to be paralyzed in
that state. Yet they talk of Maine as being a great temperance country, and they
regret that Ontario is suffering from the
curse of intemperance for the want of
legislation like the Maine Liquor Law. It
is from Ontario that all this cry comes,
and it would seem as if all the whiskey
drinkers were there. Compare Ontario
with the state of Maine, and observe how
Ontario has been prospering. It must be
in consequence of their being allowed to
use their wine and beer in moderation.
This prohibition law in Maine has worked
evil, and the consequence is, crime and
pauperism have increased. Even Neal
Dow, the temperance reformer, says that
the state is full of low groggeries. There,
in the great prohibition state, the banner
state for temperance,the experience of prohibition has been anything but desirable,
and Maine is anything but a pattern for
us to follow. They talk about this Act
saving so many millions of dollars to the
people. It was once said by some hon.
gentlemen

that

$12,ooo,ooo

a

year

would be saved to the state of Maine by
prohibiting the use of liquor, and double
that amount by the saving of time that
would be lost through drunkenness.
Well, in 33 years $24,ooo,ooo a year
added to the wealth of the country, one
would suppose would make that state
very rich and prosperous, and yet it is the
poorest and lowest of all the states in the
union, as far as industries of any account
are concerned. Therefore, it is a delusion
and a snare to say that an Act of this kind
has done any good. This is the last
country in the world that should ask for
such a law. It has been shown here by
the hon. member from Halifax (Mr.

Teinperance Act, etc., [MAY 27, 1885] Amendment BU.
Power), and it was shown here a few
days agQ by the hon. member from
Amherst (Mr. Dickey) that there is no
country in the world that is more temperate in the use of spirituous liquors
than the Dominion of Canada, yet we
have those rank enthusiasts and those
anchorites who parade and inspire this
cause of theirs, who refuse God's gifts and
deny the grace and the power which they
ought to seek for to use those blessings
aright. The moment you adopt such a
course and deny God-the power of God
and his gifts-you bring a curse upon
the country. The moment you do away
with moral and religious suasion, you
depart from temperance. The only way
that you canpromotetemperance isto reach
the heart of man, and you must reach it
by the educati:n and improvement of
society and the grace of God ; you will
never make a man sober by coercive acts
of this kind. But this Act does not stop
there ; a man may take io gallons of
liquor to his house and drink it, but he
dare not purchase a glass of beer or cider,
drinks which strengthen him for his daily
labor. He can buy his io gallons or a
puncheon of whiskey and take it to his
house and demoralize his whole family as
well as himself and his neighbours, but
he cannot purchase a glass of liquor or a
glass of beer or cider. It is absurd, it is
vicious to adopt this Act, because it is, in
itself, pernicious and makes men law
breakers. Instead of ennobling a man and
naking him virtuous, I believe it has the
effect of demoralizing him. I believe
that this attempt,
by temperance
extremists, to introduce prohibitory
legislation is engendering other vices.
Under the
cloak of temperance
some of those enthusiasts indulge in other
vices. Some are notorious sinners. They
may abuse themselves in any way that
Men can, and because they are what they
call " temperance men," they plume themselves on being patterns of sanctity and
morality; in that respect they are a fraud
on the community. Let us look at this
very act and see what it means ; the form
of warrant to be made against a man for
selling liquor is in conformity with the act
as introduced here. It provides that pure
native wine, made from grapes, grown and
produced by a man in his own vineyard in
Canada shall not be sold in less quantity

1003

than io gallons. My hon. friend from
Ottawa spoke of the pure juice of the
grape. I say we have pure wine produced
in this country, but this Act is calculated
to strike at a great and valuable industryat the vineyards skirting our inland lakes.
A man is allowed to buy whiskey to the
amount of îo gallons or a puncheon and
take it to his home and use it there, while
he is prevented from purchasing a glass of
pure native wine, made from grapes grown
in the country. The producer is not
even allowed to sell it. How farcical, how
absurd, how ridiculous it must be to men
of sense tu listen to such twaddle and
nonsense, that in a country like ours we
are not allowed to use the pure juice of
the grape which the Almighty has allowed
us to grow, and which he blessed and
used himself and gave to others to use,
and which he expects us to use like all
his other gifts and not to abuse. You
can find no law of God to prevent the
use of liquor. You find the abuse of
everything and anything condemned, and
it is the abuse-the inordinate use-of
liquor only which should be condemned
and legislated against. I yield to no one
in my desire to promote temperance ; I
yield to none in my opposition to and
abhorrence of intemperance; but I will
never be a party here, or outside of this
House, to advocating a law like this,which
is intended to deprive a man of his inherent right to use everything in temperance
and moderation which God has given
him for his use. This law is opposed
entirely to the Divine command, because
these temperance people are setting up
for themselves doctrines that are not in
accordance with the Divine example or
the example of those godly men who have
set up as patterns, and they are in vain
teaching for doctrines the commandments
of men instead of giving us the wholesome
beverage which the Giver of all things gave
us for our good, and instructed us to use
but not to abuse. The moment you pass
this law you are saying that the Divine
Instructor, the ministers appointed to
guard you and your families by moral
suasion, your education, your societies for
the promotion of temperance, are of no
use in this community. You must have
an extreme tyranical law put upon you
and the moment that is done you abnegate
all the moral and religious functions which

1004

Tempeance Act, etc., [SEN ATE] Amendment Bill.

should be at work to put down evils that ipon the valued and cherished right of
may exist in the country. Therefore, you petition. The hon. member from Ottawa
bring vice, misery and degradation instead singled out one name attached to the
of the virtues which ought to adorn us. petitions in favor of this amendment,
Instead of making us feel that we should which happened to be the same as that of
be governed hy a high standard of moral inother man in the same place, and he
action, you are taking it all away and you denounced it as a fraud ; but look at the
are placing the moral improvement of the way in which the temperance petitions are
people in the hands of persons who call signed ! They are fraudulent from beginthemselves " temperance men," but who ning to end ! I ask hon. gentlemen to
by their actions and words show that they look at the petitions which have been
are undeserving of the name. People will produced here lately, within the last week,
only laugh at the man who tells them that signed by 50,ooo names, asking that light
he will force them not to use liquor. The wines and lager beer and cider be excluded
hon. member from Sarnia talked about from the operation of the temperance Act !
the petitions that have been presented in Look at those petitions and compare them
favor of this Act. The whole basis of this with the petitions on the other side, and
matter is a fraud, because when we look draw your own conclusions. These are
at the petitions which are being presented the petitions of honest men, electors of
here what do we find ? I have read over the country, who have a right to petition
many of them, and I find as many as two Parliament. These petitions have been
or three hundred names signed by the one drawn up and signed within a few days,
hand. Anyone who is a judge of hand- and presented spontaneously by the people,
writing at all can see that in every petition and they demand from us far greater conthe names are all signed by two or three sideration than the petitions presented on
individuals. We generally find a man and the other side. What would the hon.
woman, probably the headq of the family, member from Sarnia ask us to do ? After
and then two or three of the same naine a long and exhaustive debate upon this.
beneath them, all members no doubt of question, in which it was discussed in all
the same family. I am told of a case in its aspects, this amendment was adopted
which that was done, and not only the in an almost full House, by 42 in favor
man and woman and the children down of it and only 20 against it. We had three
to two years of age signed, but even the days' deliberation upon the question bename of another by anticipation, and to fore it was raised again, and the House
make it right they called it Francis because affirmed the decision of the committee in
that would do for either sex. There another vote by a large majority, and now
is a great deal of that in all those we have a gentleman who has the audapetitions ; they are largely bogus and city to corne forward and ask us to stultify
they should not be allowed in such cases ourselves and reverse our former deliberto come before Parliament. I think that ate action not only in committee but in
those who presented those petitions here the full House-to ask us to go back on
are responsible for what they have done. our record and stultify ourselves before the
I say it is not right to present petitions country. I ask even those who voted
here containing the naines of children who against the amendment on that occasion
are too young to know anything about the to stand by us and not sanction such
subject of the petition. These are the humiliation as this. The hon. gentleman's.
petitions which the advocates of this legis- proposition if adopted, would make us the
lation prate about. I say they are a fraud. laughing stock of the whole country.
They are absurd and ridiculous, and the Nothing could have a worse effect, and I
House should not listen to them. I be- hope the House will not permit itself to
lieve in the right of petition ; it is the be cajoled into doing anything of the
right of every British subject to petition kind-to bring contempt and ridicule
Parliament; but when it is degraded by upon the Senate. I am surprised, I must
bringing such documents as these be- confess, at the speech of the hon. member
fore Parliament, the effect is simply to from Charlottetown. A stronger speech
bring the cause which these people advo- in opposition to the Scott Act and
cate, into contempt, and to cast ridicule prohibition never was delivered in
HON. MR. KAULBACH.

Temperance Act, etc., [MAY 27, 1885] Amendment Bi.
the Seriate. There was never a more
able speech delivered in this House.
I am surprised to find that although he
believes this Act to be pernicious in every
respect, and he has shown the reason why
and where it is pernicious and demoralizing in its tendencies, he still supports this
measure. I think I understood him to
say that although he believes the Act to be
demoralizing in its effect, and calculated
to produce intemperance, that it is better
to have it on our statute book than to
have no law at all to regulate the sale of
liquor, and therefore he prefers this evil
to a greater one-the unrestricted sale of
liquor throughout the Scott Act counties.
I believe that we had better have no Act
than an Act like this, that has not the
support of the people. A law that has not
the moral support and backing of the
people is more injurious in its effect than
no law at all. The hon. gentleman from
Halifax also made an able speech to the
same effect yesterday, showing the
iniquity of this Bill, yet we find him
telling us to-day that he is going to support the Scott Act Amendment Bill as it is
before us now. I cannot see where his
consistency comes in. His whole argument, strong and convincing as it was, in
every way tended to show that this is a
vicious Bill and ought not to be before the
House. I was a little surprised at my
hon. friend from York. He told us yesterday that he did not believe in the Act ;
that he drank his wine like most of us,
but because he believed intemperance was
an evil, he was going to vote with the promoters of this Bill-a bill which allows
you to buy ten gallons of whiskey, but not
a glass of beer. We all know that intemperance is an evil, yet my hon. friend who
does not believe in this Act as having a
beneficial effect, is going to vote for it,
because he is in favor of temperance, and
because he is a churchman. I cannot see
his consistency. The Church of England
does not believe in the Scott Act. It has
never declared itself through its general
meetings as an advocate of an Act of this
kind.
We believe in the efficacy of
the doctrines of our church, and in
We
the inspired word of God.
believe in the commandments, and
that there is in them, if observed,
sufficient to keep men sober, moral,
and religious, and that this Temperance

1005

Act is a farce. The Roman Catholic
Church does not believe in prohibition at
all; they believe it would be going contrary to the inspiration of the Bible if they
favored total prohibition. They preach
and practice temperance, but they deny
that we should coerce people into temperance ; that prohibition is subversive of
temperance.
I have said enough, I
think, to show that this Act is pernicious
in every respect ; that it has destroyed,
and yet threatens to destroy, vested rights,
and cannot be a benefit, but a curse to
the community. Even the permissive
Bill in England, promoted, I believe, by
Sir Wilfred Lawson, declares that at least
two-thirds of the whole electorate shall be
in favor of the Bill before it is passed.
I believe that able politician, Mr. Goschen,
considered that two thirds of the whole
electorate would not be a sufficient backing to a Bill like this to give it moral
support, power and efficiency in the community. He believed that it required a
three-fourths majority.
Then we have
Mr. Bright, who says that the men engaged in the liquor traffic, men engaged
in the vineyards, and those who have their
business in and from this traffic have
vested rights, and are as much entitled to
compensation as men in any other industry when it is interfered with by Act of
Parliament. What are we doing here ?
We are putting the country to immense
exuense in elections under this Act,
which is not only vicious in its tendency
but a waste of public money. The socalled temperance men do not seem to
care about the expense as long as it does
not come out of their own pockets. You
go to them and ask them for a subscription for charitable purposes, and
you get the cold shoulder ; it is their
characterHON. MR. DEVER-And cold water.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-They do
not care how much we try this experiment of temperance at the expense of the
whole country, and the effect, as we have
seen, is to demoralize the people and
increase the use and abuse of liquor
instead of making men sober. I repeatsuch an Act as this would be a curse
instead of a blessing to the Dominion at
large.

1006

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Anendment Bill.

HON. Mr. HAYTHORNE-I do not to justify me in voting against the other
propose to detain the House at any length hostile amendments which have been
for the reason that I have already address- proposed to this House, though I should,
ed it on the second reading of this Bill, probably, have felt greater difficulty in
but I wish to define my position on the opposing the amendment that was dealt
question as it stands at present. It seems with yesterday, than I do the one
to me that the course which bas been which forms the subject of our debate
taken by the opponents of the Scott Act, this evening, and upon that I have no
is not well calculated to produce a favor- hesitation whatever. I shall, therefore,
able effect upon the public mind. Those give my support to the hon. gentleman
who -take the view entertained by the from Sarnia, in the amendment which
hon. gentleman from Halifax and others has been moved this afternoon, I wish
who have moved amendments to the Scott to make a very few remarks upon some
Act, I think, should have acted differently other points which have been brought up
from the manner in which those gentleman in this debate. I regret to hear that the
have acted. It would have been better to advocates of temperance in this House,
have moved for the repeal of the Act alto- have made some reflections upon the
gether, and to have proposed something liquors which are sold, and have enwhich should replace it without its objec- deavored to create the impression that
tionable features. That is one of my they are villainous, adulterated stuff, ingreat reasons for refusing to consent to any jurious to everybody. I think the whole
of those extemporised amendments tenor of the speech which has been debrought up by what we may call not ex- livered this evening, in very eloquent and
actly irresponsible individuals, because very impressive language, by my hon.
though they are not responsible for the friend from Ottawa, went to prove,
general government and general welfare not the injurious effects of proper
of the country, they are responsible as wines and beers, but to prove the injurious
individual members of Parliament, but no effect of the imitation of those liquors.
further. This question of temperance or The remedy then, certainly, should not
intemperance is one which ought to be be the Act which he proposed, but should
handled by the Government and none be one controlling the sale of liquor by
other. That is the view I take of the proper legislative enactments, causing a
question, and should I find the Govern- rigid inspection, and preventing the issue
ment of the day, whether it be the of licenses to mcompetent and unsuitable
present Government or any other Govern- persons, and preventing the sale of liquor
ment coming forward and moving for a under any circumstances, to drunkards
repeal of the Scott Act, and intimating and to minors. I certainly sympathized
their intention to bring in another as a with the hon. gentleman when he spoke
Government measure upon which their of the father's feelings when he sees his
tenure of office will depend, then, I say, son enter a bar room, and call for liquor ;
we shall have commenced upon the right but my feelings as a father would be much
track to obtain proper temperance legis- more acute, if I saw my son enter into an
lation for the country. Another reason unlicensed shebeen where liquors were
why I opposed those separate amend- sold, and other pursuits even worse than
ments-particularly the one which is be- the sale of liquor were carried on. I say
fore the House now-is that, in my pro- that the remedy which the hon. gentleman
vince, should the Canada Temperance has advised for the cure of those evils,
His Act
Act of 1878 be repealed or be rendered is really no remedy at all.
inefficient, it has been intimated that we certainly constrains conscientious individwould then be without any law governing uals to respect the law because it is the
the sale of liquor, and under those law, but it does not constrain the man who
conditions it is probable that there is devoted to drink, and who will have it
would be a great accession of intem. cost what it may, and who, besides inperance in that province-at all events dulging his own vicious propensity, drags
that the sale of liquor would be down with him other men to perdition,
without any law to control it. These twc who would earn ari honest living if they
reasons alone, to my mind, are sufficieni could, but who are prevented from doing

Temperance Act, etc., [MAY 27, 1885] Amendment Bil.

1007

so by this very law. It cannot be denied brew house on every farm must be kept as
that when the Government undertook to clean and sweet, and every article in it, as
introduce a law to promote temperance in the dairy and the dairy utensils. Can we
Canada, it ought, at all events, to have say anything more in support of the absobeen a law which would be operative in lute purity of the article that we are
all its parts, and which would inflict no accustomed to consume as beer? 1, mynew and additional hardship in the way of self, believe that there are no better protrade, or throw any stumbling blocks in moters of temperance in the world than
the way of honest men, as this law has the great English brewers have been.
done, and is doing every day. These are They have, as is notorious, taken advanpoints which we had a clear right to de- tage of every discovery which science and
mand in any law, for which was claimed skill can devise to produce the very best
the support of the people of Canada. I and purest article that can be manufacattach sufficient importance to the great tured, and their success is so well known
number of signatures which have been that English beer is to be found not only
appended to petitions in favor of this Act ; in Europe and America, but in India
but we must recollect that circunstances and China.
have within a few days materially changed,
and that the other side has now been
HON. SIR ALEX.CAMPBELL-Then,
heard to a very considerable extent, and why not let us have it ?
in a very short time. That other side
tells an entirely different story, and I think
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I think
we are entitled to attach at least as much
those English brewers are the men who
importance to the petitioners who have
expressed their opinions against the Scott have conduced most to the temperance of
Act, as to those who have petitioned the community.
in its favDr, more especially as the petiHON. MR. PLUMB-Then, why don't
tions against the Act have only of late
begun to come before this body. There you let us have their beer ?
were some things that fell from hon. genHON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I have
tlemen, for whom, personally, I have the
greatest respect, and whose sincerity I do given very good reasons why I object to
not for a moment intend to challenge, but vote against my hon. friend's amendment,
who, instead of attempting to convince us but I have a right to state my opinion,
with solid and sound argument, began to because I do not wish to be misundertell us that our favorite beverages are in- stood. If I were to vote with the hon.
jurious and filthy. Now, that displays a gentleman from Sarnia, and the hon.
vast deal of, I cannot suppose, wilful ignor- gentleman from Belleville, and the hon.
ance ; yet to hear an hon. gentleman talk- gentleman from Ottawa here; it might
ing about the filthiness of the beer that be held that my opinions were identical
we are accustomed to drink is some- with theirs, which is not the case, and I
thing, to anyone who understands the am seeking now to prevent any misconsubject at all, so utterly absurd that one is ception as to my opinion on this point.
aimost inclined to smile at the ignorance I have here the means before me of conwhich will impute so much credulity to this futing some of the ordinary misconceptions
House and the public generally that they with regard to alcohol, and of refuting
would believe such a thing for a moment. some of the favorite fallacies which are
It is a fact well known to the Englishman put forward by the temperance gentlemen
who is accustomed to the brew houses of on their platform with regard to alcohol.
the English farms, and English breweries, I have here an article from the National
that absolute cleanliness in every article Review. It is supported by reference to
that is used in that manufacture, and in several well known public documents,
the utensils, is most essential. The very upon the authority of the learned Professor
purest of water, the cleanest of malt, the Leone Levi, and Professor Jevons, membest and purest of hops are the only bers of the British Association, and it must
articles that can be used by any man who be, therefore, apparent to the House that
has a reputation as a brewer, and the the authorities are unexceptional:

1008

Teiperance Act, etc, [SENA.TE] Amendment Bill.

MISCONCEPTION ABOUT ALCOHOL.
The consumuption of alcoholic drinks is ail
but universal. The great total is made up of
the very small quantities individually consuned day by day by 35,000,000 of consumers.
For though the 20,000,000 of adults drink the
greater part of it, aluost everyone is a consumer more or less. Alcohol is the comnion
renedy in sudden faintness or pain, the coinmon stimulant in exhausting illness. Medicines are prepared in it, wounds are dressed
with it, roothaches cured by it, chilblains
rubbed with it, clothes cleaned with it; the
housekeeper uses it in preserving, and the
cook in flavoring. Smtall matters separatelv,
but ail of them multiplied by vast numbers,
and al] included in the general consumîption.
And when times are bail, it is the thrifty and
sober people who spend less in alcohol. The
drunkard sacrifices every other comfort
first. This simple truth, a truth so
simple and obvious that it is iupossible
to dispute it when once put into words,
is, nevertheless, entirely overlooked or for.
gotten. Any decrease in the consum"ption,
whenever it occurs, is treated as if nothing
could produce it but a decrease in drunkenness! In like nianner, it is the sober and
frugal who have been pinching themselves by
drinking water or smtall beer, when times
were bad, who begin to live a little better as
soon as they can afford it, and the increased
consumnption which follows is chiefly theirs.
Evervoneengaged iii the sale of alcohol knows
that this is true, and it needs but little acquaintance with hunan nature, to see that it
must be. Those who eau reflect reasonably
uîpon these things, will see iow perfectly
thev accord with and explain the fact, that
while drunkenness has almost disappeared
anong rte educated classes, and lias been
greatly lessened amiong a large portion of the
rest, the average consunmption of alcoliol per
head is slignitly greater niow than it was thirty
or forty years ago. The variations that occur
show. with great precision, the comparative
rise and fall ot general prosperity ; but they
tel] us nothing whatever about drunkenness,
simuply because the quantity consuned as
ordinary diet is so enormnouslv greater titan
thme quantity consiumued by drunkards, that
any changes in the latter are too simall in
proportion to be perceived. This statement
would be accepted as a truism by ordinary
observers of English life, if no efforts had
been made fo disguise the truth. Conclusive
proof of it will be given liurther on, but I shall
tirst give some examiples of the imianner in
wihich questions of tact are habitually treated
by the total abstinence party and their political friends. The National brink Bill, as it is
called, is constantly put betore the public as
a national disgrace. 'The mioney paid for
alcoholie drinks, approaches £130,000.000 a
year. It is assuned that this is the cost to
the nation ; that it is ai extravagant amtount;
and that most or it is paid for vicious selfThe first and third of these
indulgence.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

assuniptions are absolutely untrue; and the
second is equally so, if alcohol is used at ail

as a national beverage

The £130,000,000,

which changes hands every year, consists of
three distinct portions. The first is taxation,
which is collected by the dealers in alcohol.
It amounts to £30,060,000. The second is the
realcostof the beer,wineand spirits themselves,
which is about £45,000,000. The third is the
cost and profit o distribution. which is between
fifty and sixty millions. This subject lias
been examined and the results determined on
the best information available by a comnmittee
of the British Association. Professor Leone
Levi and the late Professor Jevons were
menibers of the committee. Its two reports
drawn up by Professor Levi, are printed in
the Association volumes for 1881-82, and give
the most authentic account the nation possesses of the particulars of its ex penditure.
Theabove figures are taken in round umibers
from these reports. The real cost to the nation, as the committee point out, is only the
second of the three portions-the £45,000,000
which the beer, wine and spirits themselves
have really cost. The £30,000,000 of taxes
must, of course, be collected in somie wav.
The suni paid for distribution is paid to the
nation itself, and is only a transfer o so much
inconie fron one hand to another, for capital
used and services rendered. It constitutes the
income of nearly two millions persons employed in or dependent on the trade; and if
the trade were suddenly stopped the national
effect would be, not that the nation was richer
by this suii, but that the incomne of two miillion people was taken froi thein and distributed anong the rest. These two million
being thus made destitu te, wou!d endeavour to
do somethingr else; and if they could become
producers instead of distributors, without displacing any other producers, or lessening
their production, the national income would
then be increased by the change. But we
have alrea.ly a surplus of people who would
be producers if thev could, or who would pro.
duce more if thev were wanted. The labourmarket is always over-stocked, and the nation
lias no power of enriching itself by turning
distributors into producers. The real cost of
alcohol to the nation as one of its beverage is,
therefore, £45,000.000 instead of.£130,000,000,
with the addition of anything that ight
be added to is
produce by any other
use of the capital employed; and as capital
itself is superabundant, and can be hat
in any quantity when there is a chance
of profitable use, the addition, if any, could
be trifling only. The anount paid for the
distribution of alcohol shows that the trade,
as a who'e, is not a specially ilcrative one.
It is about £30 per iead for the people dependent on it, which is very nearly the general
average income of the nation at large. That
the expenditure is extravagant in anount is
untrue, if beer. wine and spirits are used at
ail as national beverages. This is shown
conclusively when the details of consumption are considered ; but, in the meantime,

I'emperance A ct, etc., [MAY 27, 1885] Amendment Bill.
the fact that the quantity used is practically
thesame in all civilized nations, disproves the
char e of extravagance on general grounds,
for t e term cannot properly be apphed to an
expenditure universally and persistently
adopted. Nor is the cost excessive when
compared with that of other articles. Bread
costs £60,000,000; meat and fisli, nearly
£100,000,000 ; tea, coffee and sugar, $35,000,000; potatoes, fruit and vegetabtes, £50,000,000. I am giving the actual cost. not the
suins paid by the consuners, which are, of
course, mnuch more. The cost of dress ex.
ceeds £120,000,000. Ifevery person consuned
a pint of milk a day, which is in fact a common allowance amiong those who can afford
it, the annual payment for milk alone would
be £100,000,000, and the actual cost more
than half of this. The assumption that
alcohol is chiefly used for purposes of vicious
self-indulgence is absolutely untrue. Wien
a i drinks a glass of beer or wine ivith his
dinner there is no more self-indulgence than
when heputs sugar in his tea, or butter on
his bread,or minlk in his porridge. He is
simply taking sucli diet as he finds pleasant
and suitable, and the great bulk of the consumption is alvays of this kind. The public are merely iniposed ipon by the hardihood
vith which such statenents are made and by
the effect of large numbers, the true import of

which is carefully concealed. All numbers
become large when they are multiplied by
thirty-five millions, and the quantity of any
article in universal use in a great nation is
necessarily an enormous quantity.
I believe, hon. gentlemen, that the substance of what I have now read to the
House is literally and exactly true, and is
It clearly
well worthy of attention.
shows the misconceptions which are put
in circulation even on temperance platforms, and it is a matter very much to be
regretted that hon. gentlemen, with the
good cause they have if they would only
advocate it rightly, should have recourse
I
to such unwarrantable expedients.
heard, yesterday, I think, an hon. gentleman referring to the majorities by which
the Canada Temperance Act has been
carried in many distiricts, and challenging
gentlemen of opposite views to explain
how that anomaly came to exist. If the
people of any district, in which the
Temperance Act was proposed, were not
clearly in its favor, how comes it that those
districts should have adopted the Act ?
That is the question that is put to us. I
think there is an explanation not hard to
give, and not discreditable at ail to the
numerous people who, I am confident,
acted upon this inspiration, which
I am now about to suggest, as a
0 2

1009

reason for those majorities.
They
are simply the reasons which have influenced, and would influence, honest
minds, and did influence me just as long
as I believed that the Canada Temperance
Act was what it professed to be, a remedy
for the intemperance of the country. As
long as I believed that to be the case I
could not as a conscientious man go to the
polis and vote against it. I believe that
hundreds of others voted for it in the
same light and for the same reason; the)
were willing to give this Act a trial and a
chance to operate as it was intended to
operate throughout the country ; but our
opinions have changed of late since we
have witnessed the failure of the Act to
perform the work for which it was intended
by its authors. This is the explanation I
have to offer for the successes which in
many instances have attended the submission of the Canada Temperance Act in
the different municipalities, and it is not
one which isat ail discreditable to those who
have acted in the way I have suggested,
either by absenting themselves from the
pols, or actually voting in favor of the Bill
Such line of conduct it seems to nie ought
to be followed by every upright and concientious man. I could not fail to be
touched myself, I admit I was very much
so, by the appeal made by my hon. friend
from Ottawa when he spoke of the experience of judges and juries and the melancholy death of a criminal, but ail these
things suggest to me another course
than the maintenance of the Canada
Temperance Act. That Act has evidently failed of its purpose, and if it
were hopeless for this Dominion to adopt
any other course than that we have pursued, our case would mdeed be melancholy ;
but my belief is this, that if the question
was grappled with by a strong and vigorous Government, and even though we
should enroach upon the liberty of the
subject in a way made necessary by the
circumstances of the country, and in a way
that would reach the guilty without interfering with the harmless, then I say the
evils of interference with the liberty
as
of the subject would vanish
they ought to vanish when the public
interest requires it. I for one would raise
no objection to a large interference with
private liberty in the matter of securing
respectable places where liquor should be

1010

Temperance Act, etc, [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

sold. I for one would sanction any necessary outlay to secure the absolute purity
of the articles which are retailed in those
places. My hon. friend from Ottawa has
spoken very freely indeed of the immense
amount of spurious liquor manufactured
and sold even in wine countries. I will
not attempt to challenge the statement of
my hon. friend, but I merely say it points
to more caution on our part and less
interference with an honest trade in liquor.
For example, when we have districts in
Canada producing a heverage eminently
suited for the wants of our people, why
should we place obstacles in the way of its
circulation and sale ? Should we not
rather endeavor by all possible means to
promote and extend the cultivation of the
vine in this country, and the manufacture
of such wholesome and reputable ales
as won for the English their reputation
and trade over the wide world? These
are, in my judgment, the remedy for intemperance; it will not be found in prohibition. Prohibition is eminently impossible in a country like ours. Suppose,
just for an instant or two, that we could
carry the Canada Temperance Act in
every municipality and in every province,
what then ? Does it follow that liquors
of a worse kind would not find their way
into the country? Does it follow that
they would not be smuggled into the
country and manufactured in private stills
all over the country, thereby debasing the
population ? I think these evils would
naturally follow. In some years, great
deficiency has occurred in the wine producing countries, such as France and
other parts of Europe. The ravages of
the phylloxera have been pretty general,
but it does not follow at all that such
ravages are to be perpetual. It indicates
simply a cause very similar to that
which affected our own wheat crops in
Canada. We have heard of the fly
injuring our spring wheat and injuring our
crops until they were scarcely worth
harvesting at times. We studied that
question, and we found that it was greatly
to be attributed to the lingering growth
from which the plant suffered in consequence of the abstraction of their natural
food from the soil. We know that grape
culture has been going on for centuries in
Europe, and great objections have been
entertained to applying ordinary manure
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

to the vines. I bave known cases in
which they not only refuse to apply
manure, but will not allow them even to
be watered at certain seasons, and the
failure of the vine is nothing more than
we may expect in countries where it has
been cultivated for centuries on the same
land. When these things come to be
investigated, a remedy will be found, and
Europe may once more contribute to the
supply of America; but we have sources
of our own whence wholesome and noninjurious liquors may be derived, and to
these, I think, our attention ought
chiefly to be directed.
One thing
I wish to make a remark upon,
which is that legislators are largely responsible for the evils of these adulterated
liquors. As my hon. friend showed, and
I think, with great force, the evils attending a law at present on the statute book, to
which he referred; I should cal! it a scandalous law, and I think the sooner itisremoved the better and more reputable it will
be for Canada ; but for periods long anterior to that, we have been enacting excise laws, dealing with liquors of all kinds,
raising our revenue from them, raising
obstructions to their free transport from
one country to another ; encouraging
their importation from one place, and forbidding them entering our country from
another. These laws have been in existance even in Canada as well as in the
Mother Country, and to these are niainly
due the first idea of making money by
mixing and adulterating liquors.
For
these things we are clearly responsible.
We are reaping now the evils of what our
forefathers and ourselves have done in
former years, and I think they should be
a lesson to us in our time, to
exercise all the possible caution in
our power in reference to our future
action in these matters.
I believe,
myself, that the liquor traffic is one able to
bear a very large burden in the shape of
inspection, and for the safety and security
of the public it is perfectly right and proper that no expense should be spared in
order to secure the health of the public in
this important matter.
I regret that I should have been induced to speak at such length, and
I feel it necessary to apologize to the
House for this intrusion-for, I feel it to,
be such after having addressed the House

Temperance Act, etc., [MAY 27, 1885] Amendmnt Bill.

1011

at the second reading of the Bill-but I
feel strongly on this point, and I felt that
my position was one which required explanation. No one in this House feels
more strongly than I do in favor of temperance properly so called, and no one
will go further to promote it by proper
legislation, but I will not consent to take
any part in the destruction of the Canada
Temperance Act by what I myself must
consider-I leave other gentlemen to decide for themselves-improper methods.

from Ottawa, the effect of the adoption of
the amendment which has just been voted
upon-that is the amendment allowing the
sale of wines, ale and lager beer, in the
counties where the Scott Act is in force,
will be that that sale will take place without any regulation whatever ; that there is
to be unlimited free trade in these drinks,
that the sale of them will not be affected
by the license laws of the provinces, because the Scott Act, so called, provides
that as soon as it has been adopted the
local license laws cease to have any effect.
The Senate divided on the amendment, It seems to me, therefore, that it is the
which was rejected by the following vote:- duty of the Minister now to provide that
henceforth, as far as the sale of wine, ale
CONTENTS:
and lager beer is concerned, the local
license laws shall operate.
Hon. Messrs.
Alexander,
Allan,
Bellerose,
Chaffers,
Chapais,
Ferrier,
Flint,
Girard,
Grant,
Haythorne,

Leonard,
McClelan,
Mclnnes,
Miller (Speaker),
Pelletier,
Power,
Scott,
Stevens,
Vidal,

Wark.-20.

NoN-CONTENTS:

Hon.
Almon,
Baillargeon,
Bolduc,
Botsford,
Boucherville, de,
Campbell (Sir Alex.),
Carvell,
Clemow,
Cochrane,
DeBlois,
Dever,
Glasier,
Guévremont,
H amilton,
Raulbach,
McDonald,

Messrs.
McKay,
McKindsey,

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
hon. gentleman probably did not hear me
say in reply to the hon. member from
Ottawa, that I would take care if the Bill
passed that the necessary provisions should
be made.
HON. MR.

POWER-I did not hear

that.

McMillan,

The Senate divided on the motionifor
the third reading of the Bill which was
agreed to by the following vote

MacInnes,

CONTENTS:

Macdonald,
Montgomery,
Nelson,
Northwood,
O'Donohoe,
Ogilvie,

Hon. Messrs.
Almon,
McKindsey,
Baillargeon,
McMillan,
Bolduc,
Macdonald,
Botsford,
MacInnes,
Pâguet,
Boucherville, de
Montgomery,
Poirier,
Campbell (Sir Alex.) Nelson,
Robitaille,
Carvell,
Northwood,
Smith,
Clemow,
O'Donohoe,
Turner.-31.
Cochrane,
Ogilvie,
DeBlois,
Pâquet,
Dever,
Plumb,
THE SPEAKER-The question is now Glasier,
Poirier,
on the motion for the third reading of Guévremont,
Power,
the Bill.
Hamilton,
Robitaille,
Kaulbach,
Smith,
Turner.-33.
HON. MR. POWER-I rise for the pur- McDonald,
McKay,
Pose of calling the attention of the Minister
of Justice to the fact that as the House
NoN-CONTENTS:
has adopted this very important amendHon.Messrs.
ment, I think it will be the duty of the
Leonard,
Government, and his duty as leading this Alexander,
McClelan,
House, to make such further amendments Allan,
McInnes,
Bellerose,
as will render the Act workable.
As has Chaffers,
Miller (Speaker),
been pointed out by the hon. gentleman Chapais,
Pelletier,

1012
Ferrier,

The Rebellion in [SENATE] the North- West.

fully checked through the admirable
prudence and judgment displayed by
Vidal,
General Middleton, in handling the small
Wark.-19.
force placed under his command; and
everyone bears testimony to the unwaverThe Bill was then read the third time ing steadiness and valor of our citizen
and passed.
soldiers in every one of the conflicts which
have taken place. But the Dominion has
The Senate adjourned at six o'clock.
to mourn over an unexpectedly large list
of killed and wounded, amongst whom
are many young men of great promise,
and who were highly esteemed in their
respective districts. This will long continue to be a sorrowful memory in
THE SENATE.
connection with this struggle. But the
House will agree with me that Parliament
Olawa, Thursday, May 28th, 1885.
is, at this moment, imperatively called
THE SPEAKER took the chair at three upon to inform itself by the most searching inquiry as to what were the grievances
o'clock.
which drove those half-breeds to have
recourse to arms. In the interests of the
Prayers and routine proceedings.
future peace and progress of the country,
this searching investigation should now be
THIRD READING.
made, before Parliament rises. No one
Bill (76), "An Act to amend the Act would venture to justify, under any cirrespecting the London Life Insurance cumstances, open recourse to arms,
Company" (Mr. Plumb), was reported and the subversion of law and order, but
through Committee, read the third time if any of the members of this Government,
or the officials appointed by them, have lby
and passed without debate.
inattention to, or wanton neglect of, their
THE REBELLION IN THE NORTH- duties, brought about such an irritation
and exasperation of feeling, that their conWEST.
duct has, in a large measure, fomented the
spirit of resistance, and called forth a
-MOTIoN.
breach of the law-I say, such members
of the Government and such prominent
HoN. MR. ALEXANDER movedofficials should be punished. If their
That an humble Address be presented to wanton neglect of duty, or supercilious
ais Excellency the Governor General; praying that His Excellency will be pleased to bearing, or cold, selfish indifference,
cause to be laid before this House, copies ot sometimes proceeding from the plenitude
the letters addressed by His Lordship the of their power, or from the possession of
Anglican Bishop of Saskatchewan, and His wealth-perhaps improperly got-I say if
Grace Archbishop Tache, to the Dominion such have, in any measure or degree, led
Government, between the month of July and
October, 1884, in reference to the alarming to this insurrection, Parliament ought not
manifestation of discontent at that period, to hesitate to impeach such members of
amongst the Half-Breeds and others on the the Government or such officials. This
Saskatchewan.
insurrection has brought deep sorrow and
He said : In rising to move for this distress into the households of a large
return, I assume from the latest account number of our most valued citizens. It
received, that the armed insurrection of has required two or three thousand of our
half-breeds and others, at and around industrious bread winners to leave their
Prince Albert, has now been virtually daily calling, impairing, perhaps, the prossuppressed. Al agree that there will be pects of some of them in life.
no more bloodshed, and no one can
HON. MR. PLUMB-I rise to a quesquestion the propriety of full parliamentary
inquiry now into the whole matter. The tion of order. The hon. gentleman is
outbreak has been quickly and success- reading his speech word for word.
Flint,
Girard,
Grant,
Haythorne,

Scott,
Stevens,

The Rebellion in [MAY 28, 1885.] the North- West.

1013

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-The hon. but in this case, I say that the rule is so
gentleman will be kind enough not to in- plain that there can be no doubt about it.
terrupt me.
HON. MR. SCOTT-This House would
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentle- only be stultifying itself to decide against
man is reading his speech. I believe it is the ruling of the Speaker, because our rule
well understood that it is not convenient is a plain and simple one that no member
for hon. gentlemen to read their speeches can read his speech, but I think it is perbefore a deliberative body like this, and fectly competent for any gentleman to
certainly it is against the rule in the House make a motion that a member may, for
of Commons in England, and here, when certain reasons, read his speech. For instance, a few nights ago a motion was made
attention is called to it.
for an hon. gentleman who was not in a
HoN. MR. ALEXANDER-It has good state of health that another hon.
been a constant practice in this House gentleman should be allowed to read his
and in the House of Commons.
speech for him, and it was permitted.

THE SPEAKER-There can be no
question with regard to the rule which
governs us in this matter. It is not in
order for any member to read his speech.
It is true it is sometimes permitted to hon
gentlemen in both houses, to read their
speeches, but when the point of order is
raised here, it is my duty to rule against it.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Then, I
would like to ask the permission of the
House to read this speech that I have
prepared, as it is on a subject of vital importance to the country, and it is one on
which every word should be carefully
weighed and uttered.
I will take the
opinion of the House on this question.

HON. MR. PLUMB-That was an unusual thing.

HON. MR. SCOTT-Whether a motion
could be made which is immediately antagonistic to the order of the House,
is a question which, of course, I am
not at this moment prepared to speak on;
whether we can, ourselves, except by
uni ,ersal consent, agree to a reversal of
the rule of order is a point which I have
not considered; still, we have hitherto allowed a good deal of latitude to gentlemen
who have read their speeches on different
occasions in this House. In the recent
debate a number of gentlemen read from
very copious notes and the point of order
was not taken ; so that it is not a rule that
is absolutely enforced on all occasions.

THE SPEAKER-My ruling is that
the hon. gentleman is not in order in
HON. MR. PLUMR-The rule is alreading his speech. Against that ruling
he has a right to appeal ; otherwise he ways enforced when the attention of the
cannot address the house, except on a Speaker is called to the fact. Very often
motion appealing against my judgment.
gentlemen are permitted to read their
speeches because no notice is taken of it,
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-May I but if the attention of the Speaker is called
not appeal as to whether the majority of to it, it is perfectly out of order to read a
this House will permit me to read my speech. The hon. member prepares his
speech ? If the House says I am not diatribes and fulminates them against
permitted to do somembers of this House outside, and then
comes in here and reads them so that they
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEshall go on the record.
I do not think there is any appeal from
the ruling of the Speaker, but there might
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-I do not
be a motion made that the hon. gentle- speak from manuscript ; I generally speak
man be allowed to read his speech.
on the inspiration of the moment, whatever I have to say, but in many cases the
THE. SPEAKER-There is an appeal reading of a speech might be allowed.
from my ruling. My ruling may be im - Some hon. gentlemen may be infirm or in
proper, and it is for the House to decide. poor health, or for other reasons might be

1014A

The Rbellion in [SENATE] the Nort- Weat.

allowed to read their speeches. But when
an hon. gentleman, in full possession of
health, speaking against the good sense of
the House, cooly prepares and writes out
his speech, attacking certain members of
the House, talking of ill-gotten gains, and,
under the cloak of a motion for a return,
attacks some hon. members, the whole
sense of the House must feel that we must
rigorously adhere to our rules, and not
allow those inuendoes to be uttered.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I make no
inuendoes. I say straightforwardly what
I have to say.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-lt is contrary to the dignity of the House, that
such proceedings should be permitted,
and, therefore, 1, as one member, must
enter my protest against it.
HON. MR. POWER-There is no
doubt about the rule laid down by his
honor the Speaker; and I was struck myself by the fact that on this occasion the
hon. member from Woodstock was deliberately reading his manuscript word by
word. The hon. gentleman is a sufficiently old parliamentarian to know that he
could not do that, and surely the hon.
gentleman is shrewd enough to be able to
attain his end without violating the rule.
There is nothing to hinder him from glancing at his manuscript occasionally, and I
think in that way he can do all he wants.
I wish, however, to correct a statement
which he made, to the effect that the
leader of the Opposition read a speech in
the other House the other day. I happened to be there at the time, and I can say
that he did not read his speech. He had
copious notes to which he referred, but he
did not read his speech. If the hon. gentleman from Woodstock would follow the
example of the leader of the Opposition
in that respect, he would be strictly within
the rule.
HON. MR. DEVER-I happened to be
present in the gallery of the House of
Commons on the occasion to which the
hon. member from Halifax refers, and I
am prepared to assert that Mr. Blake did
read his speech. I saw him reading it
and turning over the manuscript leaf by
leaf.

HoN. MR. KAULBACH.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I was proceeding to enumerate the different evils
which must result from this rebellion. It
must cause an enormous waste of public
money, and must injure for a time the
prospects of immigration flowing into our
North-West. Then, as a matter of course,
it blights for a time the prospect of our
Canadian Pacific Railway, which, for construction, has already added $7o,ooo,ooo
to the debt of the country. And what a
misfortune to our Dominion, that that
happy and peaceful confidence which has
hitherto, in the past, been entertained by
the Indian races towards the Queen
Mother and her Canadian subjects, should
thus have been unnecessarily disturbed.
This insurrection, although small in its
proportion, is an unfortunate break in the
onward progress of the Dominion, and
must affect deeply the whole of its public
interests. I say small in proportion, because, if we leave on one side the Indians
who were only drawn into sympathy afterwards, the disaffected half-breeds do not
appear to have numbered more than 300,

all told. I have several times asked myself the question, and I now ask this honourable House the question: Is it really
the case that had the Government last
autumn acted with a proper sense of their
responsibilities when they sent down to
Fort Carleton a large number of the
mounted police-and when they were at
the same time receiving earnest admonition from the Anglican Bishop of the
Saskatchewan, and from Archbishop
Taché as to the urgency of their no longer
trifling with and neglecting so grave a
matter,there would have been no outbreak?
If the Government had then, or even
during several months afterwards, done
their duty in having a proper adjudication
of the claims of those three hundred halfbreeds, involving merely the consideration
of a few thousand acres of land, we should
have been saved the bloodshed and all the
horrors of the civil war. Those families
that have been plunged into sorrow and
mourning and distress would have been
spared all the afflictions with which they
have been visited, and which everyone
feels has been brought upon them by the
wanton neglect of public duty, chiefly on
the part of the two Ministers of the Interior.
Those two Ministers of the Crown openly
profess a joint responsibility as regards

Thte Rebellion in [MAY 28, 1885] the North-West.
the Department of the Interior. At the
very moment that those half-breeds were
sending to Montana for Riel to come and
advocate their rights, and when the demon
of insurrection was rapidly raising its head,
the present Minister of the Interior went
off to the Rhine for his own private
pleasure, and to other parts of Europe.
While all this was transpiring, the acting
Minister of the Interior, Sir John Macdonald, was remaining at Riviere du Loup,
thinking he had done all that was necessary in sending down to Fort Carleton a
certain number of mounted police. I ask
this House, when they look into the facts
of this insurrection, can they come to any
other conclusion than that it has arisen
from the most culpable neglect of duty on
the part of those two Ministers of the
Crown? They now stand arraigned at the
bar of public opinion, chargeable with
having, by neglect of duty, brought on, in
some degree, the loss of life that has taken
place at Fish Creek, at Cut Knife Creek,
and at Batoche.

1015

very easy to excite a feeling with regard
to the half-breeds. No one would justify
them in having recourse to arms. Certainly, no one would justify any white
population taking such a course, but we
can hardly be surprised after the experience we have had in this House on different occasions of the unbearable and tyrannical manner in which they endeavor to
exercise their power (because they have a
majority here) over individual independent members-we can hardly be surprised
at their acting in the same way towards
the poor half-breeds of the North-West.
Those people have sent delegations here
at an expense to themselves, stating their
claims with regard to their lands, and if
they were sent away in the same manner
that we are answered here, it is not surprising that they became exasperated.
HON. MR. SMITH-If they acted in
the same way that the hon. gentleman
does, they would deserve to receive an
exasperating reply.

HON. MR. BOTSFORD-I rise to a
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I have
point of order; the hon. gentleman is nothing to feel sorry for in what I have
reading his speech.
said here in discharge of my duty. I do
not wish to recall one word that I have
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I have a ever uttered on the floor of this House in
right to refer to my notes.
defending the rights of the people. I say
that the Government have not only been
HON. MR. BOTSFORD-The hon. the means of bringing insurrection on the
gentleman is reading his speech, and I call country, but they are trying now to perhim to order.
petuate their power by corrupt acts, by a
tyrannical measure which they know they
THE SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman can force through the other House and
has been cautioned that it is not in order which they trust to be able to carry
to read his speech.
in the Senate, a measure which may bring
about an insurrection in Upper Canada.
HON. MR. ALMON-I think for our I have heard sonie leading men of this
own sakes we should dispense with the province say, within a few days, that if we
rule, and let him read his speech. He are to have a Government ruling the
loses more time when he does not read it. country by corrupt practices it will drive
He puts me in mind of the big Grenadier them to leave the Dominion and go to
who was licked by his little wife. When the United States.
asked why he allowed her to thrash him,
he replied, " it pleases her, and does not
HON. MR. BOTSFORD-It would be
hurt me." If the hon. gentleman wishes well for the country if some did go.
to read his speech it will please him, and
will not hurt anybody.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-No Government can exist that holds power only
HON. MR. - ALEXANDER-They are by common trickery, by using the
charged with having been indirectly the patronage of the Crown to corrupt the
cause of the bloodshed and loss of life that members and the electorate of the
has taken place in the North-West. It is country.

1016

The Rebellion in [SENATE] the Nor'th-West.

troubles in the North-West have been of
such a character as to involve a large
outlay and very considerable loss to the
country. Taking everything into consideration, notwithstanding that the men
who have gone from their homes and their
daily labors to fight the battles of their
HON. MR. SPEAKER-The hon. gen- country, have had to endure privations
tieman is not in order. He cannot and hardships, particularly those who went
insinuate anything like -ýorruption against out first, in getting to the scene of action,
members of Parliament.
and notwithstanding ail the difficulties
which have been encountered in supHON. MR. ALEXANDER-I am quite pressing the rebellion, I think it will tend
well aware that within the last two years a to the very best interests of Canada. We
course of action has been pursued against may lament that there bas been a rebelsome members of this House which was lion, either with or without cause, but we
never known here before, and is not known should feel thankful that it is now nearly
in the other Chamber. I am prepared to brought to a close. The country can well
submit to it, but I will find means of afford to spend whatever the suppression
giving my views to the public, views which of the insurrection may cost, for the purwill meet with the approval of ail except pose of obtaining the success which has
those to whom the Government have been achieved by our gallant volunteers
promised office, and the press they have under the command of General Middlebought up to support their policy. I can ton. Whether the Government is to
only add that the Government are not only blame or not, I think the country will gain
chargeable with those evils to which I have in some respects. In the first place, we
already referred; but are also chargeable with shall have a vexed question settled in the
ail the disastrous results of that outbreak. North-West ; it will be settled now in a
The prevailing sentiment of the country manner that will save us trouble frorn it
at this moment is that they have, by their in the future. It will also heln to
trifling with this grave matter, brought the settle that country-to fill it with large
direst calamity on the country which numbers of emigrants from other parts of
could possibly befall it. If they set up the the world, who will be in a position to till
defence, that the officials of their Depart- the soil in peace. I believe, further, that
nient have been derelict to their duties, let it will have this effect, that it will show to
them say so. But Parliament is bound that horde of Fenians, who live in the
by every consideration of duty to investi- United States, and who threaten us with
gate the whole matter, and, as the prelude trouble from time to time, that we have
to further action, I move the resolution of the pluck, ard the energy, and the men,
which I have given notice.
if necessary, to drive them back, if they
come across our borders, or to send them
HON. MR. FLINT - No one can to the other world.
We know the exregret more than I do that the hon. perience we have had in the past, in conmember from Woodstock, uses such very nection with the Fenian attempts on this
violent language when he rises to speak in country. It was said, then, that our
this House. I am sorry, indeed, to think militia was composed of a pack of boys
that the hon. gentleman cannot restrain who could not stand before an enemy,
himself so as to place his views before the and so on, but now the fact bas been
House and the country. He should en- proved that we have got citizen soldiers
deavor, as far as possible, to use proper who are not ashamed to show themselves
language in addressing the House.
in time of trouble. I recollect, as a boy,
Now, with reference to the subject in the war of 1812 and 1815, that the
before the House, it is possible that the militia of Canada had the credit of being
Government may be to blame ; I will not fully equal, if not superior, to many of the
say whether chey are to blame or not ; regular troops that came to this country.
that is a question to be decided hereafter. Their spirit of daring was such that they
It is unfortunate, however, that the were nct afraid to take their lives in their
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
think the hon. gentleman is out of order.
Surely, it is not in order to say that the
Government are corrupting members of
It is a direct accusation
Parliament.
against every hon. member who hears him.

The Rebellion in [MAY 28, 1885] the NortA- West.
hands, in defence of their home and their
country. Now that this rebellion has
been crushed out, I trust that there will
be no more bloodshed, and I trust that
we shall actually be gainers by it. What
is the expenditure of a couple of millions
of dollars, in comparison with the settiement of this difficulty, and having it go
abroad that we are able to protect ourselves, and ready even, if necessary, to
help the Mother Country? Whatever the
claims of these half-breeds may be, they
are being settled by a commission, and
the only thing that I regret is, that they
are being paid in scrip, which they dispose
of, as fast as they get it, to speculators.
I have suggested to the Minister that
some course ought to be taken to put a
stop to it. What is the use of the Government giving them scrip for land, if
they trade it away to speculators immediately after they get it ? It would be a
great deal better if they were to get land
instead of scrip. They could not transfer the land so easily to speculators
as they do the scrip and then put in claims
for more. I hope that the few words I
have spoken on that subject will direct the
attention of the Minister of the Interior to
this matter, and that he will see that
something is done to stop the sale for a
trifle of this scrip that is given to satisfy
the claims of the half-breeds, and that an
effort will be made to prevent it from
getting into the hands of speculators. I
am sorry that my hon. friend from
Woodstock is so very strong in his language
when he rises to address the House. I
hate to see him sat upon by the members
of the House, and I do hope that he will
take it for granted in the future that it is
better to be moderate in his tone and
voice, and try to speak with that candor
that is necessary in order to secure the
attention of the House. He will find
that interfering with and abusing the
Ministers on personal grounds will do no
good.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I desire to
say a few words in reply to the remarks of
the hon. gentleman from Trent division.
HON. MR.

PLUMB-Order, order.

THE SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman
has a right to reply.

1017

HoN. MR. ALEXANDER-The hon.
gentleman has preferred a charge against
me as to my using strong and plain
language. I want to know after what has
transpired in this House, what is the use
of handling those gentlemen with gloves
on ; it will have very little effect on men
who act as they do. But circumstances
that have transpired in this House have
led me to use the language that I have
used and only used when applied to the
gentlemen who are Ministersin this House.
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL-How

good of him.
HON. MR. POWER-It is to be regretted that the hon. gentleman who
moved this resolution did not, as his
friend behind him has suggested, use a
little milder language. I do not think it
is at all necessary to use strong language
in order to convey a strong impression.
If one's arguments are strong, the fact that
they are couched in moderate language
never weakens them at all, and I think
the hon. gentleman very often gets himself into difficulty that he might avoid if
he used milder language.
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-His
arguments are not strong ; he has no
argument.
HON. MR. POWER-The Minister
does not like the arguments probably.
I do.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-He
has never used an argument in his life;
never.
HON. MR. POWER-I think it is to be
regretted that, in his speech of to-day
which ought to be a statesmanlike speech,
and which is to a considerable extent so,
the hon. gentleman imports personal matters that detract very seriously indeed
from the value of his remarks. I wish to
say with respect to the motion which the
hon. gentleman has made, that I think it
is a perfectly reasonable and proper one.
It cannot be said now that there is any
danger that the Indians will have the hon.
gentleman's speech read to them in the
North-West, as was suggested to us some
time ago with respect to a former speech;

The Reblion in [SENATE] the North-Wet.

1018

and if the speeches were read to them so clear that it cannot be controverted.
they would not do any harm now, as the It is true that sdme hon. gentlemen here
Indian difficulty is about over.
do not seem to think it is a very serious
matter, and they do not think that the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-This Government were to blame, but we have
speech could never do any harm.
this fact, that throughout the country the
independent press-I do not speak now
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Order.
of the party newspapers, but of the papers
which are generally looked upon as indeHON. MR. POWER-The House has pendent papers, some of them with strong
got, I am afraid, to look at this subject conservative leanings and others with
from a point of view which is not as leanings in the other direction, but still
serious as it should be. The truth is, that papers known as independent papers-have
there is a great deal of force in the argu- all spoken in the same way, and have all
ments of the hon. gentleman.
held that the Government are to blame
for not havng acted earlier and more
HON. MR. PLUMB-What argument? effectually.
HoN.

MR. ALEXANDER-Order.

HON. MR. POWER-That is if his
premises are correct. The hon. gentleman has asked to have copies of letters
brought down alleged to have been written
by His Grace Archbishop Taché and by
His Lordship the Anglican Bishop of
Saskatchewan last summer, in which those
prelates, who were presumably well informed of what was going on in their
respective jurisdictions, informed the
Government of the danger that threatened.
If it be true that those letters were
written, then the Government are certainly
open to the charge of very serious neglect
of duty in not having acted on those
letters.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-What paper ?
HoN. MR. POWER-There are three

or four independent papers in Toronto,
and there are independent papers in
Montreal.
HoN. MR. PLUMB-What are they?
HON. MR. POWER-There is the
Toronto Week, for instance, which is independent, with no leaning in the direction
of the Reform party.

HoN. MR. ALEXANDER-And
Montreal Star.
HON.

HON.

MR.

ALEXANDER -

MR. POWER-There are two

Hear, or three papers in Montreal, and I think

hear !
HON. MR. POWER-It does seem,
from all one can gather, that long before
the beginning of the present year the
impression had become general in that
part of the country that danger was threatening; and surely the officials of the
Government up
there-the
Lieut.
Governr and the other officers of the Government, and of the Department of the
Interior and the Indian Departmentmust have been aware that danger was
threatening, and they must, in discharge
of their duties, have reported that fact to
their superior officers. If those reports
were made, then the Government have
been very culpable in not having acted
on the reports. I think that is something

HoN. MR. POWER.

the

you will find that almost all the press
which is independent and which is not
subsidized has taken the same line. The
Government cannot afford, and the supporters of the Government cannot afford,
to ignore that general expression of feeling;
and the best evidence we have that the
Government really had information which
led them to believe that there were grievances in the North-West and that danger
was threatening is the fact that when the
difficulty first assumed an acute form, they
issued a commission, which should have
been issued years before, for the purpose
of adjusting the claims of the half-breeds.
If the commission had been issued on the
ist of January, instead of on the 3oth
March, this outbreak would not have taken
place at all.

The Rebellion in [MAY 28, 1885] the North- West.

1019

HON. MR. PLUMB-How does the her various campaigns-a country that
hon. gentleman know it?
has been carrying on war for hundreds
and hundreds of years-we cannot feel
HON. MR. POWER-It is perfectly too thankful to the Department for the
clear. As soon as the half-breed outbreak admirable way in which, on the whole, it
was put an end to, the Indians immedi- has managed its business.
The hon.
ately discontinued hostilities; and if this gentleman fron Trent division seems to
commission had been issued at the begin- think that perhaps after all, this war is
ning of the year and those half-breed something which we ought to congratulate
claims had been adjusted then, there ourselves upon. I do not think this is
would have been no half-breed outbreak, the case at ail. It is, no doubt, a gratifyand no Indian outbreak. I think this is ing thing to be assured of what perhaps
so clear that he who runs may read. Then, we might not have felt quite certain of bethere was another circumstance. Like fore, that our young men, when they did
my hon. friend on my left (Kaulbach) I meet the enemy would behave themselves
in a way worthy of their ancestors ;
am speaking without preparation.
although I do not think there was much
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-From doubt about it in anybody's mind. Still,
the " inspiration of the moment."
it has been at a loss of several lives, and
at a loss of health to many volunteers,
HON. MR. POWER-Without prepara- and at a great expenditure of money. In
tion. There was another circumstance addition to the direct cost of the war,
which was calculated to call the attention the money that has been spent in getting
of the Government very seriously to the the troops out there and feeding and
outbreak there, and that is the entry of arming them, there is the loss that the
this man Riel into that North-West coun- country has suffered from the withdrawal
try. I think, when that firebrand was of all those young men from peaceful
flung into the midst of the combustible pursuits. All parts of the country have
material which the Government must suffered in that way; and there is this
have known to exist there at the other and possibly more important evil
time, that the administration were resulting from the war, that the effect of
guilty of the grossest neglect of this outbreak will be, I am afraid, to reduty in not having taken steps at tard the settlement of that country for
once to have Riel removed from that several years. No doubt, people in the
country, or the cause of complaint reme- province of Ontario will not be, to any
died. That also is common sense. The great extent, deterred from going in there,
hon. gentleman from Woodstock, and the because of this outbreak ; but I think the
hon. gentleman from Trent, have both necessary effect of this difficulty will be to
referred to one very striking feature in prevent emigrants from going in there from
connection with the outbreak, and that is Europe for some considerable time to
the admirable way in which the troops come. No doubt it has had some effect
were led, and the admirable way in which that way already this season. For the
the volunteers that were sent out bore the next three or four years the number of
hardships, and fatigue, and dangers that emigrants from Europe into that part of
they had to undergo ; and I think it is my the country will be comparatively small.
duty as a member of the community to The hon. gentleman from Trent Division,
express also here on the first occasion that spoke of the desirability of having this
às offered, the feeling that the militia matter finally settled, even though at the
Department deserve a great deal of credit cost of a couple millions of dollars and a
for the way in which they have conducted few lives. Inasmuch as the matter might
this campaign. I think that, when one have been settled more satisfactorily withconsiders that this is really the first strain out loss of life by the issuing ot a commisthat the Militia Department has been sion and the granting of a few thousand
subjected to since Confederation, and acres of land a few months ago, I do not
when one looks at the mishaps and break- think that the settlement by war is a
downs that have occurred in the Military matter for congratulation. Then, the hon.
Department of the Mother Country in gentleman said it was desirable that the

1020

The Rebelion in [SENATE] t/te Wortk- West.

Fenians on the other side of the border
should know the kind of men they had to
meet if they came across our border to
trouble us. On that point, I think if the
Fenians were likely to trouble us at all,
they would have selected a time when we
had trouble in the North-West for an attack ; and as they have not done so, they
are not likely to do it hereafter; and so,
that is not a very serious consideration.
I presume-I do not know, because
there is no intimation of opinion from the
Government as to what they proposed to
do about this resolution.

are before us and we hear the answer to
them, to animadvert on the Government,
but to tell us now, after the event has
happened, what should have been done it
seems to me is not an indication of great
wisdom. I do not know what those reports from the North-West contain, and I
should be very sorry to give an opinion
as to whether the Government have been
supine or negligent, or whether they are,
as has been stated, almost criminally
liable in this matter. The hon. member
from Woodstock says that if the Government had given a few thousand acres of
land to those men there would have been
HoN. MR. PLUMB-Hear, hear.
no trouble. I say the Government would
have done wrong if they had given one
HON. MR. POWER-I do not think acre of land to anyone who was not enthere is anything amusing about that. I titled to it. They had no more right to
think it is a perfectly proper request for give land to half-breeds who were not eninformation, that is, if it is in the hands of titled to it, than to give it to white men
the Government, and I thmk the request who had no claim to it. The Governthat it should be laid before the House is ment are merely custodians of the public
domain, and until such time as it was seta perfectly proper one.
tied that the half-breeds were entitled to
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-They are land they should not receive an acre of it.
If the matter was brought to the notice of
afraid to give it-they dare not give it.
the Government, and they failed to inquire
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We into it, or took no proper steps to redress
have not had an opportunity of saying wrongs, then they are responsible, but until such time as we have information to
whether we would or not.
that effect laid before us, I say it is not
HON. MR. POWER-I was going to fair or right to prejudge the case and assay, when the hon. member from Niagara sume that they have been guilty of nelaughed at my suggestion, that the Govern- glect. Suppose the Government have been
ment would no doubt bring down the criminally negligent, this is no time to
papers if they have them in their posses- condemn them before we know for a fact
sion.
that they have done wrong. I am very
glad to unite with the hon. member from
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I do not Halifax in praising the bravery of our
think it is necessary for them to bring volunteers, and the head of the Militia
down the papers at all, because my hon. Department for his energy and ability in
friend seems to be familiar with everything placing the militia in a state of efficiency
they are supposed to contain. He says on such short notice. I remember how
there are such papers, and he has animad- the Governnient were censured for enverted upon the the Government for not deavoring to make our militia effective,
properly attending to the administration and to organize A and B Batteries ; I reof affairs in the North-West. It is very easy member what ridicule was thrown on the
for him to be wise after the event, but it Government because they were endeavorseems to me he has prejudged this case. ing to establish what was termed a standIf there are such papers I think he should ing army. The country realizes to-day
wait until they come down and see what the benefit of having a trained militia
they contain. If there are letters from force. They have seen our volunteers
the Bishop of Saskatchewan and Arch- stamping out a rebellion in the Northbishop Tache, in that country, speaking of West which threatened at one time to
alarming discontent existing there, I say over-run the whole of that great
it will be time enough when those letters country. I join in the congratulations.
HON. MR. POWER.

The Rebellion in [MAY 28,1885] the North West.
on the heroism and patriotism displayed
by our young men throughout the
country. Notwithstanding expressions
of opinion, not on the part of organs supporting the Government of the day, that
the young men in the east have nothing
to do with the North-West and no interest
in volunteering to suppress the insurrection-notwithstanding efforts that were
made to discourage them from volunteering to take part in putting down the
rebellion-I am glad to know that they
responded so readilv to the call which
was made upon them, and that they have
shown such willingness to go to any part
of the Dominion where it is necessary for
the safety of the country generally that
they should appear.
The men who
appealed to sectional prejudices and
would have kept them at home have been
frustrated by the manner in which our
young men went to the front. I hope it
may yet turn out that the same censure
cannot be bestowed on them for fomentink the agitation in the North-West. We
have reason to believe that the discontent
there is largely due to newspaper articles
inspired by the Opposition here. I unite
with the hon. member from Halifax in
hoping that the troubles, which are now
happily ended, will not retard the seulement of the North-West.
I wish the
same feeling had animated the Opposition
in the past, and I hope that the same
feeling will animate them in the future,
because we know well that the difficulty
in settling that country is largely due to
the manner in which the Opposition have
decried it. This trouble may temporarily
check the settlement of that great country.
But when people see the command we
have there and the manner in which we
can so readily snuff out an insurrection ;
as soon as it is known that our young men
feel that they have a stake in that country
and are ready to maintain the authority of
the Government there, and when the
attention of the world is directed to that
country and it is known what a magnigcent heritage we possess, I believe that
the result will be a benefit to the Dominion and will tend to the rapid settlement
of our North-West Territorites.

1021

hardly suppose that the Government have
had information which those on the spot
did not possess. It will be in the recollection of many that after the first fight at
Duck Lake, there was a gentleman whose
store was raided there. He said he knew
Riel ; saw hirn every day, almost ; that
he came to his store with other half-breeds,
and he was as much surprised as anyone
could be, when, one day, he was ordered
up-stairs. That was the first intimation
he had that there was trouble, when he
was ordered up-stairs, and his store was
sacked. He made his escape from the building, and got away. That is the information
he gave, and he was on the spot. He said
he saw some little sign of discontent, but
nothing to arouse his suspicion, and
nothing was further from his thoughts
than to suppose that an outbreakwas about
to occur. This winter, a gentleman, who
had lived several years at Prince Albert,
was at the Russell House. I had many
conversations with him, and he told me
that he had been doing business at Prince
Albert, and along the Saskatchewan, for
some time, and that he knew the people
in that district well, and he gave me information as to the person who brought in
Riel. He said there was a little grumbling there, but it did not amount to anything. I met this same man at Perth, as
I was going home, the morning after the
fight at Duck Lake, and I showed him
the paper. He was surprised to hear that
trouble had occurred, and he could not
understand how this bad blood had come
about, and how the two parties had come
to fire upon each other. Now, if these
men, who were living on the spot, and in
communication with the people there
every day, did not anticipate this
outbreak, I should like to know
how the Government would have information more direct or conclusive ?
However, there are always plenty to find
fault. We are assured by the hon. member from Halifax that it was advisable to
remove Riel from the country as soon as
he came here. I should like to know
how we could do that. He was banished
for five years, and after the expiration of
that time it was his right to return, and I
should like to know what the Government
HON. MR. READ-I think it is quite could do with him so long as he conformed
time for us to judge of this matter when to the laws of the land. No Government
we have the evidence before us. We can should be allowed to act on such advice ;

1022

The Rebellion in [SENATE] the North- We.f.

Riel had been banished and he returned
only when it was his right to return, and
therefore, I do not think the hon. member
from Halifax could have been serious in
advocating any such course. When the
time arrives I have no doubt the Government will have to assume the responsibility
of their policy, and if they are to blame
the country will judge them accordingly.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON
-There is no objection to the address,
but I think it is my duty to tell
the House that I am not aware of the
correspondence referred to. I have made
enquiry and I cannot learn that letters
as described here, or similar to them, have
been received, but if there are any such
they will be brought down. The hon.
gentleman who moved the address seemed
to found his speech upon what he represented to be the contents of letters which
I have reason to believe do not exist, and
never were written. But the motion
serves very well the hon gentleman's
purpose, which was to make an attack
upon members of the Government, as he
usually does. The House is aware that
for a long time I have taken no notice of
his gross personal attacks upon me. I
thought I was acting more in accordance
with the sense of the House and in
deference to the wishes of the House by
not noticing his abuse. The hon. gentleman began the session by accusing me of
what was utterly untrue, and making a
grossly slanderous attack upon me, and
though the untruthfulness of that attack
was proved at the moment to the satisfaction of the whole House, yet he has
never had the manliness or honesty to
apologize for his conduct or language.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I rise to a
question of order. The hon. gentleman
is out of order ; he is straying from the
subject ; he is talking about another
matter altogether ; he is not speaking to
the motion before the House, but he is
saying that I have brought charges against
him.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONI shall not refer at any greater length to
these attacks on me. I consider them
unworthy of notice, because I do not
consider, as I have had to state here beHON. MR.

READ.

fore, that the hon. gentleman is altogether
accountable for what he says. I shall
not enter at any length into the debate
upon the subject of the half-breed insurrection. The papers have not yet been
brought down, and it would be premature
to produce them; but there are two or
three facts that I may state, and which it
is perhaps desirable should be known,
that is that the half-breeds had no grievance whatever in relation to their lands or
any other matter. No half-breed was
ever disturbed or threatened with disturbance in the occupation of his lands, not
in one solitary case. No half-breed delegation came to Ottawa to complain of illtreatment, or disturbance in relation to
their lands. No complaint on behalf of
half-breeds was ever made on the floor of
Parliament. No grievance existed, and
that will be made manifest when the
papers are brought down. The hon.
gentleman from the Trent division expressed regret that scrip should be given
to the halt-breeds because they sell it for
less than its value. That is quite true,
and it is very unfortunate, but the Government became satisfied that nothing
would meet the view of the half-breeds in
the territories except to be settled
with precisely on the same terms as
the half-breeds in Manitoba were settled
with, and that is what is being done by
the commission. The heads of half-breed
families get each scrip for $16o, redeemable in land, the children of half-breeds
get 24o acres of land. They are settled
with on precisely the same terms as were
the half-breeds of Manitoba, and they are
quite satisfied. It is true that they part
too readily with their scrip. They are
followed, I believe, by speculators who
induce them to sell out as cheaply as they
can. They are the victims of those speculators to a large extent. There never was
any reason to apprehend an outbreak. The
hon. gentleman opposite me (Mr. Read)
had told what was the general impression
in the country, that there was no apprehension of a rising, and when the papers
come down that also will be proved. The
hon. gentleman from Halifax said that if
a commission had been issued in December last it would probably have prevented
the outbreak. I suppose my hon. friend
is not aware that the commission was determined by order-in-council in January

The Rebellion in [MAY 28, 1885] the North- West.

1023

last, and half-breeds in Prince Albert dis- to have felt before this outbreak occurred.
trict were notified of it on the 4th of Feb- It will be felt abroad in countries whence
ruary, six weeks before there was an out- immigrants come that Canada is not a
break. But it would seem that the very placewhere theywill be left to be scalped by
knowledge that the Government had de- Indians, but that it is a country able and
termined on settling with the half-breeds resolved to protect every one of its citizens
for the extinguishment of their interest in wherever he may be, that the arm of law
the Indian title-for that is what it is-it will reach to the most remote portions of
would seem as if people interested in pre- the Dominion and protect the law-abiding
venting an amicable settlement precipitat- and peaceable citizens. There is another
ed the uprising. Who those were I hope fact which serves as a silver lining to the
we may discover. I understand that Riel's dark cloud, and that is the conduct of our
papers have been saved, and I hope that volunteers. I do not believe that in hissome of the correspondence will bring tory can be found the narrative of a camthe guilt home to the guilty parties. paign more creditably and more worthily
I fear there will be found among conducted than that which has been enthem more than redskins. I fear that un- gaged in by our volunteers under the able
friendly whites, disloyal whites, men of command of General Middleton.
the Farmers' Union class, have had a good
deal to do with precipitating this half- HON. MR. POWER-And Colonel
breed rebellion. Until Riel arrived in the Otter.
country there was no disturbance. Riel is
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONan incendiary, and he had great influence
with the half-breeds. From the moment Within 24 hours of being known, that
he arrived in the country he was endeavor- rebellion had raised its head in the far
ing, no doubt, to excite them to dis- North-West, in one of the most remote
content. But there was not the slightest portions ofthat vast country, our volunapprehension of that discontent taking any teers were on the march to suppress it.
form more serious than words until the We know that they were subjected to
outbreak took place. I shall always regret great hardships and suffering, but their
that I was prevented visiting the North endurance and their spirit were more than
West last summer. I went as far as To- enough to enable them to overcome all
ronto, late in August, intending to visit these difficulties, and I may say that we
that country. I might not have discovered have had no complaint from them. I
what others failed to discover, but, being have heard nothing but their praises ; their
the official head of the Department of the general has praised them, and everyone
Intererior, it is possible that communica- who has witnessed their achievements, has
tions might have been made to me which praised them. They were proved to be
would have been useful. But I was pre- brave and self-reliant, beyond what could
vented going, and hon. gentlemen know have been expected from volunteers-men
how I was prevented. When the papers unused to the whistling of bullets. Ii
are brought down I have no doubt that the first engagement, at Fish Creek, GenParliament and the country will acquit eral Middleton was the only soldier on
the Government of all blame in connect- the field who had ever been under fire,
ion with this unforturate rebellion ; for I and he showed, by his gallantry, and by
look upon it as unfortunate, although I the way in which he exposed himself to
agree with my hon. friends who say that the bullets of the enemy, that lie was
good will result from it eventually. Still, worthy to lead the gallant volunteers
at the moment, it is unfortunate; but I whom he commanded. A British officer
have no doubt, the result will be good, at -I may mention his name, Lord Mel
home and good abroad. Ourselves and gund-who has just returned, and was
our children, from the Atlantic to the present at Fish Creek, and at the beginRocky Mountains, and even to the Paci ning of the battle of Batoche, could speak
fic, will, I have no doubt, be more united of nothing, when in conversation with me
and feel that we have a common bond oif the other day, but of the marvellous
union and a common heritage, which we bravery, the marvellous intelligence, of our
failed to feel to the extent that we oughit young soldiers. lie said that he had

1024

4 ights ahd [SENATE]

never seen such material for soldiers.
While we must grieve for those who fell,
and those who were wounded, yet,. as a
people, we must rejoice that our gallant
young men, the volunteers of the country,
have proved themselves so worthy of their
sires, and so worthy of their country.
The motion was agreed to.
CANNED GOODS BILL.
THIRD READING.

HoN. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the third reading of Bill (U), "An Act
respecting Canned Goods." He said:
I postponed the third reading of this Bill
on two occasions at the suggestion of the
hon. gentleman froin Prince Edward
Island (Mr. Carvell), but he has since told
me that he does not desire to make any
change in the measure.

HoN. MR. McINNES (B.C.)-I would
like to ask if the hon. Minister of Justice
has consulted the Minister of Inland
Revenue about the changes I referred to
some days ago-that is about the standard
weight ?

Jeasure8

Bill.

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES BILL.
THIRD READING.

The House resolved itself into Committee of the Whole on Bill (118), "An
Act further to amend the Acts relating to
Weights and Measures."
In the Committee, on the second clause,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL said:
The second clause is a re-enactnent of the
present 17th section of the Act, adding
the words " bituminous coal, 70 Ibs."
The other day, when the Bill was up for
second reading, the hon. gentleman from
Halifax thought that this was a mistake to
allow coal to be sold by measure, but I
think the general opinion of the House
was that it was not so, and that it is a protection to those persons who buy coal by
the bushel.

HON. MR. POWER-On further consideration and information I may say that
I withdraw the objection that I then expressed to the measure, because the clause
contains a provision that a bushel by
measure may be specially agreed upon,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The and that will get over the difficulty.
clause has been struck out altogether.
The clause was agreed to.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the third time and passed.
On the third clause,
THE PRINTING OF PARLIAMENT.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
was suggested that some difficulty niight
SEVENTH
REPORT OF THE CO.IMITTEE arise because a barrel of apples as defined
ADOPTED.
here is not identical with a barrel of apples
as it is in the United States, but I find
HoN. MR. READ moved the adoption that it is, and there is, therefore, no diffiof the seventh report of both Houses orn culty about that.
the Printing of Parliament. He said :
This report recommends that certain docuHon. MR. POWER-I am very glad
nients be printed, and that certain other that the Government have defined what
documents be not printed ; a list of them an apple barrel shall be. I think it is very
appears on our minutes of yesterday. It much in the interests of the farmers and of
also recommends that $2o,ooo be placed the consumers. The character of our
on the supplementary estimates towards fruit growers, has, I think, suffered in the
defraying the cost of the Printing of markets of the United States and of EngParliament, for the year 1884-85. This land, just because the barrels have not
recommendation was adopted by the been of the same size, and very often have
House of Commons on the 1 3th of this contained less fruit than they should.
month.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-What is the
The motion was agreed to, and the recapacity of a barrel ?
port was adopted.

HoN. SIR DAVII) MACPHERSON.

Administrationof Ju8tice [MAY 28, 1885] in the N.- West Territorie8. 1025
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
same as that cf a flour barrel.
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-That is

2y4

bushels. I believe the American barrel
is i bushels.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
definition of a barrel for apples is in the
3rd clause, and I am told that it is the
same as the American barrel.
i ne ciause was adopteu.

HON.

MR. READ, from

the

Corn-

mittee, reported the Bill without amend
ment.
The Bill was then read the 3rd time
and passed.

On the second clause,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
object of this amendment is to make it
clear that the North-West Council had
power to pass the school ordinances which
they passed at the last session of the
Cou ncil ; and hon. gentlemen will notice
that to remove ail doubt it is provided
that these amendments shaîl relate back
to the date when the North-West Territories Act cam e into force. There is
correspondence fom the Lieut.-Governor
of the North-West Territories on this subject, and I had myself been in receipt of
letters from Mr. Richardson, the stipendiary magistrate, with respect to the matter.
The doubt is raised because in some
places in the Territories there is, as yet,
no system of taxation.

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Will the
ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE IN hon. gentleman explain why it has been
THE NORTH-WEST TERRITOR- made retroactive ?
IES BILL.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAM.PBELL--Because some of these taxations have been
THIRD READING.
compounded and not collected.
The House resolved itself in a ComThe clause was agreed to.
mittee of the Whole on Bill (V), " An Act
respecting the Administration of Justice
and other matters in the North-West
On the third clause,
Territories."
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-This

In the Committee, on the first clause, clause is to remove a doubt as to dealing
with electoral districts after they are
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL said: created.
This amendment removes the limitation
By the 15th section of the North-West
upon the power of the North-West Territories Act, the Lieutenant-Governor
Council to impose fines. By the Act as may erect into an electoral district any
it now exists the Council cannot impose a portion of the North-West Territories, not
fine or penalty exceeding $roo.
Mr. exceeding an area of one thousand square
Richardson, the stipendiary magistrate miles, which contains a population of not
there, thought this limitation threw some less than one thousand inbabitantts of
doubt upon their right to impose imprison- adult age, exclusive of aliens or unenfranment as a penalty, but it was pointed out chised Indians.
to hini that that power is given by the
By the i9 th section, it is provided that
order-in-council and that there could be when such electoral district contains two
no doubt as to their right to punish thousand such inhabitants the Lieutenantoffences by imprisonment. The restric- Governor shall issue his writ for the election, however, I think, is an unnecessary tion of a second member for such elecone in view of the large powers which the toral district. The Lieutenant-Governor
North-West Council have, and ought to is of opinion that having once constituted
be stricken out.
an electoral district he is not able to
change it and in that view we have agreed
The clause was agreed to.
with him.
P 2

1026 Administration of Ju8tice [SEN ATE] in the N.- West Territorie8.
Mr. Jackson, one of the members of
the Council, spoke to Sir Hector Langevin about the matter when he was out
there and asked to have the law so
changed that the boundaries of an
electoral
district could be altered.
The two things on which the Act appears
to lay stress are that the area of the electoral district shall not be more than one
thousand square miles, and that the
population shall not be less than one
thousand inhabitants of adult age, exclusive
of aliens and uneni rnchised Indians.
I think that the a-mendment to the i 9 th
section suggested, enabling the Lieutenant
Governor to divide any electoral district
which has more than two thousand inhabitants into two electoral districts, ought to
meet the case. Mr. Jackson also called
Sir Hector Langevin's attention to section
22, by which it is provided that members
shall serve two years and retire, being
eligible, however, for re-election, and that
when a member dies or resigns his seat,
another member shall be elected in his
stead. He points out that this would
prevent a man from resigning and running over again to test the views of his
constituency. I thought that the absence
of a facility for doing that, was not at
present an important matter, and Sir
Hector Langevin made no provision in
respect thereto..
The clause was agreed to,
On the fourth section,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBEILL-This
section, I suppose, will have to be moved
in the Commons. It is to enable the
Government to appoint anotherstipendiary
magistrate. The people of Calgary have
urged that another magistrate be appointed
or that Col. MacLeod be required to reside there. Sceing the difficulties that
now exist in the North-West Territories,
we think it would be only reasonable to
make provision for the appointment of
another magistrate, because we have no
doubt their work would be largely increased. These gentlemen have enormous
distances to travel over, and it is almost
impossible for them at times to be in the
locality where their services are most
needed ; one resides at Battleford, one at
Regina, and one at Fort MacLeod, and
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

this is to enable us to appoint a fourth.
The clause was agreed to.
On the fifth clause,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
fifth clause is to provide in that part of
the Dominion for what is allowed to a
criminal here. He can elect to be tried
before a stipendiary magistrate without the
intervention of a jury. Sometimes it is in
the interest of the administration of justice
that a prisoner should have that option.
We think it will be found to be a very use
ful provision, and one that will save a great
deal of expense. Mr. Richardson called
my attention to the matter.

The clause was agreed to.
On the sixth clause,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Attention has been called to the fact that in
cases of appeal to the Queen's Bench of
Manitoba, there is no provision to allow
costs to the successful party. We think
there should be some provision, and suggest this amendment to meet that case.

The clause was agreed to.
On the

9 th

clause,

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-By
the North-West Territories Act, no appeal
was allowed from a Justice acting under
the Summary Convictions Act, but in
1884, a section was passed to give an appeal in such a case. Colonel Richardson
and Colonel McLeod, however, are ofthe
opinion that the section of the Act of 1884
is not workable, and this section was
agreed upon as being one that would afford the necessary facility for appeal to
stipendiary magistrates from convictions
and orders made by justices of the Peace
in the North-West Territory.

On the 9 th section,
HON. SIRALEX. CAMPBELL-Attention has been called several times to the
absence of any provisions for enabling
the stipendiary magistrates to admit to
bail. Instead of making a special provision applicable to that subject it appeared
to me that it would be wise to make a

A dministration of Ja8tice [MAY 28,1885] in te N.- We8t Territorie8. 1027
general provision such as that contained
in section 9. The stipendiary magistrates
are really our judges in the North-West
Territories, and in many respects have
greater authority than some superior court
judges, and I think this provision will be
found very useful in practice.
The clause was agreed to.
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-The
îoth, ith and 12th clauses are to make
provision with respect to persons confined
as being insane, and to provide for their
being taken again, supposing they escape
from the asylum.
The 1oth clause is the provision for the
North-West Territories. At this moment
those unfortunates are sent to Manitoba,
and the Government of the Dominion pay
the Government ot Manitoba so much
per head for the maintenance of lunatics
that are sent in from the Territories and
Keewatin. In Manitoba, up to this time,
they have been confined, some of them
in the hospital, and some of the most violent in the jail. Within the last month
or two, arrangements had been made by
the Government of Manitoba by which
the Stone Fort down the river from Fort
Garry has been obtained on lease from
the Hudson Bay Company, and that las
been fitted up as an asylum, and lunatics
will be sent there for custody.

sane person from being incarcerated, because we have one or two cases in an
adjoining province where the law has
been abused, and out in a country like
the North-West such an abuse of the law
is more likely to happen.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
think every care has been taken to guard
against abuse in these matters. In the
North-West, every precaution has been
taken. An order is required from the
stipendiary magistrate before a lunatic can
be sent down. I am not aware of any
abuse of this law. In consequence of
what the hon. gentleman has said, I will
make further inquiries, and ascertain if
there has been any abuse. The orders
are made in the North-West Territory,
and are sent down here for approval, and
great care is taken in the Department of
Justice ; they are gone over by the deputy
or myself, and every precaution is taken
in the enactment of the law.

The clause was agreed to.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
next clauses relate to the sale of arms.
Since this Bill was printed I sent out to
the North-West, and Colonel Richardson,
one of the stipendiary magistrates there,
on whom we rely very much, suggests
that the burden of proof shall lie on the
person who has the arms in his possession,
The clause was agreed to.
that he has got the license to own them.
The general rule is that arms shall not be
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL - carried, and if the person is found with
Clause i i provides, that any of the lunatics them in his possession he is required ta
escaping from the asylum, may be arrested prove that he has them under license.
without warrant, by any of the officers
or servants of the asylum, within 48 hours
HON. MR. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Is
after such escape, and within one month
there any intention to prevent the sale of
after their escape, they may be arrested on
arms to Indians? They can buy from the
warrant.
Hudson Bay Company smooth-bore arms
that carry ball a long distance, and if they
The clause was agreed to.
are allowed to buy all they desire it may
be dangerous.
On the 13 th clause,
HON. MR. POWER-I presume that

the laws or ordinances which have been
made for the North-West Territories, with
respect to the manner in which the lunatic
is arrested and incarcerated, provide that
evidence has to be taken, and that the
Government here are to be satisfied that
due care has been taken to prevent any

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLWe propose to prevent them from buying
arms of precision and fixed ammunition,
and confine them to smooth-bore shot
guns.
HON. MR. MACDONALD (B.C.)There are smooth-bore guns that carry a

1028 Adnini8trationof Ju8tice [SENATE] in the N.- West Territories.
HON. MR. SUTHERLAND-I would
long distance. My suggestion is to provide against the selling of guns to the suggest with regard to arms that the length
Indians at all.
of the smooth-bore permitted to be sold
should be limited to 3 feet and under.
HON. MR. POWER-There ought to
be some presumption as to the writing of
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLthe Lieutenant-Governor or the Commis- Would that meet the objection of the hon.
sioner in the license or permit. Suppos- gentleman from British Columbia?
ing a man produces a paper purporting to
be a permit signed by the LieutenantHON. MR. MACDONALD (B. C.)-I
Governor or the Commissioner, it should think the Governor-in-Council ought to
not be necessary under this Act for him to take power to stop the sale of arms
prove the handwriting.
altogether in the North-West, and if they
found it necessary to put it in force, to
HON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Sup- do so.
posing a person is brought up for carrying
a weapon, and the matter had to be invesHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We
tigated, it would have to be before a have taken power respecting fixed ammumagistrate, and the magistrate would, no nition, and I think if we adopt the sugdoubt, take such proof as would be gestion of the hon. gentleman from
reasonable regarding the handwriting of Manitoba about the length of the gun
the Lieutenant-Governor. These things barrel, it would probably meet the diffiwould probably be printed and it would culty.
be well known what the signature of the
Lieutenant-Governor would be.
HoN. MR. POWER-I would like to
have some explanation from the hon.
HoN. MR, POWER-I was going to gentleman from Manitoba as to what
suggest that, as in the case of other purposes long barreled guns are used for,
official writings, the permit shall be pre- because we may be depriving the Indians
sumed to be bona fide until there is to a certain extent of the means of supevidence to the contrary.
porting themselves.
ÇoN. MR. HAYTHORNE-I presume
the Government would issue what is called
in some parts of Europe license to carry
arms-a stamped document that could
not be very easily forged.

HON. MR. POWER-The onus is
thrown on the accused to prove that he
has a license and he produces a paper
purporting to be signed by the Lieutenant
Governor and he ought not to be expected
to do more than that. The prosecutors
would have to show that it is not a bona
fide license.

HON. MR. SUTHERLAND-The difference is, the longer the barrel the further
the gun will carry a ball, and I think
three feet of a gun barrel is sufficient for
an Indian, as he is generally enabled to
approach his game.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We
must not be too severe. Does not my
hon. friend think that with the provision
respecting fixed ammunition it is safe
enough ? These Indians must make their
living, and if it is necessary to have long
barrelled guns to shoot ducks with, they
must be allowed to have them.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
would be before a magistrate and a magisHON. MR. KAULBACH-It must be
trate would know the signature of the remembered that game becomes shy with
be easily the advance of seulement, and therefore
Lieutenant Governor or it could
proved.
the Indians would require better arms.
HON. MR. POWER-It might be well
HON. MR. POWER-I think the Bill
for the Minister to consider whether it is severe enough as it is.
would not be advisable to make some proThe clause was agreed to.
vision respecting proof?

HON. MR. MACDONALD (B.C.)

The North- We8t [MAY 29, 1885] Trouble8.
On the

1 5 th

section,

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-When the

1029

It was ordered that the Bill be read the
third time to-morrow.

second reading of the Bill was under conThe Senate adjourned at 5:15 p.m.
sideration the leader of the Government
expressed the opinion that a very small
number of Winchester rifles or other arms
of precision were in the hands of the Indians. I do not know what arrangement
THE SENATE.
the Government propose to make with
regard to this disarmament ofthe Indians;
Ottawa, Friday,May 2 9 th, 1885.
but if I remember rightly the Minister of
Justice expressed his opinion on the secThe SPEAKER took the Chair at three
ond reading of this Bill that very few arms o'clock.
of precision are in the hands of the Indians
at present. I have been informed by
Prayers and routine proceedings.
gentlemen who have had personal opportunity of intercourse with the Indians last THE NORTH-WEST TROUBLES.
summer, that those arms of precision are
almost universal among the Indians, in
MOTION.
which case, it seems that if they are deprived of them, they will be at a great disHON. MR. ALEXANDER movedadvantage in procuring their food unless
That an humble address
smooth bore shot guns are given to them His Excellency the Governor be presented to
General; prayinstead.
ing that His Excellenicy will be pleased to
cause to be laid before this House, a copy of
HON. MR. PLUMB-I think the hon. Lieutenant-Governor Dewdney's report on
gentleman will find, in some of the news- the representations made by His Lordship
Anglican
paper reports of the late engagements, the His Grace Bishop of Saskatchewan, and
Archbishop Tache, in regard
that many of the Indians were armed with by alleged grievances of the Half-breeds in
to
bows and arrows, and that some of our and around Prince Albert, during the summer
and autumn of 1884.
men were wounded with them.
HON.

MR.

MACDONALD -

The

squaws had them.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-At
the time the hon. gentleman from Charlottetown refers to, I was speaking shortly
after the battle of Fish Creek, and at that
time did not have the information that we
have since obtained.
HON.

MR.

HAYTHORNE -

The

same report stated that some of the guns
used at Fish Creek had recently been
stolen.
HON. MR. POWER suggested that the
third reading of the Bill should be postponed until to-morrow in order that the
Minister should look into the question of
providing for the production of a permit
being prima facie evidence of license to
carry arms.
HON. MR. VIDAL, from the committee,
reported the Bill without amendment.

He said: In regard to his motion, I can
only express my own view as to the duty
devolving upon Parliament, and especially
upon the Senate, at this eventful moment.
We have just had to suppress an ourbreak
within our own territory, with most deplorable results.
It has led to much
bloodshed-the loss of many valued lives.
While many of our best young men have
been killed, cthers have been wounded
and disabled for life, and a large class,
from fatigue and exposure, suffered in
going there, have returned to the hospitals
unfit for their daily work. We have, further, to lament an enormous waste of the
public money, and when all the returns
have been made of the expenses of the
expedition, and the claims from ail the
settlers whose property was taken and
destroyed, with the multitude of claims
from other quarters, I fear that the
total amount will alarm the country.
Now, notwithstanding all that has been
said upon a late occasion, this insurrection must strike, I am sure, a heavy blow

1030

The North,. West [SEN ATE] Trouble8.

at the onward progress of this young
country. It is in bad taste and judgment to say that there will not be grave
results. I dare say it is very convenient
for some parties to lead the country to
forget what has taken place, and to talk
about the cloud on our horizon having a
white lining, but we who speak the voice
of the people, who know the injury that
has been inflicted on the country, the loss
oflife and the enormous waste of the public
money-the great blow that has been
struck at the progress of the Dominion, certainly feel that a most imperative duty rests
upon Parliament, and rests especially on
this body, to make a searching enquiry
into the causes of such outbreak. The
great body of our people have the conviction forced upon them, that this
insurrection has sprung from neglect on
the part either of members of the
Government or leading officials acting
under the Government, from their neglecting to adjudicate at once upon the
claims of those half-breeds who have been
led on to insurrection, as has already been
set forth, and that they allowed that discontent and discord to go on until it
culminated in bloodshed and rebellion.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentleman is reading his speech.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I hope
the hon. member will not interrupt me.
I should hope that a man who has been
pitchforked into this House, would endeavor to learn how to conform to the
usages of the Senate.

matter. I would simply refer here to
statements which have been made in a
public journal, wherein it is reported that
the Government are in no way to blame
for this insurrection. It has been broadly
asserted by the Government that the
half-breeds had no grievances whatever in
relation to their lands, or any other matter;
that, in fact, the Government are in no
way to blame, and the Minister of the
Interior asserted that the half-breeds
entered openly upon this rebellion without any cause whatever. How does that
quadrate with another statement of the
same Minister, to the effect that an orderin-council had been passed in January, to
send a commission to the North-West,
and that those half-breeds had been
notified of that order-in-council six weeks
before the outbreak of the rebellion.
I
should like to know, when a Minister of
the Crown rises on the floor of this House,
and makes a statement at one moment
which he contradicts the next, how he
expects the country to believe him ?
What must the people think of the veracity
of such a Minister, or of the Government
of which he is a member ? I am surprised
that Sir John Macdonald, whom I had for
years regarded as a safe guide for the country,
should select men that would have the
hardihood to make such a statement to
the country in the vain hope of shifting
the blame off their own shoulders upon the
shoulders of others. No sensible man
will be satisfied with a mere statement of
that kind without investigating whether it
is true or not. And I now propose to
read an editorial from the Mail-the
organ of the Government-dated 25th
March last, which will prove the want of
veracity in such a declaration. The Mail
says in its editorial :"That dissatisfaction lias existed among

HON. MR. SMITH-There was one
gentleman who was trying hard for years
to get into the Senate, and begged for it
until the Ministers took pity on him and
put him in.
the half-breeds in the Sa8katchewan country
for years past, is undeniable. They complain,
HoN. MR. ALEXANDER-I owe no- as we have before explained, that while the
Metis
were given
of 240
thing to the Government ; they were acres, of Manitoba Act of 1870, grants claims
under the
their
obliged, as one of the oldest elected have been ignored, and they say with equal
members, to appoint me. Instead of truth that the Government should at least
owing anything to the Government, they give them free patents for the farns which
have been cultivating, and
know very well that, because of my inde- they for disturbance in cases wherecompensation
the Dompendence before Confederation, they inion Surveyors may find it necessary to
tried to keep me out of the Senate as re-arrange the shape of their holdings, the
old French form of delimitation being at
long as they could.
The country expects Parliament to variance with the modern system."
make a searching investigation into this
Does not that show that those intelligent
HON.

MR. ALEXANDER.

Te North- West [MAY 29, 1885] Trouble.
and clever half-breeds on the Saskatchewan
had not even then received their patents
from the Crown, and that they were
aroused and excited by the surveyors
going in there and disturbing the boundaries
of their farms ? Yet the Minister of the
Interior has the boldness to rise in his
place and say that he has never heard of
any claims of the half-breeds, and that there
was no ground for the rebellion. How
can the Government say, in the face of
these facts, that there is no ground for the
rebellion ?
HON. MR. PLUMB-Then you are
justifying the rebellion ?

1031

the Government endeavor to lay the whole
burden of the trouble on Riel. Riel was
not living there at the time ; he was a
pauper, living in Montana, and those
half-breeds, shrewd, intelligent men, living
on their farms, in their desperation sent
to him, finding that they could get no
justice at the hands of the Government.
They sent for Riel, because they knew
that he would help them to force their
claims on the notice of the Government.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-You
going far towards hanging him now.

are

HON.
MR. ALEXANDER-What
could have led 3oo half-breeds on the

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I do not Saskatchewan-many of them, I am told,
wonder when men continue to be treated descended from good French families;

Unjustly, and their interests slighted, just
as we find the older members of this House
treated, in a boorish manner-I say I do
not wonder that men should become exasperated, especially those half-breed
settlers.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Old men ought
to know better than to act as they do.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Rebellions

have taken place in all countries when
Governments usurp power, and try to hold
Power by acts which no man can justify.
HON. MR. SMITH-What act of the
Government is the hon. gentleman referring to ?

many of them men of good education
and enlightened views, holding good
farms-what would have led such men,
if they had no grievances, to take up arms
and enter into rebellion against the Government of the country ? What could
they hope to get by it ? Every one knows
that 300 men must be put down by even
a smaller force than General Middleton
took with him. What opposition could
they make to such a force ? It simply
shows the monstrous audacity of the
Minister of the Interior, in making the
statement here that there was no cause
for the rebellion. I should not have
been surprised at it after the statements
we have heard before from the same
gentleman on the floor of this Housestatements that have destroyed all my
confidence in their veracity or in the
truthfulness of the Government. I
am not going to detain the House further
at the present moment, but will follow it
up from time to time. I now beg to
move the address of which I have given
notice.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I do not
want to be interrupted ; I did not interrupt
the hon. gentleman when he was making
bis long harangues against the Temperance
Act. The Mail article from which I
quoted continues:
"'These claims the Interior Department is
trying to adjust, but it takes tine to deal
with questions affecting the rights of property.
RLiel, however, has managed to persuade a few Alexander, seconded by-

of the half-breeds that the quickest method of
obtaining redress is to attract general attenHON.
tion to the grievance by some act of violence; nobod
and the result was the raid on the mail bags."

MR.

SMITH

-

Seconded by

Yet, when those claims were coming
HON. MR. POWER-Yes, I will second
before the Department to be adjusted, the the motion.
Minister of the Interior goes off to the
Rhine; the Premier goes off to the seaHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL
side the daims are neglected, and now There were n letters such as are

1032

The North- We8t SENATE] Trotble8.

mentioned, and, consequently, no report Premier in the other Chamber did not
on them from Lieut-Governor Dewdney. take the same line as has been taken by
the Minister here. In the other Chamber
HON. MR. SCOTT-But the hon. gen- it was admitted that there were commutleman will notice that this address asks nications, if not from those two prelates,
for a report of Lieutenant Governor from other prominent individuals in the
Dewdney, on the representations made North-West.
by His Lordship the Anglican Bishop
of Saskatchewan, and by His Grace ArchHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
bishop Tache, which may have been is a very different thing. This is the
addressed to the Lieutenant Governor.
first time I have heard the name of
Bishop Grandin mentioned in connection
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL with this matter. It is impossible for me
There is no such report that I know of. to speak of correspondence not mentioned
in the motion. The hon. gentleman from
HON. MR POWER-It may be that Woodstock asked yesterday for certain
the letters of the exact character, indicated papers. The papers he asked for do not
in the motion of the hon. gentleman from exist. Now, he asks for a report on those
Wocdstook, have not been received, but papers. That report does not exist,
Lieutenant Governor Dewdney may have because there were no such papers.
reported on communications generally
similar in character, and, I presume, if he
HON MR. ALEXANDER-I cannot
has there would be no objection to understand the inconsistency of the hon.
bringing down such report.
gentleman. He agreed to the passing of
the Address yesterday. If he believed
HON SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-If yesterday that there were no such papers,
the hon. gentleman will refer to the reply why did he allow the Address? The
of the Minister of the Interior, made Minister of the Interior gave a sort of an
yesterday, he will find that he said :-" I explanation-an explanation in which one
think it is my duty to tell the House that I does not really know where to find
But why did the Govam not aware of the existence of the cor- the truth.
respondence referred to. I have made ernment agree to the Address yesterday,
enquiry, and I cannot learn that the if there were no such papers.
letters described here, or any similar to
them have been received, but if there
THE SPEAKER-I declare the motion
are any such they will be brought down." lost.
HON. MR. SCOTT-If there is a
report from Lieutenant Governor Dewdney on any communication from either
the Anglican Bishop of Saskatchewan
or Archbishop Tache, it will be brought
down. The letters may not have been
addressed to the Government, but they
may have been addressed to Lieutenant
Governor Dewdney.

HON. MR. TRUDEL-Some time ago,
I moved an Address for some papers that
were alluded to in one of the speeches
of the Minister of Justice, and I think it
would be very important, in order to fully
appreciate the condition of affairs in the
North-West, to have those papers brought
down.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
have lost sight of the matter. What were
ALEX. CAMPBELLThere is no such report as I am informed. the papers ?

HON.

SIR

HON. MR. POWER-It has been
alleged that there have been letters from
Monseigneur Grandin, and from other
clergymen. I think perhaps the hon.
gentleman from Woodstock made a mistake in making his motion as narrow as it
is, for unless I am misinformed the

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

HON. MR. TRUDEL-It was correspondence, the names of which were given.
I may say that I have received letters in
which this correspondence was mentioned,
giving me particulars, and I have good
reason to believe-at least I was informed
that this correspondence existed-and that

The Work of [MAY 29, 1885] the &8ion.
was the reason why I moved sone weeks
ago to have it brought down to Parliament.
Up to the present time I have not pressed
for the production of those papers because
I was satisfied that the Government might
have reasons why they should not be
brought down ; but now that the troubles
n the North-West have been suppressed
there can be no objection to the papers
being brought down. In the meantime I
will give the following notice of two questions that I will ask the Government :Whether the Government has not, between
the 1st January, 1879, and the 1st March,
1885, received from various persons taking
special interest in the affairs of the NorthWest, and particularly froni Monseigneur
Grandin, Bishop of St. Albert, Monseigneur Tache, Arclhbishop of St. Boniface, and
the Honorable Mr. Royal, Member of Parliatnent foi Provencher, verbal or written
representations, and frequent claims respecting the claims of the half-breeds of the
North-West ?
Whether the Government has not been informed that its surveyors, in their surveying
operations, had entered upon farms possessed
by the half-breeds, bad oommitted depredations thereon, had damaged the crops
thereon, had cut or thrown open the
fences thereon, and had divided the said
properties of the half-breeds without their
permission, and against their orders to the
contrary, in a manner quite different from
that in which the said properties were
formerly divided, often dividng the lands in
such a mariner as to leave a house on one lot
and its out-buildings on another?
HON. MR. POWER-I am sorry that
ny hon. friend from DeSalaberry did not
include in his motion a demand for a
copy of the report made by Lieutenant
Governor Dewdney's Secretary, who, it is
understood, went up in the month of
August last to see Riel and Dumont and
Archbishop Tache, and made a report.
That report would probably contain the
information that the House requires.

1038.

orders of the day for Monday next, and if
there;is no objection I should like to move
that when this House adjourns to-day it
stand adjourned until Tuesday next.
I
move that the 14th rule be suspended so
far as this motion is concerned, and that
when this House adjourns to-day it do
stand adjourned until Tuesday next.
HON. MR. FLINT-I object to that.

The motion was agreed to.
ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE,
NORTH-WEST TERRITORY
BILL.
THIRD READING.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the third reading of Bill (V), "An Act
respecting the Administration of Justice,
and other matters in the North-West
Territories." He said: I stated, in answer
to an objection made by the hon. member
from Halifax, that I would inquire
whether there was any means of making
more easy the proof of the signature of the
Governor to license to carry arms. I have
made that inquiry, and I do not think we
could add anything to the Bill which
would render more easy that proof, without almost departing from the necessity
for it. I find the language we have used
is ordinarily employed in these cases, and
it is, I am told, a matter which could be
readily proved in the North-West, the signature of the Governor being very well
known, and the probability is that these
licenses will be in print, and ordinarily
seen and noticed, and no practical difficulty will arise in establishing the proof of
the Lieutenant-Governor's signature ; so,
between the slight difficulty which may
possibly arise sometimes in proving his
signature, and the difficulty, which might
be serious, of doing away with the requirement altogether, I think it would be better
to adhere to the Bill as it is.

HON. MR. TRUDEL-I have mentioned in my notice the documents of
which I was informed, and I would advise
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
my hon. friend if he is informed of any
was read the third time and passed.
documents to move for them himself.

AN ADJOURNMENT.

THE WORK OF THE SESSION.
ENQUIRY.

HON. MR. BELLEROSE- I wish to
draw the attention of the House to the
HON. MR. WARK-I should like to
fact that there will be nothing on the ask the Minister of Justice what progress

1034A

The -orth- We8t [SENATE] Troubles.

properly the explanation made by the
ion. Minister of the Interior, the other
lay, it is likely to give rise to misunderstandings. He went so far as to say that
no formal claim had been made on this
subject on behalf of the half-breeds of the
North-West. I do not wish in any way
either directly or indirectly, to question
the declaration of the hon. Minister, but
that declaration alluded, as far as I underIt is perHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The stood it, to legal documents.
motion which was passed here I brought fectly well known, that at various times,
under the notice of the Premier, and I and even for several weeks and months,
asked him whether he thought any progress leading men from the North-West were
could be made with that project during at the seat of Government here, and
the present session. He thought nothing the impression prevailed that they were
could be done, but at all events he has here for the purpose of pressing for a
not been able to reach it yet. They are settlement of the claims of the half-breeds.
still discussing the Franchise Bill in the This fact is of very great importance and
other House, and until they are through may have a serious effect on the trials,
with that Bill they cannot do anything else. which are likely to take place shortly of
I think with regard to the Insolvent Bill those implicated in the North-West
it is doubtful if that will be proceeded with troubles. In the interest of justice we
so I do not think that anything is lost in should do our best to have all the facts
that direction as far as this House is concerning those troubles laid before the
public. Whatever may be the guilt of
concerned.
those parties who have been arrested in
The Senate adjourned at 4 p.m.
the North-West, they are entitled to a fair
trial and full justice. It is hardly
necessary to say that the whole population
of the Dominion take a deep interest in
THE SENATE.
this matter, and it is well known that a
portion of the people take a deep inOttawa, Tuesday, June 2nd, 1885.
terest in the case of the half-breeds.
It would make all the difference in the
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three world if the country were left under the
o'clock.
impression that no claim on behalf of those
half-breeds, or those parties implicated in
Prayers and routine proceedings.
the outbreak, had ever been presented to
the Government. It is with a view to asTHE NORTH-WEST TROUBLES.
certain the facts that I make this inquiry.
I may add that I have had special inforINQUIRY.
mation from two of the gentlemen to
whom I have referred in my inquiry; as
HON. MR. TRUDEL inquired:to the other, the member from Provencher,
" Whether the Government has not, be- I merely infer from his being a prominent
tween the 1st January, 1879, and the let member of the other House, and repreMarch, 1885, received from various persons senting specially that part of the country
taking special interest in the affairs of the
North-West, and particularly from Monseig- and the parties interested in this matter,
neur Grandin, Bishop of St. Albert, Mon- that he must have made some represenseigneur Taché, Archbishop of St. Boniface, tations to the Government. Everybody
and the Honorable Mr. Royal, Member of knows the importance of the position
Parliament for Provencher, verbal or written which he occupies in the other House,
representations and frequent claims respecting the claims of the halt-breeds of the North- his intelligence and his zeal in defending the interests which are entrusted to
West."
He said-This inquiry speaks for itself. him. For those reasons I make this
I make it because, if I understood pro- inquiry.

has been made by the Joint Committee
of both Houses appointed this session
with respect to the division of business
between the two Houses. I should like
to know what progress has been made,
because there is a great deal of the work
of the session yet to be done. If we had
the Insolvent Act up here we might dispose of it.

HON.

MR. WARK.

The North- West [JUNE 2, 1885] Troubl«e.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
House will, I am sure, not be surprised if,
considering the gravity of the subject, I
confine myself strictly to the question
which my hon. friend has put and which
he has just read. I will not discuss the
subject, even in the slight way in which
the hon. member has done, but will content myself simply by replying to his
question.
The Government has received, between
the 1st of January, 1879, and the 1st of
March, 1885, from various persons taking
special interest in the North-West, and,
among others, from Monseigneur Grandin,
Bishop of St. Albert, and Monseigneur
Tache, Archbishop of St. Boniface, written
representations respecting the position of
the half-breeds of the North-West, and
the best way of ameliorating it.
There is no record of any written representation from the Hon. Mr. Royal,
nember for the county of Provencher,
and no records of any verbal representations exist.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I think
it is a most extraordinary admission after
the explanation made by the Minister of
the Interior the other day.
HON. MR. TRUDEL inquired:Whether the Government has not been
informed that its surveyors in their surveying
operations had entered upon farms possessed

by the half-breeds, had committed depredations thereon, had damaged the crops thereon,

had eut or thrown open the fences thereon,
and had divided the said properties of the

half-breeds, without their permission and
against their orders to the contrary, in a
inanner quite different from that in which
the said properties were formerly ;divided,
often dividing the lands in such a manner as
to leave a house on one lot and its outbuildings on another ?
He said-This question is of the
same nature as the one which I have just
put, and the few words ot explanation
with which I accompanied the last refer

to this one also.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
reply to this question I must give at

greater length than my reply to the former
one to make it intelligible.
The Government has not been informed

that surveyors, in their surveying operations, had committed depradations upon

1035

farms occupied by half-breeds, nor that
they had damaged the crops thereon; nor
that they had cut, or thrown down the
fences thereon: nor has the Government
any reason to believe that anything of the
sort occurred. Of course, in the conduct
of surveying operations, it is necessary
that surveyors should pass over the farms
of settlerswho tookpossessionof theirlands
in advance of survey, and clause 120 of

the Dominion Lands Act provides that:
'Any Dominion land surveyor, when engaged in the performance of his duties as
such, may pass over, measure along, and
ascertain the bearings of any township or
section line, or other governing line, and
for such purposes may pass over the lands
of any person whomsoever, doing no actual
damage to the property of such person."
If a surveyor does actual damage to the
property of any person whose lands are
thus passed over, he is liable to a civil
action, and there is nothing in the Statute
to protect him against such action, merely
because he is a Government surveyor.
Each surveyor is required to give a bond
for $3,ooo for the due and faithful performance of his duties. One of his duties,
as mentioned in clause 120 of the Act, is
to do no actual damage to the property
which he may pass over in the performance
of his survey ; and sub-clause 4 of clause
101 provides that the bond shall enure to
the benefit of any party sustaining
damage by breach of any condition thereof.
As to the division of the properties of
the half-breeds, it would be impossible to
devise any scheme of survey which would
give to every settler in advance of survey
a holding in the exact form in which he
had occupied and cultivated it up to the
time of such division.
It may further be said that the policy
of the Department is, that in case settlement exists along river fronts in advance
of survey, the lands are divided on the
river lot principle or into sections and
quarter sections, on the rectangular principle, as may be desired by the settlers
themselves. The only exception to this
was in regard to the settlements on the
Qu'Appelle lakes and river, but it would
have been impossible, both from the shape
of these waters, and from the manner in
which the settlers had located themselves,
to have given them a survey upon the
river lot principle which would have

1036

Temperance Act [SENATE]
3

operated more to their advantage than
the rectangular survey. A glance at the
maps which I will lay upon the table of
the Senate will make this quite clear.
It may further be stated, that of the six
townships over which the' Qu'Appelle
settlements spread, three townships were
surveyed in 1882 by Mr. John Bourgeois
of Three Rivers, in the province of
Quebec, whose employment was recommended by Mr. D. O. Bourbeau, M. P.,
Mr. L. L. Desaulniers, M. P., and Mr.
H. Montplaisir, M. P.; one township was
surveyed by Mr. P. T. C. Dumais of
Chicoutimi, recommended by Mr. Ernest
Cimon, M. P., and hy Mr. J. L. Michaud
of Rimouski, recommended by Sir Hector
Langevin. The other two townships were
surveyed in 1881 by Messrs. Clementi
and Hewson of Peterboro, Ontario.
There is no record of any case in
which a house was situatedupononelotand
its out-buildings on another, although, as
already stated, under no regular scheme
of surveys which could be devised could
the possibility of such a contingency
arising be provided against.
Should a settler at Qu'Appelle be found
to have his buildings partly on an odd
and partly on an even section, and he
settled there prior to 1881, he would be
granted entry partly on the odd and partly
on the even section.

This river Qu'Appelle winds about
very much, and the river principle is to
have a width of ten chains upon the river
and a depth of two miles. As the river
winds, the House will at once see that if
a lot was surveyed on this river principle
on one bend of the river, and another lot
surveyed on another bend of the river on
the same principle, the two ends would
overlap, and one man's property would
interfere with another man's. I think this
is very clearly shown on the map, which
hon. members who take an interest in the
subject can see on the table. I think, however, the explanation which I have given
will make it perfectly clear and show that
you could not adopt the river principle
universally, evenif we gave 2ochains on the
river front and the lots ran back only one
mile. Although the persons interested
may perhaps not understand it completely,
there is no real difiiculty in giving the
settlers a depth back, not on the river
principle, but on the rectangular principle,
HON.

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Petitions.

that is a part of a section can be taken out
of one, two, three or four lots so as to give
them the river front and run back some
distance. I hope the House will consider
the explanation sufficient. Every possible
consideration has been shown in making
the survey with respect to this question
raised by my hon. friend. As I have said
if in any case a man's house has been
divided from his outbuildings, he has had
land on both sections so as to give him
his outbuildings and house, though one
might be on section 2 and the others on
section 3, and in this way his interests
have been protected.
TEMPERANCE ACT PETITIONS.
HON. MR.

McMILLAN-Before the

orders of the day are called I would like

to bring up a matter with reference to a
petition which was presented here by me on
the part of the electors and people of
Glengarry. The House will recollect
that the hon. gentleman from Ottawa (Mr.
Scott) brought before our notice some
day last week the fact that a petition had
been irregularly signed, and that a gentleman residing at a place called Greenfield
had sent in a declaration stating that he
had never signed the petition nor had he
requested anybody to sign the petition on
his behalf. I have the petition here, and
in the first place in order that the matter
may be brought intelligently before the
Senate, I may as well read agan the declaration of the gentleman from Greenfield,
if the House will permit me.
1, ALEXANDER Mo-.
CANADA:
DOUGALD, of GreenProvince of Ontario,
feld, in thetownship
County of Glengarry.)

of Keny on, in the county of Glengarry, Post-

master, do solemnly declare-

1. That I an informed that a petition,
signed, or purporting to be signed, by about

600 of the inhabitants of the county of Glen-

garry. lias been lately presented to the Senate
of Canada by Hon. D. McMillan, praying that
the Canada Temperance Act might be
amended so as to exempt ale, porter, lager

beer, liglit wines and cider fron the operation
of the Act, and that, hereafter, three-fifths of
the votes passed in any county must be in
favor of the Act before it is adopted in such

county,
2. That I am informed, among other names,
ap ears the naie of A. Macdougall, Green-

fietd.
3. That I am the only person of that name

residing at Greenfield in said county.

Temperance Act [J UNE 2, 1885] Petitions.
4. That I have not signed said petition.
5. That if my name appears on said petition
as aforesaid, it must have been signed by some
other person without my knowledge or author.
ity, and is therefore a forgery.
And I make this solenn declaration conscientiously, believing the same to be true
and by virue of the Act passed in the 37th
year of Her Majesty's reign, entitled " An Act
for the Suppression of Voluntary and Extrajudicial oaths."
A

McDoUGLD.

My reply on that occasion was that I
knew a good many McDougalds resided
in the county of Glengarry, and that I had
no doubt that a good many McDougalds
lived in the township of Kenyon, and no
doubt a good many McDougalds in
Kenyon who would have Greenfield as
their post office ; and in order to clear up
the matter, which was a serious one, I
wrote to the party who, I supposed, had
the petition in charge, and while at home
on Saturday last in Alexandria i was
handed this declaration which I think will
satisfy this House and satisfy the country
that the charge brought against the
petition from Glengarry is not true.
CANADA:

I,

JoHN A. CAMEBON,

Province of Ontario,
jr., of Greenfield, in
County of Glengarry.
the township of
To Wit:
J Kenyon, in the
county of Glengarry, "Farmer's son," do
solemnly declare:let. That I had in charge and obtained
most of the signatures appended to the petition at this place, presented by the Hon. Dr.
McMillan, in the Senate of Canada, asking to
exempt ale, porter, lager beer, light wines and
eider from the operation of the Canada Teniperance Act, and that the said Act should not
hereafter come into force unless supported by
three-filths nmajority of those voting.
2nd. That forty-seven naines were obtained
and are on the said petition.
3rd. That forty-six of those are from the
township of Kenyon, forty-one of whon
"Greenfieid " je their post-oflce.
4th. That among thoee whoe post-oflice
is "Greenfield," there appears one A. McDou gall (not McDougald).
5th. That the said A. McDougall resides in
the township of Kenyon, and his post-office is
"Greenfield.-"
6th. That this A. MeDougall is not Alexander McDougald, the Postmaster.
7th. That the A. McDougall on the petition,
wae put on by me at his request, lie having a
sore hand at the time, and that I did so in
1118 presence.
8th. That all the names which I secured
for the petition, were honestly obtained, and
were either signed by the parties whose naies

1037

appear thereon, or by me, authorized to do
80 in their behaif.

And I make this solemn' declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true
and by virtue of the Act passed in the thirtiyseventh year of Her Majesty's reign, entitled:
"An Act for the suppression of Voluntary and
Extra-judicial oaths."
JOHN

A.

CAMEaON.

Declared before nie at Alexandria, in the County of Giengarry, this 30th day of May,

A.1). 188.5.
D. A. McARTHUR, J.P.,

Reeve of Alexandria.
To follow this matter up I will now read
an extract from the Ottawa Free Press:
The Anti-Scottites are not above forging
signatures to petitions, and Sir Alexander
Campbell, and the governinent accept these
forged petitions as suficient reason for reversing the wishes of a majority of nearly forty
thousand voters expressed at the polls. The
latest case of forgery in the interest of the
Anti-Scottites in the Government's interest
reported, is from the county of Glengarry.
Mr. Allan McDougall, postnaster at Greenfield, Glengarry county,learning that his name
appeared upon a petition sent froi his village
to the Senate in favor of the beer and wine
anerdnent caused this fact to be verified at
Ottawa. He has now sent in a sworn declaration setting forth that he is the only person
of his name in the village, and that his signature has been forged. Hfe also adds the names
of fifteen other persons whose names were
forged to those Anti-Scott Act petitions. It is
upon forged petitions such as these the Government justifies itself in making the Scott
Act Bill as amended in the Tory-whiskey
interests, a Governnent measnre, wvhen they
refused to take charge of it as a temperance
measure.
Now, hon. gentlemen, I can say that
I know this young man John A. Cameron.
I know him to be the son of good honest
parents. I knew his father and knew his
mother since her childhood, and I am
satisfied that a more honorable, straightforward, truthful young mian cannot be
found in any county in Canada, and I ama
satisfied that what he states here is
perfectly correct. He states that there are
47 names on the petition which came
from his post office ; he accounts for 46
of those. I have the petition here and I

can account for the

4 7 th

name, and that

is C. E. Plane, a commercial traveller
from Tees, Wilson & Co. of Montreal,
wholesale grocers, who is very often in the
county of Glengarry-I would not be far

astray in saying that one-quarter of his
time is spent there ; he makes up the

4 7 th

1038

An [SENATE] Adjournment.

name on the petition. Of course I cannot vouch for the signatures, but I am
satisfied that a better signed petition could
not possibly be presented to the House
than this. It shows on the face of it that
this petition was signed in nearly every,
instance by the party whose name is
attached thereto. I bring this matter
up in vindication of the attack that was
made upon the petition and on behalf of
the young gentleman who had the petition
in charge. I think it is only justice to
him and it is only right to the petitioners
and the country that I should make this
explanation.

HON. MR. READ--Of course we have
to take what the Government tell us, but
if we judge for ourselves from appearances,
it will be some time before we will be
required here, if business is to go on as it
has been doing in the other House. I
notice that 13 clauses in the important Bill
which is being passed by the other House
have taken 45 days ; there are 51 clauses
more, and by the rule of progression it
will take 200 days more to pass thern ; so
that 30 days of an adjournment would be
of little consequence so far as delaying the
business of Parliament is concerned. If
the leader of the Government could make
the adjournment a little longer it will be
AN ADJOURNMENT.
an advantage to those living at a distance.
If two weeks could be taken, I know from
MOTION.
a number of gentlemen who have spoken
to me on the subject, it would be much
HON. MR. NELSON, in the absence of better.
Mr. McInnes, British Columbia, moved that
when this House adjourns to-day it do stand
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-It does
adjourned until Monday, the 22nd instant. not at all follow that each of those clauses
will take the exact time mentioned by the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The hon. gentleman. Some of them may take
House, I am sure, will bear in niind that considerably less, but whether the hon.
on all these occasions when an adjourn- gentleman's calculation is correct or not
ment is moved I have stated whether or this much is certain that the leader of the
not I thought the proposed adjournment Government in this House has told us
would interfere with public business. On that the services of hon. gentlemen may be
this occasion I am not able to assent to required in this Chamber at any moment
the motion which my hon. friend has -he does not specify any particular time,
moved, because I apprehend that it might but he has told us that particular business
interfere with public business.
Be- would require us, and that being so, I cansides the ordinary business which is now not see how any gentleman who has any
before the House of Commons it is quite regard for the dignity of this Chamber can
possible or even probable that a Bill will demand that the adjournment should be
have to be introduced shortly in order to longer than the period suggested by the
facilitate the negotiations which are going leader of the Government.
on in England under the guidance of Sir
Leonard Tilley, and we do not know at
HON. MR. PLUMB-I think what has
what time the ordinary business of the been said by the leader of the GovernHouse will take a stage and we may have ment should guide us in this matter in
bills before us. If my hon. friend would any decision we may arrive at, and I am
limit his motion to an adjournment from sorry to disagree with my hon. friend
to-morrow (or even to-day if we could get opposite who suggested that we might
through the business which is before the adjourn with safety for the time mentioned
Railway Committee) until Tuesday of next in the motion. I think we might possibly
week, I can make the declaration, which I adjourn for the next six or seven days as
am always happy to make when I am able there is a holiday this week, and we are
to do so, that an adjournment will not only taking two days out of the week by
adjourning until Wednesday next. I
interfere with the public business.
believe that the Railway Committee has
HON. MR. OGILVIE-I would suggest been sumrnmoned to meet to-morrow ; perthat the adjournment should be until haps the leader of the Government might
suggest a way by which the meeting of
Wednesday.
HON. ML

McMILLAN.

The Adulteration [JUNE 2,1885] Act.

1039

that Committee could be held this afterHON. MR. POWER-The Franchise
noon, and the adjournment may take place Bill blocks the way in the other House,
from the adjournment of the House to-day. and there will probably be a number of
innocents slaughtered at the end of the
HON. MR. POWER-The meeting of session, and the Bill to which my hon.
the Railway Committee is not a matter of friend refers may not pass. I think it
any consequence. I do not suppose that would be better to say "authorized under
the Government propose to bring the this Act or any Act respecting agricultural
Governor-General down to assent to the fertilizers."
Bill this week.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I have
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The no objection to that. I move that the
suggestion is made to me that if an amend- words "the Fertilizers Act, 1885," be
ment is made to the Bill it will have to go struck out and that the following be inback to the other House.
serted in lieu thereof, " any Act respecting
agricultural fertilizers."
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I generally
The motion was agreed to.
oppose all adjournments, and this exception would only prove the rule. I have
On sub-section H,
not taken any holiday. I have not had
the opportunity of going home, and if we
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE--There is
are to have a holiday we might as well
have the whole of next week, so that hon. at present a Bill before the House of
gentlemen who live at a distance can take Commons, No. 122, referring to the same
advantage of it. I am opposed generally subject, and there was an Act of last year
also referring to the subject, and I perceive
to adjournments.
that the same defect runs through the
The motion to adjourn until Wednes- whole of these. It allows, in my judgment,
day, 1oth June, at 3 p.m., was agreed to. far too large a percentage for error mn the
packages offered for sale. One per cent
THE ADULTERATION BILL.
is allowed for those articles which have
borne the Government analysis, and the
IN COMMITTrEE.
consequence is a fraudulent manufacturer
The House resolved itself into a Com- can make up his mass of manure in a form
mittee of the Whole on Bill (W),"An Act which will contain one per cent. less of the
respecting the adulteration of foods, drugs valuable articles and an equal quantity, in
and agricultural fertilizers."
excess, of the less valuable components.
I may perhaps explain my meaning more
In the Committee,
clearly by referring to Peruvian guano
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL said: which, as every one knows, is a natural
On the second reading of the Bill my hon. product. I find by reference to one of
friend from Halifax saw a difficulty in the encyclopædias in the library that in an
adopting sub-section 1) of clause 2, inas- average sample of Peruvian guano there is
much as, apparently, there is no Fertilizers about 17 per cent. of ammonia, that the
Act of 1885 in existence. On inquiry I potash forms 3.5 per cent., phosphate of
find there is a Bill dealing with that sub- lime 25.12 per cent., and also a small perject now before the other House, which centage of sand and 20 per cent. of
moisture. The values of these respective
we hope will become law this session.
components are Per ton
HON. MR. POWER-But it may not
Ammonia ..............
. £56 sterling.
be passed.
· 31 "
Potash ................
Soluble phosphate of lime
"
32
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-If
not we will have to amend this. If it Insoluablephosphateoflime
7
«
should pass, both these Bills will receive
It is clear from this that a fraudulent
the Royal assent at the same time and manufacturer might, if he pleased, reduce
there will be no difficulty.
the amount of the valuable ingredients in

1he Adulteration [SENATE]

104A0

the manure by one per cent.,and substitute
for them the less valuable ingredients ; as
for instance, the insoluble phosphate of
lime, and make a considerable profit on a
year's transactions.
I will, if hon. gentlemen will permit me, read an extract from
Ure's dictionary of arts and manufactures,
on the subject of guano.
Mean composition of Peruvian guano,
from 78 analyses by Mr. Way, ioo tons
contain :Tons.
£
£
16.5 @ 56 = 930
,Organic matter .......
..
52 "1=
52
Potash.... ..............
3.5 " 31 =108
Insoluble Phosphate Lime,. 23 " 7 =161
Soluble Phosphate Lime....
7. " 32 = 224

Ammoniat..........

.....

£1,475

Now, it is clear, supposing a manufacturer to be manipulating a mass of
artificial

Now it is clear to everybody who gives
it the slightest reflection, that the common
sait and sand were almost entirely valueless, and yet a fraudulent manufacturer
was able to introduce and sell an article
so adulterated as that.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
not think my hon. friend has quite caught
the meaning of the clause. In the case he
mentions the sand and salt would not be
parts of the fertilizer specified as necessary
by the inspector. It would only be
those parts of the fertilizer which are
deemed and specified as essential. I do
not know what the component parts of
guano are, but certainly salt and sand do
not enter into the component parts.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Yes.

manure intended to weigh out

oo tons, he could, if he please, diminish
the ammonia worth £56 per ton, the
potash

worth

£31

per

ton, and the

soluble phosphate of lime worth £132 per
ton, and replace them by the insoluble
phosphate of lime worth only /7 per ton ;
and it seems to me that the wording of
this clause enables him to do this with
impunity, and one might almost say
I am of
encourages him to do so.
opinion that we must either have an
efficient law regulating the manufacture
and sale of artificial manures, or we
would be better without one at all, because it appears to me that this one per
cent. of loss is quite unnecessary, simply
because the manure is put up in barrels
In either case there is
or in bags.
scarcely any loss by evaporation, and if
there is, it is easy to suppose that the loss
would be as little in the valuable as in the
less valuable ingredients. I mention this
to show the House that we are treading
on dangerous ground.
The subject is
one with which few of us are famihar. I
will read the analysis of an adulterated
sample of Peruvian guano :32.0
Common salt .............
28.0
Sand .....................
.....Sulphate of icon ......
5.2
Phosphate lime............
4.0
Organic matter from bad
guano to give it smell .....
23-3
M oisture ..................
7-5
100.

HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE.

Act.

HON. MR. DEVER-No.

HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE-I have
examined the subject, and I find that a
certain percentage of salt and sand is
almost invariably found in guano. The
sea birds come away from the sea water
to their nests, and naturally they bring
with them more or less of the salt
water, and this going on for centuries accounts for the presence of salt. In the
same way sand is found. It is almost invariably the case, then that salt and sand
find their way into Peruvian guano.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Assuming that that is the case, and salt and
sand do find their way into the Peruvian
guano, no chemist in describing what is
essential to guano, would include these.
He would describe the guano apart from
those incidental components. The clause
is-

(h.) Every agricultural fertilizer shall be
deemed to be "adulterated" within the meaning of this Act, if, when sold, offèred or
exposed for sale, the chemical analysis
thereof shows a detieiency of more than one
per cent. of any of the chemical substances,
the percentages whereof are requied to be
specified in the certificate by "The Fertilizers
Act, 1885," required to be affixed to each
barrel, box, sack, or package containing the
sane, or, if the agricultural fertilizer is in
bulk, to be produced to the inspector; or if it
contains less than the minimum percentage
of such substances required by the said Act
to be contained in such fertilizer.

Tte Adulteration [J UNE 2, 1885] Act.
The question is, in analyzing guano
would a chemist include salt and sand as
"substances required by the said Act to
be contained in such fertilizer." If he did
not, then the argument of my hon. friend
does not apply. We need not confine our
view to guano only.
Suppose it is an
artificial fertilizer, which this Bill deals
with more particularly, the chemist, in
ascertaining what it contains, certainly
would not include any articles which are
foreign, therefore he would only put in
what was essential to the purity and usefulness of the fertilizer. It must be the
absence of one per cent. of what the
chemist has said is essential, and it does
not seem to me that that is a large percentage.

1041

HON. MR. POWER-One per cent. of
what are specified.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-They
are all to be specified if they are essential.
HON. MR. POWER-I am not claiming that if the matter were before a court
there would be any doubt about its meaning, but here is the case of an ordinary

officer who has a table before him showing
that a particular agricultural fertilizer
which is under consideration should contain 28 per cent. of a particular substance
and 16 per cent. of another.
The
officer would be likely to say that all
these percentages added together make

i0o, and he would be as likely to con-

true it that it is one per cent. of the whole
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-It is not amount. What objection can there be to
one in a hundred pounds, but one in a inserting those words " of each proporsmall percentage of those things-for tion ?"
instance, of the quantity of ammonia or
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
nitrogen in a sample of manure, not one
in one hundred, but one in fourteen, or not think that it would improve the clause.
I do not think the English language can
whatever it may be.

make it more clear than it is now.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Supposing the chemist says it contains fifteen
per cent. of this or fifteen per cent. of that,
the absence of one per cent. would be
sufficient to establish that the article was
adulterated. If that is too much, has my
hon. friend any suggestion to make ? Is
one-half of one per cent. the proper thing
to make?

HON. MR. WARK-The idea conveyed
by the Bill is that it shall not exceed one

per cent. of the ingredients referred to.
HON. MR. POWER--The hon. member from Marshfield did not seem to construe it in that way.

HON. MR. KAULBACH- -The fertilizer may lose one per cent. or more in transcertain ambiguity in the wording of the portation, and I do not think it would be
clause.
It may mean that it is a defi- right to restrict it more than the one per
ciency of one per cent. of the proportion cent. proposed in the Bill.
HON. MR. POWER-I think there is a

of a particular substance which should be
there, or it may mean a deficiency of one
per cent. of the whole combination. The
clause is not clear, and I should venture
to suggest to the Minister that after the
words "one per cent." he should add "of
the proportion ; " that would remove all
doubt, and it would be perfectly clear that
it is one per cent. of the proportion of a
particular substance.

HON. MR. DEVER-In reply to ny
hon. friend (Mr. Haythorne), I would say
he is at fault in his description of the
component parts of guano, African
sample, by Dr. Ure. It is as follows:Saline and organic matter containing 10 per cent. of aimonia. . 50.
21.5
.................
W ater....
Phosphate of lime, magnesia, also
26.
potash .....................
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
..
1.
...
S ilica ......... ...... ....
think the language used is free from an- Sulphate of potash and chloride of
biguity. The language .s " a deficiency
potassium .. ................
1.5
of more than one per cent. of any of the
chemical substances, &c."
100.

Q

2

104A2

4he

Adulteration [SENATE] Act.

Leibeg and other authoilties state that
the nature of fertilizers varies with the
constitution of the soil. Lime and sand
are the best manures for clayey soils,
gypsum and marl for sandy ones. But all
soils want a proper quantity of vegetable
or animal manure, without which it will
soon become exhausted and infertile.
The principal among this class of manures,
are rotten dung and other organic matter,
bone dust, nitrate of soda, and sulphate
of ammonia. The first is applicable to all
soils, the second is e>ipecially valuable for
wheat, and the third and fourth have been
used in various cases with apparent
advantage, but require further experiments
to establish their precise value. In the
application of manures, reference mu t be
always had to the intended crop, as certain
plants are found to require nourishment
of a different description to what is fitted
for others, and will grow feebly or not at
ail when this is absent.
Wheat, for example, will not produce a
full kernel on soils destitute of lime.
The food of vegetables, as far as their
organic structure is concerned, consists
entirely of inorganic compound ; and no
organized body can serve for the nutrition
of vegetables until it has been, by the
process of decay, resolved into certain
inorganic substances.
These are carbonic acid, water, and
ammonia, which are well known to be the
final products of putrefaction.
But even when these are supplied to
vegetables their growth will not proceed
unless certain mineral substances are likewise furnished, in small quantities, either
by the soil or the water used to moisten
it. Almost every plant when burned
leaves ashes, which commonly contain
silica, potash, and phosphate of lime ;
often, also, magnesia, soda, sulphates,
and oxide of iron. These mineral bodies
appear to be essential to the existence of
the vegetable tissues, so that plants will
not grow in soils destitute of them however abundantly supplied with carbonic
acid, ammonia, and water. The carbon
of plants is wholly derived from carbonic
acid, which is either absorbed from the
atmosphere and rain water by the leaves,
or from the moisture and air in the soil
by the roots. Its carbon is retained and
assimilated with the body of the plant,
while its oxygen is given out in the
HON. MR. DEVER.

gaseous form, this decomposition being
always effected under the action of light
at ordinary temperatures.
The hydrogen and oxygen of vegetables,
which when conbined with carbon, constitute the ligneous, starchy, gummy, saccharine, oily and resinous matters of
plants are derived from water, chiefly
absorbed by the roots from the soil.
When by an eLraordinary supply of
any one mineral ingredient, or of ammonia a large crop has been obtained, it is
not to be expected that a repetition of the
same individual manure next year will
It must be
produce the same effect.
remembered that the unusual crop has
exhausted the soil, probably, of all the
other mineral ingredients, and that they
also must be restored before a second
crop can be obtained. The salt most
essential to the growth of the potato is the
double phosphate of ammonia, and magnesia; that for hay is chiefly phosphate of
lime, while for almost all plants potash
and ammonia are highly beneficial. By
examining the ashes of a thriving plant we
discover the mineral ingredients, which
must exist in a soil to render it fertile for
that plant.
The straw, leaves, &c., of any plant
must be the best manure for that plant,
since every vegetable extracts fron the
soil such matters alone as are essential to
it. Where these are used no other manures are required. Bone dust supplies
the phosphates which have been extracted
by crops of grass and corn, and the best
return you can give to such soil is the
bones of the cattle fed on these
crops,
which yields
ammonia,
by
putrefaction ; guano acts as a source of
ammonia, containing much oxalate and
urate of ammonia, with some phosphates.
Night-soil and urine, especially the latter,
are most valuable for the ammonia they
yield, as well as for phosphates and
potash. Bran is a very valuable manure
for potatoes, because it contains anmonia,
magnesia and phosphate.
The analysis of manures is not easily
performed by inexperienced chemists.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-As I said
before, there is another Bill before the
House, a clause in which explains how
very smail a percentage of the more valuable portions of artificial rmanures is to be

2 he Aditeration [J UNE 2, 1885] Act.
found in any particular package.
I refer
to clause eleven in the Act respecting
agricultural fertilizers, and it relates to the
furnishing of a certain tag to be attached
to any package of fertilizers. It provides
as follows:
The inspector shall not furnish any tag to
be attached to any package of fertilizer unless
the manufacturer's certificate of analysis is
plainly placed upon each parcel or package,
or, if the fertilizer is in bulk, shall not deliver
any bill of inspection unless such certificate
1s produced to him, claiming, in the case of
an ammoniated superphosphate, that it contains at least six per centun of soluble phosphoric acid, and two per centurn of ammonia;
and in the case of any acid phosphate or dissolved bone, that it contains al least ten per
Centum of available phosphoric acid; nor shall
any such tag be furnished or applied to any
package of fertilizer, or bill of inspection,
delivered in respect of any fertilizer, that is in
a damaged or unmerchantable condition.

10A3

health and the well being of the small
towns as well as of the cities, they will see
that a larger number of analysts are appointed. Their greater proximity to the
places where those who adulterate operate,
will provide more surely for the discovery
and punishment of certain vendors of
liquor, and will prevent this law from be-

coming a dead letter, as was the case with
the previous one.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL

(in

French)-I will consult the Department of
Inland Revenue, and will inform the hon.
gentleman on a future occasion.
On the 9 th clause,

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
words that are added in this clause are
the words in the middle of the clause
Now, that clause fairly demonstrates " except in specific cases respecting which
how very small the percentage of those provision is made by orderof the Governorvaluable component parts may be in an in-Council," and the words "if required
artificial fertilizer. If you are to diminish by him so to do."
each of these or only one of them by one
HON. MR. POWER-What is the
per cent., you are imposing largely upon
object of the Order-in-Council ?
the buyer.
HON. MR. WARK-The hon. gentle-

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
that the officer purpounds in roo pounds, which would be a chasing any article with the intention of
small percentage of phosphoric acid, and submitting it to be analyzed, shall, after
two pounds of ammonia. It would be a the purchase has been completed, forthwith
snall percentage of the whole.
notify the seller or his agent selling the

Man has referred to six per cent.; that is six clause provides

The clause was agreed to.
On the third clause,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-There
is no change in this clause.
HON. MR. PAQUET (in French)Will the hon. Minister of Justice be good
enough to inform this House if it is the
intention of the Government to confine
the appointment of analysts to the cities of
Quebec and Montreal, in the province of
Quebec, under clause three of the Bill
now under discussion ? The most frequent
adulterations take place, not in the estab-

lishment of the wholesale merchant, but
i the stores of the retail merchants, who

article, of his intention to have the same
analyzed by the public analyst, and shall
divide the article into three parts, to be
then and there separated, and each part to
be marked and sealed up or fastened up,
as its nature permits, and so on. That has
been found sometimes inconvenient, and
sometimes to the damage and disadvantage
of the person who desired the thing to be
analyzed, and it is thought in some cases
it would be better not to require that the
article be divided into three parts and
each part marked and sealed up or fastened up and so on.
The clause was agreed to.

On the 2nd sub-section,

frequently increase the quantity to the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Subprejudice of the quality ; and if, as I do section two provides for the transmission
not doubt, the Government also desire the of parts for analysis ; that he shall trans-

104A4A

The Sewerage, etc., [SENATE] of the &nate Building.

mit another of such parts to the Minister
of Inland Revenue for submission to the
chief analysist in case of appeal ; and
the remaining part to the analysist for the
district within which the samples were
taken, unless otherwise directed by the
Minister of lnland Revenue.

hon. friend from Halifax is of opinion that
that will give time enough to the Opposition !
DEBOUCHERVILLE,
HON. MR.
from the Committee, reported the Bill
with several amendments, which were concurred in.

HON. MR. POWER--Supposing that

under this Order-in-Council the article is
not divided into three parts, how are you
going to proceed if the party appeals ?
Because the sub-section--that is clause
9-goes on to provide only for a case
where it is so separated, each part shall
be marked or sealed up or fastened up if
required by him so to do. Then it provides, " he shall transmit another of such
parts to the Minister of Inland Revenue
for submission to the chief analyst in
case of appeal, and shall submit the remaining part to the analyst for the district within which the samples were taken
unless otherwise directed by the Minister
of Inland Revenue." Now, if there is no
separation into parts those things cannot
be done.

HON. MR. POWER-I would ask the
Minister of Justice if he would consider
that question about the percentage before
the third reading?

HON. SIR. ÀLEX. CAMPBELL-I
will take care that the matter is considered,
and I will inform the hon. gentlemen at
another time, as I propose to reply to the
question of the hon. gentleman from La
Valliere when the House meets again and
explain whether there are to be more than
the present number of analysts appointed.
HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the third reading of the Bill.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the third time and passed.

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The THE SEWERAGE AND VENTILA-

hon. gentleman will see the words
added in the 9 th clause, " except in specific cases respecting which provision is
That promade by Order-in-Council."
vision includes all this.
The sub-section was agreed to.
On the 32nd clause.
HoN. MR. POWER-The 3 2nd clause
provides that this Act shall come into
force upon the first day of July, 1885. Is
the Minister sure that this Bill will be
assented to before the first July ?
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Can
my hon. friend tell me ? He is in the
secrets of the Opposition ?

HON. MR. POWER-I think, as we
are only dealing with it here for the first
time in the beginning of June, some later
period should be provided for the Act
coming into force.

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Say
the first of January, 1886. I hope my
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL

TION OF THE SENATE
BUILDING.
HoN. MR. POWER-Before the adjournment is moved, there is a matter to
which, I think, some little attention might
be devoted during the adjournment, and
if not then, during the recess at any rate,
that is, the sewerage of these buildings. I have not been very much impressed with it heretofore, but during the
present session I have been very much
struck with the fact that the drainage in
connection with some parts of the building is exceedingly bad, and it is a matter
that deserves some attention. I think
there are other members whose experience
has been the same as my own. I know
that in room No. ro the atmosphere
when the door is closed for a short time,
is simply abominable, and it is evident
that the sink in the room connects in
some way with the sewer or some other
objectionable place, from which there is
an escape of foul gases. It is desirable
that we should live as long as we can.
They may abolish the benate, but I do

The Sewerage, etc., [JUN E 2, 1885] of the Senate Building. 1045
not think that the proper way to abolish certain extent. If we are to be kept here
us is by asphyxiation, or with typhoid fever. during the summer, those who remain will
suffer from this cause unless something is
HON. MR. PLUMB-I am very glad done to improve the ventilation.
that my hon. friend has .called attention
to this subject. I happened to-day to
HoN. MR. DEVER-1o doubt there
enter one of the rooms with some is a break of some kind in the sewerage
strangers while showing them through the on the eastern side of the building, and I
House, and I was repelled by the noisome think it is from one of two causes-either
odor that came out of that room. It was the sewer is broken by the frost in the
empty at the time, and I could not ask winter time, or the draught from the venthe hon. gentlemen who occupy that room tilation duct being open, the wind, when
whether the foul atmosphere was only from a certain direction, blows the vitiated
momentary or whether it remained air back into the House. I have had
there all the time. The room I re- some experience of the difficulty in drainfer to is No. 8. There must be some ing a house properly, and I know that
connection there with the sewer, and the where there is the best drainage, unless
gas comes into the room. I was there a there is a trap at the end of the sewer, the
moment this afternoon, and I asked the wind will at times blow the foul air back
brother of the chief messenger to go into into the house. What improvement can
the roon and see if he could discover be made in this case I am not prepared
anything, but he could not find any cause to say, unless the floors on the rooms on
for the foul atnosphere. This is a matter the eastern side are taken up, for I am
that requires immediate attention. The almost certain that the terra cotta pipe is
foul atnosphere emenates from under broken there somewhere. It will require
that part of the House, and there is investigation by a man who thoroughly
undoubtedly a break in the sewerage understands those things before it can be
somewhere.
remedied.
HON. MR. McINNES (B. C.)-I arn
very glad that this matter has been
brought before the notice of this House.
When I went into room No. 8 to-day the
atmosphere was very offensive, and it
continued to be so during the whole time
I remained there although the windows
were up. Unless something is done to
HON. MR. MACDONALD (B.C.)There is no doubt that ever since the frost improve the sewerage and ventilation we
went out of the ground there has been a cannot occupy that room any longer.
I
very bad atmosphere in the House.
told a messenger to send the engineer to
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
look after it but he has not yet done so.
think we are all indebted to my hon.
friend for bringing the matter before the
HON. MR. BOTSFORD-I have found House. This afternoon I will speak to
the ventilation so bad that I made up the Minister of Public Works, and I am
my mind some time ago that if the weather quite sure that most thorough measures
got hot and the ventilation of this build- will be taken to remedy the evil coming was not improved, I would run away. plained of. I would suggest that the
I am alone in my room, and without in- House might adjourn during plcasure, and
convenience to any other person I can the Railway Committee can meet and
keep my window open, and even then I consider the only Bill remaining. The
feel it difficult to keep the atmosphere in House could then take it up at once and
that room in a proper condition.
It is dispose of it, and there would be no time
observable even in the corridors. If you lost by the adjournment. I niove that
go out into the fresh air to take exercise the House adjourn during pleasure.
and then come into this room at any time
The motion was agreed to.
yOu will find that the air is vitiated to a

HON. MR. KAULBACH-My hon.
friend fron Niagara called my attention to
this matter to-day when I came into the
room No. 8. The atmosphere there is so
bad that a person who remains long in it
is in danger of contracting typhoid fever.

Patentsfor [SENATE] Land in .Manitoba.

104A6

adopted in universities and other bodies
where aimilar examinations are required.
Ordered,
FORT McLEOD RANCHE TELE- message to That the Clerk do carry the said
the Senate.
GRAPH CO'S. BILL.
Attest,
At 5.15 p.m. the House was resumed.

J. G. BoutINOT,

Clerk of the Commons.

THIRD READING.

HoN. MR. PLUMB, from the Committee on Railways, Telegraphs and
Harbors, reported Bill (8o), " An Act to
incorporate the Fort McLeod Ranche
Telegraph Company," with amendments,
which he explained were very trifling.
HoN. MR. GIRARD, moved; that the
amendments be concurred in.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was then read the third time and passed.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-In
moving the adjournment of the House, I
am happy to say that there is no business
before the House or any of its committees.

The Senate adjourned at 5.30 p.m.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-This
amendment, as described in the report,
was for the purpose of enabling candidates
who had submitted to examination to
obtain copies of their answers to questions,
and the House of Commons have disagreed to the amendment for the reasons
mentioned in the report. It does not
seem to me that it is an amendrent
which we should insist upon, inasmuch as
the candidates, if they see fit, can take
copies of their answers before they put
them in, or can make other arrangements
to obtain them. I therefore move that
this House do not insist upon their third
amendment to the said Bill.
The motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjourned at 3:30 p.m.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Wednesday, June ioth, 1885.

The SPEAKER
three o'clock.

took the chair at

Ottawa, Thursday, June r1th, 1885.
The SPEAKER took the chair at three

o'clock.

Prayers and routine proceedings.
CIVIL SERVICE ACTS AMENDMENT BILL.
AMENDMENT

THE SENATE.

RECEDED FROM,

The following message was received
from the House of Commons House of Commons,
Tuesday, 9th June, 1885.
Resolved, That a message be sent to the
Senate to acquaint their Honors that this
House agrees to the first and second of their
amendments to the Bill (No. 31) intituled:
"<AnAct to amend and consolidate the Civil
Service Acts of 1882, 1883 "and 1884," and
disagrees to their third amendment for the
folowing reason: Because the practice of
allowing candidates to get copies of their
examination papers, after such examinations,
would be unusual and contrary to rules

Prayers and routine proceedings.
PATENTS FOR LANDS IN
MANITOBA
MOTION.

HON. MR.
GUEVREMONT
(in
French) moved'That an humble Address be presented to
His Excellency the Governor General;
praying that Ris Excellency will be pleased
to cause to be laid before this House, a copy

of the patent issued by the Departnent of the
Interior for lot rumber 133, in the Parish of
St. Agathe, in the Province of Manitoba, to
Mrs. Annie Lonsdale, on the 31st October,
1881.
He said-In making this motion I intended to have addressed the House on
the subject to which it refers, but I will
content myself for the present with merely

Proofof Entries, etc., kept [JU NE 15, 1885] by o/ißcer8 of the Crown. 1047
!noving for the papers. When they are
before the House I will refer to the subject again.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Monday,June i5th, r885.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
THE SPEAKER took the chair at three
Government have no objection to the o'clock.
Address.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
The motion was agreed to.
ENGINE HOUSE AT PORT MOODY.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
INQUIRY.

Bill (117), "An Act respecting the
Commercial Bank of Windsor." (Hon.
Sir Alex. Campbell).

HON. MR. McINNES (B.C.) enquired:
"Is the Government going to build a Railway Engine House at Port Moody ? If so,
when will the contract
Bill (126), " An Act to provide for the building completed ?" be awarded and the
fitting representation of Canada at the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition to be held
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is
in London in the year 1886.'
(Hon. Sir the intention of the Government to build
Alex. Campbell).
an Engine House on that part of the
road ; but whether at Port Moody or
Bill (ro5), "An Act respecting the some part lower down, the Government
Bank of British Columbia." (Hon. Sir have not yet decided.
It will rest very
Alex. Campbell).
much on the advice they will receive from
the Canadian Pacific Railway Company.
Bill (133), " An Act further to, amend
the Steamboat Inspection Act, 1882." PROOF OF ENTRIES IN BOOKS OF
<Hon. Sir Alex. Campbell).
ACCOUNT KEPT BY OFFICERS
OF THE CROWN, BILL.
Bill (i 19), " An Act further to amend
the Acts respecting the inspection of Gas
COMMONS AMENDMENTS.
and Gas Metres."
(Hon. Sir Alex.
Campbell).
A message was received from the
House of Commons, returning Bill (M),
AN ADJOURNMENT.
" An Act respecting Proof of Entries in
Books kept by Officers of the Crown,"
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-Before the
adjourriment of the House 1 beg to ob- with certain amendments.
serve that there is nothing on the paper
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
for to-morrow but a question proposed by
the hon. member from British Columbia amendments are in furtherance of the
(Mr. McInnes). We have work for Mon- object of the Bill. It was thought in the
day, but not sooner. I suppose there can other branch of the legislature that there
be no objection to an adjournment till was a want of perspicuity in some of the
then. I therefore move that when this expressions, leaving it doubtful which
House adjourns to-day it stand adjourned officer of the department was to make the
oath ; and it seened to them that the
until Monday.
oath was required. The amendments are
merely to make it more clear by whom
The motion was agreed to.
the oath is to be made. I move that the
amendments be concurred in.
The Senate adjourned at 3.30 p.m.
HoN. MR. POWER-I presume that
the amendments are all in the proper
direction, but not having the Bill before
me I cannot tell what the exact nature of

Public [SENATE] Loan Bill.

1048

the amendments is, and I presume that
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
other members are in the same position. object of the Bill is to authorize the raisIt might be as well to have the amend- ing by loan of $30,ooo,ooo, and the obments printed so that we would under- ject in asking the House to pass it at

stand them better, and that they be taken once is that negotiations are now in prointo consideration to-morrow.

gress in London, and it is necessary in
preparing the debentures which are to be

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
issued that the title of the Bill and the
have no objection to that ; I move that terms should be recited to some extent.
the amendments be taken into considera- A message has been received from Sir
tion to-morrow.
Leonard Tilley and the agents in London,

The motion was agreed to.
PUBLIC LOAN BILL.
SECOND READING.

A message was received from the
Commons with Bill (145), "An Act to
authorize the raising by w.y of loan certain
sums of money for the public service."
The Bill was read the first time.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I beg
to move that the 41st rule of this House
be suspended, so far as it relates to this
Bill, and that the Bill be read the second
time, at length, at the table.

requesting that the Bill might be passed
as soon as possible. The House will, no
doubt, desire to know the application of
the money to be raised by this Bill. The
following is the memorandum given to
me by the Finance Department
Temporary loans in London
and Canada, to be repaid $15,819,671
5,750,000
C. P. R. loan and subsidy..
Capital expenditure, 1885-86,
and supplementary estimate 1884-5 and 1885-6..
6,979,663
Insurrection in the North-west
4,000,000
Probable expenditure on account railway subsidies,
46 Vic. and 47 Vic., and
also Short Line Railway. .
2,500,000
$35,049,334

It is for the purpose of enabling the
ister should give some reason for such an Government to meet these sums that it is
unusual step as the suspension of the 41st proposed to make this loan. As the nerule.
gotiations have proceeded and as the
Finance Minister is anxious that this
power should be given to the Government
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
was just going to do so.
now, for the object which I have mentioned, I hope the House will allow the
HON. MR. POWER-I think the ex- Bill to be read the second time to-day.
planation should have come from the
Minister when he moved the suspension
HON. MR. WARK-How will the other
of the rule.
$5,000,000 be provided ?
HON. MR. POWER-The hon. Min-

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Out
could not very well give an explanation, of the treasury without reference to this
because I had moved the second reading particular loan.
of the Bill as well as the suspension of the
rule, and ny hon. friend knows that the
HON. MR. WARK-How much will
ordinary usage of the House is that the the whole debt be with this addition ?
motion is put from the chair before being
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
spoken to.
net debt will be about $191,ooo,ooo, and
HON. MR. POWER-Then the hon. the gross debt $258,ooo,ooo
member was guilty of an irregularity in

moving two motions at once.

HON.

amount ?
HON. MR.

POWER.

MR.

SCOTT-Including this

Publie [JU NE 15, 1885] Loan Bill.

10A9ý

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-InHON. MR. WARK-I think the resoCluding a portion of this
lution in the House of Commons specified
that this was to be in addition to other
HON. MR. SCOTT-What portion ?
sums authorized to be borrowed.

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
Portion due in Canada and London,
$15,819,ooo. The statement made the
other day in the House of Commons was
that the net debt was about $191,ooo,ooo,
and the gross debt $258,000,000,
I
should think, speaking without any special
knowledge of the matter, that with the
exception of the unexpended balance of
the appropriation for the insurrection in
the North-West, the railway subsidies not
yet used, and the supplementary estimates,
the whole of this is included in the debt,
which was said, the other day, to be the
atount I have mentioned.
HON. MR. SCOT T-w assume that the
Subject will corne before Parliament in
another shape, and we will then have an
Opportunity of discussing itt; my hon.
friend wishes to pass this Bill at once,
before we have any opportunity of con sidering it. This, I understand, also is
apart from. the negotiation which has just
been completed in London, converting
Our five per cents into four per cents ?
HON.

SIR

ALEX.

CAMPBELL-

HON. MR. SCOTT-Wilmy hon. friend
say whether this c-)vers the whole amount
of the proposed boan which the Government contemplate before Parliament rises
-the whole amount to be raised on
capital account? Because, under certain
Acts of Parliament the Government have
Special borrowing powers outside of that.
1 do not understand that those borrowing
Powers have been exhausted, and therefore 1 wish to ask whether it is proposed
to exceed the specific power given in this
]Bill, and the Government wilI avail itself
Of the further borrowing powers.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
cannot speak with any certainty, but I
understand that this present Bill covers
the whole amount which the Government
sow expect to borrow. However, I do
dlot
speak with the certainty of a financial
pean upon it.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-It appears
to me a very extraordinary procedure to
ask Parliament to give its assent to a Bil
which we have not seen. We have simply
heard a sort of indistinct explanation frorn
the leader of this House which I have not
been able to catch. I can only say that
if the Senate agrees to give its sanction to
a Bil of such a character as this, giving
borrowing powers to the Government to
the extent Of $35,000,000 without even
seeing the Bil, it is an instance of the
manner in which the Government treat
Parliament and this House especially.
In a very short time the country
see that we are
will begin
to
reaping the fruits of the administration
of a profligate government. In former
days, if the question of $oooooo
or
$loooooo
came up, it always engaged
the earnest attention of the House, but
who can sanction and uphold the cool
manner in which the leader of this House
now introduces a Bill of such significance
and asks that it be read the second time
before it bas been distributed ?
Why
should we give borrowing powers to a
governnient which are going on as the
present Governeent are doing, without
mes.
knowing for what purposes stch a colossal
sum is asked? With regard to the NorthWest we know that simply through their
misruletheyhave brought untold obligations
upon the country. We have already had
to vote $I,700,ooo, and they ask now that
this amount should be extended to $4,hon,ooo, which will not cover the total expense
of the outbreak and al its consequences.
The action of the Dominion Parliament
at this moment is simply a blind acquiesence in the acts of one man. That pohitical leader, namely the First Minister of
the Crown, obtained from this country in
1878 an overwhelming majority when he
appealed to the electors. He obtained
then the suffrages of the people upon the
question of a National Policy, and he
afterwards brought in his gerrymandering
Bil, through which ho obtained a further
lease of power. He has to-day a commanding majority in the House of Comons, and fro
the amiable disposition

1050

Public [SENATE] Loan Bill.

of the members of this august body, who
are not disposed to call in question his
wisdom or prudence, we are now from a
blind acquiesence in the acts of that
Minister sanctioning what is wrong, and
you cannot take up a journal without
observing the letters of earnest men. leading merchants and bankers of the
country, addressed to the Press of the
country expressing their alarm and anxiety
as to the condition of our public affairs.
Parliament seems to think it has no duty
to discharge but to acquiesce in all the
acts of that one man. I, myself, had implicit confidence in the judgment of that
Minister until I saw that he was habitually
trampling under vested rights and entering upon wild schemes of expenditure
which must soon arouse widespread discontent. What, I may ask, caused the
downfall of the Gladstone government but
the necessity of raising additional revenue
on beer and spirits in order to equalize
expenditure and revenue ? And we now
fnd our own Government increasing the
liabilities of the country until there will be
a widespread discontent, and perhaps
something worse. I take this occasion to
warn the Government of the day that
Confederation stands upon no solid basis.
We have had one insurrection in the NorthWest, and the Conservative party may
pretend to laugh and sneer at the Farmers'
Union of the North-West, and to say that
they are simply inspired by the Grit party.
I have taken the trouble to inform myself
respecting this, and I am assured by
settlers from the North-West that the
Farmers' Union embraces some of the
leading men in that country. In British
Columbia we have observed discontent
because the Government have found it
necessary to impose stampage dues on
timber and enforce other regulations to
which the people object. And are the
two branches of parliament prepared to
go on acquiescing in the misguided action
of one man, adding millions of dollars to
the public debt, until there is a danger of
breaking up confederation ? I raise my
humble voice against such a course, and I
hope the hon. gentlemen will let the Bill
stand over till to-morrow.

this Bill, nor is it extraordinary. This Bill
is a money Bill. It has received the concurrence of the House of Commons after
discussion. It has come up here and we
cannot amend it, and we do not want
delays. We must either give our consent
to it or throw it out altogether. I think
the Senate will hesitate before they throw
out the Bill, and amend it they cannot.
Under the circumstances, the hon. Minister has given sufficient reason to show
that the Senate should concur in the
measure inasmuch as negotiations for a
loan are going on, and it is necessary that
the terms of the Bill should be communicated to the Finance Minister who is now
in London. The course of the Minister
of Justice is not an unusual one, and I
think the Senate should concur in it without further discussion.

HON. MR. POWER--I do not agree
with the hon. gentleman who has just sat
down. It is perfectly true that the Senate
cannot amend the Bill, nor is at all probable that they will throw it out, and for
that reason there is no hurry. The Minister
of Justice knows as well now as if the Bill
had passed, that it will pass this House
without any alteration ; consequently any
information that is necessary to send to
London respecting the form of the Bill
can be sent now as well as after the
passing of the measure. Although this
House cannot alter or amend a money
bill, and is not likely to throw it
out, still we have heretofore exercised
the right of discussing measures of this
character. I remember that some years ago
very long discussions upon the financial
condition of the country were carried on
in this chamber, and, as we have not been
doing a great deal for some time past, this
is one of those subjects upon which hon.
gentlemen could very well make their
voices heard. For myself I must express
a feeling of melancholy and disappointment to think that after all the surpluses
of the past years, of which the hon. Minister who is not now in his place has been
very fond of boasting, we are called upon
to authorize the borrowing of some
$35,ooo,ooo, to pay off the floating debt.
Under the circumstances it would only be
HON. MR. BOTSFORD-There is expected that the Minister of Justice in
nothingunusual in the course recommended asking the concurrence of the House in a
by the Minister of Justice with respect to Bill of such a very serious character as
HON. MR.

ALEXANDER.

1061

Commercial Bank [JUNE 15, 1885.] of Windsor BiL.
this should have entered into a little more
detail as to why it was necessary and as to
the objects of the different loans which
are embodied in the Bill. The Minister
has admitted that he is not at present in
Possession of sufficient information to
answer the questions that have already
been asked him in connection with it.
Therefore, no harm can befall the public
service in any way by an adherence to the
usual forms of Parliamentary rule ; and
the second reading ought to be postponed
until to-morrow. I may say for one, that
I shall not offer, as long as there is time
given to read the Bill, and to understand
its full import, any objection to the other
stages of the Bill being taken in one day.
It is unreasonable on the part of the Government to ask to push this Bill through
in this way, seeing that they have known,
with respect to the bulk of the money
Proposed to be borrowed: under this
Bill, from the beginning of the session,
that it would be required ; and now,
after we have been sitting for five months,
the Government come down and tell us
that this measure, which they might have
introduced at any time this session, must
be rushed through the House imnediately
after being introduced. I think it is an
extraordinary position for the Government to take.
I am not, as the
hon. Minister knows, given to raising
unnecessary technical objections ; but unless the Minister agrees to give us time to
read the Bill and consider its import before undertaking to push it to its final
stage, I shall be obliged to object to the
suspension of the rule. If the hon. Minister will say that he will postpone the
third reading until to-morrow, and that
anything we have to say on the Bill can
be said then, and that he will then be prepared to make any explanations that are
necessary, I shall withdraw my objection.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
have no objection to taking the third reading to-morrow.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time at length at the
Table.

referred to in that Bill may be added to
the $3o,ooo,ooo when borrowing ?
HoN. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-As

far as I know it is only to the extent of
thirty or thirty-five millions that it is intended to borrow under the additional
power the Government may have. I will
ascertain and inform the House to-morrow.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (122), " An Act respecting agricultural fertilizers." (Hon. Sir Alex. Campbell.)

COMMERCIAL BANK OF WINDSOR BILL.
SECOND READING
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the second reading of Bill (I 17), "An Act
respecting the Commercial Bank of

Windsor."

He said:

The Commercial

Bank of Windsor, in Nova Scotia, is a
bank that was doing business under a
local charter. Their charter was to ex-

pire during the present year, and attention
was thus drawn to the subject.

It turned

out that they had applied to the Treasury
Board by special resolution in 1875, to
become incorporated under the terms of

the General Banking Act, which would
extend their charter until 1891, and they

expressed their desire to conform to those
terms.
Their memorial to that effect
went to the Treasury Board in 1875, and

was adopted there, and the proceedings
under the statute were authorized to be
taken. Those proceedings included the
publication in the Canada Gazette of the
fact that the bank had so applied, and
that the Treasury Board had agreed to
their application, and that it was to be
carried into effect. This publication in
the Gazette, through some accident, never
took place. The following resolution was
passed by the directors of the bank on the
1gth of February, 1875:
" Wliereas the time has arrived when it is
desirable to-increase the capital of this bank,
and whereas the stockholders have given the
directors authority to do so to the extent of

HON. MR. WARK-Will the Minister $500,OO0.
Therefore resolved that the cashier is
of Justice be able to inform the House hereby authorized to apply to the Treasury
to-morrow how much unborrowed money Board for a charter under the Dominion

1052

Colonial and [SENATE] hndian -ExhibitionBill.

Banking Act with power to increase the COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBIcapital to $500,000, by iesumng 7,500 new
TION BILL
shares of $40 eacli, or $300,000."
This application was sent to the
Treasury Board, and the following minute
was made of it there :"<Read applications froni Walter Lawson,
cashier of the Commercial Bank of Windsor,
asking for a bank certificate to issue as soon
as $500,000 is subscribed. The Board order
that certificate be issued as soon as satisfactory evidence is received in accordance with
the Act, 34th Vic., cap. 5."
The $5oo,ooo was subscribed, and the
certificate was issued to the bank on the
22nd May, 1885 ; but by some accident
it was never published in the Official
Gazette, as required by section 73 of the
Banking Act, and it was not amongst
those banks whose charters were extended by 43 Vic., cap. 22.
This Bill is
to remedy that omission, and to declare
that all contracts and agreements, entered
into by the bank in the meantime, shall
be valid and effectual, and to extend the
charter of the bank, in conformity with
what would have been done had the
regular proceedings been taken at the
time mentioned-that is, up to 1891
HON. MR. POWER-Who is to give
this notice that is required by the 7 3 rd
section of the Banking Act ?
HON. SIR ALEX.

CAMPBELL -

I

might mention to my hon. friend from
Halifax, who asks whose fault it was that
this notice was not published, that it
was the fault of the officers of the Treasury Board, and I might add that it was
during the time of the late Government.
HON. MR. POWER-It is very kind of
the Minister to give that information unasked. The reason I asked the question
is, I thought that if it had been through
any omission on the part of the Company
there might be some question as to their
right to get the Bill without discussion ;
but as long as the mistake was made by
the officers of the Government, the Company are entitled to their charter. I am
glad all the mistakes are not made by the
present Government

SECOND READING.
HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELLmoved
the second reading of Bill (126), " An Act

to provide for the fitting representation of

Canada at the Colonial and Indian Exhibition, to be held in London in the year
1886."
He said :-When it was proposed in
England to undertake a Colonial and In-

dian Exhibition in London, a circular was
sent to the various colonies informing
them that India had agreed to guarantee
a certain amount,

£2o,ooo,

and asking if

they would join in the guarantee so as to

swell the amount from 20,oo to £ 5 0,ooo, and this Bill is to authorize us to do

our part of the request,and to guarantee
5o,ooo, that would
10,ooo of the
be £30,ooo of the amount, and the other
colonies would make up the other

£

£20,ooo.

The

money

so

guaranteed

is to be held to meet any sum by
which the intended exhibition may fail
short of being self-supporting. In the
past those exhibitions have not been
attended with loss, and there is no idea
that it will be on this occasion. On the
contrary it is expected that it will be a
great success, and that it will be an
exhibition of great interest and importance
to the colonies, and to Canada among
them. It is proposed to exhibit the
growth of the colonies and of India, and
to show from actual products to the eyes
of all that go there the extent to which
progress has been made in the colonies,
and in that way it will bring the products
of this country under the notice of a great
many people who take an interest in the
colonies and in India, and also of the
general publi-:. It seemîed to us to be an
exhibition particularly desirable, and one
particularly in our interests, and we
thought that we were right in saying we
would present to Parliament a Bill for the
purpose of enabling us to guarantee to
the extent of £1o,ooo, should there be a
loss, and that we should contribute to
make up that loss, in proportion to the
extent of our guarantee

The motion was agreed to, and the
HON. MR. SCOTT-There is no doubt
that an exhibition of this character will
Bill was read the second time.
HoN. S IR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Colonial and [JUNE 15, 1885] IndiaitExhibition BiU. 1053
have its advantages, provided the colonies
send forward their exhibits; and I should
like very much to know, and I am sure
the country would like to know, whether
the Government has any policy in reference
to the line they propose to adopt towards
aiding the exhibitors who propose to exhibit in London. We know that unless it
is stimulated by the Administration, exhibitors are very slow to incur the very large
expense that will necessarily fall upon
them to send their goods to so remote a
point as London. I think on former
occasions a grant was made from the
public chest towards reducing the large
outlay that necessarily falis on the
exhibitors if they have got to bear che
whole amount themselves, and therefore
they will require to know a year in advance, if the Canadian section is to be a
success. It will only be a success by
Canadians taking a large interest in it.
That interest will only develop under the
stimulus of assistance. We will not find
that any large number of exhibitors from
Canada will be induced to send agents
there and incur large expense, unless the
country is prepared to assist ; and as the
Government has proposed to guarantee

province would probably be, and in what
way assistance could best and most advantageously be given to them. We propose
as far as we can to make the exhibition a
successful one, and hope that it may be of
more use to the colony than ordinary
exhibitions have been. Being an intercolonial one, and showing side by side the
products of the different colonies of the
empire, it will not only be a great advantage to the empire, but will be a stimulus
to the colonies, and will have a tendency
to bring them into closer relation with one
another, and with the Mother country.
We do propose, as far as the Government
is concerned, to give such assistancedoing it carefully-as will tend as far as it
can to make the exhibition a successful
one.
HON. MR. POWER-I hope the Government will not fail to send on their own
behalf one very rare and curious exhibit.
It will be their duty to send over a copy
of the Franchise Bill. It is something the
like of which no other colony, or no other
part of the Empire, or in fact no other
country in the world will be able to produce or exhibit.

$50,ooo, they will no doubt arrive at a

policy on that point before asking Parliament to guarantee so large a sum. If
Canada is not going to participate in it,
we ought not to join in the guarantee ;
and if we join in the guarantee we ought
to make the most out of it, and we can
only do so by liberal assistance being given
to the promoters, and by its being known
at least a year in advance that that assistance will be rendered by the Government.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
Government have adopted a policy with
reference to this matter, and we are now
pursuing that policy as far as we have been
enabled to do up to this time. It is proposed to assist, I cannot say in what
direction, or to what extent, to assist and
stimulate the exhibition, and the sending
of products from this country as far as we
can do so. The steps already taken are
for the purpose of procuring information.
Agents have already been employed who
are visiting or will shortly visit the various
provinces of the Dominion for the purpose
of getting together information as to what
the transmission, from each particular

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Perhaps my hon. friend from Halifax will
volunteer to go over and explain it.
HON. MR.
DEVER - A greater
curiosity still would be to send over the
Opposition to it!
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Perhaps
at some future stage of the Bill the Minister will be able to explain more clearly what
form the assistance will take. In the Province of Prince Edward Island an Advisory
Boardhasalready been appointed. Itwould
greatly strengthen the hands of those who
form that Board to be made aware, at as
early a period as possible, of the fact that
the expenses they, or the province may
incur, will be met from the Dominion
Treasury. It is important that this should
be known at as early a date as possible,
because extra pains and attention will be
paid by producers of all kinds to see that
what they have to exhibit is of first-class
quality, and to insure that the element of
time is all important. I therefore suggest
to the hon. gentleman whether at a future

1054A

Bank of [SENATE] Brities Colunbia Bill.

stage of the Bill he could not give us issued, and the payrnent thereof in case
more complete information than he has of insolvency, dividends, reserves, powers
of the bank in holding real estate, etc.,
been able to give us to-day
and the penalties for the breach of ail proHoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I visions made applicable to the bank, but
will endeavor to do so, but I am afraid the internal regulations are not touched.
that I cannot, because we are unable to The provisions made applicable to the
make up our minds as to the precise Bank of British North America are madeapcourse which we shall pursue with regard plicable to this bank, and for the purpose
to assistance, until we get this information of the Act Victoria is made the head office
together, but it may be that the Minister of the bank. The 'Charter of the bank
of Finance will be able to give further in- provides for a double liability of the shareformation.
I will make inquiry, and I holders in case of the winding up of the
shall be verv glad to give further infor- bank. The Bank of British North
mation, if I can do so, at some future America has only a single liability. The
Bill has been submitted to the authorities
stage of the Bill.
of the Bank in England, and has been
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill approved of by them.
was read the second time.
The internal regulations relate to the
opening of books of subscription, the
BANK OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
transfers and transmission of shares, the
BILL.
payment therefor, voting of shareholders
powers of shareholders to regulate the
SECOND READING.
management and administration of the
bank, such as the remuneration of the
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved president, the qualification of directors,
the second reading of Bill (105), - An election of directors, &c., special general
Act respecting the Bank of British meetings, board of directors, their quorum
He said : The Bank of and general powers so far as the manageColumbia."
British Columbia is a bank doing busi- ment of the bank is concerned, and
ness under a royal charter in the province making and enforcement of calls the
of British Columbia. Its original charter statements to be laid before the general
was granted to it in 1862.
A sup- meeting of the shareholders, the inspection
plementary charter was granted in 1865, of books and the declaring of dividends,
and these charters gave them power to do except that in the last case they cannot
business until 1883. In 1883, a sup- declare any dividend exceeding eight per
plemental charter was granted to them cent. unless rest equals 20 per cent. of
for a year, and in 1884 a still further paid up capital. These things are provided
supplemental charter dated 27th May in for by the charter of the bank.
that year. This last charter enabled them
The House will see the general nature
to do business for ten years, but to of the provisions to which it is proposed
do it subject to the general banking law to make them subject, and the general
of the colony in which the business was nature of the provisions which it is probeing carried on. That was the first time posed to exempt them from.
that the clause was introduced in their
charters, and it was introduced in
HON. MR. McINNES (B.C.)-I do not
deference to our general Banking Act. rise to oppose the Bill, but merely to
That clause it is now proposed to avail of express my regret that in the first clause it
by declaring what clauses of the Banking provides that no bills shall be issued for a
Act they shall be subject to, and what less sum than $5 and the multiples of $5clauses they shall be exempt from. The Unfortunately in British Columbia, owing
clauses they are to be subject to relate to to our sparse population, we have very few
the general conduct of banking business: banks, and very few money order postthose providing for returns, the limit of offices. The consequence is if this Bill
circulation (which is not to exceed the becomes law, it will be very difficult indeed
amount of the unimpaired paid-up capital), to transmit moneys from one portion of
the denomination of notes allowed to be the province to another. Up to the
HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE.

Public [JUNE 16, 1885] Loan Bill.

1055

present time very few $i and $2 Dominion
bank notes have found their way there,
and if this clause is enforced, I am afraid
it will entail very great hardship on many
people living in the outlying districts of
the province.

will be withdrawn. I think it was stated
in the other Chamber that the expense of
keeping the troops up there is about half
a million dollars a month, and consequently if they are going to remain there
for some indefinite time, the expenditure
will be very considerably increased, It is
HON. MR. PLUMB-Have they been a matter which is germane to the Bill, and
issuing small notes ?
I think the country will be anxious to
know how long the troops will be kept in
HON. MR. McINNES (B. C.)-Yes, the field.
until a very few years ago. I should like
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
very much indeed, if it did not interfere
with the general object of the Bill, that will be able to give information about it
they should be authorized to issue notes to-morrow, I have no doubt. It is the
intention of the Government to withdraw
from one dollar up.
the troops as soon as possible. ArrangeHON. MR. MACDONALD-The bank ments are now being discussed as to the
of its own accord ceased to issue small degree and how rapidly they can be withnotes some years ago
drawn.
HON. MR. McINNES (B C)-I am
aware of that, but it nevertheless leaves
the people of the province in a very awkward position in transmitting money.

The Senate adjourned at 4.15 p.m.

THE SENATE.
HON. MR. MACDONALD-I do not

think so. They have $2 notes.
HON. MR.

McINNES-Very few.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-There
is no divergence of opinion between the

Bank and the Government. They abandoned issuing small notes, and they have
no disposition to resume issuing them.

Ottawa, Tuesday, June róth, 1885.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
PUBLIC LOAN BILL.
THIRD READING.

HON. MR.

McINNES-I am very sorry

to hear it.

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved

The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
THE TROOPS IN THE
NORTH-WEST.
ENQUIRY.
HON.
MR.
POWER-Before the
House adjourns I should like to ask the
Minister if he would be kind enough, or
if he will be in a position at the third
reading of the Loan Bill to-morrow, to give
the House some information as to the
probable time when the Government will
begin to withdraw the troops from the
North-West, and the rate at which they

the third reading of Bill (145), " An Act
to authorize the raising, by way of loan, of
certain sums of money for the Public Service." He said : In moving the third
reading of this Bill I will take occasion to
make the replies which I promised to give
with reference to the inquiries made by
two members of the House yesterday.
My hon. friend from New Brunswick (Mr.
Wark) is desirous of knowing whether any
of the existing powers of borrowing were
intended to be availed of by the Government in addition to the $3o,ooo,ooo mentioned in this Bill, and I stated that the
intention of the Government was to limit
itself to the borrowing powers given in this
Bill, and that is the intention of the Government. The additional powers which

1056

RPubli
[SENATE] Loan Bill.

are in force, and which might be availed
of if the Government thought proper so
to do, are to be found in the Statutes of
1884, chap. 2, and if my hon. friend will
look at that Statute he will find there a
number of powers given to borrow, but
they are principally for specific purposes,
as, for instance: For the Intercolonial
Railway, so much; for opening communication with and for the administration of
the Government in the Northwest, so
much; for improvement of the River St.
Lawrence, so much; for Quebec harbor,
so much ; Quebec graving dock, so much ;
Canadian Pacific Railway, so much;
Canals, so much ; Savings Banks, so
much, etc. Then certain sums are deducted, leavng the balance which would
seem to be available for the Government
for the various purposes of the Bill, twentytwo millions odd ; but I am told the balance remaining unborrowed on these
powers for general purposes is under five
millions; but it is not intended that the
Government shall avail itself of those
borrowing powers even for the $5,000,000
as far as we know. We do not abandon
the power, nor do we avail ourselves of
it. Then the hon. member from Halifax
(Mr. Power) desired to know, with reference to the probable expenditure in the
North-West to come out of the $4,ooo,ooo
mentioned in this Bill, when the troops
were likely to be withdrawn. I have seen
the Minister of Militia on that point, and
he is in communication with the general
in command of the forces up there, to see
how soon, and how quickly, the troops
can be withdrawn. It is the desire of the
Minister, and of the Government, that
they should be withdrawn as soon as
possible. In the absence of communications from the general in command, the
Minister of Militia is of opinion that it
can be done at an early date, but he cannot say when until he hears from the
general. I think these are the only two
questions asked with reference to this
Bill.

that the Government needed the authority to complete the loan at an early date.
I find, from returns brought down in the
other Chamber that the greater part of
the money mentioned in this Bill has
been actually expended. It is not to
borrow money to expend, but to recoup
the Government for mney already
expended. I notice that the largest item
is to cover $4,400,ooo already borrowed
in this country, and $11,400,ooo

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
mentioned that yesterday.
HON. MR. SCOTT-Therefore, the
larger portion of the loan has really been
expended. The other portion of it is for
the payment of sums that Parliament has
already authorized, and public works that
are now going on, for which, no doubt,
this money has been largely anticipated.
So, no doubt, it is really to recoup money
which has actually been expended.
I do not propose to go into any
lengthened detail of the public debt of
Canada at this moment, but still in
passing a bill of this kind which adds
$30,ooo,ooo to- the public debt of the
country, it may not be inappropriate or
inopportune to draw attention to the
increased public debt of this country, and
to ask ourselves whether it can go on in
the ratio at which it has been accumulating for the last few years with anything like
safety to the country. I will draw attention to a few of the salient leaps of this
public debt without going into details.
Our net debt, as it stood the year after
Confederation, 1867-68, was $75,750,000,

in round figures. That debt had risen at
the end of 1884, as I find by the public
accounts which are under my hand here,
to $ 182,161,850. That was the net debt ;
that was after crediting the gross debt
with some $6o,ooo,ooo assets. We may
add this year to that amount $30,000,000,
making the net debt at the end of this
year $212,161,850.

SCOTT-The Bill will, no
doubt, be read the third time, and I
assume it will be our duty to allow it to
be read to meet the emergencies which
the Government suggest are so important.
I noticed in the other House the Bill was
very little discussed, owing to the fact
HON. MR.

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

already

borrowed in London.

But the most start-

ling part of it is that while in the last two
or three years, since the increased duties
on our imports have forced up the public
revenue of this country to nearly one-third
of what it had ordinarily reached in
former years under the lower tariff, yet in
the face of that, with the surpluses the

Public [J UNE 16, 1885] Loan Bill

1057

Government have been able to boast ofin have said, I have only to take up the last
consequence of those increased duties, we report of the Department of Railways and
have added in two years $54,000,000 to Canals which has been distributed.
I
Our debt. The debt of 1884 exceeded turn there to the railways and canals that
the debt in 1883 by $24,ooo,ooo, and we have authorized to be constructed
we now add $3o,ooo,ooo, which two consequent upon obtaining the support
sums make $54,ooo,ooo in two years. I and assistance of members from different
arn quite aware that a large portion of localities. Many of them are works of a
that necessarily is chargeable to the purely local character, works that ought to
Canadian Pacific Railway to which this be aided and subsidized by the municicountry has committed itself, and to the palities, and if not by the municipalities
rapid mode in which that line is being then by the ProvincialGovernments. They
constructed ; but still that does not ex- are not works of that character that ought
plain anything like the full extent of that to be chargeable against the Federal power.
huge indebtedness. The Canadian Pacific I find that we commenced in 1882, when
Railway Company have not in the last we decided that Quebec had to be
two years spent anything like the figures I recouped because she had built the North
have quoted. Then what is the cause of Shore Railway and extended it to the City
this extraordinary outflow of the pub- or Ottawa. We felt that we had to recoup
lic money in the direction of pub- Quebec, under the Act of last Session to
lic works? Simply we have drifted the extent of $2,394,ooo for those two
into a system of government by com- roads, and I notice by the papers to-day
promise. Even with a very strong that we propose doing still more-we progovernment-the strongest we have had pose buying it (for it is announced that
in Canada in a great many years-with Sir Henry Tyler has decided to give up
the huge majority which they possess in the struggle for the North Shore and
both Chambers, they are unable to carry decided to sell it) again from the
out any legitimate policy they may adopt Grand Trunk Railway Company. After
without introducing an omnibus measure, having paid Quebec $2,394,ooo towards
giving by way of bribes to different parts of the construction of those two roads, we
this country, large sums of money in order are now to buy it from the present holders,
to induce members from those sections to the Grand Trunk Railway Company being
support the particular policy that the the principal parties interested, in order
Government for the moment think they that it may be made part of the through
are bound to adopt. I say that is an un- line. Having done that, what are we
healthy condition of things, and one deeply obliged to do ? We are told that we must
to be deplored. It is a condition of extend the northern system of railways
things which must sooner or later land us from Gravenhurst to somewhere up near
in bankruptcy unless it is stopped. With Lake Nipissing. For that we first voted
a weak government depending on a ma- $6,ooo per mile, but that was not considered
jority of half a dozen supporters, as I have enough, and we made it $12,ooo per mile.
known governments in this country to be The gross amount in the first place was
situated in years gone by, there might have $66o,ooo, and now it is considerably over
been some palliation for such a course. $1,ooo,ooo. We were led from that into
They might have said that it was necessary subsidizing a numberof railways. Hon.genin oider to mantairi the administration in tieman here will say that many of the lines
power, though I think it is contrary to the to which I advert are most important and
interest of any country that an adminis- useful. I am not questioning the assertration should remain in power by buying tion; on the contrary, I recognize that they
up support, even if the object they have in are important, but are they such roads that
view is a good one. But in the case to we, in our position at the present moment,
which I have adverted no such excuse can struggling to build this all-rail route from
be urged. Here, with a large majority at ocean to ocean, should further tax ourtheir back, the Government seem power- selves in order to construct ? Many of
less to carry through their policy except them are, in my judgment, b3gus affairs,
by bribes held out to various sections of simply got up to assist the promoters, to
the country. In confirmation of what I enable them, under the Government assistR2

Ptd>lic [82NATE] Loan Bill.

1058

ance, to float bonds and makk a good suni
the Province of Quebec, to
of money 'out of them, and allow the
the International boundary
mortgagees. or bondholders to take the
line, a subsidy not exceeding
road, thèy having made a considerable$3,200 per mile, nor exceeding
amount by the speculation. There are,
in the whole...........
156,8o
no doubt, a good many roads that I could In connection with the extenclass as coming within that category. I
sion of this road through
find there was the railway from St. RayMaine to connect with New
mond to Lake St. John, to which a subsidy
Brunswick, at or near Vanceborough or south of that point.
of $384,000 was granted. Then the railway from a point on the Intercolonial To the Northern and Western
Railway at Riviere du Loup or Riviere
Railway Company, for 32
Ouelle to Edmonst;n, $34o,ooo. Then
miles of their railway, from
the following year we have the following
the Intercolonial Railway, near
the Miramichi, to Moran's,
grants made
near Demphy Village, in the
To the Baie des Chaleurs RailProvince of New Brunswick,
way Company for 1oo miles
asubsidynot exceeding $3,200
of their railway, from Mataper mile, nor exceeding in the
pediac, on the Intercolonial
whole ....................
102,400
Railway, to Paspebiac, in the
To the Montreal and Western
Province of Quebec, a subsidy
Railway Company, for the first
not exceeding $3,200 per mile,
50-mile section of their railnor exceeding in the whole. . $320,000
way, out of St. jerome, in the
To the Caraquet Railway ComProvince of Quebec, a subsidy
pany, for 36 miles of their
not exceeding $3,200 per mile,
railway, from a point near
nor exceeding in the whole. . 16o,ooo
Bathurst to Caraquet, in the
Province of New Brunswick,
The next is a little railway running
a subsidy not exceeding $3,.:0
through the county which my hon. friend,
per mile, nor exceeding in the
the Minister of Justice formerly repre115,200 sented :
whole ....................
To the Gatineau Valley Railway
To the Napanee, Tamworth and
Company for the first 5o-mile
Quebec Railway Company, for
section of their railway, from
28 miles of their railway, from
Hull station, in the Province
Napanee to Tamworth, in the
of Quebec, a subsidy not exProvince of Ontario, a subsidy
ceeding $3,200 per mile, nor
not exceeding $3,200 per mile.
exceeding in the whole ...... .i 6o.ooo
nor exceeding in the whole.
89,6oo
That is a little railway running out by To the Quebec and Lake St.
the house where I live in summer, a
John Railway Company, for
purely local work which ought to be built
25 miles of their railway, from
hy the :county in which it is situated.
St. Raymond to Lake St. John,
Then we come to
in the Province of Quebec, a
The Great American and Eurosubsidy not exceeding $3,200
per mile, nor exceeding in the
pean Short Line Railway
Company, for 8o miles of their
whole .. ................
8o,ooo
railway from Canso to LouisIn addition to the subsidy
burg or Sydney, in the Pro.
granted by the Act forty-fifth
vince of Nova Scotia, a subsidy
Victoria, chapter fourteen.
not exceeding $3,200 per mile,
For a railway from the Interconor exceeding in the whole
lonial Railway at Peticodiac
(that has been considerably
to Havelock Corner, in the
augumented since). . . . . . . . 256,ooo
Province of New Brunswick,
To the International Railway
12 miles, a subsidy not exceedCompany, for 49 miles of their
ing $3,200 per mile. nor exrailway from Sherbrooke, in
ceeding in the whole ..-..38,400
HON. MR.

SCOTT.

Pblic J UN E ;1,- I886] Làft Bill.
For the construction of a line of railway
connecting Montreal 'with the harbôurs
of St. John and Halifax by the shortest
and best practicable route, after the
report of competent engineers, a subsidy
not exceeding $1 70,000 per annum for

-for a1ine of railway from the
Victoria branch of the Midland Railway, to the village of
Bancroft, ia the township of
Dungannon, county of Hastings, a .subsidy not. exceeding
$3,200 per mile, nor exceeding,

fifteen years, or a guarantee of a like sum
in. the .Whol. ......
for a like period as interest on bonds
of the conipnny utidertaking the work. To the Pontiac Pacific Junction
That, if rumor says true, is a railway
failwa, foi a line :of railway
that is going to run across the State of
from Hull or Aylmer to PemMaine, and jstifies the renmark of a genbroke, provided 'the Ottawa
tleman who was a member of the first
river is crossed at some point
Government after Confederation, Hon.
not east of Lapasse, a subsidy
Wm. Macdougall, that the building of the
not exceeding $J,2oo per mile,
Intercolonial Railway by the route senor exceeding in the whole
lected was. simply throwing $7,ooo,ooo To the Gatineau- Railway Corninto the sea; . Probably after constructing
pany, for-a line of railway from
that short line we may find that a very
Kazuabazua to Le Desertconsiderable portion of the Intercolonial
that is about ioo miles up the
Railway will be useful only for purely
Gatineau-a subsidy not exlocal purposes.
ceeding $3,200 per rpile, nor
For the construction of a line of railway
exceeding in the whole .....
from Oxford Station, on the Intercolonial To the Napanee, Tamworth and
Railway, to Sydney or Louisburg, a
Quebec Railway Company, for
subsidy not exceeding $3o,ooo per annum
a line of railway. from Tam:
for fifteen years, or a guarantee of a like
worth to Bogart aud Bridge-sum for a like period as interest on the
water, a subsidy noy exceedipg
bonds of the company undertaking the
$3,200 per mile, nor exceeding
work, in addition to the subsidies prein the wþole............
viously granted, and also a lease or
The Montreal and Western Railtransfer to such company of the Eastern
way Cqrpany, for a line of
Extension Railway, from New Glasgow
railway,,,from the end of the,
to Canso, with its presente quipment.
line su sidiz¢d in the n9w last
To the Quebec Central Railway
Sessiotpf ?arliament, towards
Company, for a line of railway
Le Desçrl,,ag ubsidy noteexfrom Beauce Junction to the
ceeding '$3,200 per mile, nor
International boundary line, a
exceed4ng in the whole ......
subsidy not exceeding $3,2o

per mile, nor exceeding in
the whole...... .........
For the extension for the Canadian Pacific Railway, from its
o terminus at St. Martin's 'Junction, near Montreal, or some
other point on the Canadian
Pacific Railway, to the harbor
of Quebec, in such manner as
·mgy be approved by the Governor in-Council, a subsidy not
exceeding $6,ooo per mile, nor
exceeding in the whole ....
To the Irondale, Bancroft and
Ottawa ,Railway Companywherever that is ; I suppose
it is somewhere in this locality

21i,2o
0

1059

16o,ooo

272,000

16o,000

70,400

i 6o,ooo

The County of Ottawa was particùlarly
favored, 1 think. Nô less thài four lines
of railwa4 in, ti3e C.oupty of Ottawa have
got large, ubsýdies.* .9 dpibt they are
excellnt Jines for.tbç,'pople living in the
locality,' 'lÏX'-céitairilg. they,. are ot works
of a natiânal character that qught to be
paid for ont of the general revenues of
this country.
To the Northern and;Westerb
Raièvay. Compan,, for a. line
of railwayfrom d&e.4euicton to

96s0,oo

the Mi*midhi River, a1subsidy
not exe4ding 4,am per mile,
inosexceedngWn*fm (i*hole instead otthe subsidy proposed
in 188 .? d<. d'., . .. . . . .

128,000

Public [SENATE] Loan BiU.

1060

To the Erie and Huron Railway
Company, for a line of railway
from Wallaceburg to Sarnia, a
subsidy not exceeding $3,200
per mile, nor exceeding in the
whole ....................

96,ooo

This Erie and Huron line runs through
a rich section of the Province of Ontario.
I have no doubt it is a very useful line,
but it is a comparatively local one,
To the Ontario and Pacific Railway Company, for a line of
railway from Cornwall to
Perth, a subsidy not exceeding $3,200 per mile, nor exceeding in the whole .......
262,400
I understand that on the faith of that
the bonds of this road have been issued,
and $5o,ooo have been subscribed, and
that up to the present time there has not
been a shovel of earth spread, and yet
-capitalists have been induced to pay that
amount of money towards this railway,
which is to cross the country from the
town of Cornwall to Perth.
To the Kingston and Pembroke
Railway Company, for a line
of railway from Mississippi to
Renfrew, a subsidy not exceeding $3,200 per mile, nor

exceeding in the whole .....
To the Great Northern Railway
Company, for that portion of
their railway between St. Jerome and New Glasgow, in the
county of Terrebonne, a subsidy not exceeding $3,200 per
mile, nor exceeding in the
whole.................
For a line of railway and bridge
between the Jacques Cartier
Union Railway Junction with
the Canadian Pacific Railway
and St. Martin's Junction,
connecting the Jacques Cartier Union Railway with the
North Shore Railway proper,
a subsidy not exceeding in the
whole ....................
For a line of railway from Richibucto to St. Louis, a subsidy
not exceeding $3,200 per mile,
nor exceeding in the whole..
For a line of railway from Hopewell to Alma, in the Province
lION.

MR. SCOTT.

48,000

32,000

of New Brunswick, a subsidy
not exceeding $3,200 per mile,
nor exceeding in the whole. .
For a line of railway from St.
Andrews to Lachute, in the
county of Argenteuil, a subsidy
not exceeding $3,200 per mile,

nor exceeding in the whole. .
For a line of railway from the
Grand Piles, on the River St.
Maurice, to Lake Edward, a
subsidy not exceeding $3,200
per mile, nor exceeding in the
whole....................
For a line of railway from Annapolis to Digby, in the Province
of Nova Scotia, a subsidy not
exceeding $3,2oo per mile, nor
exceeding in the whole. . . . .
For a line of the Central Railway
from the head of Grand Lake
to the Intercolonial Railway,
between Sussex and St. John,
a subsidy notexceeding $3,200
per mile, nor exceeding in the
whole ....................

22,400

22,400

217,6oo

64,000

128,000

To the Caraquet Railway Company, for the extension of their
line of railway from Caraquet
to Shippigan Harbour, in the
Province of New Brunswick, a
subsidy not exceeding $3,200
per mile, nor eqceeding in the
whole ....................
76,8oo
For a branch of the Intercolonial
Railway, from Metapediaceastward, towards Paspebiac,
twenty miles, in the Province
of Quebec, a sum not exceeding in the whole ..........
300,000
For a branch of the Intercolonial
Railway, from Derby Station
to Indian-Town, fourteen
miles, a sum not exceeding in
the whole................

200,000

51,200

140,000

Now, that is an evidence of the way in
which the moneys of this country are
being spent, and although it is exceedingly
proper to stimulate local enterprises if
we have an overflowing treasury by which
we can do it, I think it is rather a grave
and serious question when our national
debt has sprung up so rapidly, and must
for a time continue to grow, that we
should be subsidizing local works of this
kind that ought to be supported and sustained by local enterprise, and the cor-

Public [JUNE 16, 1885] Loan Bill.
porations of the municipalities through
which the lines run, or by the provincial
authorities. I say it might be all very
well when we had this inflated revenue
under the prosperous times that have
favored the regime of this Government ;
but is that always going to last ? Are we
always going to be able to buy as largely
abroad, and pay the high duties that we
have been paying the last two or three
years ? I find that the general trade of
the country has not shown that extraordinary expansion that I think should be seen
in a young country like Canada, possessed
of the grand resources we have, owning
such vast and valuable timber forests, the
products of which are in demand on the
other side of the water. We possess,
beyond doubt, a most fertile soil, yet with
all those advantages, it is rather unfortunate that our trade is not a growing trade.
I was quite surprised on turning to statistics
of an old country like England to find
that, even in years of depression, their
trade has been steadily growing from one
year to another, and that their trade with
the rest of the world has been increasing.
Our experience in this country has been
to the contrary. I find that in 1874, just
1o years ago, our exports were $89,ooo,

our money out of the country for what we
could procure ourselves. The farmer was
to have his market in the towns, and the
manufacturers were to depend on the
farmers to consume their manufactures ;
but under the high tariff and increased
imports during the good times, the
revenue of this country shot up at least onethird. We collected some six or seven
millions of dollars more during the year
after the high tariff came into operation
than we had been in the habit of collecting in former years under similar circumstances. That is, there was one-third
additional duty added, and we got the
benefit of it in our revenue In 1883 our

000, and that last year, when one would

suppose that an extraordinary developMent must have taken place, for we had
an increase in our population, and certainly we have had an increase in territory, yet
our exports have risen in those 10 years
only from $89,ooo,ooo to $91,ooo,ooo,
an increase of just $2,ooo,ooo in io years.

No doubt there have been ups and
downs in that interval, but I happened to
take those ten years to point to the lesson
that one cannot ignore-that the growth
of trade in this country has not been as
Continuous or steadily increasing as one
would naturally expect to find it. Our
imports have been at times very large. In
1874 they had risen to as highas $127,000,-

1061

ooo ; in 1884 we find that they were only
$1o8 ,ooo,ooo, and that in the last three
years our imports have fallen, under the
influence, no doubt, of our high tariff.
Some hon. gentleman may say that that was
the fulfilment of the prophecy of those
who supported the National Policy ; that
we are not going to buy abroad ; that we
are to manufacture everything for ourselves, and that we are no longer to send

imports were

$ 123,000,000;

in 1884 it had

dropped down to $io8,ooo,ooo-a falling
off of $15,ooo,ooo in one year. That
must necessarily have affected our revenue
very considerably. Our tariff now is supposed to be at its highest, and it is not
proposed to add anything to it, yet if the
imports are to go down perceptibly in the
future where are we to get our revenue
for ordinary expenditure ? That brings
me to another subject which may not be
germane to this Bill, but is an opportune
subject to discuss on this question of expenditure of money. We find that what
is called our ordinary expenditure, that is,
the carrying on of the government of this
country and its management, not only
through the various departments but
through the outside service, has grown
from 1867-68, when it was $6,700,ooo, to
$11,250,000 last year. That was the
ordinary expenditure of the country. It
developed, no doubt, under the stimulus
of surpluses which permit governments, as
they permit individuals, to be more profuse
in their expenditures, and not quite so
careful of the moneys of the people. But
the particular item to which I would draw
attention at this moment is that relating
to civil government, which appertains to
the departments exclusively-the salaries
of the Ministers, and the salaries of their
clerks in the departments. In 1867-68
that cost us $591,ooo ; in 1878 it had
grown to nearly $823,000.

Last year it was

over a million dollars, and I find by the
estimates this year that it is proposed to
ask Parliament to authorize them to spend
on the departments of this country $1,200,506.
Now that might be, I will not

say very proper, but it might be justifiable

1069

Public [SENATE] Loan Bil.

if the revenues of the country were keep- year, or 25 cents per family, and when it is
ing up a healthy surplus, and it was in the recollected that this $1.25 per family only
interests of the country to keep up a high represents our government through the fedduty; but clearly in the condition of things eral system, and when we corne to consider
to which I have drawn attention-that that the country has to pay a very considis, the ever - increasing expenditures erable additional sum for its government
in all branches of the public service; through the provincial system, one cannot
it does not seem to me to be the duty of but come to the conclusion that Canada
a prudent government to continue to spend is a very much over-governed country.
so large a sum on the mere management Between the federal and provincial govof the service of the country -not on the ernments, and with a population of a little
service but the management of the service. under 5,000,000 of people, I think we are
I recollect not many years ago when hon. paying unduly for even a very good
gentlemen in this House were in the habit government-for the best government that
of representing the gross extravagance and Canada might obtain. I have avoided
recklessness of the Ministry of which I details, and I do not propose to go into
was a member, and pointing to the number details, because it is not perhaps proper to
of extra clerks then on the list, and sug- do so on the present occasion. I desired
gesting how much better and cheaper the simply, as this Bill is passing through, to
administration of affairs could be carried call attention to the prominent points, and
on if a change of government took place; to the great development of our public
yet we find that with all the forethought debt, and to show to the House one, at all
claimed by the gentlemen who expressed events, of the causes that have led to this
those views at that time, and their anxiety enormous accumulation of debt. It is, as
for economy, when they came to possess I said a while ago, owing to our not being
the reins of government and had the sufficiently uncompromising.
We are
opportunity to make the changes which supposed to follow the systern that prevails
they had previously discussed and so in England, and who ever heard of a
warmly advocated, the change has been British Minister consenting to have his
altogether in a different direction, and the general policy carried by giving way to
increase is making rapid progress. In sections of the House, and to squads of
1878 the expenditure for civil government half a dozen members here and there, in
amounted to $823,ooo, and this year it order that he might carry some great
has risen to $[,200,ooo. It seems to me measure that he could not otherwise
that for carrying on our federal system recommend to Parliament with any chance
this is rather an extreme figure. It leaves of its being adopted. No one for a
on the head of each family of five persons moment imagines that three-fourths of the
a burden of $i a year to pay the salaries projects to which I have drawn attention
of the Federal Ministers and their clerks, would independently have received the
and, this does not include the superannua- support of Parliament. Parliament would
tion account, which, I am sorry to say, is never have thought of giving aid to many
steadily on the increase. I have often of the railways to which I have adverted if
found it my duty to call attention to what they were not connected with a grand
I consider a great abuse, that of super- project, which grand project required a
annuating members of the civil service large vote, and to get the vote of the
who are in comparative youth, who at all majority of the House various sections
events have not reached that time of life of the country had to receive each
when they are not capable of serving their its quid pro quo. I remember in
country in the position of clerks. I have the early history of this country something
often called attention to this matter, and of the same kind was done, but on a
have pointed opt that many excellent and much smaller scale. My hon. friend will
useful public officers have been removed recollect that in giving the Grand Trunk
simply for the purpose of finding places Railway subsidies it frequently became
for hangers-on who wanted favor and pro- necessary, in order to obtain the sanction
motion. I say that this sum does not of Parliament to those subsidies, to make
include the superannuations which now grants to other lines. It was in that way
represent an amount of over $2oo,ooo a that the St. Lawrence & Ottawa, the
HoN. MR. SCOTT.

Public [JUNE 16, 1885] Lopen Bill.

1063

Brockville & Ottawa, the Port Hope & ies are bqrrowing on better terms than we
Lindsay, and several other branch lines are.
obtained subsidies-because it became
necessary in order to get the votes of the
Hox. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No.
m"embers who represented those districts
for the subsidy to the Grand Trunk Rail.
HON. MR. PLUMB-New Zealand is
way to subsidize those lines. It was on a paying more.
very small scale then, and the amounts
were very much less considering the relaHON. MR. SCOTT-I am referring to
tive strength of the country then and its New South Wales. I do not know any
Strength to-day. I say that the bills of other country in the world as heavily
those days were very much smaller than burdened as New Zealand is. I rememthose to which I have drawn attention, ber recently examining the figures of some
and which have marked the legislation of of the Australian colonies, and I know
the last two years. We cannot go on very that they were getting money somewhat
much further unless, indeed, the good cheaper than we were. There is that in
fortune that has attended this country and the future that will cone to our aid and
other countries that have been in debt for assistance. The tendency of the times is
the last ten years should continue to favor to cheapen money. There seems to be a
them, and that is the fall in the value of greater accumulation of money in the
money. That has been a great assistance to world than can be wisely used, and the
us. The fall in the value of money has been reversals that capitalists meet with now
equivalent to a saving of $2,ooo,ooo a year and then are making them more cautious
to this country. If this depreciation in and careful as to their investments, and
the value of money goes on, of course therefore it does seem extraordinary, that
Canada will largely benefit by it in making while investors are in nany ways only
exchanges of our bonds in future years: getting two per cent., we in Canada
but even- at this time, with the growth of should be paying four.
Of course it
the country, with its vast advantages, our has a great advantage as compared with
money ought to become even cheaper the position we held years before, but it
than it is. The present loan that is being ought to be greater than it is, and I hope
negotiated is at 4 per cent. Why is it the the day is not far distant when we will be
people of the United States should be able to borrow even cheaper. I think the
able to borrow money at three per time has come to consider whether we are
cent ? Why is it that their fours are not rushing on too rapidly, and whether
quoted to-day at about eighteen per we ought not to hesitate before we assume
cent. per annum ? Surely this country further responsibilities considering the
ought to be as good a paymaster. We heavy amount that our public debt has
do not, no matter what happens in this already reached.
country, propose to repudiate. We will
be able always to pay our debts, and the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My
sentiment of this country is not in any hon. friend has found a great deal of fault
sense in favor of repudiation, even to the with the administration of the Governextent to which it has been agitated in the ment, but it seems to me that he is doing
United States, and therefore capitalists it at rather the wrong moment. He lays
should have no fear in investing in Cana- great stress upon the powers which have
dian bonds. There will be no fear that been given to the Government from time
our bonds, whatever they amount to, will to time during the past years to aid various
be paid off at less than xoo cents to the railway companies. Now it seems to me
dollar, and therefore I say our credit ought that the time to have raised objections to
to be higher to-day than it is. Although that policy was when these bills were before
we have, to a great extent, got the advan- the House. The House of Commons saw
tage of this fall in the value of money, we fit to adopt that plan to grant subsidies to
have not reaped to the full extent the the various railways which my hon. friend
advantage of it-not to the extent that has mentioned. I do not remember that
some other colonies have done. We when the Bill came before this House my
know that some of the Australian colon- hon. friend raised that warning voice which

1064A

Public [SE NATE] Loan Bill.

he has raised now, for the time being at
all events, in such melancholy tones. I
do not believe that the country is going so
rapidly to the bad as my hon. friend suggested, and I think that when we consider
the circumstances under which these
various railway subsidies were granted, the
House will feel that my hon. friend has
drawn altogether too sad a picture of the
present position of the country. In the
first place the hon. gentleman must bear
in mind that at the time that policy was
adopted-proposed by the Government
no doubt, and the Government responsible for it, no doubt, but adopted
very generally by a large vote of
the House at that time-there was a
large surplus revenue in the treasury
which consisted of several millions each
year, and it was the complaint raised
against the Govcrnmeit that we were
heaping up money for no purpose, and we
were challenged by the Opposition then
for so doing. It was under those circumstances, and the revenue being in that
prosperous condition that this mode of
restoring part of it to the people was proposed. This money is not tbrown into
the river, though the advantage to the
country of the railways is more or less
doubted by the hon. gentlemanr; but it is
beyond ail doubt, although that policy may
have gone too far, and that many of those
railways will not answer the purposes
which their projectors contemplated, and
in many respects some of those subsidies
would bave been better withbeld, that in
others the policy was sound and wise, and
it was desirable to expend part of the surplus revenues of the country to encourage
railway enterprises throughout tbe varous
provinces. For the
gentleman to
say that was done by way of a bribe to
meinbers of Parliament is wbolly unjustifiable. The proposition was in the
general interests of the country, and for
the purpose of aiding ralway enterprses
in various parts of it. Then tbe hon.
gentleman would have the House suppose that that money is ail expended, wereas on the contrary nine
railways out of ten in tbe districts mentioned bave
hot
earned or obtained any
portion of it.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
in nine cases out of ten the companies
have fot earned any right to the roney.
HON. MR. POWER-It shows what
they were-election kites.
HON. SI

ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,

it does fot; it shows that the hopes and

expectations of those who projected those
railways were fot reaiized, and that even
with the assistance of the legisiature they
were not able to carry out their enterprises. The hon, gentleman read two
or three pages ftom the Railway Subsidies
Bil in sad tones, and foreshadowed al
sorts of evil things, but took no thought
to ascertain what has been done, and
what amount of money bas been spent
upon those railways. Take first the subsidy to the Province of Quebec in consideration of their having constructed the
railway ftom Quebec to Montreal

$954,000.

HON. MR.

SCOTT-That has been paid.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Not
a dollar of it ; it
has stil to be paid.
Then take the next portion between
Montreal and Ottawa, $1,440,000; that bas
been paid. Then take the
liune connecting Montreal with the harbours of St.
John and Halifax; that subsidy has not
been paid. Then take the Irondale and
Bancroft and Ottawa Railway Company
sne from the Victoria branch of the Midland railway to the village of Bancroft, in
the county of Hastings; that has not been
paid.
Then take the Pontiac Pacifie
juniction Railway; that bas not been paid.
hon.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I think my hon.
friend is wrong in saying that the first line
mentioned is flot paid. Last year $2,400,000 was paid to the Province of Quebec.
HON. SI ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
my hon. friend is mistaken ; it has not
been paid, and it bas fot been earned.
The $954,000 is still in dispute.
HON. MR.

SCOTT-That is another

item.

HON. MR. SCOTT-Part of this ban
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-No,
is for that purpose.
that is the first item, the item the hon.
HON.

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

1>ublic [JUNE 16, 1885] Loan Bill.
gentleman

referred to.

The

portion donald.

1066

It is that very principle carried

between Montreal and Ottawa, 120 miles, out upon a larger scale, not limited to the
$12,ooo per mile, that has been paid over, Province of Ontario, which the hon. gen-

but the first item the hon. gentleman laid tleman now condemns.
stress upon, is not paid, nor any other of
the items which I have mentioned. Then
HON. MR. SCOTT-The Ontario Govtake the Gatineau Valley Railway Company, ernment had a surplus.
hne from Kazabazua to the Desert, $16o,000, not a dollar of it has been paid. The
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-They
Napanee, Tamworth and Quebec Railway had a surplus, so had we. We had a
Company has been paid. The Montreal much larger surplus. The Government
and Western Railway Company, for a line of the Dominion were in receipt of a large
of railway from the end of the line sub- surplus revenue yearly; and it was besidized towards the Desert, has not been cause they were in receipt of a large surpaid. The Northern and Western Rail- plus that they felt at liberty to assist railway Company, for a line of railway from way enterprises in the interests of all parts
Fredericton to the Miramichi River, has of the country. I admit that this policy
not been paid ; and I venture to say, might be carried to excess ; but I say that
without having any information, and with- if the policy is administered fairly, and
out being certain, that out of the whole with reference to enterprises that are
list there are not half a dozen where the general in their nature, and general in
money has been paid, so that the thing is their advantages to the country, it is not a
not so dark in that respect as my hon. bad policy, without carrying it too far, to
friend has made it appear. With all re- justify the vote given in each particular
spect to the opinions of the hon. gentle- case to each particular railway, which is a
man, it was the opinion of Parliament that point on which one cannot speak in
these subsidies should be voted, and the general terms. The particular circumdecision of the majority of Parliament stances in each case were discussed in the
ought to govern, and not the views other branch of the legislature when this
of my hon. friend. Some members of the Act was passed, and the general result
Opposition exerted themselves to get these was adopted by the House of Commons,
subsidies, and no doubt it is fair to add and confirmed in this Chamber. Then
that when the Government of Ontario the hon. gentleman says that we were very
granted money here and there and every- wrong not only in that, but the augmentawhere through the province to assist rail- tion of the public debt even during the
way enterprises, nobody said it was done last two years, has been something awful,
with a view to bribing members of the and it is impossible to contemplate it
legislature in this part or any other part without fear for the future, and without
of the Province of Ontario, and nothing condemning the extravagance of the Govbut praises were lavished on the Govern- ernment. The hon. gentleman does not
Ment for so doing. My hon. friend was a do the Government justice in that respect
rember of that Government, and advo- He does not do the Government justice,
cated and carried into effect the very policy because he did not point out the various
which he is now condemning on the part expenditures which they were necessarily
of this Government.
compelled to make in pursuing the policy
laid down by Parliament. In the $7,ooo,HON. MR. SCOTT-We had the ooo item of increase, he overlooked the
money.
fact of the assumption by the Dominion
of the amount by which the provinces
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-And were allowed to increase their indebtedwe had the money. It is the same policy ness.
The various provinces of the
precisely as was adopted by the Govern- Dominion, from time to time as they
ment of Ontario. They assisted in various came in, were allowed a certain amount of
parts of the country the railway enter- debt. Those debts were increased by a
prises of the province, and they did so out very considerable amount prior to 1882 or
of the surplus gathered together by their 1883. In 1882-83 the amounts by
predecessors under the late Sanfield Mac- which they were allowed to increase

1066

Public [SENATE] Loan Bill.

their debts were capitalized, and the sum noon to my hon. friend from Halifax-

-was added to our debt and that sum would the anxieties of the fathers and
amounted to $7,722,ooo. There, at one
stroke, we increased the capital debt of the
-country by $7,ooo,ooo, and if the hon.
gentleman was desirous of doing the Government justice, he should have given us
credit on that score. Then again we have
spent a great deal of money on the
Canadian Pacific Railway. The hon.
gentleman himself was in favor of the
Pacific Railway, and the expenditure was
sanctioned by a large majority of Parliament. We gave the Pacific Railway
$25,ooo,ooo ; out of that they have
received some 17 or 18 millions, which
would increase the public debt by that
amount. Then we lent them $30,000,00.
There is an increase of nearly $50,ooo,oQo
in these two items. Add to this the
$7,ooo,ooo which we increased the public
debt by in order to capitalize the debts of
the various provinces ; add $75.,000 for
the Esquimalt and Nanaimo Railw;y and
$a5o,ooo for the dry dock, and there are
the items to which the increase of the
obligations of this country during the last
two or three years, to which the hon. gentleman has madereference, are attributable.
Now, these increases were sanctioned by
the whole Parliament. The railway to
British Columbia was one of the results of
the entering of that province into the
Union. We were all obliged to do it ;
we did it upon the best terms that could
be obtained at the time, and upon far
better terms than the hon. gentleman's
Government was willing to adopt. That
is quite clear, so that there at once is
.accounted for the whole debt, which the
hon. gentleman mentions as one of the
great sins of the présent Government,
that in the course of two or three years
we have added $54,ooo,ooo to the debt
of the country. We have added it for
the purposes I have mentioned. They
were justifiable purposes, in the interest of
the country, and we are reaping the advantages to a great extent of the expenditure. Did we not reap an advantage,
when the country was in great trouble
and anxiety with reference to disturhances
in the North-West, from the Pacific Railway ? Would peace have been restored
as soon as it has been-would we now be
happily contemplating the return of the
troops, as I mentioned during the afterHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

mothers of the soldiers who are fighting
in the North-West have terminated at
this time if we had not the Canadian
Pacific Railway? They would not ; we
should most likely have been refused permission to send our troops through the
United States. The rebellion broke out
when there was no possibility of sending,
troops up by water, and you would have
had rebellion raging over fifty times the
space, and requiring fifty times the expenditure, if it could be subdued this
summer at all, if we had not possessed
the Canadian Pacific Railway. I can say
that this railway has already saved the
country an enormous sum of money by
the facilities it has given us for suppressing that disturbance. These are some
of the advantages the country has derived
from that expenditure, and I do not think
it is fair to accuse the Government in that
general, and if I may say it without
offence, in that loose way of increasing the debt of the country in those
large figures without stating at the same
time why that debt has been increased
and to what purpose the money has gone.
Then the hon. gentleman complains, and
groans, so to speak, over the fact that we
are not effecting loans in England on the
same terms as the United States; and he
asked why should we not ? Was it ever
known that a small community could raise
money at such a low rate of interest as a
large conmmunity like the United States?.
It has never been known. When the hon.
gentleman says that we are paying more
than our fellow colonists he is mistaken.
The four per cents. of Canada command
as good a price as those of any of the
colonies-in fact a better price. I think I
saw that not long ago in a statement in the
hand of my hon. friend the Minister of
Finance, showing what the colony (I have
forgotten the name of it, but one of the
Ausralian colonies which for a long time
had taken the lead of Canada) was getting
for its four per cents. Comparing that
with the rate we are getting for our four
per cents., it showed we had the advantage
over that colony which up to that time
had been foremost in the advantageous
terms on which it had been able to borrow
money. I am very confident that that is,
the fact and that we have been borrowing

Public [JUNE 16, 1885] LoàI
money latterly at better rates than any of
our sister colonies. To compare us with
the United States seems to me to be only
an effort of the hon. gentleman to throw
additional dark colouring into the picture
which he was drawing of disaster arising
over the country. No country situated as
Ours is can expect to borrow on the same
favourable terms as the United States, and
I think no reasonable man would expect
it.
I do not intend to pursue the argument
further. I was only desirous of answering
the hon. gentleman as far as I could at
present on the various points he mentioned
with reference to the credit of'the country
and the application of these sums of
rnoney. But the House will remember
that this Bill does not directly bear on
any of those questions ; that it is to
enable us to borrow money, and the
proper time to find fault with the Government is when the Bills for the expenditure
of the money are before the House. If
the hon. gentleman, when the " Omnibus
Railway Bill " was before the House, had
spoken, he would have impressed us with
the idea that the purpose he had in view
'Was to convince the House that the exPenditure should not take place and-was
not merely to throw discredit on the
Government-that this object was really
to check enormous expenditure.
HON. MR. SCOTT-This loan is to
Cover many of the railways, to which I
have referred.

HON. MR. READ-New Zealand borrowed at 4Y per cent. and issued at 84.
HON. M. POWER-The only thing
the hon. gentleman from Ottawa said
ahout New Zealand was, that it was probably the most deeply involved of all the
colonies. I think I am entitled to the
gratitude of the House for having caused
the third reading of this Bill to be deferred
until to-day, because the result of that
Postponement has been that the Bill which
Would have passed sub silentio has given
Tise to, I think, almost the most interesting
debate we have had this session. It has
brought out the leaders of both sides of
the House in full force. As the House
has listened to those gentleman with pleaSure, I do not propose infiict myself on it

Bill.

10671

for any length of time. I think that the
Minister was hardly fair to the hon. gentleman from Ottawa in finding fault with
him for speaking of these railway grants
in discussing this Bill. The hon. gentleman from Ottawa, naturally and properly,
when this Bill came up to borrow a very,
large sum of money, reviewing the causes
which had led to the necessity for the
borrowing, and one of the causes-as thé
hon. gentleman from Ottawa thought a
very potent cause-of the necessity for
this large loan was the Omnibus Railway
Act from which he read. I do not think
that it lay altogether with the Minister
of Justice to tell the hon, gentleman
that this Act had been ineffectual or to
find tault with the hon. gentleman
from Ottawa because as it has happened, these sums have not been called
for. I sometimes think that there is too
much of the Nathaniel about my hon.
friend from Ottawa for the circumstances
in which he is placed. He does not give
his opponents credit for the guile which
they possess at least in a considerable
degree. If the hon. member from Ottawa
had had a little less of the simplicity ofi
the dove, he would have known very well
in 1882, when the hon. gentlemen opposite were going to the country and the,
Omnibus Bill was passed, that the object
of the Bill was as clear as possible to any
one who understand the methods of hon.
gentlemen opposite and their friends.
Any one who knew much about the circumstances of these railways knew, in
1882, as well as we know to-day, that those
railway grants provided for at that time,
would not secure the construction of the
roads ; but what they did do, and what it
was intended they should do, was to secure
the support of the people of the different
districts through which these roads, if
built, would run, at the ensuing election ,
and the Act I think was. fairly successful
in that way, or we would not have the hon.
gentleman where he is at present perhaps.
HON.

SIR

ALEX.

CAMPBELL-

That is your evil thought.
HON. MR. POWER-It does not do

to be too simple. The hon. Minister,
while he took hold of the two or three
oversights in the speech of the hon. gentleman from Ottawa did not grapple with

1068

Public [SENATE] Loan Bill.

past two years. As the hon. gentleman
from Ottawa showed, the debt of this
country has increased steadily since 1867.
The net debt then was, I think, about
$66,ooo,ooo. Hon. gentlemen must reHON. MR. PLUMB-Call it anything member that these provinces had been
administering their governments for a
you like.
great many years before 1867, and during
HON. MR. POWER-I call it tact-in all that time all the Provinces together
dealing with the argument of his oppo- had accumulated a debt amounting altonent. It is a very good plan to leave out gether to about $7o,ooo,ooo. In 1878
of sight the strong points of your oppon- the net debt of the Dominion amounted
ent's argument, take the weak ones and to about $14o,ooo,ooo; on the first of
beat him on those, and leave him in July of last year the net debt amounted to
triumph. The hon. gentleman from Ottawa about $19o,ooo,ooo; and at the present
called attention-he did not deal simply time, as the hon. gentleman from Ottawa
with the increase of the debt in two years- said, the net debt amounts to over $200,to the increase since Confederation-to ooo,ooo, and this increase has gone on.
the increase since the hon. gentleman Until the other day we had no war to actook power in 1878 ; and I think any- count for this enormous increase. Our
one, who studies fairly that sheet in neighborsacross the border have been reducthe Public Accounts which shows the ing their debt very rapidly during all this
gradual increase of our debt, and the other time. There are some expenditures to
sheet which shows the gradual increase of which the Minister did not refer. In the
the annual expenditure, will find there first place this process has been going on.
occasion for very serious thought. The Almost every year since the present adMinister was very facetious over the ministration has come in there has been a
melancholytone with which the hon. gentle- sum of half a million of dollars or more
man from Ottawa dealt with the matter; charged to capital account for the Interbut to anyone who is interested in the colonial Railway. That sum has been,
welfare of the country, the contemplation as we have all along contended, improperly
of those sheets in the Public Accounts is charged. It has been charged, for
calculated to cause very serious thoughts instance, for new rolling stock nade
indeed. I cannot help being a little sur- necessary by the wearing out of the old
prised when I think of the tone in which rolling stock. That is clearly a thing not
hon. gentlemen spoke opposite a few years chargeable to capital. A very large
ago in 1877 and 1878 when our debt was amount has accrued in that way. Some of
not more than half of what it is to-day- the debt has accrued from charging to
when I remember the tone of almost de- capital repairs on, the Intercolonial Railspair in which they talked of the future way. Unless I am mistaken, since the
of the country-I am rather surprised to change of Government the amount
find them as cheerful as they are now. I charged to the capital account of the
remember when the $5,ooo spent on the Intercolonial Railway has been increased
Neebing Hotel, caused hon. gentlemen in by some twenty millions of dollars. A
this Chamber the most fearful anxiety, great portion of that has been altogether
indefensible expenditure. It certainly
worry and dismay.
ought not to have been charged to capital
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-No, account. Then large sums have been
expended in the erection of public
it was amusement.
buildings, some of them necessary, some
HON. MR. POWER-That was not the unnecessary. Expensive public buildings
way in which hon. gentlemen talked then; have been put up in places where cheap
it was not a facetious thing at aIL The ones would have suited. For instance,
Minister has given certain items which one has only to go across the river to the
he says account for the increase in adjoining county to find a post-office in
the public debt, but those are items which the city of Hull which cost enough money
only account for an increase during the and is large enough for a city of ten times

the strong points of the hon. gentleman's
argument, and there, I think, again he
shows that-what shall I call it ?-tact,
I shall not say guile-

HON. MR. POWER.

Public [J UNE 16, 1885] Loan Bit.
the population. All over the country
these buildings have been erected, and
they have served to a certain extent the
same purpose that the Omnibus Railway
]Bill did. Everyone knows that if an
election is coming off, the letting of a contract for a large public building in the
centre of a county ' has a very
considerable effect on the ensuing election.
i have mentioned the Intercolonial Railway and the public buildings. Talking of
public buildings, here is an expenditure
taking place within a stone's throw of the
building we are in now, which is altogether
indefensible. The Government thought it
nlecessary to secure additional accommodation for certain officers. The Government
own here ground affording unrivalled sites
for public buildings. There is ample
room, close to the eastern block, and to the
western block also, to have put up public
buildings, but instead of using the ground
which they possess they chose to go outside and pay $6o,ooo or $70,ooo for land
across the street. The moneys that the
Government have spent in connection
with the North-West have been very much
larger than they ought to be, and have
largely increased the public debt. Speaking of railways I was reminded that there
is a proposition now before Parliament to
spend a sum equivalent to $5,ooo,ooo in
subsidizing a railway which is currently
supposed to be owned by a minister-at
least a company who are likely to secure
this sum of money are supposed to be
presided over by a minister of the Crown
-and the real object of the railway, and
the effect that it will have if built, as proposed in the resolutions introduced in the
other House, will be to bring Canadian
business to ports in the United States.
The minister said we had great cause for
congratulation in the fact that the large
expenditure we had made on the Canadian
Pacific Railway had given us an opportunity of getting our troops into the NorthWest and quelling the rebellion speedily.
It is perfectly true that if there had beer
no Pacific Railway we might have had
difficulty in getting our troops into the
North-West. I am disposed to think myself that the United States Government
would not have seriously objected to allow
Our troops to pass through their territory ;
but supposing it had been as the Minister
Says, there is another point to be consid-

1069

ered which the Minister conveniently left
out of sight, and that is that we should
not have had any rebellion at all, if it had
not been for the blundering of the Government. If chey had governed that NorthWest country properly, there would have
been no rebellion and no necessity for
spending money there at all.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is

very easily disposed of.
HON. MR.

POWER-Yes.

HON.MR.BOTSFORD-ItisaGritview
HON. MR. POWER- -The hon. gentleman to the left of the Minister says that
that is a Grit view. I do not think that it
is an exclusively Grit view. I think if the
hon. gentleman would travel through the
North-West-I do not mean in the palace
car of the directors of the Canadian Pacific
Railway, but if he went around amongst
the people of the North-West to ascertain
what they really feel, he would find that
that Grit view was the prevalent view in
the North-West. I think if the hon. gentleman travels in the province of Quebec
he will find that that Grit view pervades
Conservative circles there.
HON. SiR ALEX. CAMEBELL-Has
my hon. friend himself travelled in the
North-West?

HON. MR. POWER-No.
HON. Si ALEX. CAMPBELL-How

do you know then ?
HoN. MR. POWER-I know people

who did, and the informants from whom I
got the most definite information were not
Liberals but Conservatives-men who are
still Conservatives, although they are very
much disgusted with the Minister of the
Interior and with Lieutenant-Governor
Dewdney. They felt that their loyalty to
their party was very considerably strained
by the acts of those gentlemen.
HON. MR. PLUMB-What are those

acts ?
HoN. MR. POWER-To tell all those

things would be undertaking too serious a

0T 0

P*bl i c [SEN ATE] Loan Bill.

eontract. It would require one ,of the ou being niow sked.to .give such large
speeches of the :hon., gendieman from borrowing powers without knowing the
Niagara. to deal with a. suject like that. purposes,tQ which the: moneys are to be
applied. ý.I am sure the House will agree
HoN. Ma., PLUM]-4Ye;]tolded.with with me. that it isi never safe to. give any
Governmnent possesion of more money
it fairly
than. they actually require. We know
HON. MR.. POWER-Thergis only one fom the history of the past how governother point that I wish to say something nents, when they have had possession of
ont The Minister in clefending : that public money, have. used it most improOmnibus Railway: scheme said that the perly, and not in the interests of the counGovernment had been challenged' for try.. For instance, when the Government
heaping up. surpluses. Lt: is true there advances money to a bank in temporary
was something said about the impro- trouble, are we to take the simple statepriety of a Government having :,sur- ment of: the Government that they advance
pluses. That was the view promulgat- that money on ratriotic grounds ? They
ed by the. hon. gentleman who is: now seldom give money to a bank without
Canadian Commissioner in England. He making it in some way contribute to the
said that when his opponents were in support of their party. I have known, of
power. But the bon. Minister of Justice my own knowledge, where they have asshould have been as ingenuous, as sisted banks, that they have drawn indihe suggested the hon. member from Ot- rectly large amounts from that bank for
tawa should have been, and should have party purposes, and that on certain occagone on and said that the surplus should sions, when the cashier has refused to cash
be diminished by diecreasing taxation ; the notes of party political supporters who
and the reason given by the Reform party were not very solvent, they have threatened
for that was that when the Govern- the cashier wit;h removal. I an prepared
ment had the moey in their hands, they to prove this before a comnittee if the
would be tenipted to spend it foolishly House will give me onç. It is never safe
as they have been spending it. Here we to give any government the possessionof
are, after all these yearsof, wvrplhses that more money than they require for the
we have heard so much about, proposing purposes sanctioned by Parliament. If
tô bortow $3oooo,ooo 'to pay off floating we do not know it, experience will soon
debts incurred by the Government who teach us that a young country like this requires to be governed with prudence and
have had so many surpluses4.
care. It is all very well for the GovernHON. Ms ALEXANDER-I rise with ment to be adding, during two years, as
some reluctance to claim the attention of the hon. member from Ottawa says, $54,tht: House on. this subject again for a very ooo,ooo to the debt of the country, and
few moments. I desire to say with regard every succeeding year five or ten milto the statement made by the hon. member lions more, instead Qf raising all orfrom Ottawa. that I know the views which dinary deficits from the revenue of
he has expressed are very much the views the country ; we can go on in that
of the people from end to end of this Do- course only to a certain extept, but no
minion in regard to the public expendi- people will long acquiesce in such a practures, firstly, that the Government are al- tice. If we only consider the circumtogether too sanguine as to the future in- tances of the Province of Quebec, the
crease of the population of the Dominion; Maritime Provinces and British Columbia.
and secondly, that party conflict has now I do not speak of Ontario because it is so
assumed that phase that it is simply the fertile.and rich a province that it will bear
question of the party now in power, by any larger burdens, but the other provinces are
and every means, endeavoring to keep the not prepared and will not agree to-day to
other party out, by compromises, by -brib, have more; burdens placed upon them.
ing individuals and the provinces. This The placing a tariff of 35 per cent. on
is the general feeling of the country-the, mowers and reapers entering Manitoba
feeling of men of all partie.s. . There is has caused great discontent. Those who
assuredly, irregularity and impropriety in settle in such a country are not of the
HON. MR. POWER.

*PuwbN ($UNE,1ê1685] Loan Bil.
class to pay such import duties. As regards
political leaders, we may find one nán possessing great genius and talent ; he may be
an astute barrister and parliamentary
debater, 'and he 2may furt4r exèrcisÎ
extraordinary influence over his fellowmen, and still such a mai may be, in
regard to matters of finance, most unsafe
to guide'this country. I have again and
again referred to this, because I feel that
the Parliament of the country, members of
both branches, do not exercise that control
which they should exercise, for the safety
of the country, over the present First
Minister. It is one man that controls, at
this moment, the whole Government. His
voice is paramount, and all others blindly
acquiesce ; whatever he determines, the
present Parliament seems ready to endorse,
right or wrong. It is this that is leàding
to the misrule which has been correctly
described by the hon. gentleman from
Ottawa. He is simply dreaming in his
anticipations of the near future of British
Columbia and our North-West.
We all know that the North-West contains
fertile land ; we all know that British
Columbia has an agreeable climate, ánd
it has its timber and its fish and certain
other resources, but ask any commercial
man whether he thinks that population
will go into British Columbia to-day
rapidly. It must be a question of time.
As regards the North-West with all its
fertile land, immigration will only flow
in there slowly, and we are not justified.
in forecasting a different future, atid'
swelling, as we are doing, the public det
and the public burdens. The coufitty'
desired to have our Pacifie Railway btiilt
north of Lake Superior, and extended
into the fertile belt ; but what we say is,
there was a warit of prudence in carrying
it forward, and'rushing it headlong to the
Pacifie coast, six years before it was necessary. 'This shôws how entirely Parliament has surrendered its judgment, and
those inembers who are spared to return
here for five yearF, will see the Pacific
Railway Company coming to Parlianent
each year for a grant of from $5,ooo,ooo
to $8,ooo,ooo each session, as necessary
for the sustenance of the road. I take
this opportunity of referring to my having
been somewhat misrepresented in regard
to my views respecting the Intercolonial
Railway. I have simply -to state tha I

1071

never ôpposed the building of the Inter*oloiih Itailway ; I simply said, when
we found annual deficits, " Let us make
the road a gift to the Maritime Provinces,
and let:them run it." I am sure that the
hon. gentleman near me did not desire to
misrepresent me. I did not oppose the
building of that roady but simply made
the above suggestion.
HON. MR. DEVER-Why should we

run it ?
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-And the

deficits still continue to this moment, and
the capital expenditure for that road has
been swollen, from $22,000,ooo to some

$38,000,000.
HON. MR.

POWER-To over $40,-

000,000.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I quite
agree with the remarks of the hon. gentleman from Ottawa, that the question of
the Government of this country has now
become a desperate conflict to keep the
Opposition out of power, by fair means
and by foul, at any sacrifice of principle
or at any cost The people of the country now know it, and have become aroused
to the embarrassments which are thus
being brought upon us. The present
Conservative Chieftain cares not, whether
he increases the public debt $ 1oo,ooo,oo

or to any extent. I have very little more
tb say to my colleagues of the Senate, for
whom it is well known I entertain the
highest respect, than that the First Minister
will use this august body composed as it
is of the leading men of the Dominionthat he will use them for his party purposes until the feeling of the country
becomes agitated against a second
Chamber ; and should the people demand
the abolition of this House, he will turn
round against you and then say, that you
were yourselves to blame for not acting
according to your owà convictions. We
all know what a desperate politician -is.
He has no gratitude for any one-to any
province or to the people ; it is sirply
with him the passion for power, the most
absorbing of all passions, and the inan
who has that passion, will sacrifice his
friends and his foes, and will not hesitate
to sacrifice his country.

1072

Public [SENATE] Loan Bill.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I regret
very much that the leader of the Oppos
tion has sprung this debate upon us. Certainly the House has been taken by surprise upon the third reading of this Bill,
when a small explanation was asked for,
that we should have a debate sprung upon
us on the financial affairs of the Dominion.
I am not much surprised at the way in
which the leader of the Opposition has
treated this matter. He commenced by
showing that there has been an increase
of $54,ooo,ooo in the public debt during
the last two years. The leader of the
Government has clearly explained how
that increase has been brought about; that
instead of it being a cause of complaint
against the Government it was a debt
properly incurred, as regards the $7,ooo,ooo granted to the different provinces and
the money granted to the Pacific Railway,
which my hon. friend the leader of the
Opposition will not say was an improper
grant. In fact, the hon. gentleman has
justified it by his silence if not by his argument. Then there is also the money
granted the Province of British Columbia
for the Island Railway. With regard to
that sum also the hon. gentleman must
know that under the Carnarvon terms, the
responsibility thrown on the people of
this country was incurred by the previous
Government. They, under the Carnarvon
terms, agreed that certain works should be
done in British Columbia, and the Government have ever since carried upon
their shoulders the responsibility of seeing
that the Pacific province was in some way
remunerated in the direction in which the
Reform Government had committed the
country to. The hon. gentleman talks of
bribes to the provinces. I am surprised
that my hon. friend should use an argument like that. He has failed to show us
that any subsidies voted to the railway
enterprises are not in the interest of' the
country. He could not put his finger
upon one and say that it was not in the
general interest of the Dominion, except
near his
passes
road that
one
country residence in the county of
He did not, even when
Ottawa.
that was before the House, raise any
objection to the subsidy, and he would
not have dared, at the time that the project was proposed, to offer any opposition
to it. To my mind it is corclusive proof

that he could not venture to say that any
other of these railway subsidies was not in
the general interests of the country.
HON. MR. POWER-Hear ! hear!
HON.

MR. KAULBACH-My

hon.

friend from Halifax says "hear! hear !"
but I will call his attention to some remarks of his on this subject in a few
moments. Some time ago the leader of the
Opposition considered that it was rather a
lamentable fact that the imports of the
country were falling off; but he must
understand that under the National
Policy it was expected that many of the
articles we used to import would be manufactured in our own country from the
raw material which we produce. The hon.
gentleman spoke about the increase in the
cost of civil government of the country.
He must be aware, however, that there is
also an increase in the public service of
the country. Look at the condition of
our postal service throughout the Dominion. Look at the thousands of miles
covered by the postal service, and the
enormous number of offices open al over
the Dominion ? Let him look at the
lighthouse service ail over the coasts of
Nova Scotia and the Gulf of St. Lawrence
and let me ask him if that is not aIl in the
general interests of the country ? Can he
point to any increase in the Civil Service
that has not been for the general good of
Canada? When the hon. gentleman and
his friends were in power, they, without
developing or improving any branch of the
public service,had to borrow year after year
large sums of money for which they could
show no assets, but simply to run an incompetent government. The hon. gentleman contends that under the present
Ministry our credit as a country does not
stand so high as it should. He must know
that when he and his colleagues were in
power, the fact that they had to borrow
money simply to keep themselves in office
was an injury to the credit of the country.
And see what the result has been since
the change of Government ? Since the
advent to power of the present Administration there has been a rapid development
of the industries, manufactures and
resources of the country, and a reign of
general prosperity. Owing to this fact the
Government have been enabled to borrow

Publie [J UNE 16, 1885] Loan Bill
money on far better terms than their predecessors, and when the hon. gentleman
from Ottawa contends that the other
colonies of the empire are borrowing
noney on better terms than Canada he is
mistaken. There is no other colony of
the empire that has borrowed money in
the English market as cheaply as this
Dominion.

1078

make a profit, what would the people of
the Maritime Provinces say to such a
proposition? He would find that any
Government that would endeavor to run
the Intercolonial Railway on such principies would in a short time be hurled from
power. In referring to the increase in
our public debt the hon. gentleman seems
to have forgotten the fact that we have
taken Prince Edward Island, British

HON. MR. SCOTT-My hon. friend Columbia, Manitoba and the North-West
is mistaken ; New South Wales has Territory into the Confederation, all of
which has caused a large increase in the
borrowed on better terms.
public debt. Then, with regard to public
HON. MR KAULBACH-New South buildings, my hon. friend cannot say that
Wales is the solitary exception, and it has the money spent in erecting them has
been shown by the hon. gentleman oppos- been improperly expended. After all his
ite that the loan was obtained under criticism be could only refer to one
peculiar and exceptional circumstances. public building as being an unnecessary
The hon. gentleman from Halifax waste of money, the post-office in Hull,
has referred to the general increase which the member for Halifax considered
in the public debt of Canada. It seems was rather too large for a city of that size.
to me, however, that, as far as his I am sure when my hon. friend has to
own province is concerned, he has been come down to that from his sweeping
largely instrumental in adding to the pub- assertion that there has been extravagance
lie debt, for he has approved of every ex- in the erection of public buildings, he has
penditure that has been made in Nova not successfully proved his case when he
Scotia. He was a party to this general only refers to one smill building across
Omnibus Railway Subsidy bill, referred to the Ottawa River. My hon. friend knows
by the hon. gentleman from Ottawa, and that every public building erected in the
when it was before theHouse he raised no Dominion, especially in Nova Scotia, has
objection to it. He must remember that been a public benefit. There should be
one of the causes of complaint by Nova public buildings in every county, and I am
Scotia against the late Government surprised that more of them have not been

was that they refused to make any concessions to that province, and I arn sure
he cannot contend that Nova Scotla has
received any public money to which she is
nlot entitled. My hon. friend complains
ot the Intercolonial Railway; he seems
to think that this $20,ooo,ooo added to
the public debt is something for which
the present Government should be held
responsible. The hon. gentleman is evidently an opponent of the Intercolonial
Railway, for he has already stated to this
House that there should be no deficit ;
that the road should be run on commercial principles, and that the railway, which
was constructed as a political and national
enterprise, in the interests of the Dominion, should be run so as to make a
profit, and that Nova Scotia should be
made responsible for the running of it. If
he can make it appear that the Intercolonial Railway could be run in such a
way as not only to pay expenses, but to
S 2

built. For instance, in the town of
Lunenburg there should be a substantial
post-office building erected for the convenience of the public. When my hon.
friend denounces the construction of
substantial buildings of this kind, he cannot be doing it in the interests of the
country. My bon. friend must be hard
up for an argument when he introduces
the Short Line Railway into a debate on a
question like this. I believe that the
Short Line Railway project is before the
Government now, and when it comes
before Parliament that will be a proper
time to enter into a discussion upon it.
Then with respect to the Pacific Railway,
I do not know what my hon. friend's
policy is with regard to it ; but he
tells us he believes that the troops sent to
the North-West to quell the insurrection
could have been sent there through the
United States.
I do not know what
greater knowledge or wisdom he would

1074

Public [SENATE] Loan Bill.

possess on that question than the Govern- main une completed and other unes conment, or other members of this House. structed in the North-West we canno be
We all know that the experience we had surprised if the Indians are an aggressive
on a previous occasion would not justify and disturbing element. It is only by
us in asking the Government at Washing- opening up that country and encouraging
ton to allow us to pass our troops through the rapid settement of the fertile prairies
United States territory the second time. of the west that we can expect to have
We cannot forget that at the time of the peace and prosperity prevailing in those
Red River troubles, when we tried to pass remote territories, and 1 am surprised at
our troops through the canal at the hon. member from Halifax at
Sault St. Marie, that privilege was this time of day endeavoring to attribute
refused, and we ought to be thankful the troubles which have unhappily arisen
that on this occasion we did not in the North-West, and which we have ail
require to ask for any such privileges. feit have been an injury to every province
Then the hon. member proceeded to tell of the Dominion, to misgovernment.
us that all the trouble in the North-West From every part of Canada troops have
was brought about by the blundering of gone forth to suppress the insurrection,
the Government. I am surprised at my and the occasion has demonstrated that
hon. friend attempting in a debate of this in ai parts of the Dominion, the people
kind, to make such an assertion without feel that they have a common interest in
any evidence whatever to support it. WVe that great country.
might as well say that the Grits, the
HON. MR. PLUMB-I regret that I
Farmers' Union of the North-West, have
been instrumental in bringing about the was not iresent to hear the opening rerebellion, and 1 believe when the facts marks of the hon. member from Ottawa.
corne out it will be found to be the case. 1 did not imagine that this resolution, as
Everything the Opposition could do to it was brought before the House, would
ruin the railway and produce discontent in lead to a general discusssion ofthe financial
the North-Wiest thev have donc. This condition of the country ; otherwise, I
Farmers' Union is kpown throughout the should certainly have been in my place,
length and breadth of the country to be and would have been glad to listen to the
composed of Grits who are antagonistic to statements he made. But I have gathered
the prosperity of the Dominion; therefore, some of them from what the hon. gentieI could with greater justice say that the mar has said himself since entered, and
disturbance in the North-West was brought I have heard others referred to by those
about by the Grits than my hon. friend who supported and thôse who replid to
can assert that it was due to the blunder- hiTui. I believe the general course w1lich
ing of the Government. I do not say so, has been taken b the hon. meiber and
of course, but my hon. friend has gone far his friends has been, on subjects of this
beyond what he had a right to say in kind, o dwe l largely on the alarming inrthed have
making such a statement. The hion. crease of the public debt.
member from Woodstock talks about painted in very dark colors the present
building the Canadian Pacific Railwav six condition of the country, and have pregreat isfortunes,
eohinion
years ahead of the proper ti e for its dicted for the
l
completion. Does e not know that it is owing to the probable position in which
in the public interest that it should be it would be placed under the constant inbuilt as soon as possible in order to prevent crease of the debt, and the loss of the
the possibility of a recurrence of troubles public credit. Lt strikes me that if there
Dos he not know is one thing more than another calculated
in the North-West
that ail thenone which has been invest- to alarm investors in the public debt, it
ed in that great highway wianbe lost to the is the dark colors in which the gentlemen
country until the line is conpeted? on the other side of the House have
painted the prospects of
Does he not know that it is in the interest habitually
not only of this Dominion but of the Canada. From my first acquaintance with
whole Empire to have it conpleted, andpublic life, I have seen, with great regret,
the sooner it is completed the better it that that course has always been pursued
will be for the people. Until we have the by the hon. member and his friends
HoN. MR.

KAULBACH.

Public [JUNE 16, 1885] Loan Bill.

1075

whenever any discussion came up in administration of the gentlemen who held
which the interests of Canada were in- power up to 1878, the Government of
volved. The key-note was given by the which my hon. friend was a member.
budget speech of 1874, in which a very
able and ingenious man, then intrusted
HON. MR. SCOTT-Oh no.
with the management of our finances, devoted the main part of his speech
HON. MR. PLUMB-Oh yes, I can
to depicting the unfortunate position give the hon. gentleman the figures. There
of the country and predicting its speedy is another thing I can tell him : there was
ruin. I cannot imagine anything which a studied attempt in 1878 to cut down the
could have been better calculated to alarm expenditure for the purpose of making a
the public mind than the statement made show before the people, and what was it
by that hon. gentleman on that occasion ; taken from ? From the Militia, $428,ooo
it was a period of general depression and in one year; from the Public Works,
disaster, and it was not at all to be won- $686,ooo in one year. Those were not
dered at after such a statement, that legitimate econonies. Those were savwhen the hon. gentleman went to England ings that had to be made good by subseto negotiate a loan he was compelled to quent outlay, and the hon. gentleman
sacrifice the four per cents of Canada at knows it. IIe knows that to reduce the
less than 87 2 cents on the dollar. He militia expenditure in one year from
had painted the condition ot Canada as $978,000 to $55o,ooo was a false economy
being so desperate in order to discredit and had an injurious eflect upon the
his predecessors in the Goverrnent, that niilitia organization ; that the sudden rehe was compelled to make a sacrifice of duction of the expenditure on public
12'2 per cent. on the loan of 1876, of works,
chargeable
to revenue, from
£2,500,000, and as compared with the $1,950,ooo to $1,262,000, was injurious to,
price of the loan of £5,ooo,ooo just com- the public interests, and was intended to
pleted, a loss of over $1,5oo,ooo. That cover extravagance in expenditure elsewas the difference between the loan made where. If he looks at the Public Accounts
by my hon. friend's Finance Minister and he will find that my statement is perfectly
the loan complained of as having been correct. Thon while the yearly public
made by the present Finance Minister.
expenditure has increased with us, there
We hear a good deal about the increase have been large increases on the other
of the public debt. There is no doubt side of the account. It must be rememabout the increase, and it will continue to bered that if the expenditure on revenue
increase as Canada grows, improves and account has increased, it has been mainly
expands, with the great North-West to be in the expenses of running the Interdeveloped, railways to be built through it colonial Railway, in the post office exand other improvements to be made. It penditure, and other items of expense
is perfectly natural and necessary that the connected with public works; but we
public debt should increase, and whenever have been getting an increased revenue
the public expenditure ceases to increase from those sources. Of course the general
then thç prosperity of the country will public expenditure will be swollen, but on
have reached its climax and we will have the other side there is a compensation in
become a dead instead of a prosperous an increased revenue. I will not make
and progressive people. But we must look an exhaustive statement on these matters
at the other side ; if the debt increases we now. I will take some other time for that
get value for it. It is a very one-sided purpose when we have a discussion which
view also to take to say that the yearly seems to be more germane to those quesexpenditure has increased by leaps and tions ; but I will state that there have
bounds. It has increased largely, there is been increases in the yearly revenue from
no doubt about that either. When the customs and excise, since the present
hon. gentleman opposite came into power Government came into power, of how
the yearly public expenditure was $23,- much does the hon. gentleman think ?
316,316. It has increased from that about Nearly $11,000,000 in '82-83, and of
$8,ooo,ooo at the present time. A very $7,ooo,ooo last year. That increase of
considerable increase was made during the nearly $32,000,000 in the aggregate, as

Public [SENATE] Loan Bill.

1076

compared with the year that the Government of which the hon. gentleman was a
member went out of power, is stated in
the Public Accounts.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I made that statement.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I want to emphasize that statement, and to show that
an increase of the public expenditure
is an absolute necessity with an increase of revenue. In the Intercolonial Railway there has been an
increase of $I,2oo,ooo,

and of course

there must be an increase in the working
expenses of that road. The revenue from
the Post Office Department has increased
by $6oo,ooo, and there must be an increase of expenditure in extending the
postal service in a young country like
ours. In opening up the country the
original increase in opening new post
offices will far outrun the revenue derived
from them. That is a necessity of the country, it cannot be avoided ; it is one of those
things upon which no unfavorable criticism
can be fairly bestowed. It is not desirable
on either side that we should exaggerate
those things to the disadvantage of the
Government in power and of the country,
because every statement of this kind is an
attack upon the country. The hon.
gentleman has also stated that there has
been a vast increase of the public debt.
There is an increase in the public debt.
It has been stated and contended upon
public platforms everywhere by the hon.
gentleman's friends, that when this Government was formed the public debt was
only $77,ooo,ooo, and that it has now in-

creased almost three-fold. What is the
use of an argument like that ? The debt
of $77,000,ooo

meant the aggregate debt

of the provinces ; it did not mean anything that the new Dominion had done or
had to do. It did not include the
building of the Intercolonial Railway or the Canadian Pacific Railway, the
construction of lighthouses and harbors,
the acquisition and development of the
North-West, nor meeting the necessities that arose in order to put this Dominion in a position to give it the commercial importance to which it was entitled.
There was no blame attachable to anybody for the increase of the public debt.
HON. MR. PLUMB.

It was a meritorious increase, and not only
that, but the hon. gentleman knows that
between 1867 and 1874 that increase was
justified by the pessimist Finance Minister,
who came into power in 1873-74, when he
went to London to make his first loan.
He stated that the whole public debt of
Canada was represented not by the expenses of a cruel war which had left
nothing but wreck and bloodshed behind
it, but by public works and improvements,
all of which he said were value for the
amount at which they stood in the Public
Accounts, and were not only beneficial to
the country but were beneficial to the
great empire of which Canada was a
part.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-That was
the bright side of the shield.
HON. MR. DEVER-That was the

right side.
HON. MR. PLUMB-It was the silver
side, and the true side. In Canada he
showed that there was a brazen side to all
this, that his predecessors had wasted the
public money and that we had incurred
obligations which had brought the country
to the verge of ruin. The hon. gentleman
will remember that our imminent danger
was shown with a great deal more glibness
circumstantiality and plausibility then than
it is pointed to now by my hon. friends
who are criticizing this Bill; but it is the
same tone which runs throughout, the
same dark view of things, the same desire
in some way or other to belittle the condition of the country, the same apparent
intention to create distrust in the minds of
the public. Why else does the hon. gentleman compare our loans with the
loans of some particular colony in Australia? Why does he attempt to show
unpatriotically that we cannot borrow
money in the English markets as well as
it can be borrowed by some of the Australian colonies ? He knows very well
that when he makes a quotation of prices
in the stock exchange he quotes the retail
price where the investor comes in and
buys one thousand, or two, or three thousand pounds of bonds. He knows that
is not the wholesale price, and that no
loan of five or six million pounds can be
made at the current price at which stocks

Public [JUNE 16, 18851 Loan Bill.

1077

are sold at retail by the brokers in Lom- the market seven or eight years
bard Street. Every intelligent man knows ago.
it who applies his candid common sense
to the subject. What are the prices of
HON. ML PLUMB-Ves, not only
those stocks? The retail price of Cana- perfectly fair, but it is more than that,
dian four per cents. in May was 102 to because there has been a persistent
104, and Australian fours were 99 to attempt for the last 5 or 7 years to
]oL. That was the retail price. A injure and destroy the credit of the
thousand fluctuations take place in so country, and the English money market
sensitive an atmosphere as the London is affected still by rumors of war.
money market, as the hon. gentleman
knows very well. He knows if a loan
HON. MR. SCOTT-No, no.
had been forced on the English market
six weeks ago when there was a prospect
HON. MR. PLUMB-I say yes, and
of a gigantic war with Russia, when my statement will be sustained by every
there was a necessity for England to fair-minded man. When the loan was
raise an immense amount to meet the negotiated in 1876 money had been as it
expenses of the Egyptian campaign, and has been lately a drug in the market.
when general distrust prevailed throughout the world, that Canada would
HON. MR. SCOTT-Oh no.
have been at a great disadvantage and
whatever quotations he had of stocks
HON. MR. PLUMB-The lowest rate
three months before would have been no of interest had then ruled in the money
criterion of the value of a loan which market of England for months and months,
would then be forced on the market. following great stagnation of busiFortunately it was not necessary to borrow ness and paralysis of trade as it
then. Fortunately the cloud of war had always does-the lowest rate of interest
been dispersed and the transaction has that had ruled for years. I appeal
been made now for Canada on most favor- to the commercial men who are still in
able terms, in spite of the croakings of this House to corroborate what I have
the Opposition and their attacks upon the stated. At present there is a low rate of
Government ; in spite of the position interest. All commercial and mercantile
which has been taken by the Opposition transactions are governed very largely by
in the other House; in spite of the en- the state of public confidence. There has
deavor if possible to paralyze the powers been a general over-trading ; there has
of the Government, in view of the large been a re-action from that over-trade ;
borrowing that was necessary - and there has been a want of confidence, and
necessary, I undertake to say, for purposes there has resulted from that an immense
which will commend themselves to the piling up of capital in the money centres.
people of Canada, however they may be Free Trade and Protectionist countries
objected to by the minority in both have suffered alike. In New York a rate of
Houses-in spite of all those vaticinations interest has ruled for the last yearlower than
of coming disaster-a loan has been made has ever been known in the history of the
which redounds to the credit of the coun- United States before. My hon. friend
try and the astuteness of the Finance who sits directly opposite me (Mr. Ross)
Minister, and for which the Government who watches commercial transactions
are entitled to the highest credit. He has throughout the world knows that I am
converted a loan of $25,ooo,ooo, now stating what is exactly the case. The
falling due, from five per cent. to four per rate of interest has been reduced by the
cent., and instead of selling that four Bank of England to 2Y4 per cent; in the
open market it is as low as one per cent.,
per cent. loan at 87 02
but it is not upon transactions of this kind
It is
HON. MR. SCOTT-The hon. gentle- which are under consideration.
man is not putting the case fairly. Does upon daily transactions where bankers
he mean to tell me that it is fair to draw loan their money upon securities available
a comparison between the position o at any moment to take advantage of any
the market now and the position o fichange in the market. There is money

1078

Publie [SENATE] Loan Bill.

piled up in London by those who are
afraid to make any investment. The loan
has been negotiated for Canada with its
rebellion going on ; with a paralysis in its
Parliamentary affairs ; with a statement
that we are ruining ourselves by building
the Canadian Pacific Railway, with the
statement that we were adding to the
public debt in such a way as to largely
increase the burdens of the people and
make them almost intolerable ; in spite of
all this we have borrowed $25,ooo,ooo at a
better rate than any loan that has yet been
made, because we must not judge by the
rate of interest to be paid but by the proceeds of the loan. When we speak of a 4
per cent. loan it is very well, but when we
know it has been negotiated at 87y2, it
takes the merit from that transaction very
materially. It not only makes a high
rate of interest, a rate equal to 5 per
cent., but it damages the credit of
the country and it does not bring
into the treasury the amount of money
which we should receive. It increases
the debt without giving us the proceeds
which it ought to produce. I never have
been in favor of making a loan at a large
discount. I think it is financially a mistake, and I am very glad that the present
Finance Minister has abandoned that idea
and made his loan at a rate of interest
which brought just about par. I have no
doubt the time will come when we will be
able to borrow money at less rates. I
think that under all the circumstances the
country and the Government are to be
congratulated that the loan which' has
lately been effected by Sir Leonard Tilley
has been negotiated at so favourable a rate,
and I expect the money which is to be
borrowed under the resolutions which have
given rise to this debate, will be made on
equally favorable terms, and I believe it is
a meritorious loan for meritorious puposes.
I think it is for purposes which we
could not have avoided. I do not
at all believe in the statements of
hon. gentlemen that we have made a
mistake in hurrying on the construction of
the Canadian Pacific Railway. I believe
that if that railway is to be of any use to
the country it should be built as rapidly
as engineering skill could construct it.
The sooner it is through the better.
Everybody knows that the whole of the
great west of the United States has been
HON. MR. PLUMB.

built up by the rapid construction of railways. They did not wait for ten years,
and build a hundred miles at a time.
They ran their roads through before
population had begun to pour into the
country. The railway preceded populaticn, it did not follow it. In all cases
where the west has been settled up, it has
been by the railways preceding population.
That is the policy that has been adopted
here, and where would we have been in
the month of March, and the early part of
April, last, if we had listened to the
earnest persuasion of the able and
eloquent leader of the Opposition, who
spent hours in the discussions in
i88o-81, upon the Canadian Pacific
Railway resolutions ard contract, trying to show us that it was absolute
madness to construct that road round the
north shore of Lake Superior. Where
would we have been if we had accepted
that policy ? We would have made the
western section of the Canadian Pacific
Railway a feeder to the railways of the
United States, and once its traffc got there
we in the eastern part of Canada would
never have heard of it again ; it would
never have come back to us. And if it
had not been for the persistence with
which we determined that there should be
no railway or that it should be a continuous line through Canada, we would
have been perfectly powerless when the
red hand of rebellion was raised in the
North-West, and it was calculated, cruelly
and cooly calculated, that it would be at
least two months before troops could be
sent through from eastern Canada to suppress that rebellion.
That was the calculation, but, thank
heaven, that calculation was defeatedwas frustrated by the construction of the
road round the north shore of Lake
Superior, and, having heard the criticisms
on that line, having heard the doubt expressed as to whether the work was going
on in good faith, I must confess that I
was greatly surprised when I found that
even with the inadequate means that the
road then possessed it was able to transport troops fron Quebec, Montreal and
Ottawa within the space of one week to
Winnipeg, and thence sent forward to the
seat of war. And the rebels and those
concerned in the rebellion-not only the
rebels thenselves, but the men who stood

Public [JUNE 16, 1885] Loan Bill.
behind them chuckling over the possibility
that the great North-West would be lost to
Canada, were greatly disappointed and
greatly surprised when they heard the
news of the arrival of the troops in Winnipeg, and those who had encouraged
the rising
skulked back to
their homes, and I trust before
the investigation is over we shall
find them and brand them as they
deserve. To show how very loosely
statements are made in this House, I shall
refer to one statement that was made in
ny hearing while the discussion was
going on here. A gentleman who is less
noted for the accuracy of his figures than
the animus that inspires his attacks, and
who is not now in the House, and to
whom I will not reply when the question
of accuracy is concerned, talked of the
Intercolonial Railway and the cost of it
being $38,ooo,ooo, and a voice on the
other side-the amiable voice of my hon.
friend the senior member from Halifax,
that supplemented that statement bysaying
the cost of the Intercolonial Railway was
$4o,ooo,ooo. We have nothing to go by
except the public accounts. Our imaginations are not allowed to travel outside of
the record when we wish to state facts and
figures. The public accounts, if the hon.
gentleman will choose to look at them,
will show that the expenditure on capital
account instead of being $40,ooo,ooo
's $29,486,027, a trifling difference of

1079

time. It was spent very much to his
discredit, and I do not hesitate to say so.
I happened to be chairman of the
committee which investigated the expenditure between Red River and Fort
William ; I was able to show to the
country that the construction of sections
of that road was begun without surveys,
without estimates, without knowledge of
the country, without knowledge of the
route upon which the road was to
be located, without knowledge of the
terminus at which it was to end at Red
River. I was able to show that estimates
were made and contracts were based
upon assumed quantities where there
had never been a quantity ascertained or a railway engineer upon the

ground on which these imaginary
quantities were stated; and upon those
quantities being moneyed out a general
statement of the cost of the road was
made, which was as fallacious as the
quantities themselves. I was able to
show that the First Minister, in appealing
to the country in 1877 and 1878, said he
was building the section, from Fort
William to Red River at half the cost of
the Intercolonial Railway, for $24,500 a
mile, upon absolutely baseless data; he
never had a survey; he knew nothing of
what the cost would be, and instead of
$24,5oo
upon,

a
it

mile
cost

that
nearly

he

calculated
$40,ooo

a

mile, and I can show the hon.
only $ 1,ooo,ooo ; but that does not gentleman incontrovertible proof of every
amount to anything when statements word I am stating. That was the
of this kind are being made for the kind of expenditure which ncreased the
purpose of influencing public opinion. public debt up to 1879. In one single
Such statements are made at hap hazard, contract there was an increase in the earthwithout reference to the figures and, ab worth from 8o,ooo cubic yards estimated,
eno disce omnes, when you hear a hazardous up to the time I investigated it, to nearly
statement like that, it is difficult to place 1,6oo,ooo cubic yards, and it was not then
faith in any statements of figures when nearly finished; that contract was made at
made by gentlemen who, to say the least, 37 cents a cubic yard. There were only
are so inexact in a statement which is so 8o,ooo yards called for under the contract,
easily verified as this. The public debt in and when we investigated the matter there
1873-74, when the late Government came were nearly i,6oo,ooo cubic yards done,
into power, was $119,ooo,ooo. The net and over 1,200,000 yards of ordinary earthdebt in 1879 was $143,ooo,ooo, an worth to be done before the contract was
increase of $24,ooo,ooo, with very completed. That was on contract 15. On

little to show for it except in the construction of the Intercolonial Railway. Very
little money had been spent upon the
Pacific Railway, and that which was
expended was not expended to the credit
of the First Minister of the country at that

section 14 the engineers had never been
at the end where the contractors commenced work ; they had only been over
some 13 miles of the east end of the road.
That contract was moneyed out at 400,ooo, and when I investigated it, it had cost

1080

Public [SENATE] Loan Bill.

$ 770,000, and was not at that time com-

pleted. That was the way in which the
public debt was increased between 1874
and 1879; it is a sample of the kind of
railway building we had under the late
Government. The same thing happened
on the Georgian Bay Branch ; there never
was an engineer over that road before it
was contracted for by the late Mr. Foster.
The engineer stated that he had not been
within many miles of the track, and knew
nothing about the line. At the terminus of
contract 14 on Red River, if the line had
been diflected less than five miles from
where it was located, would have
saved the Government $36o,ooo. Mr.
Mackenzie was on the committee, and the
late Thomas Oliver was on the committee.
The whole of these facts were brought out
before the committee, and the report was
made. Those gentlemen dissented from
the report, but they were present on the
investigation, and the facts were brought
out, and could not be gainsaid. That
expenditure formed part of the public debt
from 1874 to 1879. I did not intend to
refer to it, I have done so only by way of
vindicating the present Government from
the charge of unnecessarily increasing
the public debt. Now what bas been
the cause of the increase since 1879?
I may say that the expenditure on capital
account has been far larger than the increase of the debt. During the period
from 1874 to 1879 the increase of the debt
was larger than the expenditure on capital
account, which was owing to the fact that
there was a deficit every year, and that
deficit had to be made up by borrowing
money; but since 1879 there has been a
surplus which has been expended very
largely in the construction of works properly chargeable to capital account. The
debt as it stood on the 1st of July last,
for we have no other reliable data except
the general statements that have been
made with respect to the increase of the
debt, was $182,ooo,ooo.

The reduction

of interest bas very largely relieved the
public from the burden of that increased
debt. There has been a reduction of one
half of one per cent. nearly in the general
rate of interest paid upon the whole public
debt.
HoN. MR. SCOTT-I drew attention
to that fact.
HON. MR. PLUMB.

HON. MR. PLUMB-I am very glad

that the bon. gentleman did so ; it is consistent with bis usual candour in dealing
with those matters. It is one of those
things that cannot be ignored in a discussion of the public debt, and I say again
that that reduction in the rate of interest
bas been made in spite of, not aided by
Her Majesty's loyal Opposition. It bas
been made by the sheer force of the real
prosperity, growth and credit of Canada, in
spite of all the attacks that have been
made on our public credit-attacks that
have been made upon it through the Canadian Pacific Railway; through the NorthWest where there has been a constant
endeavor to persuade the world that that
country bas been so badly administered
that the people were upon the eve of revolution everywhere, and the wish was father
to the thought, and the thought bas been
father largely to bringing about the very
state of affairs which bas been predicted
by enernies of the Government. The
increase of our debt bas been from
$182,000,000- that
to
$143,000,000,
is an increase

of $39,ooo,ooo.

That

money bas gone largely into the
Pacific Railway.
This Government
pledged itself to construct the Pacific
Railway. The people twice endorsed by
a large majority the policy of the Government. The Government stand supported
by a large majority of the representatives
of the people in that policy. The amount
provided for in these resolutions that come
up to us is partly made up by sums that
have been spent on the Pacific Railway,
and are still to be spent on it, bas a sanction of a large majority of the House of
Commons-the money giving power-the
immediate representatives of the people.
That policy bas been endorsed; that
policy bas been pursued, and I venture to
say, in spite of all the adverse criticisrns
of the bon. gentlemen on the opposite
side, that policy will meet with the acceptance of the country, and will continue to
be the policy of the country whoever may
be in power. I do not believe, if the
bon. gentleman and bis friends went into
power to-morrow, that they would venture
to stop the building of the road. They
dare not do so ; they would have to go on
with it, and to be in accord with the feelings of the country, it should be built
speedily upon the principle of bis dat qui

Publie [JUNE, 16 1885] Loan Bill.

1081

cit dat-he who gives a benefit to the are, that in order to connect the east and
country should give it quickly and there- west line for construction trains, the conby double its advantages. Population is tractors built a temporary track of 5 miles
Pouring into the west on the American at any grade-25o feet, or any grade or
Side below the line. We ought to give curve on which they could operate a
equal facilities ; we have had no opportu- locomotive for the time being, while a
nity yet to show what the capacity of our tunnel in the direct line of some 2,200
road is, and if the hon. gentleman will feet was constructed. It was seized upon
read the exhaustive statement that was by the hon. gentleman in question, who
made by the President of the Canadian stated here, and spread through the rePacific Railway at the meeting of the ports, that there were grades of 250 feet
shareholders on the 13th of this month- to the mile on the Pacific Railway, and a
if he will read it with the candour which 5-mile tunnel to be built on the Canadian
characterizes him, he will see that our Pacific Railway. This shows the nature
course has been the correct and the proper of the attacks which have been made on
one. It is childish to talk of a burden that great enterprise, Now, I will say
of seven or eight million of dollars that the Bill which has been brought here
a year being thrown on the country for has been sanctioned by the other House,
the maintenance of that road. The posi- the money-giving power with which we
tion of the Pacific Railway from the 1st are associated. I say that the resolutions
of January to the 1st of May last, as com- on which it is founded are for purposes
pared with the previous year, is $95o,ooo which will commend themselves to the
better. In Winnipeg alone so great has judgment of the country at this moment,
been the prospect of business that the and will bear the closest criticism and
company have put in 21 miles of scrutiny. I challenge that scrutiny, and
siding. They have not made it for the I challenge that criticism. It is too
purpose of empty show, but to accommo- late now to make the further remarks,
date the business that they expect to get, which I intend to make at some other
and they will get it, and if it had not been time, with respect to the financial position
for this unfortunate insurrection in the of the country, and when the opportunity
North-West, which will, no doubt, eventu- offers I trust I may be pardoned for going
ally redound to the benefit of that country, into it at some greater length, and then I
we would now see that road loaded with trust I will be able to show that whatever
traffic. I say that the money expended our debt may be we have got good value
on the Canadian Pacific Railway contract for it-we have got that which will bring
by the country, has been well expended- us a great deal more than we shall pay
as well expended as if every dollar had out in the way of interest. We have got
been watched by special expert agents of that which is to be the making of our
the Governnent. I have in my posses- country, and but for the indomitable persion photographs of all the principal works severance of those who have been our
on the road, and I say that there is no leaders, and of him who we are told we
better work on this continent than that on obey as the sheep obey the bell-wether
for the indomitable perseverance
the Canadian Pacific Railway. The ab- -but
surd statement was made here that there of our leaders, the project would have
was a grade of 250 feet to the mile in the been abandoned in despair on account
mountain section of that road, and 5 miles of the persistent opposition which has
of tunnel. Such a statement is worthy of been given to it from the time of its inthe hon. gentleman from whom it ema- ception.
nated. One can hardly call the man a
HON. MR. SCOTT-I challenge my
gentleman, who deliberately makes such
a statement, but I suppose he must have hon. friend's statement that it was not fair
quoted from the atrocious and absurd to draw a comparison between Sir Richard
pamphlet attacking the road, published Cartwright raising a loan in 1876, and Sir
anonymously last autumn, where such a Leonard Tilley's loan in 1885. I said that
Statement was made by the author, who the value of money was entirely different
Writes as an engineer, but evidently can- in both cases, and therefore it was not a
not belong to that profession. The facts fair standard. I sent out for a paper to

1082 Proofof Entries, etc., kept [SENATE] by ofwere of the Crown.
get the value of American 4's to-day, and
I find they are quoted at 120 ; in 1877
their 4yz per cents. were only worth
104/4j. What I said was, it was not a
fair argument that was used because the
value of money to-day is not what it
was in 1876, and in proof of that I could
luote to you the Consuls of the various
countries of Europe, and of the various
States which are more akin to ours, and
which show that their 4's have risen 20
per cent., and we have shared in the
general prosperity and in the general
reduction of interest. I drew attention
to that in my remarks-that it was oie of
the great blessings that Canada had the
advantage of; that Canada was paying
less for its public debt and therefore we
were in a position to borrow more now
than we could if we were paying larger
interest.

by Sir Richard Cartwright in 1876, the
rate of interest in the Bank of England
was 2 per cent., and that it remained at
2 per cent. for a long time, and he sold
the 4 per cents. of Canada for 872 or
less. That is a sufficient answer to my
hon. friend's argument as to the comparison between the two loans. That is an
absolute fact ; I stated on the floor of the
House of Commons that the fours of '76
did not net over 87y2, and I challenged
Sir Richard Cartwright to show that he
got more than 87 34. I showed the figures,
and I said, " If I am wrong the hon. gentleman is here to correct me."

HoN. MR. PLUMB-When the hon.
gentleman quotes American fours, he will
remember that the United States Government had been for a long time under suspension ; that the period when their 4 per
cents. were low was a period when they
were emerging from their position as a
non-specie-paying country, and when they
were still suffering from the result of that
suspension, and the prosperity of the
country had not counteracted it fully. I
call the hon. gentleman's attention to another fact ; there carnot be properly any
comparison between the prices of Canadian stocks and those of the United States,
and I tell the hon. gentleman one great
reason. There is a general banking law
in the United States which compels all the
banks issuing circulation, to deposit securiies of the United States with the public
treasury for the security of that circulation.
That Act which is now in full operation
has made a constant demand for United
States securities and keeps up the price.

The following Bills were read the
second time without debate, on the understanding that they would be explained in
committee :-

The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the third time and passed.
SECOND READINGS.

Bill (183), " An Act further to amend
the Steamboat Inspection Act 1882."
(Sir Alex. Campbell.)
Bill (i 19), " An Act further to amend
the Act respecting the Inspection of Gas
and Gas Meters." (Sir Alex. Campbell.)
ENTRIES IN BOOKS OF ACCOUNT
KEPT BY OFFICERS OF THE
CROWN BlLL
COMMONS AMENDMENTS AGREED TO.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
that the amendments made by the House
of Commons to the Bill, " An Act respecting Proof of Entries in Books of AcThere are $327,000,000 of United States count kept by Officers of the Crown," be
bonds in deposit in the banking depart- concurred in.
ment at Washington for the security of
the issues of the banks of the United
The motion was agreed to, and the
States, and there is a constant demand for amendments were concurred in.
those securities for that purpose, and we
cannot therefore compare the price of the
The Senate adjourned at six o'clock.
bonds of Canada and the United States,
because this is an element in the calculation which throws it entirely out. I find
that at the time the negotiation was made
HON. MR.

SCOTT.

À Question [JUNE 17, 1885.] of Privilege.

1083

THE SENATE.

HON. MR. PLUMB - I gave the
amounts from the Public Accounts as exOttawa, Wednesday, June 17th, 1885. pended on capital account. Whatever
previous expenditure there had been we
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three were not talking about; we were discuso'Clock p. m.
sing the increase of the public debt since
Confederation. There were roads taken
Prayers and routine proceedngs.
in, and the cost of those roads was added.
HON. MR. POWER-My statement
was that the total cost of the Intercolonial

THIRD READINGS.

Railway had been about $42,ooo,ooo.

The following Bills, reported from the
Committee on Banking and Commerce,
HON. MR. PLUMB-The statement
Without amendment, were read the third that I heard from the hon. gentleman was
time and passed without debate :simply a supplementary remark to a statement made on this side of the House,
Bill (105), " An Act respecting the and I heard the hon. gentleman use the
Bank of British Columbia." (Sir Alex. words "forty millions of dollars." I had
Campbell).
the Public Accounts in my hands which
stated the amount charged to capital acBill (117), " An Act respecting the count for the Intercolonial Railway. I
Commercial Bank of Windsor." (Sir know nothing about any previous charges;
Alex. Campbell).
I only took those that were made as applying to the time we were discussing.
A QUESTION OF PRIVILEGE.
We were discussing the finances of the
Dominion and the Dominion debt, and
HON. MR. POWER-Before the orders the whole argument had reference to the
0f the day are called I wish to say a word increase of the Dominion debt.
as to a matter personal to myself. In the
Course of the debate yesterday on the Loan
HON. MR. DEVER- I think the hon.
Bill, I made a statement with respect to gentleman will find that what swells up
the cost of the Intercolonial Railway, the amount is the purchase of the Grand
Which the hon. gentleman from Niagara Trunk Railway portion of the road.
said was incorrect. I was not present at
the time the hon. gentleman made the
HoN. MR. POWER-I have a great
Statement, but I understood that he said deal of respect for the hon gentleman's
that the total cost of the road up to date authority on the subject, but I take it that
was only $29,ooo,ooo. I beg to refer the the statement of the Minister of Railways
hon. gentleman to the report of the and Canals as to the total cost of the
Minister of Railways and Canals for the Intercolonial Railway is more reliable
Year ending on the 3oth June last. At than any made up by the hon. gentleman
page 16 of that report he will find that it from Niagara.
is stated that the total cost of the road and
equipment chargeable to capital account,
HON. MR. PLUMB-I beg the hon.
at the close of the fiscal year 1882-83, ac- gentleman's pardon, I am not making any
cording to last year's report, was $41,o67,- statement, Iam taking the Public Accounts.
252; the expenditure charged to capital It is not my statement in any sense.
He
account for the year ending 1884, was will find on page 17 of the supplementary
$1,514,979, making a total cost up to 3oth statements of the Public Accounts that the
total sum represented by the expenditure
June, 1884, of $42,582,231.
on capital account for the Intercolonial
H-ON. MR. PLUMB-How much of Railway is $ 29 ,4 86,o2-and not to put
that was before Confederation ?
too fine a point upon it, 90 cents.
HON.

MR.

Confederation.

POWER-None

before

HON.

date ?

MR. ALEXANDER-At what

1084A

Agricultural [SEN ATE] Fertilier Bill.

HoN. MR. PLUMB-The year ended larity. It provides that a deficiency of
3oth June, 1883-84-the last statement of one per centurn of the ammonia or its
the Public Accounts.
equivalent of nitrogen, or of the phosphoric
acid, claimed to be contained, shall not be
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It must in- considered as evidence of fraudulent intent.
clude the branch from Riviere du Loup That seemed not to be an unreasonable
to Point Levis.
limit. If we find it necessary we can
discuss that when we come to consider the
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Perhaps Bill in a Committee of the whole House.
the Minister of Justice can explain how it
is that there is such a difference between
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I have
the statement of the Minister of Railways looked into this Bill, being myself interested
and the Public Accounts ?
in agriculture, and having been in the
habit of using this description of goods,
THE SPEAKER-Orders of the day.
and I think the Bill is a very useful and
necessary one. As agriculture improves
AGRICULTURAL FERTILIZERS in this country, farmers will see the
necessity of adopting artificial fertilizers,
BILL
because everyone engaged in that pursuit
SECOND READING.
knows how difficult it is to furnish a sufficient quantity of manure from the farm
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved yard and otherwise. He finds with all his
the second reading of Bill (122), "An Act best efforts it is impossible for him to do
respecting Agricultural Fertilizers." He so. Here are articles offered for sale
said-This is a Bill to introduce some which are well calculated to remedy this
regularity and thoroughness in the sale of deficiency. Another advantage is that a
agricultural fertilizers. The Bill proposes new industry is springing up amongst us,
that every manufacturer or importer of particularly in the vicinity of this city, that
fertilizers shall send a sample to the is mining phosphates. Now these phosInland Revenue Department, and these phates contain the fertilizing elementwhich
samples shall be examined. The inspector is so frequently deficient in our fields,
shall go once a year to the manufacturer particularly after they have been for some
and see that the samples which are being time under cultivation. When using artisent to the Department agree with the ficial fertilizers it is most essential that the
material which the man is selling. A farming community should be defended
certificate shall be placed on each package against impositions. Nothing is more
which the man sells, whether it be a easy than to adulterate those fertilizers,
barrel or a smaller parcel, stating that it and perhaps in the present state of the
contains so and so, and the public will trade in Canada there is nothing to prevent
know that the man is selling fertilizers, farmers being imposed upon unless a
the component parts of which are stated measure of this sort is placed upon the
on the certificate on the outside of the Statute Books. It is different in England.
package. It provides for the examination The farmers there have the means ofdefendby an inspector once a year, or oftener if ing themselves without a law. Their systemn
necessary, of the materials which the man is this; a dealer furnishes a buyer with a
is selling and imposing certain penalties sample and engages that the bulk of what
for a wilful departure from the terms of he supplies shall be of equal quality. If
the Act. In this as in the other Bill we the farmer finds that the results which he
discussed a few nights ago, it is proposed expected from the fertilizer are inadequate,
that a variation of less than one per cent. he can take a sample to an analyst and if
is not material. I think the hon. member it does not come up to the sample on
from Prince Edward Island (Mr. Hay- which the sale was made he can prosecute
thorne) who took part in the discussion on the dealer. That protection, and the dethat Bill and raised that question came sire of dealers to make a good reputation,
ultimately to the conclusion that one per are amply sufficient, but it is different
cent. was not an unfair limit. In this Bill here where everything is new and imperthe provision is given with more particu- fectly understood. It is quite right in this

Inspection of Ga# [J UNE 17, 1885j and Ga. Meter. Bill.
Country that Parliament should step in
With a law of this description to protect
the interests of the farmer. I agree with
all the clauses of the Bill except that one
which renders it unnecessary for a sample
sent for analysis to contain exactly the
quantity guaranteed. I was under the
Impression, when I saw the clause at first,
that the percentage was too large, but my
hon. friend who sits near me showed me
MY mistake on that point. Although I do
nOt now believe that any such reduction
is necessary, still it is so comparatively
Small-that I am not disposed to object to
the Bill on that ground.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-How are the
analysts to be paid. ?

1065

Inspection Act was amended by leaving
out the word " marine." It had been
found that there were not many marine
steam engine shops. On the St. Lawrence
and the great lakes there are no marine
steam engine shops, the marine steam
engine not being the kind used for the
most part on the ordinary steamboats
navigating inland waters. It was proposed to re-enact the clause leaving out the
word "marine." That would give the
person employed all the knowledge neces
sary for running the engines ordinarily
used on the lake and river craft.
The clause was adopted.
On the 3rd clause,

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL exHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLplained that the object of the clause was
There is an analyst in chief here who is
Paid by the Government. I do not know to amend the 4 5th section of the Steamboat Inspection Act by adding a sub-secWhat deputies he may have.
tion, making the same provision with reHON. MR. KAULBACH-Are they ference to the new class of engineers as
already existed in the Act with reference
Paid by fees ?
to the 1st, 2nd and 3rd class engineers.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
.
The clause was adopted.
Inspectors are, but the analyst here is an
Officer of the Department, and is paid by
HON. MR. GIRARD, from the Comsalary.
mittee, reported the Bill without amendThe motion was agreed to, and the ment,
1ill was read the second time.
The Bill was then read the 3 rd time and
passed
STEAMBOAT INSPECTION ACT
INSPECTION OF GAS AND GAS
AMENDMENT BILL.
METERS BILL.
THIRD READING.
THIRD READING

The House resolved itself into a ComThe House resolved itself into a ComMittee of the whole on Bill (133) "An
Act further to amend the Steamboat In- mittee of the Whole on Bill (119), " An
Act further to amend the Act respecting
Spection Act, 1882.'
the Inspection of Gas and Gas Meters."
In the Committee,
In the Committee,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL explain
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL said:
ed that the object of the first section was
This Bill consists of only one clause, the
to provide for a 4 th class of engineers.
object of which is to provide that where
the quality of gas is to be inspected,
The clause was adopted.
notice need not be given to the person
who manufactures it. In the Act, as it
On the 2nd clause,
now stands, the inspector is obliged to
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL ex- give notice to the manufacturer that he
Plained that section 48 of the Steamboat will at such a day be in attendance for

1086

Colonial and Indian [SENATE] Fxhibition Bill.

the purpose of inspecting the quality of
the gas. It has turned out in practice, as
one might imagine, that that is not the
right way to ascertain the quality of the
gas-that when the inspector goes, after
having given 24-hours notice, he finds the
gas good, although the quality might not
have been good 24 hours before that.

of Ontario: Messrs. R. W. Wright, R.
Pringle and Alex. Leith ; two for the Province of Quebec: Messrs. S. C. Stevenson
and L. Desjardins; in the Maritime
Provinces: Mr. W. F. Best and Mr. W.
D. Demock ; also one in British
Columbia: Mr. J. Jessup. These agents
have been actively going out to collect
exhibits, and have so far met with success.
HON. MR. VIDAL, from the commitThese are the provisions which the
tee, reported the Bill without amendment. Government are making to assist the exThe Bill was then read the third time hibitors on the occasion in question. I
hope my hon. friend will consider them
and passed.
satisfactory. The whole guarantee will
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBI- be £50,ooo, and as £io,ooo is to £5o,000, so will this country have to pay in
TION, LONDON, BILL.
case there is a loss at the exhibition ; but
the past history of those exhibitions shows
THIRD READING.
that the danger of loss is very small, and
The House resolved itself into a Com- in this instance, I hope, instead of a loss
mittee of the Whole on Bill (126), "An Act there will be a gain.
to provide for the fitting representation of
Canada at the Colonial and Indian ExhiHON. MR. HAYTHORNE-When are
bition, to be held in London in the year those articles for exhibition required to be
1886."
prepared ?
In the committee,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
promised at the last stage of the Bill to
give some information to the hon. gentleman from Prince Edward Island, who
asked for an explanation as to the nature
of the assistance to be given to exhibitors
who propose to send articles to the exhibition. I have asked for the information
and it has been given to me as follows:
The mode proposed to assist intending
exhibitors at the " Colonial Indian Exhibition," to be held in London in 1886,
consists of paying the freight of all exhibits, whether manufactured or natural
products, such as shall be accepted, to
London, the placing of such exhibits in
position, and returning them back to their
owners in Canada at the cost of the Government, in the event of their not being
sold by the order or agent of the owners.
The Government also undertakes to see
that proper care is taken of all exhibits
during the exhibition ; but all perishable
articles are to be at the risk of the owners, as well as generally any damage incident to carriage or exposure in exhibition. These terms have been generally
accepted as being exceedingly liberal.
Agents are employed to collect the exhibits. There are three for the province
MON.

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL I am not able to state that, but due notice
of it will be given. I have not yet got
the information. Some of those gentlemen whose names I have mentioned as
being employed as agents, are now in
town, and they will shortly lay the information before the Government. Ample
notice will be given, however, to those
who intend to exhibit, to allow them
time to send their exhibits forward.
HON. MR. KAULBACH - Did I
understand the Minister of Justice to say
that by this Bill Canada is acting in concert with India and the other colonies to
guarantee against a loss ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes;
India guarantees £20,000, Canada £1o,ooo, and the other colonies of the Empire

guarantee
guarantee

£20,000, making the total

£50,000

HON. MR. POWER, from the Committee, reported the Bill without amendment.

The Bill was read the third time and
passed.
The Senate adjourned at 4 o'clock, p.m.

Agriultural [JUNE 18, 1885] Fertilizer8 Bill.
THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Thursday, fune

ioth, r885.

1087

h ere seems to be to have the samples all

sent to the headquarters for analysis ; but
in the case of food it would be useless as
it might spoil on the way.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at three

O'clock.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-The chief
analyst is paid by salary instead of by

Prayers and routine proceedings.
AGRICULTURAL FERTILIZERS
BILL.
THIRD READING.

HON.

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes.

HON. MR. KAULBACH - In that
case it would save the party having the
analysis made the expense of fees ?

The House resolved itself into a ComHON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I myself
mTittee of the Whole on Bill (122), " An
prefer the analysis of the head officer,
Fertilizers."
Act respecting Agricultural
though it may cause a little more delay.
In the committee,
HoN. MR. POWER-I presume the
difficulty is met in the 3rd clause, which
On the 5th clause,
provides that the manufacturer or imHON. MR. POWER-I notice that this porter shall himself furnish a certificate of
clause makes provision for an analysis by analysis. That certificate goes to the
the chief analyst. The committee will department, and is presumed to be reremember that when we had under con- liable until the chief analyst finds out that
sideration the Bill with respect to the it is otherwise. I see that the importer
adulteration of food, we found in it a or manufacturer is allowed to sell from
provision that the analysis of articles ob- the beginning, so that there can be no
tained for the purposes of examination objection to it.
should be first made by the local analyst.
The clause was adopted.
I presume there is good reason for not
adopting that course in the present
On the i2th clause,
instance; but the Minister will probably
tell us why it is that the same provision is
HON. MR. POWER-The Minister
not contained in this Bill ? It would save
expense and delay if the importer or manu- will notice in this clause there is no room
facturer, say in Nova Scotia or British for doubt as to the meaning of the one per
Columbia, were allowed to have the articles cent. It says here one per cent. of amanalyzed by the analyst en the spot, and monia, or its equivalent, nitrogen or
not compelled to send them to the Capital phosphoric acid. In the Bill that went
down to the other House lately there was
for an analysis.
a question whether it was one per cent. of
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-In the whole, or one per cent. of each ingrethe case of food, the natural course would dient.
be to have the analysis on the spot where
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,
it is sold, but in the case of these fertilizers
they want a sample here so that sales may I thought however it was clear enough that
take place in all parts of the country on it was one per cent. of each ingredient.
the strength of the analysis made here,
The clause was adopted.
The Bill provides in a subsequent clause
shall put a
that the man who vends it
HON. MR. NELSON, from the commit.
stamp on the package showing what it is
with amendments,
of, and if he sells any prepara- tee, reported the Bill in.
composed
were concurred
tion that is not up to his own mark, or up which
The Bill was then read the third time
to the mark of the public analysist, he
shall be liable to a penalty. The scheme and passed.

An [SENATE] Adjournment.

1088

BILLS INTRODUCED.

Perhaps the hon. Minister will give us an
idea as to what the effect of an adjournBill (135), " An Act further to amend ment will be on the public business.
'the General Inspection Act, 1874,' and
the Acts amending the same." (Sir Alex.
HON. MR.OGILVIE-Ithinkthatthere
Campbell).
is hardly a member in this House on either
side that would want to adjourn if the hon.
The Senate adjourned at 3.45, p.m.
the leader of the House objected to it at
all, because he has the confidence, I
believe, of both sides so entirely, that if he
were to say that he wanted us to remain
THE SENATE.
here we would do so. But I think the
mover of this motion spoke to the leader
Ottawa, Friday, June i 9 th, 1885.
of the House before he proposed it-in
fact I know he did-and wnen there is no
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three objection on the part of the Minister of
'clock.
Justice, I cannot see why there should be
any objection on the part of other nemPrayers and routine proceedings.
bers of the House.
AN ADJOURNMENT.
MOTION.

HON. MR. McINNES (B. C.) moved
that when the House adjourns to-day it
do stand adjourned until Thursday, the
2nd of July.
HON. MR. POWER - We ought to
have some expression of opinion on this
motion from the Minister of Justice.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I would ask the
Minister of Justice whether it would be
safe for the Senate to take so long a recess ? Of course it is well known that the
week after next there will be two holidays,
the 2 9 th June and the 1st of July. If
there is nothing next week which is pressing upon the Senate or likely to come up
from the other House, I suppose there
would not be any great objection to the
motion of my hon. friend. If business
were coming up from the House of Commons, it might be unfortunate if the
Senate were not in session. There are
none of us, but are more or less inconvenienced owing to the length of the
session. If without interfering in any
way with the public business or taking any
hazard, such an adjournment can take
place, although it is not my habit to advocate such adjournments, (and I do not
advocate this) I certainly should be very
glad to consent to it, more for the convenience of others than for my own.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLThere is no prospect that we will have any
business before us for several days. I
have a note in my hand from an official of
the House of Comnions to say so. The
other branch of the Legislature will be
engaged chiefly on the Franchise Bill, the
Estimates and the Bill to give assistance
to the Canadian Pacific Railway Company.
Whether they may or may not make
sufficient progress in any of these matters
to send them before this House within
the time for which my hon. friend proposes
to adjourn, is still a matter of doubt.
Perhaps it would be more prudent not to
make the adjournment so long, but to come
here on Wednesday or Thursday of next
week. We might perhaps have business for a couple of days, and then this
day week my hon. friend nkht move to
adjourn over the two hold .ys. The
objection to that is, that th-r- would be
two adjournments, and it would prevent
those who live at a distance from the
capital from going to their homes. It is
a matter that I must leave in the hands of
the House ; I do not think that any injury
would result to the public business from
the proposed adjournment.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER - I feel
impelled to offer one or two observations
respecting this proposed adjournment. If
a majority of this House desire to adjourn
I am sure it would be most unseemly for
any member to object to their wishes. I
do not remember on any occasion having

An [JUNE 19, 1885] Adjournment.
offered an objection to what I conceived
to be the desire of the House, but if we
have nothing to do after we have been
here four and a half months, I want to
know who is chargeable with this waste of
time and grave inconvenience to which
We are subjected ? Here we are, 77
gentlemen from different parts of the
Dominion, men who have most important
interests at home, and we are detained
here week after week and month after
rnonth, without any progress in the work
of legislation.
HON. SIR ALEX.

CAMPBELL-I

rise to a question of order. I do not
think it is in order for the hon. gentleman
to bring an accusation of this kind against
the House of Commons.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I ask why
it is we are to be detained here ? (Order,
order). I trust the Speaker will rule upon
the question of order.
THE SPEAKER-Great latitude is
allowed in discussions of this kind, and
although the hon. member is arraigning
the members of the House of Commons,
I do not know that I am justified in stopping him.

1089

up, in both branches of Parliament who
will raise their voices against those wicked,
and crooked ways, and bring about a more
upright administration of the public affairs
of so promising a country.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I must
say I think these frequent adjournments
are exceedingly objectionable, and, besides
that, they are very unfair. Gentlemen who
reside in the immediate neighborhood of
the capital can go to their homes and can
make arrangements for the progress of
their business while others who live at a
distance are unable to take advantage of
the adjournment at all. Now, from a
public point of view, I consider that not a
single day ought to be lost at this period
of the session. Suppose any of the
measures on which the House of Commons
are now engaged should come before this
House next week, it is clear that if we
adjourn to the second of July several days
will be lost, and the probability will be
that we will be crowded with work when
we meet again, yet risks are to be run and
inconvenience encountered in order that
some members may get home while others
have to remain here under expense.
HON. MR. McINNES (B.C.)I do
not think that the last charge of the hon.
gentleman can apply to the mover of this
adjournment. I do not think it is possible
for me to avail myself of this adjournment
to get home, but I really think that it is
very much better we should have an adjournment of considerable length than to
be meeting here for a short time each day.
If I had any idea that it would retard the
public business of the country or prolong
the session in the slightest degree, I should
be the last to move for an adjournment,
but I think there will be ample time after
we meet again to give full consideration
to all business that is likely to come before
us, and those who live within easy reach of
the capital can go home while those whose
homes are too distant can take a trip for
a week or so from the capital to enjoy
themselves in other portions of the
Dominion.

HON MR. ALEXANDER-Whence
does it arise that we have been detained
here all this time but from the crooked
work of the Government, of which the
hon gentleman here is one of the leaders ?
Whence is it but that the representatives
of the people in the House of Commons
have been obliged to express the indignation which has been felt by the public
with regard to the legislation that has
been hrought in, to subvert the power of
the people. I have no doubt that the
Government will go on as they have been
doing while they have a majority in both
branches of Parliament that will permit
them to continue such a course. They
possess a majority in the Commons, and
they avail themselves of that majority to
bring in measures that will destroy the Conservative party. I am a Conservative, and I
am proud that I remain one, but I am
ashamed of many of the acts of the Conser.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
vative leaders which must sully the reputa- desire to say one word in answer to the
tion of that party for a long period of time. hon. member from Prince Edward Island,
But I have every faith that men will spring who is always reasonable, and I should be

T

2

1090

General In8pection Act [SENATE] Amendnent Bill.

very loathe to take any course which my
hon. friend on reflection would consider a
wrong one; but what can the House do?
There is no business before us, and I have
read a memorandum from an official of
the House of Commons to say that there
is not likely to be any for some days to
come. No good is to be accomplished by
rejecting the motion. The fault nay be
with the Government or it may be with
the Opposition, but no good can be at
tained by keeping the House in session.
What would my hon. friend have ?
HON. MR. HAYT HORNE-Work.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-If
I could give my hon. friend work I would
not suggest for a moment that the House
should adjourn. The hon. member who
offered the motion prefaced it by saying
that if he had any idea there would be
work to be donc he would not make it.
It is not the fault of this House that there
is no work before us. We are ready to
take up bills from the Lower House supposing they do come. But supposing we
were here Wednesday, Thursday and
Friday, we would have none. Then comes
St. Peter and St. Paul's day on Monday,
and Dominion Day on Wednesday.
There seems to be no object in opposing
the motion, and I do not understand that
we could accomplish any good if we
met the views of my hon. friend froni
Prince Edward Island.
The motion was agreed to
GENERAL INSPECTION ACT
AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND

READING.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the second reading of Bill (135)j " An Act
further to amend 'the Generql Inspection
Act, 1874,' and the Acts apIen.ding the
same." He said: This Bill, which relates
to the inspection of wheat and fish and
other articles which are mentioned in the
Bill is an amendment of an Act which
already exists, which Act was passed
in
1874. Of course during those
years experience has shown that amendments are necessary, and this experience
has resulted in this that under the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Act as it now stands the inspection of fish and hides is compulsory
in districts in which inspectors have been
appointed. In respect of all other articles,
flour, grain, beef, pork, butter, pot and
pearl ashes, the inspection is optional.
While the department has had no evidence whatever brought before it from
1874 to the present time, indicating that
the law, in respect of those articles whose
inspection is not compulsory, has failed
fully to meet the requirements of trade,
there has been a never-ceasing correspondence in respect of the articles of fish and
hides, and although amendments have
been made, year after year in reference to
the views of those most interested, the
Act still does not give public satisfaction.
While it is believed that a proper inspection is very desirable, and, while I am
free to admit that the Chamber of Commerce of Halifax has expressed its views
in favor of continuation of compulsory inspection, it is impossible not to sec in the
correspondence before the Depart-rent a
very strong argument in favor of providing
the machinery for inspection, but leaving
individual traders free to avail themselves
of it or not, as their interests may dictate.
The amendments proposed, therefore,
dispose of the last vestige of compulsory
inspection.
One of the main difficulties in respect
of the inspection of fish has been the provision that no inspector, or deputy inspector, should deal in the article he
It has
inspects under heavy penalties.
been found to be practically impossible,
under those conditions, to find deputy inspectors throughout a long coast-line,
where almost every man is a fisherman.
The amendments proposed do not interfere with these restrictions as to inspectors, as it is still deemed that they should
be men not pecuniarly interested in the
articles they inspect, but it is proposed
that deputy inspectors, appointed not by
the Governrment, but by the inspectors
themselves, and responsible to them, may
bc appointed, even though engaged in
the trade, and may inspect and brand
their own articles provided they are signed
with their name and office, as " Deputy
Inspector and Owner."
It is thought that, inspection being
optional, it will bc availed of only when
the inspection has, from the reputation

General hwpection Act [JUNE 19, 18851 Amen.dment Bill.
of the deputy inspector or inspector, a
commercial value, as a guarantee, and
that an owner who is also a deputy inspector
will not injure the reputation of his brand
as such for a mere present advantage.
Secondly-A provision has also been
made for the appointment of a chief inspector of any of the articles named in
the Act. It is not intended to ask any
vote for the repayment of such chief inspector, but, if it should be determined
that the services of such an officer would
tend to a more uniform administration of
the Act, such one of the inspectors as
rnay be recommended by the trade would
be appointed chief without any further
emolument than the Act itself provides
for in the way of fees for re-inspection.
A further provision is made for the meeting of delegates from the different commercial centres, with a view to select annually specific samples of grain, to assist
different inspectors in grading grains they
are called upon to inspect. This Board
will meet in Toronto every fall.
I understand that the members of Parliament from Nova Scotia for the most
part do not think that the inspection of
fish should be compulsory. The inspection of other things for which the Bill provides, wheat, etc., is pretty much as it is
now. The Bill, however, makes some
difference, I believe, in regard to the
weight which should constitute a bushel
of each kind of grain. It is intended that
the inspector of fish in Halifax will be
made a chief inspector in that part of the
countrv for fish, and that the inspector at
Toronto will be made a chief inspector
there for grain and other articles, the
other officers remaining as they are, so it is
not apprehended that any additional exSub-section 6 of
pense will be incurred.
clause i i provides for the reference of a
dispute between an owner of goods and
an inspector, or deputy inspector, to the
chief inspector, and some provision is
made as to the costs and charges for so
doing.
In clause 36, the weights of
spring and other varieties of wheat are
These, I believe, vary a little
given.
from the present provisions in that respect.
These I shall be able to explain in committee. If the House would consent to
it, I would ask that the Bill be read the
spcond time now, and referred to a committee of the whole House at once.

1091

Hon. MR. HOWLAN-Did I understand the Minister of Justice to say that
the inspection is not to be compulsory ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-That is a new
feature of the Bill.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,
as regards hides and fish.
HON. MR HOWLAN-I consider it a
bad feature.
HON. MR. POWER-Perhaps it would
not be well to refer the Bill to a committee
of the whole House now. Hon. gentlemen like my hon. friend from Alberton
and others might like to consider what
those they represent think about the Bill.
With respect to the Chamber of Commerce
at Halifax, the Bill in its original form, as
introduced in the House of Commons,.
was submitted to the Chamber of Commerce, and all its provisions received their
unqualified approval except the one which
made inspection purely voluntary. I believe the Chamber of Commerce were
unanimous in thinking that it would be
unwise to make that change at present.
While I am individually somewhat disposed to agree with the provision in the
Bill, still I think that as that body has
more to do with the dealing in fish than
any other body in the Dominion, it might
be as well possibly not to pass that clause
which does away with the compulsory inspection of fish, but let the Bill pass with
all the amendments except that one.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-There is a
difference of opinion in Nova Scotia as to
whether inspection should be compulsory
or not. I think in the county from which
I come the merchants are in favor of it.
Fish sent to the West Indies should be
inspected. I think it would be well to
accept the suggestion of the hon. member
from Halifax and let that clause stand.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE--I quite
concur in the remarks of the hon. member
from Halifax respecting the inadvisability
of proceeding with this Bill in committee
to-day. It is a very important measure
and one which ought to be thoroughly

1092

Pontiac and Pacific [SENATE] Junction Railway.

looked ino before it is adopted. Boards
of trade and other bodies of that sort can
always have their views represented, but
there are other classes which can only
make themselves heard through their
representatives in Parliament, and they
ought to have ample opportunity to study
this clause and mature their opinions upon
it. I see several weights of different grains
in this Bill with which perhaps I could not
exactly agree, and besides the farmers,
there are also the fishermen who are
interested in this Bill. I know in the
local legislatures, experimental legislation
has been attempted for many years-about
as long as I can recollect-upon fish
inspection there, and rarely if ever has that
legislation given general satisfaction, and
therefore I think we need to be exceedingly
cautious before we adopt anything here
rashly.

head of the barrel, remove some of the
fish, and substitute inferior fish for them.
I have heard of barrels being partly filled
with seaweed after beng inspected. It is
not like inspecting butter ; you can ascertain its quality at any time, but in buying
fish you can depend upon nothing but
the character of the man who packs them.
HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELLI have no objection to postpone the
reference of the Bill to a Committee of
the Whole House until after the adjournment. It will give every hon. gentleman
ample time to consider the measure carefully.

The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
The Senate adjourned at four p.m.

HON. MR. WARK-When the question
of the inspection of fish was under disTHE SENATE.
cussion here before, I stated that I was satisfied that no inspection of fish would be
Ottawa, Thursday, July 2nd 1885.
any good, because it depends altogether on
the character of the men who put up the
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
fish. I have seen a barrel of fish opened
o'clock.
that were said to be of superior quality.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-Where
that corne from ?
HON. MR.

did

WARK.-It was not from

Prayers and routine proceedings.
PONTIAC & PACIFIC JUNCTION
RALWAY

the Island.
MOTION.
HoN. MR. HOWLAN-Where

did it

come from?

HON. MR. TRUDEL moved:That an humble address be presented to
HON. MRL WARK.-I did not ask the His Excellency the Governor General ; pray-

captain.
HON. MR. HOWLAN.-You ought to

know when you refer to it.
HON.

MR. WARK-A request

was

made to take the head out of the barrel,
and finer fish I never saw.

The party

was asked to take out some of the fish;
he did so and still the fish were good. He
was asked to take out some more, and
then it was found that in the middle of
the barrel the fish were of an inferior
quality. But suppose the inspector could
see every fish put in and then brand the
barrel, the packer could take out the
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

ing that he will cause to be laid before this
House a Return showing:
1. Who were the signers of the Petition
for the incorporation of the Pontiac & Pacifie
Junction Railway Company;
2. The names of the original shareholders,
with the amiounts of their respective shares;
3. The amounts paid in by such shareholders, and the dates of such payments ;
4. The names of the shareholders on the
let of January, 1885;
5. The names of the present shareholders,
with the amounts of their respective shares
and the amounts paid up on each share.
He said :-The facts which gave rise to
this motion are well known to the public.
They have been discussed in the press,
especially the press of the Province of

Railway [JULY 2, 1885.] Subidie8 Bill.
Quebec, and concern a company called
the Pontiac & Pacific Junction Railway.
This company was incorporated by an
Act of this Parliament, and has received
several grants of money from the Local
Legislature of Quebec as well as from the
Parliament of Canada. After those several
grants of money had been made, five directors of the Company, out of seven I
think, sold their shares for the sum of
$90,ooo, and if the information which has
been placed before the public is correct,
three men have bought the amount of
their shares-that is, two of the other directors and a third party-in order to control, or to be sole proprietors of the railway. These facts, which have been
discussed in the press, have not been
denied. I may say that a Minister of the
Crown-a member of this Governmentis the present proprietor of a certain
It was
number of shares in the railway.
represented in the press that it was not
desirable that the Ministers of the Crown
should be interested in that way, and that
while it is admitted that public money
should be granted to encourage the construction of railways, those grants of
money should not be of such an amount
as to allow the shareholders, who may
not have even put a cent into those
undertakings, to realize large profits. In
this case, the sale by five directors of their
interest for the sum of $9o,ooo is evidence
that there has been an excess in the granting of money to this railway, either from
the Government of the Dominion or from
the Government of the Province of
Quebec. Those observations were answered through the press by the argument,
that far from incurring any blame for
being a shareholder in those railway
companies, the member of the Government alluded to had thereby shown his
zeal to promote the public interest, and
that it was an act of patriotism.
It
seemed to me to be a rather strange
doctrine, and I thought, as all the facts
were not perfectly known, in this sense,
that there was no official document before
the country to show the proportion of
shares held respectively by those who
sold their interest in the railway, and
who are the present purchasers of the
whole stock of the company, and by
whom the stock that was sold for $9o,ooo
was purchased-that it was in the interest

1093

of the country to move the address of
which I have given notice. I do not
suppose that any other member of the
Government is concerned in this matter,
but as, in the opinion of some, it is an act
of patriotism to speculate in railways
subsidized by Parliament, I think it is
in the interest of the country to know the
precise facts. If the House orders the
address, and the papers are brought down
they may give rise to further proceedings
in the matter.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The

Government has no objection to the passage of the address which my hon. friend
has moved, and on behalf of the member
of the Government to whom he has made
reference I beg to say he has assured me
that he will see that the papers are laid on
the table of the House with the utmost
readiness.
The motion was agreed to.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (149),"An Act for granting to Her
Majesty the sum of $1,7oo,ooo, required
for defraying certain expenses in connection with the troubles in the North-West
Territories." (Sir Alex. Campbell.)
Bill (148,) "An Act to amend the Acts
respecting the appointment of a Harbor
Master at the port of Halifax."
(Sir
Alex. Campbell.)
Bill (144), "An Act to authorize the
augmentation of the North-West Mounted
Police. (Sir Alex. Campbell.)
Bill (2o),"An Act to modify the application of the Consolidation Insurance Act
of 1877." (Sir Alex. Campbell.)
RAILWAY SUBSIDIES BILL.
FIRST READING.

Bill (147), " An Act to Authorize the
Grant of certain Subsidies in Land for the
Construction of the Railways therein
mentioned," was introduced and read the
first time.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
that the Bill be read the second time on
Monday next.

1094

Railway [SENATE] Subsidies Bill.

HON. MR. SCOTT-In connection
with this, I should like my hon. friend to
give us some information, on Monday
next, about a company which I see is not
named in this Bill, the North-Western
Central, which was in the same position as the companies included in
this Bill, that is, they had a charter
to build a railway from a point on
the Canadian Pacific Railway, and an
Order-in-Council was passed for a land
grant similar to that given to the Manitoba
and North-Western. I assumed, from a
paragraph in the Governor General's
Speech, that they all came in on the same
principle, and would be entitled to their
land grant as a matter of course, on the
announcement of the Government's policy.
I regret to find that this company is not
mentioned in the list. I hope the leader
of the Government will be prepared to tell
us on Monday that it is not to be excluded from the advantages to be extended
The point
to the other companies.
on the Canadian Pacific Railway
from which the line was to run
is Melbourne; 52 miles of the road has
been graded, and a very considerable sum
has been expended and the parties who
had paid out this money naturally supposed, from the announcement made in
the Governor's speech, that they would
not be excluded from the operation of the
Government's policy after Parliament
had committed itself to the granting of a
charter to build a road from a certain
point, naming the point; and the Government having passed an Order-in-Council
giving them a land grant at the rate of $i
per acre, and then having announced that
the policy would be not to exact the price
of the land, but to allow them to obtain
the land on payment of the cost of survey,
ten cents per acre.

pressed myself in opposition to granting
this assistance to railways in the NorthOn the contrary I
West Territories.
complimented the Government, in the
debate on the Speech from the Throne,
on their announcement that they would
give this assistance to railways for the
development of that great country ; and
my remarks to day in no way conflict with
the line I adopted the other day, inasmuch
as my argument then was that in the older
parts of the country, members were
practically-I will not say purchased, that
might not be parliamentary.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
do not think it would be parliamentary.
HON. MR. SCOTT-At all events it
was a compromising position for the
Government to assume, and they might
have to subsidize railways through other
localities which ought not to be assisted
except by the local governments or the
municipalities. But, so far as subsidizing
railway enterprises in the North-West
Territories I have always approved of that
policy, and I congratulated the Government, on the announcement being made
in the Speech from the Throne, on the
stand they had taken, because I think the
only way we can develop and hold the
North-West Territory is to gridiron that
country with railways. Had there been
railways to Prince Albert and Battleford
the late outbreak would in all probability
not have occurred, or if it had occurred
it would not have spread or been of such
a serious character.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My
hon. friend must remember the melancholy
tone in which he criticized the list of
railways mentioned in the Subsidy Bill,
and amongst them railways in the NorthHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I West Territories, and how he deplored
will make inquiries and answer my hon. the policy of the Governnent.
friend's question on Monday. I naturally
HON. MR. SCOTT-Those I read the
infer from the anxiety of my hon. friend
to have another railway added to the list other day were not in the North-West
of those to be subsidized, that he now Territories.
approves of the policy of aiding railways,
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Some
to which he expressed limself as being so
of them were.
strongly opposed a few iays ago.

MR. SCOTT-My hon. friend
does me an injustice. I have not exHON.

SCOTT-Not one of them.
The motion was agreed to.
HON. MR.

Temperance A ct, etc., [JULY 2, 1885] Amendment Bill.

1095

LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT BILL

HON. MR. POWER-I feel certain
now that there must be something in the
rumours we have heard that the hon.
FIRST READING.
gentleman from Niagara was about becomBill (139) " An Act to amend the Act ing a member of the Ministry, as he has
in relation to the Library of Parliament" undertaken to-day to answer on behalf of
Was introduced from the House of the Government. It is an instance of
coming events casting their shadows
Commons, and read the first time.
before. I simply made the request of the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved Government as a matter of courtesy, and
that the Bill be read the second time to- although it might not be necessary for any
hon. gentleman of the wonderful readiness
morrow.
and eloquence of my hon. friend from
Niagara to prepare to discuss a question
HON. MR. POWER-I hope the Min- of this kind, still people who have not his
ister of Justice will consent to postpone capacity do require a little time to collect
the second reading of this Bill until
their thoughts, particularly when there are
Tuesday.
other subjects that they propose considering in the meantime.
HoN. MR. PLUMB-Why?

HON. MR. POWER-It will be
rernembered by the House that when the
adjournment, which has just closed, was
Proposed, the Minister of Justice said the
public business would not suffer because
there was no business before the House.
Now, I take it, if important measures are
hurried through without giving us an
opportunity to discuss them, in a certain
sense the public business does suffer, and
I do not think it is too much to ask that
a measure like this, as to which there is a
good deal of difference of opinion, be
allowed to stand over until Tuesday when
there will be an opportunity to discuss it.
That will not detain Parliament any.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLWould it not answer if the hon. gentleman
deferred his observations to another stage
of the Bill ?
HON. MR. PQWER-I have no objection on that understanding.

The motion was agreed to.
CANADA TEMPERANCE ACT AND
LIQUOR LICENSEACTAMENDMENT BILL.
COMMONS AMENDMENTS.

A message was received from the
House of Commons, returning Bill (92),
HoN. MR. PLUMB-That does not "An Act further to amend the Canada
seem to me to be an adequate reason to Temperance Act, 1878, and the Liquor
Postpone the Bill. On the same principle License Act, 1883," with the following

there could be no business done. We message:
have met to do the business of the
HousE or COMONS,
Senate ; this is one of the bills which does
Thuraday, 18th June, 1885.
flot require any particular preparation or
Resolved, That a message be sent to the
examination. We know that this bill has Senate to acquaint thieir Honore that this
been before the other House for several House hath agreed to the first, second, fourth,
weeks. Everybody understands its pro- fifth, seventh, eighth and ninth of their
vision and everybody, by looking at the amendments to the Bill (No. 92) intituled:
bill, without anything more than a " An Act further to amend 'l he Canada
Temperance Act, 1878,' and 'The Liquor
cursory examination, will know what it License Act, 1883,'
and have also
rneans. I think it would be well that we agreed to their amendment, with the exshould have some business before the ception of the 5th paragraph of the
House to-morrow, and of all the bills 2nd roviso of the said third amendnent, to
have disagreed for the following
which are coming up, this is one for whih they Because it contravenes the prirciWhich there is the least reason to ask for reason:-"Act which pros ides that the sale of
ple of the
a postponement.
Alcohol and Spirits for the purposes mentioned

1096

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Anendment Bill.

shall be made only on the certificate of two asks me if the message should come up
Justices of the Peace accompanied by the during his absence to have the considera.affirmation of the applicant and the registra.tion of the sale, which are considered neces- tion of it postponed until Monday
sary safeguards against an abuse of the law." next.
Ând that they have added to the said third
amendment, the following further provisoHcN. MR. O'DONOHOE-I would
" Provided always that ail such Physicians,
Druggists and Chemists selling Alcohol or ask the Minister of Justice to let it stand
Spirituous Liquors shall keep a register of ail untilWednesday next. I think the changes
such sales, indicating the name of the pur- are so considerable in the Bill that it
chaser and the quantity sold, and shall make
an annual return of ail such sales on the 31st should be granted : it would be impossible
Decémber in each year to the Collector of In- to consider the effect of the changes
land Revenue within whose Revenue Division clearly without the Bill being reprinted
such Physician, Druggist or Chemist resides." with the amendments.
"And that they have disagreed to the sixth
amendment, for the following reasons
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
"Because
abuses have arisen in counties
in which the Act has been adopted, owing to substance of the changes will appear in
the absence of a penal Clause of this nature, the minutes of the day, and we shall then
and the provision is necessary in order to the
proper and effective enforcement of the law." see precisely what the suggestions are
I do
And that they have anended the words so that corne from the other House.
restored to the Bill, in page 2, line 15, by not think there is any occasion to reprint
adding after the words " Medical man," the the Bill.
words " or other person authorized to grant
cetifcas umlder thi

A et."

And that thiev have d1i-agreed to the tenth
HON. MR. O'DOINOHOE-I was
amendment, for the following reason :-" Be- going to say that several members who
-cause forms are necessary for the efficient take an active interest in the Bill will be
enforcement of the Act."
And that iliev have disagreed to the absent until Wednesday, and their interest

for

eleventh aniendment,

the following in the Bill might be equally well
considered with that of the hon. gentleman who has charge of it.

reason :-" Because it is a violation of the
fundamental principles of the Act, which,
where adopted, prohibits the sale of ail
intoxicatiug liquors for beverage purposes;
and because the Act bas already been
adopted in ood faith by the Electors in 61
Connties and Cities of the Dominion, believing that under the express provisions of
the law it would continue in force unimpaired
for three years, and would then only be
repealed by the same authority which
adopted it; and the assing of the amendment would be a breach of faith on the part
of parliament with the electors of these
counties and cities; and further because the
amendment is in direct opposition to the

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
have no doubt that the gentleman in
charge of the Bill will postpone its consideration until Wednesday, if he is
asked to do so, but I do not like to do it
myself without his consent.

HON. MR. POWER-I think the Bill
is in charge of the Minister of Justice,
because when it was up for the third
wishes of a large portion of the electors of the reading the hon. gentleman from Sarnia
Dominion, as manifested by the petitions
disclaimed any idea of passing the Bill in
presented to Parliament."
And that they have disagreed to the twelfth the shape it then presented, and the
amendmment, for the following reason
Minister of Justice took charge of it.
" Because the Bouse has reinstated the Clause
providing Schedules."
Ordered, That the Clerk do carry the said

message to the Senate.
Attest,

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
was, no doubt, an incident that occurred
in the consideration of the Bill, but to

show that the hon. member from Sarnia
J. G. BoURINOT,
Clerk oj the Commons. considers he is stili in charge of the Bil,

HoN.

SIR

he bas written me to ask that the conALEX. CAMPBELL-The sideration of the arendments be post-

Bill was originally in charge of Mr. Vidal, poned until Monday.
who is not now in his place, and I have a
letter in my hand from him, in which he
The motion was agreed to.

General Inspection Act [JULY 2, 1885] Amendmnt Bil.

1097

THE GENERAL INSPECTION ACT
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We
are now going to appoint people who are
AMENDMENT BILL.
dealing in the article and who will not
devote all their time to the work.
THIRD READING.
The House resolved itself into a ComHoN. MR. HOWLAN-But a man,.
mittee of the Whole on Bill (135) "An besides inspecting for himself, will inspect
Act to amend the General Inspection Act for others in his neighborhood.
Of 1874, and the Acts amending the
same."
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Why
should he give security ?
In the Committee,

HoN. MR. HOWLAN-Because the
chief inspector is liable for his acts.

On clause 3,

HON.

SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL-

Difficulty has been found in getting people

to act as deputy inspectors because under
the law as it now stands they are not allowed to deal in the articles they inspect and
that has been found very inconvenient,
and it is thought no harm will happen if a
party is interested because he will have to
add the words, if he is deputy inspector,
"and owner." It also shows how the
inspection is done and by whom. There

is a provision that every deputy inspector

HON. MR. POWER-I do not altogether agree with my hon. friend from
Alberton, although I am aware he knows
a great deal about the business. I do not
know how it has been in other provinces,
but in Nova Scotia it has been found very
difficult to secure deputy inspectors because of the difficulty they experience in
getting bondsmen. If my hon. friend
from Alberton will look at section 3 he
will find that it contains a provision which
subjects· the deputy inspector to a penalty

who violates the Act shall be liable to a
penalty.
of $1oo and forfeiture of his office if he
violates any of the provisions of the Act,.

HON. MR. POWER-I am very glad
the Government have made this amendment. The law, as it stands, bas been
found to work very unsatisfactorily. It
bas caused a great deal of inconvenience

and the chief inspector beng responsible
for bis deputies he will be careful to appoint reliable men. I think there is
ample security for the public. A very
serious practical difficulty has been found
to deputy inspectors and people who in the working of the law as it now stands,
would be inspectors, and it has not done and this change is an improvement. I
any good t? the public. I think that this think it was recommended by the Chamber
change is a very great improvement.
of Commerce of Halifax.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes.very glad to hear my hon. friend say so.
I am sure if he will watch the GovernHON. MR. POWER-That Chamber
ment measures carefully he will find a
great many of them of the same is largely made up of men engaged in the
trade.
character.
The clause was adopted.
On the 6th clause,
HoN. MR. HOWLAN-This is an im,
portant clause. Under the existing Act
the chief inspector must give security, and
all his assistants must furnish security to
him. I do not think the security should
be done away with.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I think my
hon. triend from Halifax is right as to the
difficulty in getting efficient officers to
perform the duty. I consider this an
improvement on the Act. It will secure
the chief inspector from any loss that may
be incurred through any fault on the part
of bis deputy.
The clause was adopted.

1098

General inspection Act [SENATE] Anendment Bill.

On the 8th clause,

HON. MR. POWER-I would like to

clause as it stands met with the approval
of the Chamber of Commerce ?

ask the Minister if he can inform the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
committee whether this portion of the Bill will ascertain if it has. I understood
has been approved of by the Chamber of generally the Bill met with their approval.

Commerce at Halifax ? I think the Commissioner of Inland Revenue sent a copy

of the Bill to the Chamber of Commerce
and it was nearly all approved of. The
reason I ask the question is that serious
difficulties have arisen in matters dealt
with in this clause. Where a deputy inspector in one county has inspected fish
and those fish have gone to Halifax, and
a dispute has arisen between the purchaser of the fish and the inspector as to
whether they were properly inspected or
not, there was no authority under the
existing law to settle the difficulty.
I see that sub-section 4 says:-

HON. MR. HOWLAN-As I understand, where there is no Chamber of
Commerce a tribunal of three, one to be
chosen by the inspector, one by the
owner of the article, and one by the
neighbouring magistrate-three persons
of skill-settle the matter.

HoN. ML POWER-That applies
where there is a dispute between the
inspector and the owner. For instance if
fish were inspected in the county of

Now Guysborough, this first sub-clause would

"If any dispute arises between the inspector or deputy inepector for any of the
places bereinbefore mentioned by name,
where there is a board of trade or chamber of
commerce, and the owner or possessor of any
article inspected under this Act, with regard
to the quality or condition of such article, or
relating thereto, such dispute shall not be decided in the manner in this section before
provided, but upon application by either of
the parties to the dispute, to the secretary of
the board of trade, or the chamber of commerce for the place where the dispute has
arisen."

provide for settling it, but suppose the
fish are shipped from Guysborough to
Halifax and a difficulty occurs, then this
sub-clause does not provide for settling
suçrh a difficulty.
HoN. MR. HOWLAN-the case which

my hon. friend puts is this : say the fish
are inspected in Guysborough and sold in
Halifax and a dispute arises as to whether
the fish have been properly inspected or
not-this Act provides, in such a case,
that the matter shall be referred to the
Chamber of Commerce or board of trade.

Now, the difficulty does not arise so
often in the county of Halifax, where
HON. MR. POWER-No.
there is a Chamber of Commerce, as it
does with regard to fish that come from
HON. MR. HOWLAN-i es, if any
outlying counties.
I know the desire of dispute arises between the inspector or
the chamber was that there should be deputy inspector where there is a Chamber
some tribunal, which should deal with of Commerce, that is the mode of settle-

those disputes.

Under the existing law ment.

there does not seem to be any one with
power to deal with them. I do not understand that sub-clause 4 creates any
tribunal to deal with such cases. Subclause 3 says that if any dispute arises
between any inspector and deputy inspector, and the owner or possessor of any
article inspected by him, in respect of

HoN. MR. POWER-I do not think I
have made myself clear. Suppose the
fish are inspected by a deputy inspector in
Guysborough county and they come to
Halifax and the purchaser finds the fish
not up to the brand; under this provision
the question should be settled by three
which a chief inspector has been ap- persons to be named by the justice of the
pointed, that it can only be referred to peace in Guysborough.

the chief inspector when the parties agree
to make the reference. The case where
HON. ML HOWLAN-The practical
the parties do not agree does not seem to working of that would he this ; suppose
be provided for. Will the Minister be oo barrels of No. i mackerel had been
kind enough to ascertain whether this inspected in the town of Guysborough and

General In8pection Act [JULY 2, 1885] Amendment Bit.
sold in Halifax. The purchaser says the
goods are not of the quality they ought to
be according to the brand. To whom is
he to appeal ? This Bill says the Chamber of Commerce.
HoN. MR. POWER-No.
That is
Where a dispute occurs between a purchaser and the inspector or deputy inspector
In any place where there is a board of trade.
In the case which we have been assumiug
the dispute is with the inspector at Guysborough, where there is no Chamber of
Commerce.

HON. MR. HOWLAN-Then he would
have to summon the deputy inspector.
Suppose those mackerel, which were
branded No. i turned out to be No. 2,
the deputy, or chief, as the case might be,
Would be responsible, and the difficulty
Would have to be settled by the chamber
of commerce.

1099

between the chief inspector and the
deputy. The dispute is to be settled by
either of the parties to the dispute appealing to the Chamber of Commerce where
the dispute has arisen.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I

do not think it is clear, because it says
this dispute, which is to be settled by the
Chamber of Commerce, must be a dispute
arising between an inspector, at a place
where there is a Chamber 'f Commerce,
and the owner. It is limited to that. It
must be a dispute between the owner and
an inspector at a place where there is a
board of trade. Now, as in Guysborough
there is no board of trade, this clause
does not provide for a dispute between
the inspector at Guysborough and the purchaser or owner. It wants to be cleared
up, I think.

ii
HON. MR. HOWLAN-Section
provides for a dispute where there is no
lION. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The Chamber of Commerce.
dispute might be inchoate until the fish
got to Halifax; then it does not seem
HoN. SIR ALEX CAMPBELLvery clear whether, if the dispute arose Yes, but this sub-section 4 only hits the
Partly in Guysborough and partly in case of a dispute in a locality where there
Halifax, it is to be decided in Halifax, is a board of trade. It does not hit a
Where there is a Chamber of Commerce, dispute between the inspector at a place
or in Guysborough, where there is none; where there is no board of trade, and the
but the dispute would not arise in Guys- owner.
borough. It would arise in Halifax when
The clause was adopted.
the fish came to be sold and turned over
to a new purchaser-the dispute would
arise as to whether they were up to the
On the 9th clause,
brand or not. The dispute would be
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-This
settled in the way laid down here for a
Place where there is a Chamber of Com- clause will do away with compulsory inspection.
merce.

HON. MR. POWER-It is only if the
dispute arises between the inspector and
the owner, but here the dispute would
arise between the deputy inspector at
Guysborough and the purchaser at Halifax.
I merely wish the Minister of Justice to
ascertain if this clause has been approved
of by the Chamber of Commerce.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-This is quite
clear. It states that if any dispute arises
in the places named-there can be no
dispute between the inspector and the
deputy inspector only when fault is found
by a third party. No dispute can arise

HON. M. HOWLAN-I think that is
a very important matter ; it is the most
important clause in the Bill, and I am
only surprised that any inspection bill,
having such a clause as that in it, should
be placed before Parliament. The only
way that I can account for it, is, that the
bill emanates from a department that does
not know anything about fish. It is a
bill which should have emanated from the
Fisheries Department. We have several
Inspection Acts scattered through the
Statutes, starting from the first bill intro.
duced. I think, by the Marine and Fisheries Department, and which was a very

1100

General Inpection .Act [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

good Act. It was an Act compiled from
the American Acts, from the French Acts
and from the English Acts, and worked
very well indeed-so much so, that our
fish soon attained a reputation which, up
to that time, they did not have. I think
it is unfortunate that any department
should interfere with what might be called
the jurisdiction of trade. A few years ago
we had a bill placed before us with regard
to the regulation of scales, which, if
passed into law, would have been found
to be so impracticable that it would have
had to be abandoned. Here is a bill asking us to do away with the bulwarks we
have had placed around our fishing industry for the last forty years. If the
Chambers of Commerce are to be consulted with regard to petty disputes between inspectors and sub-inspectors, how
much more should they be requested to
give their opinion with regard to the
practical working of a bill like this. The
Board of Trade of Halifax has more to do
with the fisheries of this Dominion than
any other board of trade in Canada,
and that Board of Trade is opposed
to the abolition of compulsory inspection.
HON. MR. POWER-They are opposed
to this particular clause.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-I am not surprised at it If we look at the statistics
of the exports of fish from Canada, we will
find that very nearly one-half of the whole
quantity is from Nova Scotia. The total
value of the Fisheries of Canada, for 1884,
is reckoned as follows :Nova Scotia ............ $ 8,763,779.36
New Brunswick .........
Quebec ...............

3,730,453.99

British Columbia ........
Ontario...............
Prince Edward Island....

1,358,267,10

1,694,56o.85

1,133,724.26
1,085,6i8,68

Showing a total of..... $17,766,404.24

Now the Board of Trade of Halifax,
from which port the great bulk of the exports of the fish of Nova Scotia takes
place, have condemned this Bill, and very
properly so. No practical man would
break down the law we now have. Within the last few days we have had before
us a bill for the inspection of manure, and
if Parliament think it is necessary that
HON. MR.

HOWLAN.

there should be a close inspection of fertilizers, how much more important it is
that we should have compulsory inspection of one of the most important items of
food that the Dominion produces. I have
not seen in any newspaper, nor have I
heard from any practical man engaged in
the fisheries, that there is anything to,
justify the abolition of the protection that
our fish industries have enjoyed hitherto
under compulsory inspection. The Halifax Chamber of Commerce, when this
bill was submitted to them, passed a
resolution on the 13 th of May, approving
of the Bill now before Parliament respecting the Inspection of Fish, with the exception of the omission of the clause
making inspection compulsory, a system
which the Chamber unanimously favored.
Now, if that is a fact-and I have taken
it from the Halifax Herald of the 14 th
May-I do not sec any reason why we
should throw aside the adv.ice which is
offered by those men who are engaged in
the fisheries, and whose business it is. I
may say that I have had some little experience of the fisheries myself, and that
it is a business that requires all the assistance that it can have without being
hampered in any way ; and if the reputation of our fish is to be destroyed by a
bill of this kind, I think we ought to pause
before allowing it to become law. We
have, in the maritime portion of the Dominion, some of the most important food
fish of the world, and, within my recollection, fron being almost an unsaleable
article in the markets of tlie world, they
have gained a good reputation. That
reputation has only been obtained by
strict attention to packing, and close inspection. The fact that our herrings are
of so little value as compared with what
they might be, is from the lack of more
rigid inspection than they receive. Many
hon. gentlemen are no doubt aware that
the Loch Fyne or Scotch herring are
looked upon as the best herring in the
world. Such, however, is not the case.
They are not as good herring as we have
in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, but they are
treated in a different way. Some years
ago the government of New Brunswick
thought that they shoôtd get a complete
inspection of fish by a man of practical
knowledge, Mr. H. M. Perley, whose
report I now hold in my hand, and it is

General Inspection Act [JULY 2, 1885] Amendment Bill.

1101

the best report extant of the fisheries of lierrings is solely ascribable to this mode of
the Dominion, even to this day.

With curing."

regard to the item of herring, after speak-

That is not done with our fish.

If it

mng of spring herring, which are taken in were rendered necessary, as it is under the
set nets along the eastern shore of New inspection laws of England, we would
Brunswick, which, being caught while in never hear of Loch Fyne herring being so

the act of spawning, are thin and poor, much better than our own. It is not, in
he says :
fact, any better than our own, it is only
" Another herring appears on the coast want of care and diligence in curing and
about the 20th August and remains in-shore packing that renders ours less valuable. I
for a month ; these are fat and in good con- will give you a little of my own experience.
dition, furnishit.g excellent food, and a In 1866, at the City of Bostun, I had a
valuable commodity for export. It is ad- vessel with a cargo of mackerel. On the
mitted that when first caught these fall
herrings are fully equal in every respect to other side of the wharf where she lay there
the best Scotch herrings, and if they were was a vessel from Nova Scotia, also with
cared in the Dutch nianner, this fishery, a cargo of fish. The Nova Scotia fish
from the increased price and demand, wouid was inspected, and was sold readily ;
become one of the most important and mine was not inspected, and I was subValuable fisheries of the Gulf."
jected to a loss of $1.50 per barrel, for
At the date of this report (1852) there want of an inspection law in my Province.
was very little attention

paid to this When I got back to Prince Edward Island

Matter; but everyone knows that since I introduced a Bill in the Legislature
then the herrings of Nova Scotia are not there for the inspection of fish, which is in
Only equal to but superior to the best operation to this day, and which has been
Labrador herring, and they have been a great benefit to the trade of that ProMade so by strict inspection. If we vince. From my own experience I say

abolish this protection and make it no
longer compulsory to inspect fish, we will
do away with the whole benefit of the laws
under which our fish trade has been built
up during the past quarter of a century.
If I were to read the hon. gentleman a

that the best opinion you could have is
the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce
and the Board of Trade at tialifax, who are
interested in this matter, and if they
unanimously favor the compulsory inspection of fish I think we ought to hesitate

description of the amotint of labor that is before we throw down the barrier in the

bestowed on the curing and packing of
Scotch herring as compared with ours,
they would be surprised. It is this that
nakes Scotch herrings worth from three
to four pounds a barrel in the German
markets, and so careful are the packers
that the bung of the barrel which contains
the pickled fish is made of hard wood,
sealed with a seal and registered. The
Dutch mode of curing herrings is thus
described by Mr. Chambers in his
"Tour in Holland in 1838."
"Inimediately on being caught the herrings
are bled, gutted, cleaned, salted and barrelled.
The bleeding is effected by cutting them
rcross the back of the neck and then hanging
them up for a few seconds by the tail. By
being thus relieved of the blood the fisn retain
a certain sweetness of flavor and delicacy of
flesh which unbled hertings cannot possibly
possess. The rapidity of the process ofcuring
Imust likewise aid in preserving the native
delicacy of the animal, for the herring lies
salted in the barrel in a very few minutes

way that this Bill proposes to do.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I am very
glad that my hon. friend from Alberton
has taken up this question-the compulsory inspection of fish, as he is a practical
man, and is thoroughly familiar with the
subject. He has referred to the fact that
Nova Scotia exports nearly half of all the
fish exported from the Dominion, and I
might inform my hon. friend that the
County of Lunenburg, from which I come,
ships one-half of the fish exported from
Nova Scotia, or one-fourth of the whole
of the fish exported from the Dominion.
Having had to do largely with fishermen
and ship owners, I. myself, found that for
some time a strong feeling existed against
compulsory inspection in Halifax. That
feeling was caused by fish sent in from
outports being improperly inspected and
the brand could not be relied upon. The
after it has been swimming in the water. I law under which such fish can be rewas assured that the supeuiority of the Dutch inspected in Halifax will obviate that

1102

General Jn&pection Act [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

difficulty.
I know from persons who are
engaged in the tradethat in the UnitedStates
the inspection of our fish is of great value,
and the inspection of fish in the county
from which I come has always been taken as
reliable. With regard to the West India
trade, the inspection is of little value,
owing to the distance and to climatic
influences. I think that under compulsory
inspection our fish will be put up in a
manner that will command the highest
markets in the United States.

place the fish are packed would be perfectly
right and proper; but the inspection in
any other place destroys the fish, and has
a tendency to make them rust and decay
when stored in cellars.
HoN.

MR.

KAULBACH-Fish are

always inspected at the place they are
packed.

HON. MR. SMITH-Not always, because in Montreal they have been opened
and inspected, and it has been the cause
HON. MR. SMITH-When and where of destroying the fish so that they could
would you have this compulsory inspec- not be sold for one-fourth of what they
would have brought as originally packed.
tion ?
In former years we bought on the repuHON. MR. KAULBACH-Wherever tation of the packer. For instance there
was Rourke's brand. He was a first-class
the fish are taken.
packer, and his brand could be relied on.
HON. MR. SMITH--The reason I put
that question is this : I contend that if HON. MR. DEVER-Where did he
you want the inspection, that inspection pack ?
should be inade at the place the fish are
first packed.
HON. MR. SMITH-In Newfoundland.
HON. MR. POWER-That is where it
HoN. MR. DEVER-On board schoonis generally done.
ers ?
HON. MR. SMITH-No, lately that
HON. MR. SMITH-No.
has not been the case. I say that if you
inspect there, it is all right and proper, but
if you send those fish to Quebec or MonHON. MR. DEVER-How are you
treal, or to any other market, and then going to inspect fish when packed on
inspect thern, it destroys the whole value board schooners as they are caught ?
of inspection, and I would prefer to have
HON. MR. SMITH-Those are fish
no inspection whatever.
that we packed on shore. They were
caught by small vessels and brought ashore
HON. MR. HOWLAN-Why?
to be packed, and they were sold on the
HON. MR. SMITH-Because the in- reputation of the packer. Rourke's brand
spector opens the barrels, say at Mon- was known in every market, and his hertreal. Those barrels are very slim, and ring were worth $i per barrel more than
they can never be re-headed in such a any other. I say that the place to inspect
way as to retain the pickle, and the fish fish is where the fish are packed. Other
that are opened for inspection there can fish might be worth $5 a barrel when
never be repacked so as to make the bar- originally packed and they would not
rels hold the pickle, and if the fish are fat fetch $3 in the market after they were
warranted.
they become rusty in a short time.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-What kind of
HON. MR. KAULBACH-My hon.
fish do you speak of ?
friend must refer to Newfoundland fish.

HON. MR. SMITH-No I do not.
HON. MR. SMITH-I speak principally of herring-Labrador and North There are fish improperly packed on our
shore, such as used to come to our mar- own shores as well as in Newfoundland,
ket. I say that the inspection. at the but not by men whose character is at
HON.

MR. KAULBACH.

General Inspection Act [JULY 2, 1885] Amendment Bill.
stake. If you make inspection compulsory
at the place the fish are packed it will be
all right ; but if you do not it will be better
to have no inspection, and let every packer
sell on his own brand and reputation.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-I wish to show
to the hon. gentleman what the fish
exported by the Dominion consists of:The following table shews the value of
the several kinds of fish taken in Canada
in 1884.

Cod .................. .. $4,302,454.85
Herring................
2,645,447-00
Lobsters................
2,351,559.80
Mackerel...............
Salmon.................
Haddock. . . . . .. .......
Fish oils...............
Trout..................
.
Sardines ..............
Smelt..................

1,826,681.03
1,357,727.64

758,245-70
477,443-40

464,653-00
384,6oo.oo
370,644.60

Pollock................
W hitefish...............

275,222.50
271,971.28

H ake...... ............
Alewives...............
Seal Skins ..............
Oysters.......... ......
Picke-rel................
.........
H alibut ......

217,981.70
189,854-50
166,788.oo

126,458.00
111,452.06

.

98,532.90

Sturgeon ...............

88,899.60

.....
Eels ..............
Bass...................

84,714.80
75,573-30

Shad.......... ........

74,058.41

My hon. friend says he would like to

see the fish inspected where they are
caught. I would like to know where else
they would be inspected ? I remember a
few years ago a gentleman visited the
Magdalen Islands, and wrote an article
on the fisheries there. In the course of
his inquiries some wag told him that in
the spring at times herrings were so
plentiful that when the high tide was in
all the fishermen had to do was to hold
the barrels in the water and the herrings
ran in. This was gravely stated by the
writer as a fact, and it can be found in the
library here by anyone who has the
curiosity to see it. Newfoundland has no
inspection law for their barrels. We have
an inspection law which provides that a
barrel shail be so many inches long in the
stave and a certain diameter. In Nova
Scotia, where they are very strict, they
provide that the bung of the barrel·shall

1103

consist of hard wood. The hon. gentleman from Toronto tells us that it is
impossible to re head barrels so that they
will retain pickle. I can tell him the
reason why they cann9t get the heads
back in the barrel; in a great many cases
the heads were not made to fit the
barrels. They were gathered up indiscriminately and put in indiscriminately ;
but in some places the barrels are branded
at the cooper's and sent down to the
packer. We have a character, a reputation, for our fish. We have made that
reputation and that character by our
strict inspection laws. Once it goes
abroad that it is optional with our packers
to inspect their fish, that moment the
reputation of our fish falls. There is
no doubt about that, and the markets
in which our fish are sold will very soon
come to the conclusion that the reputation
of our fish is gone. I have heard it stated
that fish cannot be pickled or cured without sea water. That idea has long since
been exploded. If my hon. friend goes
to New York or to Boston he will find
fresh water used in making the pickle for
packing fish. It has to be made in a particular way ; but there is no more difficulty
in curing fish with pickle 'made with fresh
water than there is with pickle made with
sea water, if it is well made. If you take
any quantity of pickled fish, no matter how
good the barrels are, and put them into a
cellar and leave them there without looking after them from time to time, they are
sure to spoil if the pickle goes off. That
is one more reason why we should have
compulsory inspection. The finer the
fish the sooner they will spoil if the pickle
is lost.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
might be well to read to the House the
view which is taken on this point by the
Department of Inland Revenue, the
Deputy Minister, Mr. Miall, says in the
memorandum that he has given to me:Under the Act as it now stands, the inspection of fish and hides is compulsory in
districts

in

which

inspectors have

been

appointed. In respect of all other articles,
four, grain, beef, pork, butter, pot and pearl

ashes, tne inspection is optional.
While the department has had no evidence
whatever brought before it lrom 1874 to the
present time, indicating that the law, in
respect of those articles whose inspection is

not compulsory, bas failed fully to meet the

1104

GeneralIn8pection Act [SENATE] Amendment BiW.

requirements of trade, there has been a neverHON. MR. McINNES (B. C.)-I wish
ceasing correspondence in respect of the
articles of fish and hides, and although they would send some of that good butter
amendments have been made, year after year down to Ottawa during the session.
in reference to the views of those most interested, the Act still does not give public
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-The
satisfaction.
While it is believed that a proper inspec- argument is that the quality of fish will
tion is very desirable, and, while I am free to deteriorate if we do not make inspection
admit that the Chamber of Commerce of compulsory. In reply to that, I say, with
Halifax has expressed its views in favor of reference to those articles I have
continuation of compulsory inspection, it is mentionedimpossible not to see in the correspondence
before the department a very strong argument
in favor of providing the machnery for
HON. MR. HOWLAN-We have had
nspection, but leaving individual traders for a long number of years compulsory
free to avail themeelves of it or not, as their inspection and our fish have a character
intereste may dictate.

For many years great stress was laid on
the inspection of deals in Quebec, and
deals are still inspected there, but I know
that the opinion of many persons who have
a real knowledge of the trade in deals,
and are themselves in that business, is
.against compulsory inspection. My hon.
friend from Alberton says that the fish

and reputation for that reason. Il we
drop compulsory inspection now we will
lose that reputation.
HON.

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I

was quoting my hon. friend's views cor-

rectly. He thinks if we do not continue
to make the inspection compulsory the
will deteriorate in quality if compulsory character of our fish will deteriorate. In
inspection is abolished ; but that bas not reply to that I have shown that other
been the experience of the country in re- articles which are not inspected now, but
ference to other articles. The only two which were inspected in former years,
articles as to which inspection is compul- have not deteriorated. Will any one say
sory are fish and bides. Then there are that pork has not improved in quality
a great many other articles of which in- since the inspection of it ceased to be
spection sometimes takes place, but is not compulsory ? According to this memo.compulsory- -for instance flour (that used randum, the only two articles in which
to be compulsory), grain, beef, pork, but- inspection continues to be compulsory
ter, and pot and pearl ashes. I do not are those I have mentioned, fish and
know about grain, but certainly in beet bides. I think in all the other articles
and pork, and butter and potash, there where inspection bas ceased to be com-used to be compulsory inspection, but that pnlsory we have gained ground instead of
bas been done away with, and I do not losing it, and therefore there is no reason
think that any deterioration bas taken to suppose that we will lose ground if we
place in any of these articles. For instance cease to make the inspection of fish comthere has been an improvement in butter, pulsory. People will take pride in their
which occupies a very much higher posi- own brands. Of course it is not a matter
in which I have knowledge, but the
tion than it used to do in olden times.
strong opinion of the Department is that
it would be desirable no longer to make
HON. MR. HOWLAN-No.
the inspection of fish compulsory.
HoN. MR. SMIT H-It does in Ontario.

ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
believe that butter bas improved without
compulsory inspection.
I have read
articles saying that the butter produced
HON.

SIR

HON. MR. SMITH-The hon. gentleman from Alberton spoke of fish being
re-packed in Boston in fresh water. I
would ask the hon. gentleman are the fish

thus re-packed with fresh water as good as
in Ontario bas improved very much, par- if they were packed with sea water, proticularly in Perth, and that both butter and vided they can get it clear ?

cheese are much better in quality througheut the province than they were some years
HON.
ago.
good.
HoN. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL.

MR.

HOWLAN-Yes, quite as

General Inspection Act [jULY 2, 1885j Amendment Bill.
HON. MR. SMITH-I contend they
are not. I contend there is nothing as
good as pure salt water to pack herrings
in; but the reason they do not re-pack
them in salt water at Boston is that they
cannot get pure sea water there. It is
quite easy to see that that is why they
Use fresh water.
HON. MR. HOWLAN - Boston is
situated on tidal water, and there is no
difficulty in securing clean salt water
there. My hon. friend the Minister of
Justice stated that the Deputy Minister of
the Department of Inland Revenue has
had no correspondence calling for this repeal of the compulsory sections of the Act.
HON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No;
what he says is, that he has had no correspondence indicating any dissatisfaction
with the Act as regards those goods where
the inspection is not compulsory, but he
has had a great deal of correspondence
with reference to hides and fish where the
inspection is compulsory, and the whole
volume of correspondence leads him to
suppose that it would be better not to
have the inspection of fish compulsory.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-I will give my
hon. friend an authority quite as good as
the Deputy Minister who, I presume,
does not know anything practically about
the question.
I will quote from the
report of M. H. Perley on the progress of
the Fisheries of New Brunswick:" The great step towards increasing the
fisheries and rendering them more valuable,
is the enactment of a general inspection law,
with provisions for the appointment in every
county and district of competent and trustworthy

inspectors

of dried,

pickled,

and

smoked fish; and a total prohibition of the
sale or exportation of any such fish, unle8s
inspected and branded by the proper officer."
Now, you can take that opinion as
against Mr. Miall's.
HON. MR. POWER-The Minister of
Justice will notice that the Deputy Minister of Inland Revenue is simply giving an
opinion that he has formed him elf. It
does not appear that he is expressing the
opinions of persons who are engaged in
the business, and who would naturally
know more about the subject than the
Deputy Minister.
U 2

1105

HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is
not his own opinion he is giving, but he
says he has come to that conclusion from
the correspondence received in the Department.
HON. MR. POWER-Why does he
say that ? The Deputy Minister says
that as to these articles the inspection of
which is not compulsory, he has had very
little correspondence.
That is what one
would expect-where there is no compulsory inspection no disputes arise, but
where inspection is compulsory, questions
arise between the inspectors and owners,
and that leads to correspondence with the
Department as to what the meaning of
the law is, and suggesting that the law
should be altered a little here and there.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My
hon. friend misquotes what I read. I will
read it as it is here. " While the Department has no evidence whatever brought
before it frorm 1874 to the present time
indicating that the law in respect of those
articles whose inspection is not compulsory
has failed fully to meet the requirements
of trade, there has been a never ceasing
correspondence in respect of the articles
of fish and hides, and although amendments have been made year after year in
deference to the views of those most
interested, the Act still does not give
public satisfaction."
HON. MR. POWER-But the Department have been bothered with compulsory
inspection because that is really all that
the Department has anything to do with.
But there is another way, and a much
more important way of considering the
subject, and that is as to the sale of those
goods in the markets of the world. Our
lish is nearly al exported ; the great
market for pickled tish, for mackerel
particularly, is the city of Boston-that is.
the market where nearly all of them go to.
The hon. gentleman from Alberton gave
an instance in his own experience which
shows the value of a good inspection law.
He says there were two vessels lying at
the same wharf, one from Nova Scotia
where they have had an inspection law for
forty or fifty years, and another from his
own province where they had no inspection
law, and the fish from Nova Scotia brought

1106

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Amendment Bil.

$I.5o a barrel more than the fish which
were not inspected, although they were
equally good. The treaty under which
our fish were admitted into the United
States duty free has expired ; some
of the fishermen have to contend now in
the markets of the United States with a
duty of $2 a barrel. If in addition to
that, by repealing this inspection law,
which has undoubtedly given our fish a
character and reputation in the American
market, you lower and degrade the
character of our fish, you are going to
place our fishermen in an exceedingly
difficult position.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,
if it does degrade it.
HON. MR. POWER-That would be

the tendency. The Nova Scotia inspection has been thought well of in the
United States, and if the inspection law is
repealed, and fish are sent there uninspected, the effect of that, taken together with the imposing of the duty on
fish, will be serious indeed. The very
thing will happen of which the hon.
gentleman from Toronto has spoken,
because when our fish go to Boston,
Gloucester, New York and other American
cities uninspected, inspection there will be
considered necessary. The Massachusetts
laws, and the laws of other states require
inspection. Those fish will have to be inspected there, and then the consequences,
of which a member of the Government
has spoken, will to a certain extent follow.
It always injures fish to take them out and
repack them, particularly in warm weather,
as very often would happen if they were
reinspected in the United States. I think
that is a very serious consideration. One
can gather from the memorandum of the
deputy Minister that he does not lay any
very special stress on this provision of the
law, and I hope I am not guilty of saying
anything unparlianientary when I state
that in the course of a private conversation
with the deputy Minister he said he did
not lay any stress on this particular provision. When I suggested, as all the rest
of the Bill had the approval of the Chamber
of Commerce of Halifax, that it might be
as well to let the Bill go, as they had approved of it, omitting this particular
provision, and if a law with the amendHON. MR.

POWER.

ments which this Bill makes in
it after the experience of a year or
two is found to work unsatisfactorily, this
change might then be made, on the whole
the Deputy Minister did not seem to see
any serious objection to that. When we
consider that in those Maritime Provinces
where they have had a great deal of experience in the fish business, compulsory
inspection has been in force in all of them
for a number of years, it is a very strong
argument in favor of our retaining it. We
have the unanimous expression of opinion
from the Chamber of Commerce at
Halifax in favor of retaining compulsory
inspection. I hope that, under the circumstances, the Minister will consent to
omit this provision for the present at any
rate. It may be limited to fish alone : as
to hides I do not feel that it is a matter
of much consequence. The Minister has
referred to butter and some other articles.
I should be quite satisfied to rest my case
on that. The reputation of Canadian butter
in the markets of the world-certainly the
reputation of butter from some of the
provinces-is, to say the least of it,
indifferent. It is much easier to ascertain
the quality of a tub of butter than the
quality of a barrel of fish. The man who
wishes to examine butter runs an instrument called a tryer to the bottom of the
tub and gets a sample of the whole tub.
That cannot be done with fish. The
packages have to be emptied to ascertain
what they contain, and it involves great
delay and expense. As this change in
the law has not been asked for by the
people who are interested in the matter,
and as the Department is not strong
on the point and as the people who are
most interested ask that the change be
not made, I hope that the Minister will
consent to let this clause stand over, and
if it is found that the Act, with the amendments made by this Bill, works satisfactorily
compulsory inspection need not be
abandoned, but if it does not work
satisfactorily, then the change can be
made later on.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I hope the
Minister will pay some regard to the remarks of the hon. member from Halifax.
If you relax the law once you will find it
hard to get back to the position we occupy now. I have had a conversation

General Inspection Act [JULY 2, 1885] Amendnent Bill.
with the Deputy Minister, and I found
that he had no opinion at all on the
niatter. He did not know what to say
about this compulsory inspection.
He
was in such doubt about it that he did
not know what should be done. I believe,
in the lower ports now the opinion is in
favor of compulsory inspection. In Halifax, in consequence of not trusting to
country inspection, there was a feeling
against it because they had to re-inspect
there, but I think the feeling now is in
favor of compulsory inspection.
ALEX. CAMPBELL-Per.
haps the better way would be for me to
ask the committee to pass over that
clause for the present, and I will have
further conversation with the officers of
the department, and when we are in committee again I will bring down any
evidence there may be in the department
which bas induced the officers to believe
that the change would be a good one.
In the meantime we will pass it over.
HON. SIR

Il017

proposed that where a man grows that
kind of wheat and wants it branded, he
shall have it marked "extra Manitoba
hard wheat."
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-The hon.
gentleman fails to perceive the point I
make. Another man may grow another
kind of wheat, not red Fife, which may
weigh 63 pounds to the bushel, but under
this clause he could not get it graded
"extra Manitoba hard wheat."
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
suppose there is no objection to branding
red Fife wheat as provided for in this clause,
if it weighs 62 pounds to the bushel. If
there is some other kind which will weigh
as much or more, we could include it also.

HON. MR. DICKEY-The objection

of the hon, member from Prince Edward
Island is that it could not be admitted
under this section. Only red Fife can be
admitted under this clause as "extra
Manitoba hard wheat." If another kind
The clause was allowed to stand.
is equally good there is no reason why it
should not be admitted under that brand.
My bon. friend's suggestion is, I suppose,
On the i 1th clause,
that the words "red Fife" should be
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Is it con- struck out, leaving it any kind of sound,
sidered essential that extra Manitoba well cleaned wheat which weighs 62
hard wheat should consist of one kind pounds to the bushel.
only-red Fife wheat ? It seems strange
that if there is any other wheat of equal
HON. MR. GIRARD-The red Fife is
quality it should not have the same rank, a variety of spring wheat which has been
because it does not happen to be red introduced in the Northwest and has sucFife wheat. I should think the more ceeded there remarkably well; and it
varieties of wheat you can get to come up would be well if it were spread over the
to the highest standard the better.
whole Dominion. It would render an
immense service to the country. In the
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The other varieties of Manitoba bard wheat
next paragraph requires only 85 per cent. there is red Fife also, but not being altoof red File whcat.
gether red Fife it cannot be classed as
" extra Manitoba hard wheat." Wheat
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-It seems composed exclusively of red Fife is what
to me that the best quality of spring the farmers in the Northwest wish to have
wheat is confined, in this Bill, to red Fife. branded as " extra Manitoba hard wheat."
I do not think that it is judicious, or in
The clause was adopted.
the interests of the farmers and of all ather
classes, that other varieties should not be
recognized if they are equally good.
On the 16th clause,
HON. MR. POWER-I should like to
HON SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
wheat spoken of in this clause is a variety have that clause stand until the Bill is in
which, when carefully cultivated, yields a Committee again. It increases the cost
remarkably fine quality of grain, and it is uf inspection from five to seven cents a

Library of [SENATE] ParliamentBil.

1108

barrel. The Minister might inquire as to
the reasons for making the change. I
know the increase will be very objectionable to the fishermen and others engaged
in the fish trade in the Maritime Provinces.
The clause was allowed to stand.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-Is there
anything that a harbor master undertakes
to do by this Bill he has not previously
done ?

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
but the number of vessels coming to the
port has increased-the number of coastHON. MR. BELLEROSE, from the ing vessels-and it was thought desirable
Committee, reported that they had made to add to the income of the harbor master
some progress and asked leave to sit in this way.
again.
THE SPEAKER-And he pays his
office rent out of it.
The Senate adjourned at 5:30 p. m.

The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time.
THE SENATE.
LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT BILL.
Ottawa, riday, JuZy 3rd, 1885.
SECOND READING.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
o'clock p. m.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
HARBOR MASTER AT HALIFAX
BILL.
SECOND READING.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the second reading of Bill (148), "An Act
to amend the Act respecting the appointment of a harbor master at the port of
Halifax." He said : This Bill, in the
ist clause, is to afford facilities for recovering penalties for breach of regulations ; the second clause is for the purpose of increasing the remuneration of the
harbor master of the port of Halifax by

$200.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMP BELL moved
the second reading of Bill (139), "An Act
to amend the Act in relation to the
Library of Parliament." He said: This
is a Bill for the purpose of appointing two
Librarians instead of one and arranging
for a staff under these officers for the
management of the Library ; the salaries
to be given to the chief officers is not to
exceed $3,ooo, chief messenger not to
exceed $7oo, and the other officers
on the scale of the civil servants,
and there is a provision in the end
that nothing in this Act contained
shall operate to diminish the salary of any
officer or servant now employed in the
library. I know that the fact of having a
Joint Librarian has excited sone remarks,
but it is often an advantage that there
should be a French Librarian, as well as
an English Librarian, for the convenience of
personswho desire to consult thoseofficers.

HON. MR. POWER-I do not rise for
the purpose of opposing the Bill, but for
HON. MR. POWER-I cannot allow
the purpose of asking the Minister how
the harbor master of St. John is paid, the second reading of this Bill to pass
whether he is paid a fixed sum or is without saying a few words against it.
There are two objections to the measure ;
allowed to take all the fees ?
one on the ground of the additional expense, and the other on the ground of
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
think he takes the fees in the same way as policy. Now as to the first objection, I
think it is clear that this Bill involves conthe harbor master at Halifax.
siderable additional expense. In the first
HON. MR. POWER-When the Bill place, you have the salaries of two Libragoes into committee I hope the Minister rians to provide instead of the salary of
one Librarian.
will be prepared to state positively.

HON.

MR. POWER.

Library of [JULY 3, 1885.] ParliamentBill.

1109

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-But are the principal grounds of objecthere is no assistant Librarian.
tion to this measure, as to the additional
expense. Then there is an objection to
HON. MR. POWER-On referring to the policy. A double-headed department
the existing statute governing the Library, means, as a matter of course, unnecessary
I find that the salary of the Librarian as expense, and it means unsatisfactory workset down there is $2,500 ; the salary to ing. The proverb that a house divided
the assistant librarian is $i,8oo. It is against itself cannot stand, we find exemtrue the late Librarian, Mr. Todd, was plified continually. There are to be two
-allowed a larger salary than the salary set heads to this Library and the result of that
down here, in consideration of his long will be that there will be no head-no one
services and great ability ; but if we were person who can be referred to in case of a
appointing a Librarian to take Mr. Todd's difference of opinion between the jcint
place, I do not think that that librarian officers. This experiment has been tried
would necessarily begin on the salary in other cases. It was tried, I think, in
which Mr. Todd had at the time of his the Parliamentary Library in Quebec and
death, and the salaries ought to be was found not to answer satisfactorily; and
governed by the original statute. The it has been tried in other departments, and
4th section of the Act of 1871 gives a list I see no hope that the system will work
of the officers of the Library. It says the better in connection with the Library than
officers and servants of the Library of it has in other cases. I think that the
Parliament shall consist of a Librarian, history of this matter of the Librarianship
assistant librarian, two clerks and two reflects very little credit upun the Governmessengers. This Bill provides for two ment. When the late Mr. Todd died, it
Librarians, two first-class clerks, two was the duty of the Government, parsecond-class clerks, and three third ticularly as that gentleman's death took
class clerks; that is, instead of hav- place during the sitting of Parliament,
ing a librarian and an assistant to have appointed a successor imlibrarian you will have two librarians, and mediately, or after a decent interval,
instead of three clerks you will have seven and it was their duty then to have
clerks, and instead of two messengers you selected one competent man to take
will have four; so that the staff will be Mr. Todd's place. But they did not do
considerably increased. I know that the that. The Government might have ap.staff has been increased since the passage· pointed Mr. Decelles, who had acted as
*ofthe Act of 1871, but this will increase assistant Librarian, ; if they had done that
it still further. The tendency will be to I think no o ne could have found fault
further increase the expense in the future with their conduct. As far as I know,
-unnecessary expense. Under the pre- Mr. Decelles is a good and efficient
sent system clerks have been appointed officer, and he had had some experience
when they have been found, in the actual in the Library, and, I have no doubt,
working of the Library, to be absolutely would have made a very satisfactory Libranecessary. Under the system which will rian. If they did not choose to appoint
be initiated by this Bill clerks will be him, it was open to them at that time to
.appointed in a difierent way. It will be have appointed some English speaking
found for instance that it is necessary to gentleman as Librarian, and to have conhave an additional English clerk, and tinued Mr. Decelles as Assistant Librarian.
immediately as a matter of course an I do not think that that could be looked
-additional French clerk will be appointed ; upon as a great wrong to Mr. Decelles,
or if it happens the other way that an because he had not been very long in the
additional French clerk is rieeded, under Library himself. A Government, which
the arrangement provided by this Bill an transacted business in a businesslike
.additional English clerk who may not be way would have adopted either one
necessary at all will be appointed. That of those courses, either appointed
is the way this double-headed system Mr. Decelles
as Librarian,
and
works always and we have no reason to some English-speaking gentleman as
;suppose that the library of Parlia- Assistant, or appointed an English-speakient will be an exception. Those ing Librarian and continued Mr. Decelles

1110

Library of [SENATE] Parliament Bill.

as Assistant. The Government instead of
doing that procrastinated. The procrastination of the head of the Government
has become proverbial ; and I regret to say
that the effect of his procrastination as a
rule is, not that things are better done than
if he had acted promptly, but they are
done in almost the worst possible way.
Some eminent man, whose name I do not
remember, once remarked : " Time and
I against any two": the motto of the
head of the Government is pretty
much the same, and time and he together
produce the nost unsatisfactory results
when they are combined. The gentleman
to be appointed Parliamentary Librarian
was for many years a personal friend of
mine, and I am very glad indeed that he
is going to receive a good appointment; but
at the same time that fact does not blind me
to the objectionable nature of this Bill.
If the Government thought he was the
man to be librarian they might have ap.
pointed him last winter, and if he was not
to be the man to be librarian they might
have appointed him assistant and made
Mr. Decelles librarian. I was under the
impression that one of the great objects
of bringing the Maritime Provinces into
the Union with Upper and Lower Canada
was to get rid of this system of having
two heads to every Department, and I am
very sorry to see that now, after 18 years
of Confederation, we are going back to
the old objectionable system.
If the
Government felt that it was desirable to
appoint Mr. Decelles Librarian and to
appoint an officer of a special character, they might have appointed the
other gentleman assistant Librarian,
and given him charge in a special
manner of the parliamentary works in
the Library, and I for one should not,
under those circumstances, have objected
seriously to giving the assistant Librarian
and Parlianentary Librarian a salary
larger than that provided by the Act of
1871 ; but as it is, I shall feel obliged to
vote against this Bill because it is going to
lead to very considerable and unnecessary
expense, and because it is going to give us
less efficiency and probably a good deal
of difficulty and trouble in the conduct of
the Library.

Bill but for the observation which the
hon. gentleman who has just taken his
seat has made, and which I cannot let go
without a reply. The hon. gentleman
states that Mr. Decelles has not been long
in the service, and that he could have remained as assistant, and that another gentleman speaking the English language
could have been appointed as Librarian.
I an quite opposed to that principle.
When the Government make an appointment they should select a good man, and
if the appointments are good, promotion
ought to be the general rule. Either Mr.
Decelles was fit to be appointed to the
position he has held for years, or he was
not. If he was not, the Government did
wrong to appoint him, and both Houses
of Parliament ought to have taken a stand
on the matter. But it is very well known
that Mr. Decelles was fit for the position,
and that he ought to have been promoted.
HON. MR. POWER-Hear, hear.

HON. MR. BELLEROSE-But that
is not what the hon. gentleman said ; he
said either to do this or the other. I say
the other thing could not be done without
doing injustice, and Parliament ought
not to be unjust. Now, as to this Bill, I
am happy to see that the Government
have determined not to set Mr. Decelles
completely aside because he is a Frenchspeaking gentleman; but I must say this,
that the Government have shown in this
instance that a Frenchman, however clever
he may be, has never full justice done
him unless an English-speaking gentleman receives equal recognition. If two
heads are necessary in the Library now,
they were necessary in the time of Mr.
Todd. If two are not necessary, why
did not Mr Decelles receive the appointment ? Mr. Decelles is to be promoted now, but the Government had
to wait for more than a year to promote
him in order that they might appoint with
hini an English-speaking gentleman. That
shows that we have good reason to complain. I have heard it said once or twice
in this House, "why speak of French and
English; let us all be Canadians." As I
said before, we wish to be Canadians.
Let the majority act honorably, justly and
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I do not equitably, and we will all be Canadians
think I would have said a word on this together, but when we see such an act as
HON. MR.

POWER.

Library of [JULY 3, 1885] Parliament Bill.
this, when we find that the full justice
which the French-speaking population in
this country ought to enjoy in common
with Englishmen is denied us, we must
lay aside that word Canadian and think
that we are descended from French ancestors-from those who came here firstand demand that those who govern the
country shall concede to us our rights. If
those rights are trampled upon, it is not
surprising that we sometimes complain.
Has justice been done in this matter ?
Here is an important position to be
filled; there is a deputy Librarian who is
quite equal to the position, but before
promoting him a way must be found to
appoint an English-speaking man to
occupy a position equal to his in rank.
Now that is not right, and it does not
show that we are getting the justice for
which we have a right to look. As the
hon. member from Halifax says, we have
been waiting for twelve months for this
appointment to be made. Why ? Because when Mr. Todd died the Government were asked in this House how they
would deal with the appointment of a
successor, and whether Mr. Decelles, a
French gentleman, would occupy the
position. On account of that difficulty
the appointment was delayed from day to
day for twelve or rather fifteen months.
Now this shows that whenever the French
people have a right to an appointment, it
is only conceded after long delay. We
have another instance in a position not
quite so important. A vacancy occurred
amongst the messengers in this House,
and it was proposed to fill it, but because
the older messenger is a Frenchman
the question of filling the vacancy
has been set aside, and God knows when
the position will be filled, except Providence so manage things that that Frenchman would die and give a chance to an
Englishman to be promoted. As hon.
gentlemen know, when that question
came before the Committee on Contingencies, and it was proposed that a
messenger speaking the English language
should be appointed to fill the vacancy,
exception was taken to it because an older

1111

Canadians and remember only that we are
French, and that in this country of ours
we have rights equal to those of our fellow
citizens of English origin ? We speak a
language which is recognized as one of the
official languages of the country; but
the right to speak in the French language is not always admitted and we
are treated in such a way as to make
us feel every day that we are a minority.
We-are ready to forget that we are French
or English. We are ready to remember
only that we are Canadians, but let the
majority of the Dominion follow the example of the majority of the province of
Quebec in their treatment of a minority.
In the province of Quebec we hear of no
difficulties. Why? Because the English
minority have no cause to complain, because they are given all their rights, and
more. They are given so much that
they refuse part of what is conceded to
them. Is there not a law in existence to
give a superintendent bf education to the
minority of the province of Quebec ?
Why have they not availed themselves of
it ? Because they say it is not necessary
-that they are all so well treated by the
majority in the province of Quebec that
they do not require a superintendent of
education for themselves. Treat us in
the same way and we will not complain ;
but as long as we are dealt with as we
have been hitherto, there are men who will
be ready to fight for their rights, and
to claim all that they are entitled to.
I do not make these remarks in any hostile spirit but merely to remind gentlemen
that if we sometimes complain it is because
we have good cause for complaint. I
might speak of the seat on the Treasury
benches in this House, now unoccupied,
which should be filled by a French member in order that the questions which we
ask in one of the official languages might
be answered in that language. It has
been acknowledged that we should have a
representative here speaking our own ]anguage; but has that right been conceded
yet ? It has not been done, though the
failure to do it is recognized as a violation
of the spirit of the constitution; and if we

messenger was a Frenchman; so it was can trample upon one part of the constitu

set aside for another year, and this year
not a word has been said about it. These
are facts, and I ask, have we not good
reason to ignore the fact that we are

:tion then any and ail of it may be disregarded. I say that we ought to stand by
our constitution; if we do so I believe that
we will have no cause to complain, and

1112

Library qf [SENATE] ParliamentBill.

gentlemen in this House and other parts
of the Dominion will hear no more of
those complaints-complaints which for
my own part I do not like to utter, and
which gentlemen in this House are not
very pleased to hear, but which, I hope,
they will have the justice to admit are
only too well founded.

inion ; but I cannot understand that that
is in any way the case, seeing that a Frenchgentleman is to be appointed to the high
position of joint Librarian, and consequently it appears to me that the hon.
gentleman's habit of complaining of hardships received by his compatriots has
become chronic with him, and he cannot
rise to his feet without making some
HON. MR. POWER-I wish to say a complaint of this kind.
word or two in explanation. The hon.
gentleman from DeLanaudiere seems to
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-In the same
have misapprehended what I said. I did way as it has become chronic with the hon.
not at all object to the appointment of gentleman to be unjust.
Mr. Decelles. I said on the contrary
that as far as I knew, Mr. Decelles was
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Speaking
perfectly qualified to act as Librarian, and seriously it seemus to me we are about to
I went on to add that if the Government adopt a course which is the very worst we
did not think fit to appoint him as could adopt. The first clause in this Bill,
Librarian they might appoint another it appears to me, displays just about as
gentleman. The compromise I suggested, little tact or management as it is possible
and I think after the long delay it would to conceive could be shown in adopting a
have been the proper course to have adopt- new system fot the management of such a
ed, was to appoint Mr. Decelles as Librarian heretofore well conducted establishment
and appoint another gentleman as his assist- as our parliamentary library has been. I
ant in charge of the Parliamentary Library, do not think it would be easy to mention
at a good salary. As to the charge of want any instance in which a joint management
of fair play that the French-Canadians of this kind has ever been successfulmeet with in the Senate, I think the hon. whether it has been in the Government of
gentleman has no ground for the some- the country or the government of a Dewhat vigorous language he has used partment, or in any other way. If you
I have had occasion to look over a put two men in the same office with joint
statement showing the number of em- authority, and equal powers, it is almost
ployes in this House and their salaries, inevitably the case that that joint manage;and I find that the French-Canadian ment will prove unsuccessful, and if it
employees of the Senate are to-day should not be so in this case, it will be
receiving a larger amount for salaries than worthy of note. This Bill does not even
the English employes.
set forth the particular departments which
each of the librarians is to preside over.
HON. MR BELLEROSE-In reply to They are appointed under joint commisthe hon. gentleman I would cal] his atten- sion, under the great seal, and they are to
tion to the fact that two years ago a return have co-ordinate powers. It is stated that
was moved for, of all the officers employed one of them is to be the Librarian of Parby the Government throughout the Dom- liament, and that the other is to be the
inion, showing their nationality and salaries general Librarian, but it does not define
received, and it was found that the French- what those separate duties are. We may
Canadians did not have half the number assume from our own experience of what
of appointments, according to population, those duties consist, but surely they ought
to be set forth in this clause so that there
that they are entitled to.
can be no doubt when those gentleman
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I should are appointed and inducted into their
have supposed, after listening to the offices, as to what their particular duties
-remarks of the hon. gentleman who has will be in the future. They are to have
just sat down, that this new arrangement equal powers ; but their separate duties are
proposed for the management of the not defined. Of course, one can imagine
Library bore with peculiar hardship upon that some memberof the Government when
the French-Canadian section of the Dom. those appointments are presented, will

lioN. MR. BELLEROSE.

Library of [JULY, 3 1885] Parliament Bill.
lead those gentlemen into the library and
Say " gentlemen here is the library, one
Of you is to be Parliamentary Librarian
and the other is to be a General Librarian," but you have no further power to
gobeyondthat. You may assume power and
tell this gentleman who is Parliamentary
Librarian that he is to devote his time
and attention to such and such details, and tell the General Librarian
that he is to devote his attention to such
other details; but there is nothing in the
Bill to indicate what those duties are.
Take, for example, one of the most important duties of the Librarian, and it will
be easy for the House to see what a difficult position it is for those gentlemen to
be put in. Take the selection of books
in the first instance, a duty that has always been in an obscure condition. I
have been a member of the Joint Comrnittee on the Library of Parliament, since
I have had the honor of a seat in this
House, and have taken great interest
in it, and I know from experience that
the selection of books is one of the most
important and difficult duties to perform
in relation to it, and that it is hard to say
who performs that duty. During a recent
session the Library Committee appointed
sub-committees to perform this duty, and
they were directed in the recess to examine the catalogues and take any other
means within their power to make
selections of books and make recommendations to the committee sitting at Ottawa.
I believe, out of all those committees, only
two or three gentlemen took any active
part in performing the duties assigned to
them. I made some recommendations
myself, and I find several books that I
recommended have been selected and are
in the library. I know that great dissatisfaction is generally expressed at new books
which we find in the library from year to
year. I think I may say without any reproach to the memory of the late Mr.
Todd that it has been the case, and that
we have found from year to year books
in our library which do not meet with our
approbation. They may be very useful
books, but are not such volumes as we
would expect and hope to find on the
shelves of a parliamentary library. If this
has been the case under single management how much greater must be the
difficulties under the double management

1113

proposed by this Bill. I think it will be
a great misfortune for the library of parliament if this Bill becomes law. Double
responsibility seems to me to be almost
no responsibility at aIL I would prefer to
see Mr. Decelles or any other French
gentleman of competent requirements
appointed as librarian, than to see two
gentlemen appointed, one of English and
one of French extraction, with equal
powers. Of the two I would prefer to
see a competent French gentleman
appointed sole head of the library than to
see the proposal of this Bill carried into
effect.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
not think the change is so great as the
hon. gentleman from Prince Edward
Island supposes, or that the expense will
be so great as the hon. gentleman from
Halifax alleges. The present staff consists almost of the same number as the
staff proposed under this Bill, and the
salaries that are paid at present are not
the salaries which are mentioned in the
original Act, which the hon. gentleman
has read-the salaries paid to-day to the
staff arelmuch larger. There are now in
the Library six clerks exclusive of the
Librarian, and exclusive of the Assistant
Librarian. Including the Librarian and
the Assistant Librarian there are eight.
Under this Bill there would be nine.
Therefore there would be an increase of
one, and the two Librarians would get
$6,ooo. At this moment the salary of the
principal Librarian is $3,2oo, and the
assistant is getting $2,400, or a total of
$5,6oo.
Under the new Bill the two
chief officers will be paid $6,ooo, the
difference being $400, so that there is no
great discrepancy there, and no great increase to be commented upon very severely.
Then the House must bear in mind that
the service is continually increasing. The
number of members of Parliament is
much greater now than it was when that Act
The Library was then
was passed.
small, and was contained in one
building where the reading room
now is. The number of references has
also increased by the increased number of
members who resort to the Library, and
not only increased by the number of
members, but increased by the number of
gentlemen who have business with the

1114

North- West Mounted [SENATE] Police Bill.

members, and a great many others connected with Parliamentary affairs who
resort to the Library, and who also require
a certain amount of service and civility
from the officers in charge, so that we
must all acknowledge that the duties of the
Then with
officers have increased.
reference to the appointment of an
English and French Librarian, those who
live in the old Province of Canada must
remember that such an appointment is
not an uncommon thing. We have, in
the City of Quebec and various other
cities, offices held by two persons, representatives of the two races; you have
even a joint sheriff and a joint prothonotary, and it is often found convenient.
We had, in the old Province of Canada,
two librarians.
We had a librarian
appointed by the House of Commons
and a librarian appointed by the Legislative Council, and there was no discord
or want of harmony on that account, and
there was in that case no definition of the
duties to be performed by either-they
were joint librariarns, with joint and equal
authority, and yet there was no want of
harmony, and the service was performed
well, and I do not remember of any evils
having occurred from that system.
HON. MR. POWER-One acting for
the Senate and one for the House of
Commons.

of, and an endeavour to be made
to promote the convenience of both. The
appointment of a single librarian there
would probably have been attended with
more or less inconvenience. At all events
it is more convenient for the two races to
have a representative of each in the
Library. The hon. gentleman from Prince
Edward Island says he would rather have
a French speaking gentleman appointed
as Librarian than to see two Librarians,
one English and one French, appointed
with co-ordinate powers. It may be the
fact, however, that it is more convenient
for those gentlemen who resort to the
Library to have a representative of each
race to consult with. The appointment
involves a very small additional sum of
money, and we have already instances of
the office being held jointly without inconvenience, and we have instances of other
offices being held jointly in Quebec without inconvenience. Then with reference
to the fact that we have not appointed an
Enghsh Librarian as soon as we might have
appointed him, of course the action of
Government is open to that remark, but
there is always difficulty in those matters,
as those who have been in the Government know, which causes delay. The
hon. gentleman from Halifax suggests that
the delay on the part of the Government
and of the head of the Government has
accomplished a good deal. No doubt it
has, but those delays are often governed
by sound judgment. We are not all
gifted with that impetuosity of youth
which influences the hon. member from
Halifax. These matters take time, and
we may perhaps do quite as well in the
long run as the hon. gentleman would do,
with all his youth and impetuosity. I do
not think the change proposed will be
very great, and I apprehend that the
service will be as satisfactorily and as
faithfully performed as it can be under
the Bill now before us.
The motion was agreed to and the
Bill was read the second time.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLThere was nothing for them to do for the
Senate particularly, or nothing to do for
the Commons as distinct from the Senate.
If a member of the Commons wished to
go to the library for information, he would
go with equal ease and with equal facility
to Rev. Dr. Adamson, the father of our
present assistant clerk, as to Mr. Todd, for
advice or assistance; and in the same way
if a gentleman from the Senate went to
the library he would go to Mr. Todd, or
to Dr. Adamson, whose service was
rendered with cordiality at all times, and
no difficulty of the kind now suggested
ever occurred. Here we are a joint race, NORTH-WEST MOUNTED POLICE
and things cannot be managed in the
BILL.
same way perhaps as they would be
managed in an exclusively English
SECOND READING.
speaking province of the Dominion. There
are two races to be consulted, and the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
convenience of two races to be thought the second reading of Bill (144) " An Act
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL.

North- We8t Mounted [J ILY 3,1885] Police Bill.
to authorize the augmentation of the NorthWest Mounted Police."
He saidThis is a Bill to increase the mounted
Police which now consists of 500
Men, to 1000. It provides that the
Governor-in-Council shall be and is hereby
empowered to authorize, from time to
time, the Commissioner of the North-West
Mounted Police to increase the present
number of constables to one thousand
tMen, and to appoint from among them
non-commissioned oflicers of different
grades, and to appoint supernumerary
COnstables not to exceed in the whole
twenty men, and to employ not more in
the whole than fifty men as scouts; and
Such constables and scouts shall be paid
the same rates of pay now authorized by
law for the present force. I understand
from the Premier .that it is the intention
to increase the force up to 8oo as soon as
Possible.

1115

necessary to have a militia force there to
deal with those troubles. 1 might say that
it is proposed to bring down ah the militia, and to keep at Winnipeg only a military school to consist of two companies of
men, and the pupils who may attend for
instruction -probably

3oo or 4oo men-

and with those and the Mounted Police it
is thought we can maintain order in the
North-West. It is necessary in order to
enable us to do that, that we should have
mounted men, and it is proposed that one
of those schools shall be devoted to drilling mounted men, or that it shall be a
joint school, part of which will be devoted
to drilling mounted men. I do not think,
from what we know has recently occurred,
that it would be wise to reduce the force
below the number I have mentioned. The
country to be dealt with is large, the distances are great, and the trouble amongst
the Indians, for the moment subdued,
may cause some difficulty in the future,
and it may be necessary to have a force at
command to protect the settlers at any
time, and a force that will be very mobile.
With reference to the expense, the cost
per man will be the same as at present,
which is, I think, about $970 per annum.
It is a very large sum, certainly. Whether
it is too much or not I cannot say, but, of
course, it is a just subject of criticism if
we are extravagant, or if supplies are not
properly bought, and so on.

HON. MR. POWER-In moving the
second reading of a Bill of such great
consequence as this, and involving so
mluch additional expenditure, the Minister
of Justice might have given us a little
More information as to what the additional
expenditure will be. I did not hear
the debate, and have not read the report
of it, but there was quite a long discussion
In the other Chamber on the subject, and
I think the Minister of Justice should have
given us a little more information here.
One reason why I say that is, that I see
HON. MR. POWER-The Minister
that the Government proposeto increase the has not referred to the fact that the Govstanding army to 1,ooo men. The force ernment have taken power to increase the
is now I think 5oo and the Government standing army to ooo men also, and I
are taking power under this Bill to in- can see no reason for that increase, in
crease the Mounted Police also to zooo. addition to the increase in the Mounted
That is going to involve, speaking roughly Police.
-those two measures together-a yearly
expenditure of about $r,ooo,ooo in addiHON. SIR. ALEX.CAMPBELL-That
tion to that which the country is now at in effect goes into the schools. The numto keep up the Mounted Police and the ber of men now in the schoois is 750. A
standing army, and I think that a little new school at Winnipeg of both branches
more might be said about the Bil.
of the service is proposed; and I think it
is in contemplation to establish a school
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am in British Columbia and another school in
sorry that I did not give the House all the the Province of Quebec, and thus occupy
explanation which the hon. gentleman the time and give duty to so many men;
from Halifax thinks I ought to have given; and the standing army, so to speak, if it
but it does not seem to me that there is is to be rooo men would- Fe divided
much more to be said. The House knows amongst those schools, each school havng
very well the troubles that have recently a company or troop for drilling pupils who.
Occurred in the North-West, and that it is come in from the country for that purpose.

1116

North- West lJounted [SEN ATE] Police Bill.

When I allude to the school at Winnipeg
I describe what is the duty to be performed by some of those men that the
hon. gentleman cals the standing army.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I assume that the
recent unfortunate events that occurred
in the North-West will involve the necessity of our keeping a force in that country
for some time to come. It may or may not
be, and I am not at thismoment preparedto
dissent from the wisdom of the policy that
looks to augmenting the mounted force
insteadof the foot. The proposition to
increase the Mounted Police to the numbers indicated by the Minister would remove thenecessityfor raising solarge aforce
.as that contemplated and proposed by the
legisiation of last session with regard to
the infantry, because if we look upon the
mounted force as the arm in the NorthWest, then we should not keep up so large
a body of infantry. We have seen how
readily our volunteers have been grouped
together, and how quickly they have been
forwarded to the scene of action when
necessary, and therefore the existence of
volunteers in the country will no doubt
relieve us from the absolute necessity of
keeping up an infantry force; but the
mounted force I regard as a necessity
under the present condition of affairs in
the North West. My own view of the
vulnerable point in this country, and
where an armed force has to be preserved,
is that it should centre largely in that
country, and that the spirit which has been
evoked there recently is not one that will
be rapidly extinguished. The Indian has
to be awed into absolute subjection in
order to make that country habitable to
the white man, and therefore I
consider that the major part of our
artillery could be prudently kept in the
North-West, either in Winnipeg or some
other suitable point where their services I
hope will not be required, but where their
presence will no doubt assist in preserving
the peace in the future until that country
gets back to its normal condition ; but
until that period arrives, I think it would
Ibe wise on the part of the Government to
-station the largest portion of the paid army
-of Canada in the North-West. We certainly do not need them in the older
provinces. There is no spirit there that
would likely develop into resistance to
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL.

constituted authority. No people probably
on the face of the earth is disposed to be
more peaceable or to accept more readilY
the laws of the country than the Dominion
of Canada, save that section of it which
has been recently in armed rebellion ; and
therefore, except as a school and as an
assistance to the training of young nen
who are sent to Kingston and Quebec, I
think the greater portion of the force might
very prudently be kept in the North-West
for a year or two to come, and in that way
a considerable saving might possibly be
effected. Even with that I appreciate the
fact that we do require a much larger
force of Mounted Police in that country
than we at present possess, and therefore
I think it is the proper policy on the part
of the Government to increase that force
in the manner indicated.
HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE-I am not
at all disposed to find any fault with the
expenditure necessary to maintain this addition to the force of Mounted Police in
the North West Territories. Whether we
consider it as a matter of true economy in
the long run to do so, or in any other
light, I think it is evidently the duty of
the Government of this Dominion to propose to Parliament that a sufficient force
should be kept on foot to maintain absolute peace in the North-West. Unless
that can be accomplished it is useless for
us to be building railroads, and inviting
settlers to make their homes in that region,
when they would be suddenly subjected
to such vicissitudes as have occurred there
during the last few months. It will be
necessary if we intend to call ourselves a
If we are laying the
rising country.
foundations of a Dominion which is to be
great and respected amongst nations, we
must in time take upon ourselves the
responsibilities of preserving the lives and
property of our subjects in all parts of the
Dominion-preserving their property free
from raids, whether of half-breeds, or of
Indians, or of discontented, ill-disposed
people from beyond our borders. These
are so clearly our duties that I cannot see
how anybody possessed of feelings of
patriotism can hesitate for a moment to
pledge the necessary expenditure for this
state of things. But as to whether the
plan proposed by the Government is the
best, or the only plan to be adopted, we

North- West -Mounted [JULY 3, 1885] Police Bill.
are of course welcome to entertain our
Own Opinions, and, on an occasion like
this, to offer them publicly, whether they
be accepted in the light of advice
or not. It seems to me that the
North-West Mounted Police, thoroughly
organized should be a highly efficient
body of men ; but we must recollect,
On the other hand, that there is an
enormous extent of country over which
their operations may be called upon to
extend, and for that reason the small force
Of I,ooo men may be broken up into
cOmparatively small parties, and therefore
1 can readily perceive myself that the
preservation and the maintenance of
Peace in the North-West is not so easy a
Matter as may casually appear.
One
thousand mounted police, kept within a
day's march of each other, would be a
formidable body, but they would be comParatively useless if an outbreak occurred
at a distance of two or three days' march
frorn them. It does appear to me that no
force can be more properly called upon to
assist in the maintenance of peace and the
preservation of order in a country of that
kind than the male inhabitants themSelves, of a certain age ; and my opinion
is that it is the duty of the Government to organize in those territories
an efficient body of mounted men who
Shal be available at all times to act in
their own defence and in defence of the
adjoining regions-not merely in the
imnediate vicinity of their own location,
but wherever they may be called upon in
tirne of trouble such as has occurred
Within the last few weeks. It appears
frorm. recent experience in the warfare of
older countries where armies of considerable discipline and numbers have been
engaged, that the most efficient arm in
modern warfare is the nounted infantry.
It seems rather a misnomer or a
Uibernianism to speak of a "mounted
infantry man ;" still that is the

name

Which has been adopted, and it seems to
me that for the North-west service a body
of mounted militia would be the force
best calculated to maintain peace. My
hon. friend who has just resumed his seat
has mentioned the desirability of the
artillery force being available there. That,
no doubt, is a most important suggestion.
WVe, all ofus, havehad an opportunityofreadIng of the effect produced upon the minds

111T

of the Indians and others who were opposed
to our army in the North-West, of artillery
fire-particularly of shells, and also the
effect oftheGatling guns. It wouldseem, in
order to make whatever force is employed
in the North-West fairly effective, it should
be supported both by artillery and Gatling
guns of the most modern and useful type.
Seeing that the Militia Department of the
Government has shown considerable aptitude in carrying on the details of warfare
-the office details -it may not be misapprehended if one ventures to offer a few
suggestions of this nature on this occasion.
I myself think that although the increase
in the Mounted Police is a very useful and
necessary measure, it should be accompanied by the establishment of volunteer
Mounted Police in that country, and that
forts will be requiredwhere a comparativelysmall body of men can be in perfect safety
against the attack of much larger numbers.
The want of such places was quite evident
during the late outbreak. The so-called
forts of the country were, as I understood,
nothing better than log houses with wooden stockades, but had our few police and
available forces been able to retire on
certain occasions within properly constructed fortifications, some of the disasters we met with would have been avoided,
and it is certain that the knowledge of the
existence of such places would give a
feeling of security to the whole country.
It would not he merely the military of the
country, who would feel that their security
was cared for, but it would be the farmers
and other inhabitants of the country also,
the women and children and ecclesiastics.
If such places existed, to which people
could retire with perfect security in case
of an outbreak, there would be a feeling
of confidence in the country which is perhaps rather lacking at present. These
ideas occur to me, and I must say I think
such precautions are necessary, in taking
into consideration the protection of life
and property in that country. For
example, in arming the militia in that
country a great risk would be run
of the arms being stolen, suppose
they were left in the keeping of the different members of the force. They are
frequently absent from their homes, either
in the fields or away from their farms for
a few days, leaving their houses quite
undefended. A body of turbulent Indians

1118

Adulteration of [SENATE] Food, Drugs, etc., Bill.

might be disposed for an outbreak and
make a raid for the arms of the settlers,
but the existence of fortified strongholds
in those places, where the arms could be
deposited, would obviate any difficulty of
that sort, and I think, besides the actual
security which would be afforded, that it
would have a beneficial effect in infusing
amongst the settlers a feeling that they
were citizens of the country, having their
duties to perform as well as their privileges to enjoy, and when this state of
things should have supervened for a few
years, we should find the feelings and the
condition of a much older country growing
up amongst our people in the NorthWest. I am glad, on the whole, that the
Government have taken this step of
increasing the North-West
Mounted
Police force, but I think it might be
supplemented by other measures in the
same direction with advantage both to the
present security of the country and to its
future progress.
PLUMB-I do not think it
would be possible in the present state of
the North-West to get a large volunteer
force. It would be a great burden on the
sparse population, and I doubt if it would
be practicable at all. As to the forts to
which the hon. gentleman refers, they were
Hudson Bay trading posts, and were
never supposed or believed to be regular
fortifications. Nobody was deceived with
the idea that they were. I an very glad
indeed to find that a bill for increasing the
force has been met in so kindly and
generous a spirit by the gentlemen on the
opposite side. The need is apparent, and
I think every one feels that it will be absolutely necessary to see that there is
sufficient force in the North-West to overawe any turbulent spirits that may be there
and may be inclined to set the laws of the
country at defiance. I am very glad to
hear my hon. friend from Prince Edward
Island speak in so kindly a rnanner of the
efficient way in which arms and men and
the munitions of war were sent into that
country on the occasion of the late outbreak there. It is a strong contrast to the
action of older countries that have been
suddenly brought face to face with the
disasters of war, that a young country like
this, with almost no preparation, was
ready at such a moment and in such
HON. MR.

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

an efficient way to meet so grave an
exigency as that which threatened the
country. I have no doubt that we have
seen the last of that serious difficulty.
There may be some few Indians that
have not yet been taught by the disasters
which have befallen their people, that they
cannot defy the power of the Dominion
Government with impunity. They will
be taught, and I imagine that the dfficulties which have arisen will be removed by
the augmentation of the force as we have
it now. I doubt if it will be possible to
get up a volunteer force without a very
much larger expense than, I fancy, hon.
gentlemen would be willing to incur. I
presume that for the present we will have
to be contented with the increase of the
Mounted Police which will, I suppose,
add nearly seven or eight hundred thousand dollars to the expense with which
the public is already burdened for the
purpose.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time at length.
ADULTERATiON OF FOOD, DRUGS
AND AGRICUTURAL FERTILIZERS BILL.
cOMMONS AMENDMENTS AGREED TO.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
that the amendments made by the House
of Commons to Bill (W), " An Act respecting the adulteration of food, drugs and
a.gricultural fertilizers" be concurred in.
He explained that all the changes were in
accord with the general object of the Act
and merely for the purpose of making it
more complete.
HON. MR. POWER suggested that the
amendment to the 26th clause contained
an inaccuracy. As it read, it referred to
the 27th clause, but it seemed to him that
it was intended to refer to the 25th clause.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
that the House concur in all the amendments except the amendment of the 26th
clause.
The motion was agreed to.

General Inspection Act [JU LY 3, 1885] Amendment Bill.
CANNED GOODS BILL
COMMONS AMENDMENTS CONCURRED IN.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
that the amendments made by the House
Of Commons to Bill (U), " An Act respecting Canned Goods " be concurred in.

The motion was agreed to.
INSPECTION ACT AMENDMENT
BILL
THIRD READING.

1119

place where there is no Chamber of Commerce, then it is to be disposed of as
provided in section i 1. I do not see that
we can improve on that. Then the hon.
member from Halifax asked if all these
provisions had received the sanction of
the Halifax Chamber of Commerce. I
understand one of them was not in the
Bill when the Chamber of Commerce saw
it-that is sub-section 6, which is a provision for referring the matter to the
chief inspector ; but that is optional and
it need' not be used unless the parties
agree.

HON MR. POWER-That is a very
The House resolved itself into a Com- good provision-there can be no objecMittee of the Whole on Bill (135), "An tion to that.
Act further to amend the General
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Then
Inspection Act, 1874, and the Acts
as to the compulsory clause, which really
amending the same."
was the principal point objected to, my
hon. friend from Prince Edward Island
In the Committee,
(Mr. Howlan) took strong objections to
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLthat clause, and I was very much interThere were two or three points as to ested in what he said, and affected by his
which I was to obtain further information argument considerably, but on inquiring
with regard to this Bill.
into it, I find that in the island from
which he comes there never has been an
HON. MR. POWER-The Minister inspector, or deputy inspector, appointed
said he would consider the propriety of under the Act, so that from 1874 to the
amending the affidavit.
present time-1 i years-they have never
felt any inconvenience from want of inHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I did spection, and never derived any benefit
consider that and wrote out another form from inspection under the Act, so that
of affidavit, but I find that the one which would show very conclusively that, so far
is here expresses with sufficient clearness as Prince Edward Island goes, compulsory
what the object is-that is, that the officer inspection has not been enforced there.
shall not undertake to stamp any goods in
HON. MR. HOWLAN-The reason it
which he has an interest, except as
has never been applied for is this : they
permitted by the Act.
had, previous to entering Confederation,
HON. MR. POWER-I did not say a good inspection law, and had inspectors
there was anything incorrect in the and deputy inspectors under whom they
clause, but I suggested that the inspectors, had been acting.
-not being familiar with legal phraseology,
inight not apprehend the meaning.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-They
had voluntary inspection only, and that
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLvoluntary inspection they can continue to
Then, as to sub-section 4, I promised to have under this Bill. I find also that
make some inquiry. I find as to that the point was submitted to a meeting of
sub-section the suggestion
is that all the representatives of the Maritime
if a dispute occurs between the owtier Provinces in the other branch of Parliaand an inspector in a place where ment, at a private meeting-I suppose I
ithere is a Chamber of Commerce then it arti quite right in mentioning this. At
-shall be disposed of in the manner pro- that meeting, with the exception of a
vided in the section. If it occurs;in a single individual, all the members from

1120

General Inspection Act [SEN'ATE] Amendment Bill.

the Maritime Provinces agreed that this
compulsory part of the Act should be
done away with. There was a very strong
expression of opinion from those who
know best as to the merit or demerit of
the compulsory clause, and itwas expressed,
as I am told, almost unanimously-there
was but one exception. Those are very
strong arguments-there has been no
compulsory inspection in Prince Edward
Island, and they have done very well
without it, so well that they desire to
remain without it; and that the members
from the Maritime Provinces, with the
exception of one voice, agree that the
compulsory inspection clause is not necessary. Then we must bear in mind the
thing will remedy itself if we are going
wrong, because the machinery is provided
for the inspection. If a man packing
fish finds that inspection would be a
benefit to him he can get it ; if he finds
that it is no benefit to him then under this
Bill he will not be compelled to have them
inspected. That is the state of the law
which those most interested and experienced in the trade, and who know better
than we do in this part of the Dominion,
desire and think best for the Maritime
Provinces. These reasons make me satisfied that the clause as it is is the one
which is most consonant with the general
condition of those concerned in the business, and it has the advantage of the experience to which I have referred, and I
therefore am unwilling to change it.

experience in the fish business. He told
me that he was the one who had objected ;
but in contradistinction to the views of
the members who have been referred to,
I have the opinion of gentlemen engaged
practically every day in the fishing industry
-membersof the Board of Trade of Halifax
-- and they are unanimously in favor of
compulsory inspection. With regard to
the Province of Prince Edward Island, an
Act was passed in 1865 under which
inspectors and deputy inspectors were
appointed, and they have had their brands
and have been working in that way ever
since. They have never, therefore, felt
the necessity of applying for compulsory
inspection.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Then
there is no occasion to make it compulsoryw

HON. MR. HOWLAN-All those who
are engaged in the business have continued
to use barrels of the dimensions and
capacity etc., specified, and that is the
reason why. I believe my hon. friend was
himself the Minister when the first Inspection Act was brought in for Canada.
It was looked upon as a very perfect Act
and it is the one under which we have
been working ever since. There has been
no petition, so far as I know, from those
particularly engaged in the fisheries for
doing away with compulsory inspection.
I have not seen or heard of any of them,
and when we have the opinion-the best
we can possibly get, I consider-of the
HON. MR. HOWLAN-Who was the Halifax Board of Trade, we should listen
single individual who objected at this to it in preference to acting in accordance
with the views of parties who are not
meeting ?
practical.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I did
not like to ask his name, and if I had
HoN. MR. POWER-I do not attach
learned it I should not like to mention it. quite as much weight to the opinion of
I have mentioned the fact that there was the meeting the Minister refers to, as the
a meeting of all the members of the Mari- hon. gentleman seems to do. In the first
time provinces in the other House, and place I presume that whoever represented
that there was but one exception to the the Department of Inland Revenue there
decision they arrived at, that this compul- intimated a very decided opinion as to compulsory inspection. The suggestion came
sory clause was not desirable.
from him and not from the members.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-I heard of the
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-No,
meeting and I took the liberty of inquiring
the name of the gentleman who dissented it was the other way.
from their conclusion. I found that he
HON. Mi. POWER-Excuse me; I
was from Prince Edward Island, and is a
gentleman who has had a good deal of think I am right about that. I find-I
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL

General Jn8pection Act [JULY 3, 1885] Amendment Bill.

11I21

did not know it before-that a member $2 per barrel, and they also go in dimifrom Prince Edward Island objected.
nished in value by the want of the
guarantee which the inspection has hitherHON. MR. HOWLAN-Yes.
to given, and that all happens at a time
when mackerel are exceptionally low in the
HON. MR. POWER-Then there must market, I think the effect will be most inbe some error in the statement communi- jurious to our fishermen. The Minister
cated to the Minister of Justice, because has said there is no difficulty about
I am aware that a member who attended it ; if the inspection is found adat that meeting, who represents the most vantageous, it can be continued. But
important fishing county in the whole there is this answer to that ; unfortunately
province ot Nova Scotia, also objected. fishermen, perhaps to a greater extent
Take, for instance, the county of Halifax; than farmers and other classes, do not see
the two members who represent that county what is for their own ultimate good. A
concurred in the suggestion of the Depart- fisherman may, fcr the sake of saving the
ment. Neither of these gentlemen is in any ten cents immediate expenditure which
way connected with the fishing business. it would involve to have a barrel of
One is a lawyer and the other is a gentle- mackerel inspected, lose 50 cents on a
man engaged in the manufacture of barrel of mackerel. I think, in the
cordage, but the Chamber of Commerce, interests of the fishermen and of the
made up chiefly of merchants, and largely merchants, it would be better to leave the
of men who make their living from deal- law as it is now, and if it is found atter a
ing in fish, unanimously, at a very large couple of years that the law, with the
meeting, asked that this provision be amendments made by this Bill, does not
stricken out of the Bill, and now you have work satisfactorily, then this change could
the fact that this body, composed of men be made ; but I regret that the hopes we
who are supposed to know as much about entertained yesterday that the Minister
the fish trade as any body in Canada, are would consent to the slight change which
opposed to the views of the members from has been suggested do not seem to be
the county. We have the fact that one realised.
member from Prince Edward Island, who
is faniliar with the business, took the
[ION. MR. CARVELL-I am very glad
same view that the Chamber of Commerce to find that the minister has seen fit to
did, and the fact that a representative of present the Bill in its present form, making
the largest fishing county in Nova Scotia inspection non-compulsory. I think we
agrees with him. If these gentlemen are altogether too much inspected in this
desired to have the law altered something country. The department which has
might be said, but they are asking that the charge of inspection seems to have gone
law remain as it has been for the last forty wild. What in the world the department
years, and I think the Government should of Inland Revenue has to do with inspecnot make the change. I attempted yester- tion I cannot imagine. However, they
day to give the reason why I thought the are as well able to regulate it as any one
time was not well chosen to make the else. The hon. gentleman who has just
change
Our treaty with the United sat down speaks of the loss our fishermen
Staies has just ceased. Our fish will go sustain by our fish going uninspected to
into the American market meeting a Boston, which is the largest, almost our
heavy duty. I may mention that the only, fish market. The value of inspecfish as to which the difficulty has generally tion is simply nothing. Perhaps there
occurred is mackerel, and that for our are 40 or 6a different establishments
mackerel in Nova Scotia-which is the around our coast, and each man procures
great mackerel-catching province, together an appointment for himself to inspect his
with Prince Edward Island-practically the own fish. They go to Boston; perhaps a
only market we have is Boston. Under steamer arriving there will have i,5oo to
our inspection law our fish have estab- 2,ooo barrels of mackerel on board. Many
lished a good reputation in that market. buyers will say, " Have you any .of Dan
If-you abolish compulsory inspection, and Ross' on board, or any of Churchill's fish ?"
the fish go in there subject to a duty of These are the fishermen who have made
V 2

Canada [SENATE] Temperance Act.

1122

names for themselves and their reputation
will sell lish when no amount of inspection or branding the barrels will do any
good whatever. Inspection does not
amount to anything in the Boston market.
HON. MR.

DEVER-It is a mere farce

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Monday,July 6th, 1885.
THE SPEAKER took the chair at three

o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.

CARVELL-It. would be
very much better to leave it optional.
HON. MR

MR. HOWLAN-I do not agree
with the hon. gentleman at ail. I can
assure him that if he would put a lot of
Dan Ross' or Churchill's fish-and they
are very good fish indeed, I am well
acquainted with both gentlemen and know
the way they put up their fish-if they
would put them in the market without a
compulsory inspection law alongside of
fish inspected under a compulsory inspection law, he would very soon get an
answer that would satisfy him.
The clause was adopted.

CANADA TEMPERANCE ACT.

HON.

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My
hon. friend from Halifax asked me to
ascertain why the price for inspecting herrings had been increased from 5 to 7
cents. I find the reason is the charge of
5 cents was so sinall that they could not
get the work done, and the charge of 7
cents is as low as it can be done ; and so
with the half barrel, 4 cents. In other
fish no change has been made except to
reduce the rates. That is the explanation
which has been given me.
The clause was adopted.

HON. MR. BELLEROSE, from the
Committee, reported the Bill with amendmnents, which were concurred in.
The Bill was then read the third time,
and passed.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (134) " An Act respecting the
Liquor License Act, 1883." (Sir Alex.
Campbell.)
Bill (150) " An Act to authorize the
advance of a certain sum to the Harbor
Commissioners of Three Rivers." (Sir
Alex. Campbell.)

The Senate adjourned at 5 o'clock.
HON. MR.

CARVELL.

PETITION PRESENTED.

HON. MR. VIDAL presented a petition
from the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church of Canada. He said :
I would like to read this petition, inasmuch as it has reference to a measure that
is on our orders to be disposed of to-day:"

To the Honorable the Senate of Canada:

The General Assembly of the Presbyterian
Church in Canada assembled in Montreal this

16th day of June in the year 1885, respect
fully submit to your honorable body, that
Whereas your honorable body have lately
framed amendments to the Canada Temperance Act of 1878 permitting the sale of ight
wines, ale and beer: thus, in the opinion of
your petitioners destroying the usefulness of
the Act as a prohibitory nieasure, and that in
opposition to the will of the people so recently
expressed at the poils as provided for by said
Act;
•
Therefore, your petitioners respectfully request your honora le body to reconsider said
amen ments, and to make no change in the
Act except in the direction of strengthening
its prohibitory character and increasing the
faciiities for enforcing it.
And your petitioners as in duty bound will
ever pray, etc., etc.
In the name of the Presbyterian
General Assembly,
ALEXANDER MCKNIGHT, D. D.,
Moderator.
WILLUAx REID, D. D.,
Clerks f
WILLIMAx FRAsER, D.D.,
General Assembly.
Montreal, June 16th, 1885.

HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE-I would
like to ask the hon. gentleman if the meeting was unanimous.
HON. MR. VIDAL-I could not say.
Resolutions were passed by a very large
majority, and this petition was authorized

to be sent and presented to Parliament.

Weetern Terminue of [JULY 6, 1885] Pacific Railway.
WESTERN TERMINUS OF PACIFIC RAILWAY.
MOTION.
HON. MR. McINNES (B. C.) moved:
That an humble address be presented to His

Excellency the Governor Generai; prayi ng
that His Excellency will cause to be laid
before this House, copies of all correspond-

lence or telegrains received from the Canadian
Pacifie Railway Company, the Legislature of
British Columbia or any ot their officials,
addressed to the Railway Departnent, or any
Mnember of the Privy Council, respecting the

Western Terminus of the Canadian Pacifie
Railway at Port Moody, Coal Harbor or
English Bay.
He said: In order that hon. gentlemen

1123

namely, the Bute Inlet or northern route,
and the Burrard Inlet or southern route,
which was eventually adopted in the year
1877. After the first year's explorations the
southern route was virtually abandoned
for a period of nearly four years, abandoned
I believe, owing to the unwarrantable
representations made by Mr. Marcus
Smith, then chief engineer on the Canadian
Pacific Railway, and others. Owing to
those representations, the Macdonald
Government of that day and the Mackenzie Government that succeeded it in the
fall of 1873, were strongly biased in favor

of the northern, or abandoned route, and
any gentleman who has the slightest
doubt in his mind as to the accuracy of
that statement will have his doubts

rnay have a more intimate knowledge of removed by referring to a speech
the subject under consideration I would delivered by the Hon. Mr. Mackenzie, I

ask the indulgence of the House for a
short time while I outline the history and
causes which led to the selection of the
Burrard Inlet route and Port Moody as
the western terminus of the Canadian
Pacific Railway. On the 1stofJuly 1871,
just 14 years ago last Wednesday, British
Columbia became a part and parcel of our
wide-spread Dominion, and every hon.
gentleman who took the slightest interest
in the negotiations at that time between
the province of British Columbia and th,:
Dominion of Canada will remember that
the principal condition in the terms of
union, in fact I may say the principal inducement that was held out to the Pacific
province to join the Confederation, was
the building of the Pacific Railway, and by
that means giving the people of the Pacific
province direct communication with her
sister provinces east of the Rocky Mountains and with the outside world generally.
Another importent clause in the ternis of
union was that actual construction was to

think in the session of 1879 or i88o, in
which he acknowledges its correctness.
This condition of affairs continued until
the fall of 1876 until $2,ooo,ooo was
expended, and four precious years were
wasted in a vain endeavor to find a
practicable pass through the different
ranges of mountains to the tidal waters at

Bute Inlet. Fortunately for the Pacific
Province and for the Dominion generally,
this unsatisfactory state of affairs was
suddenly brought to a close by the timely
visit of the justly popular and astute Lord
Dufferin, then Governor-General of
Canada. That nobleman honored the
Pacific Province, or the western gate of
the Dominion, with a visit in the fall of
1876, and took in at a glance the muddled
condition of railway matters, and immediately on his return here he advised
his Government that a thorough survey of
the Fouthern or Burrard Inlet route should
be made at the earliest possible moment.
The advice of that nobleman was taken,
commence within two years after the union, and the consequence was that the following
and the entire road from the Atlantic to year nearly all the surveying and exploring
the Pacific was to be completed within ten parties were placed on the southern route,
years. In order that that particular part and in the year 1877, or early in the
of the agreement with British Columbia spring of 1878, the Government of the

should be carried out the Federal Government the following spring, with commendable promptitude, placed a large
number of exploring and surveying parties
in the Rocky, Selkirk, and Coast or
Cascade ranges of mountains in order to
find the best possible railway route to the
Pacific Ocean. Therewere two rival routes,

day adopted the southern or Burrard
Inlet route, and declared Port Moody to
be the western terminus of the Canadian
Pacific Railway. The gradients on the
route adopted were found to be
very much lower than those on
the northern. The cost was variously
estimated at from $15,000,000

to

$20,-

1124

Western Terminu8 qf [SENATE] Pacific Raiway.

less, and the length of the road
was shortened some 300 miles. When
the Mackenzie Government adopted Port
Moody as the western terminus of the
Canadian Pacific Railway they did not do
so merely because it was the first point at
which the tidal waters of the Pacifie were
touched, as alleged by many of the
opponents of that place, but on account
of its being declared by the highest naval
authorities to be the best harbor to be
found on the Pacific coast. That was
the reason, and I believe the only reason,
why Port Moody was selected instead of
English Bay and Coal Harbor. When
the present Government came into power
did they question the wisdom of their
predecessors in selecting Port Moody as
the terminus ? No, on the 'ontrary they,
in unmistakeable language, endorsed the
selection of their predecessors, and in
confirmation of what I have just stated I
will read an extract or two from a speech
delivered last year in the House of Commons by Sir Charles Tupper, then Minister of Railways. I will only read that
portion of the speech which has a direect
bearing on the question under consideration. Sir Charles Tupper, some three
years before that, had paid a visit to
British Columbia and made a critical examination of Port Moody, Coal Harbor
and English Bay, and knew precisely
what he was speaking about. The portion
of the speech to which I refer will be
found in the Commons Hansard of 1884,
page 42o, and in order to put it in a more
convenient form I have had it struck off,
as I found that all the copies of the report
of last year were out of the Library. The
hon. gentleman's remarks were made in
reply to Mr. Blake, who probably had a
little more forethought than others, and
was contending at the time that the road
would probably be eventually taken down
to English Bay or Coal Harbor, and that
the extra charge or cost would become a
burden on the country. This is the reply
that Sir Charles Tupper made :000,000

As to whether Port Moody or English Bay
is the best port for the terminus, all I can say
is that the Government selected Port Moody
as the terminus of the railway, and in doing
so they selected a port accessible froni the
Pacific Ocean and which is declared to be the
best port that is to be found on the Pacifie
coast. Her Majesty's vessels have, during the
past year, surveyed the harbor, and we have
HON. MR. McINNES.

the declaration of the officers who have been
there, and they are the nost perfectly independent and able sources of information, that
we have made the most wise and judicious
selection which could have been made; that
the port is simply perfect, and that there is
nothing on the Pacifie coast superior to it.
And they have now represented to the Admiralty the propriety of making Port Moody the
head quarters for the admiralty on the Pacifie
coast, as being the best location which is to
be found there. The hon. gentleman, I dare
say, (Mr. Blake) would like us to go down to
English Bay, because it would have compelled
the expenditure of $1,000,000 to get there in
the first instance, and another one or two
millions to make a harbor out of un open
roadstead where there is comparatively no
I say the Government feel that
anchorage.
they have done all that is necessary in relation
to the question, when they carried the
Canadian Pacific Railway to a terminus which
was declared by the highest naval authorities
to be unequalled on the Pacifie coast.
I need not add anything to these words.
The English language, or any other language, fails to put the case stronger than
the High Commissioner put it last year
when he was speaking, not for himselfnot giving his own private opinion-but
speaking for the Government.
HON. MR. POWER-He was Minister
of Railways.
HON. MR. McINNES-He was Minister of Railways, and the mouthpiece of
the Government at the time. I have
another short extract that I will trouble
the House with reading ; it came from a
British Columbia paper, dated the 2oth
June, and which will bear out the statement made by the Minister of Railways:
COAL HARBOR AGAIN.

Probably nothing could demonstrate so.

clearly the impossibility of naking a place
for sh ipping at Coal Harbor as the recurring
disasters which take place at that mockery of
a haven. On Wednesday last the ship Albula
was driven from her moorings by the heavy
winds and tides to which this uniserable sheet
of water called a harbor, is exposed. The
ship, notwithstanding that her anchorg were
down, fouled the ship Newman Hall at the
Hastings wharf, forcing the latter from her
berth, and it required the services of a tug
for nanv lors te replace her. This is not
the first instance of the kind. We gave the
case of the Dorset and the City of Brooklyn ;
the two vessels were driven up the Inlet, the
latter not only dragging her anchors, but
carrying away a portion of the wharf also.
That any set of nien, no matter what their
object, could have the temerity to offer lots at

Western Terminus of [JULY 6, 1885.] Pacißeo Railway.
buch a place, under the pretence of making a
harborthere, is,to say the least, extraordinary.
In this statement of Sir Charles Tupper
you will observe that he condemned, not
Only English Bay in the first place, on
account of its being an open roadstead
and unworthy of the name of a harbor, but
in the second place he calls the attention
of the House and of the country-and I
want this House to pay particular attention

1125

signalized before the "Roy al Colonial Institute," I am not sure that I have got the title
right, away out here where I have no means
of reference, were several gentlemen of broad
nationalistie and patriotie views, who, in
their schemes for the consolidation of the
British Empire, and its subsequent conservation, touched upon the subject of this Pacifie
Eminent
coast-this British Columbia.
among these, I well remember, was Capt -in
and
Bedford Pim, who has, again
again, even vehemently urged the fortito it-that it would cost from $i,ooo,ooo fyîng of certain important points upon
to $2,ooo,ooo to make a harbor out of an this-British Columbian-Pacifie coast of
Canada. It may not be known to every one
open roadstead. It is doubtless within the importance of this great western outiet of
the knowledge of nearly every gentleman British America being lortified, as it has made
present here that it is contemplated by the itself known to Captain Bedford Pim and
Pacific Railway Company, or a portion of many others; but just now, when it may be
the Pacific Railway Company, and a few there is a war pending between Britain and
Russia,-whose boundaries, in these countries
speculators and adventurers in connection of " magnificent distances " are so nearly
with the Local Government of British conterminous-the desirability of having
Columbia, and a few outsiders, to extend some fortified points on chis Columbian coast
the road down from Port Moody, a dis- is obvious.
at what is desirable and what
tance of some 12 miles, and here the first is Let us look What is the defensible condipracticable.
thing you will find staring you in the face tion of Victoria, the capital of this province?
will be a vote of $2,ooo,ooo, to make It would, perhaps, be a too sweeping remark
the harbor at English Bay a fit place to to say that any place is wholly indefensible,
anchor in, so that it is not the first cost but it would be no very great exaggeration to
sav as much of Victoria, as of the much
of the work, but the annual raid that will talked of harbor of Esquimalt, close by. Of
be made on the treasury of Canada in course defensive works could be erected in the
order to keep that anything like a harbor. vicinity, but to ensure to them anything nearly
I will now trouble you by reading an approaching effectiveness, would necessitate
situaextract from a paper, in which I must an enormous outlay. Then Victoria is of the
ted at the very extreme outlying point
confess I was rather surprised to see itrovince, and its approaches are commanded
the paper to which I refer is no less than y foreign-United States-territory ; viz,
the Montreal Herald, the recognized San Juan Island and the Olympic coast,
organ of the Canadian Pacific Railway south of the Strait of Juan de Fuca. There,
the
Company.
It goes on at the first for then, be. citadel of British Columbia can
never
nearly half the article showing that it is
Let us look next at those points on the
very difficult indeed to protect a city if mainland which it is desirable to have
Of course the spot
built on English Bay, and deals in a gen- effectively fortified.
consideration
eral way with the military aspect of the demanding the very first
of the Canadian Pacifie
terminus and pronounces that Port Moody is the terminus leave long unprotected
Railway.
To
could be made impregnable-a second this great western gateway of Canada would
However, I will read the be a dereliction of national duty but little
Gibraltar.
short of madness. It happens that bers
article itself:nature has done her part most admirably.
Like almost everywhere else, just now, It happens, too, that in the surveys about
British Columbia teemis with war rumours. the shores of Burrard. Inlet, made in past
Here, perhaps, there are special reasons, years, when Colonel Moody here held sway, a
consonant with its being the terminus of the wise prescience dictated the reservation
Canadian Pacifie Railway, and the jumping- against all future private grants of certain
off place of the Dominion of Canada, why commaiding points to be held for fortification
there should be excitement. Really, in view purposes. Let us make a brief sketch of
of a possible war with Russia, this Pacifie this maginificent sheet of water and its
coast of Canada is thrust into an importance surroun cings. We enter the inlet proper
which it might not otherwise have attained- from Enghlsh Bay, a deep bight of the
perhaps for generatiois. Do people-whether GnIf of Georgia, some four miles square.
nations or individuals-never learn except by It is merely an open roadstead, entirely exexperience? It is to be feared not, at least poeed to what are the most prevalent winds
Mot very much. My memory recalle that, on this coast. We enter what I call uurrard
for years past, among those who have become Inlet proper from English Bay, through what

1126

We8tern T rminu8 of [SEN ATE] Pacafc Railway.

are known as the "First Narrows." This New Westminster-.over sixteen miles from>
entrance, at its narrowest part, is less than the mouth-could, with ease, be rendered
half a mile in width. On its southern side, utterly impracticable to an invading enemywhere toe water is deepest-60 fathoms-it is
commanded by a bold chiff 180 feet in height.
HON. MR. MACDONALD - What
This point has been wisely reserved for forti-

fication purposes; and the sooner defensive date is that paper ?
works are erected there the better, as it is the
seaward key of Burrard Inlet.
Passing
through this strait we enter the first, or lower
basin of the inlet, a fine expanse of water,
about five miles in length, by from one to two
miles in width, and varying in depth from 20
to 200 fathoms. A deep cove, to the right on
entering, and terminating in a sand flat, dry
at low water, is locally known as " Coal
Harbor." This is the spot of which people
speak as the site of the future terminus ot the
Canadian Pacific Railroad. On the southern
site of this basin we find the littie village of
Granville, and a short distance further up
the same shore, the villa ge of Hastings, surrounding the large mil ing establishment
which has created it. From these, waggon
roads lead to New Westminster, and to the
North Arm of the debouching Fraser. On
the northern shore ot this basin, and about
three miles from its entrance, is the village
of Moodyville, surronnding another large
saw-milling establishment.
Pursuing our
course inwards and eastward, we next pass
the " Second Narrows." This strait is, at its
narrowest part, about half a mile wide.
This opens into the Second Baein, which is
about four miles in length, with an average
width of one mile.
This 1 a fine harbor throughout, with bold
8hores, backed by lofty hilîs, its depth varying
from 20 to 150 fathoms with good bottom. At
its east end it is joined from the north by what
This deep
is known as the " North Arm."
fijord stretches inland, at nearly righ angles
with the corner of Burrard Iniet proper, to a
distance of about 15 miles. Its shores are
mountains, in some places a mile in height ;
and it is of vast depth-often over 600
fathons, with rocky bottom.
Pursuing our way eastward, however, froin
the Second Basin, we pass through the " Third
Narrows"' into Port Moody.
Tiis entrance
at its narrowest point, is not over a quarter of
a mile in width.
On either side it is overlooked by lofty and precipitous hills; and on
both there is a Crown Reserve, intended to be
some day crowned with defensive works.
These, with wlat are projected near the mouth
of the Inlet, could be made to render Port

Moody all but impregnable as to any attack

HON. MR. McINNES-It is the 2 7 th
April, 1885, so that this was not published
before the Pacific Railway Co. had an
object in extending their road down there.
The article continues:
To return to Port Moody,-this beautiful
harbor is about four miles in length; and
through the greater port of lhat distance its
width varies from a half to three-quarters of
a mile. The depth varies from 12 to 60
fathomts, with good ho'ding ground everywhere. These de ths do not refer to the
upper art of the harbor, where there is a
sand flat, about 700 acres in extent, which
becomes dry at low tide. Taking the whole
circuit of the harbor, it has at least ten miles
of shore line, every yard of it available for
the erection of docks, piers, and wharfs,-and
available, too, for the easy enjoyment of them

when they are constructed.

Being eo entirely

land-locked, its waters are always as smooth
as those of the proverbial mill-pond. Upon

its north shore, about midway of its length,
is another Crown reserve of 95 acres, which,
it is understood, is intended for a Royal naval
yard. It is seldom that Nature seems to have designed a finer site for a great city than is presented by the immediate surroundin s of this
harbor, called Port Moody. Regarded from
a central point of view, it is a great natural
amphitheatre. The near surrounding hills,
present, for the most part, a very gentle upward slope from the water side; but even
where, at the steepest, there is nothing in the

natural grade of the ground to present any

obstacles to the opening of streets and the
erection of permanent buildings. The highest ground, anywhere within halt a mile of
the water side, does not exceed 250 feet above
sea level-just the elevation of the highest

street in New Westminster-just the height of
Citadel Hill, Halifax-and still lacking 100

feet of 'the height of the ramparts of Cape
Diamond, the citadel of Quebec.

But even

these more elevated spurs of hills are usually
well back from the shore. As to the picturesque-some of these near and still densely
forest-crowned hills are of beautiful contour;
but looking beyond them, anywhere towards
the north and east, from any street, or projected street, in town, we look upon eternally
silver-topped mountain peaks, far, far away,
but seeming so near, and from 2,000 to 6,000
feet in height.

As to any
from the seaward direction.
attack, across country, from the Fraser
River direction, that could be rendered
The broad delta of that
equally difficult.
river consists of low prairie and peat bog, in
great part overflowed at certain seasons,
throngh which by several " arms," or chanI have yet another short extract ta
nels, the river debouches into the Gulf of read here fron another Herald, but this
In accordance with the more
Georgia.
moder style of military engineering, the happens to be the Halifax MorningHerald,

approaches by that route, up as far, say, as and I do not know whether it is recogHON. MR. McINNES.

Western Terminiu8 of [JULY 6, 1885] Paci#c Railway.

1127

nized as an orgar. of the Pacific Railway, best water frontage on the south side of
or not-probably my hon. friend from Port Moody for terminal purposes, and
Halifax can inform me on that point ?
also a large quantity of adjoining land for
the same purposes. A large portion of
.HON. MR. POWER-Yes, I presume the land lying along the water's edge at
it is. It is an organ of the Government, Port Moody had been laid out into town
and the Government is the organ of the lots a considerable length of time previous
Canadian Pacifie Railway Co.
to the Government taking possession of
this water frontage and this land, and
HON. MR. McINNES-The following many of those lots changed hands several
times at high figures, some realizing
is the article from the Halifax Herald:
Port Moody. the innermost harbor of Bur- as much as at the rate of $2,ooo
rard Inlet-was years ago fixed upon as the and $3,ooo an acre; but when the
terminus and shipping port of the Canadian Government took possession of that land
Pacifie. We, who are intimate with the the unfortunate investors were compelled
.tlantic coast of Nova Scotia, might not go to receive payment for it at the rate of
into raptures over it-we are so familiar with $îo
per acre. They found that they had
imany of what we justly call " magnificent
harbors." Nevertheless, as compared with no redress ; they found that the Governanything else on this coast, Port Moody is ment was absolute, and the most of those
really a magnificent harbor. At first, to a unfortunate investors had to content
stranger, from a not mountainous country, it themselves with saying, whatever else
seems dwaried, owing to the elevation of the
hills, backed by mountains-some of them a they may have thought, that they conmile high, with tops always silvered with sidered themselves very badly treated
enow-by which it is surrounded. But it is indeed. Others, a little more demonstrative,
really a very capacious sheet of water, pos- had recourse to language which I am
Sessing all the requisites of a first-class har- afraid would be scarcely considered parliabor-depth of water sufficient for the largest
ships afloat, the best of anchorage, not a bar or mentary or orthodox. By referring to the
obstructing ledge to be found, and so placid at terms upon which British Columbia was
all times that mere children may, at any admitted into the union, it will be found
time, be trusted to go boating, or canoeing that the province agreed to give a belt of
Upou it.
territory some 40 miles wide, extending
Were it not that I am afraid of wearying from English Bay along the line of railway
the House I could go on and read a great to the eastern boundary of the province.
number of other reports, reports made by This belt of land was conveyed to the
the highest naval authorities, many of those Dominion in 188o for the specific purpose
reports written, I believe, even befor.e the of aiding and assisting in the constructionof
Canadian Pacific Railway was thought of, the Canadian Pacific Railway, as provided
or at least spoken of, and they all bear on for in the terms of union. The conveyance
the one point: that Port Moody is, without will be found in an Act passed by the
exception, the best port to be found on Legislature of British Columbia in 188o,
But I think I have and I will read the principal clause which
the Pacific coast.
given enough to satisfy every hon. member conveys that land. In fact the Act consists
on that point. Hon. gentlemen will re- of only three clauses, but the main clause
collect that in i88o a contract for building is the first after the preamble and is as
127 miles of railway between Yale and follows :Kamloops, in British Columbia, was
"From and after the passing of this Act
awarded to Mr. Onderdonk, and a second there shall be and there is hereby granted to
contract of 90 miles between Port Moody the Dominion Government, for the purpose of
and Yale to the same gentleman in 1882. constructing and to aid in the construction of
I am happy to say that those contracts are the portion of the Canadian Pacifie Raillocated between Burrard Inlet and
about completed, and that trains are now way lineHead summit, in trust, to be appro
Yellow
running regularly between Port Moody priated in such manner as the Dominion
nnd Kamloops, a distance of over 220 Government may deem advisable, a similar
miles in the interior of the province. extent of public lands along the linê of railbefore-mentioned
About the time the first named contract way each side of the (not to exceed 20 miles
on
said line) as may be
was awarded, the Dominion Government appropriated for the same purpose by the
took possession of over one mile of the Dominion from the public lands of the North-

1128

Western Terminus of [SENATE] Pacif Railway.

West Territories and the Province of Manitoba, as provided in the order-in-council, sectien 11, admitting the Province of British
Columbia into the Confederation ? The land
intended to be hereby conveyed is more par.
ticularly described in a despatch to the
Lieut.-Governor from the Honorable the
Secretary of State, dated the 31st day of May,
1878, as a tract of land lying alon the hue
of said railway, beginning at nglis Bay or
Burrard inlet and following the Fraser River
to Lytton; thence by the valley of the River
Thompson to Kamloops; thenceup the valley
of the North Thompeon, passing near to Lakes
Albreda and Cran berry, to Tete Jaune Cache;
thence up the valley of the Fraser River to
the summit of the Yellow Head, or boundary
between British Columbiaand the North-Wes4t
Territories, and is also defined on a plan
accompanying a further despatch to theLieut.Governor from the said Secretary of State,
dated the 23rd d-y of September, 1878. The
grant of the said land shall be subject other.
wise to the conditions contained mn said
the
Ilth section of the Terme of Union."

In order to show hon. gentleman that
there is nothing conflicting in the i th
section of the terms of union I will read
it:_
" The Government of the Dominion undertake to secure the commencement simultaneouely within two years from the date of the
Union. oftheconstruction of a railway fron
the Pacific towards the Rocky Mountains, and
froin such point as may be selected east of the
Rocy Mountains towards the Pacific, to connect the sea-board of British Columbia with
the railway system of Canada; and further to
secure the completion of such railway within
ten years from the date of the union.
And the Government of British Columbia

agree to convey to the Dominion Govern ment

in trust, to be appropriated in such manner

as the Dominion Government may deem ad-

visable in furtherance of the construction of
the said railway, a similar extent of public
lands along the line of railway throughout its

entire length in British Columbia, not to exceed, however, 20 miles on each side of said

line, as may b-e appropriated for the same

purpose by the Dominion Government from.
the public land@ in the North-West Territories

and the province of Manitoba."

Now, that is the only portion of that

which has any bearing whatever on the
section referred to, so that it does not
conflict with the idea that that land is the

property of the Dominion Government.
HON. MR. MACDONALD-There is
an ambiguity in the conveyance there. It
mentions two initial points, and it can be
only one point
HoN. MR. McINNES.

HON. MR. McINNES-I shall refer to
that at a later period. Nine years ago, or
several years before the Burrard Inlet
route was selected, the Federal Government reserved this railway belt-withdrew
it from the market so that it could neither
be bought, homesteaded or pre-emptedand I am sorry to see that those lands
still remain locked up, a sealed book to
the present day, and how much longer
they are to remain in that condition to the
great detriment of the province, I do not
know, and will not pretend to predict;
but I think it is very unfortunate that those
lands have remained in that condition for
such a length of time. I certainly think
the Government are to blame that they
did not do what they agreed to do years
ago-to have those lands surveyed and in
a condition that immigrants could go and
settle upon them. I know-I speak
advisedly when I say it-that hundreds,
if not thousands of the finest settlers that
ever went into any new country-men of
capital and experience-went in there,
and when they found that all the best
available lands of British Columbia were
locked up and they could get no title to
them and no assurance that they could
obtain one, they turned away and invested
their means and became citizens in
the great Republic to the south of
us. I think it is a great misfortune
that these lands have been locked
up and one of the many misfortunes that
have arisen from their being so locked up
is the present difficulty with respect to the
terminus. If those lands had been in a
position to be occupied there would be no
difficulty whatever and no hardships in
connection with this terminus question;
for all those lands would have been
occupied years ago, but this is only another
evidenceoftheevil resultingfrom a policy of
inaction and procrastination. Last session,
immediately after the passing of the
Monopoly Coal Bill-improperly called
the Island Railway Bill, or Settlement
Bill-the Premier of British Columbia
who was here at the time-I am sorry to
think, too, here not advocating the true
interests of his province, but sacrificing
them and endeavoring to further his own,
and particular friend's, private interests,
which appeared to be paramount to all
other considerations-he was here, and it
appears from correspondence, which I

We8tern Terminus of [JULY 6, 1885] Paci§c Railway.
shall presently read, that immediately after
the passage of that Bill he opened nego
tiations with the Government, or came to
some understanding with them, by which
all the lands west of Port Moody were to
be reconveyed to the province. At least
such a statement appears in the correspondence which passed between that hon.
premier and the vice-president of the
Canadian Pacific Railway. I fear that it
is the fact, although up to the last month
I failed to find any proof of it in the
Department of the Interior. There was
no re-conveyance and they knew nothing
at all about it, yet I am afraid from the
course which the Canadian Pacific Railway
Company are pursuing, and the course
that the Legislature of British Columbia
have been and still are pursuing, that that
is really the fact, that those Dominion lands
west of Port Moody were promised and will
be conveyed to the local Government, and
that for nothing-worse than nothing.
If such I say is the fact, I consider that
the least the Government could have done
was to have consulted some member in
the popular branch of the Legislature about
it, if they thought it not worth their while to
consult any member from British Columbia in this House. As far as I am aware,
and I think I speak advisedly in the
matter, not a member from British
Columbia in this House or in the House
of Commons was ever consulted about
it. The whole affair was manipulated
through the Premier of British Columbia,
.and under such circumstances I would
like to know if we have responsible and
representative Government ? Does the
Federal Government owe its existence
and support to the Local Legislatures, or

1129

VICTORIA, 23rd May, 1884.

To W. C. VAx HoRNE, Montreal.
DEAR SiR,-You are aware that the
Dominion Government relinquish all claim
to that portion of the Railway Reserve in this
province lying to the west of Port Moody ;
and you will doubtless recollect that when I
saw you in Montreal you exacted a promise
from me that the Provincial Governmentwould
refrain from dealing with theselands until your
arrivai here, which was to have been within
a month from that date.
As more than a month has elapsed, and I
am led to understand that the time of your
coming is stil uncertain, I now write for the
purpose of impressing upon your mind the
great inconvenience of keeping these lands
longer locked up.

I have now, therefore, to req uest that you

will hasten your visit or hold me released
from my promise to await your coming.
I beg you will, on receipt of this, wire me
what you propose doing in the matter.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed)
WM. SMITH.
That is the letter I had reference to a
moment ago. Now, I have here a reply
to that letter. A number of telegrams
intervene ini regard to the time that Mr.
VanHorne would likely arrive in British
Columbia. They are not of very great
importance, but I have here the reply
dated 9 th September 1884, a very short
time after Mr. VanHorne had paid a visit
to British Columbia, and made arrangements with the Local Government and
their friends.
«"TuE CANADIAN PACirIo
RAILWAY COMPANY.

Office of the Vice-President,
Mmntreal, Sept. 9th, 1884.

The Directors of this Com ny have had
does it owe its support to the men who under careful consideration tuhe quesiion of
are elected from the different constituen- the lokation of the Pacific Terminus of the
cies to come here and represent their 1Canadian Pacifie Railway, and they have
views ? I say if that is called Represen- authorized me to :communicate to you their
views, as tollows
tative Government it is a farce, and I am Inasmuch as a comprehensive plan for a
sorry to say that the representatives of terminus, providing reasonably for the future
British Columbia for a number of years as well as for the present, will involve a large
and as the
have been entirely ignored. A corres- immediate outlay uf money, the Company preare
pondence was submitted to the Legisla- sent available resources of of their underrequired for the completion
ture of British Columbia in January last, taking with the Government, they do not see
a copy of which I hold in my hand, and their way clear to the extension of their line
from which I will read a few extracts. of railway beyond Port Moody, and the pro-

The first is a letter from Hon. Wm. vision of the necessary docks and other
facilitien at a flvw point, unless they can acSmith, Premier of British Columbia,
property ,n siuated as to bo
to Mr. VanHorne, and is as fol- ,ire sufficient
made immediately saleable, for a sufficient
lows

-

amount to recoup the outlay mentioned."

1130

We8tern Terminus of [SENATE] Pacif4 Railway.

It will be observed that the Vice-Presi- of traffic on the through line, that is to say,
dent acknowledges that they have those by the early summer of 1886.
The Company further proposes to confacilities already at Port Moody.
struct a branch, from some convenient point
They feel that as the lands west of Port on the main line to the town of New WestMoody, recently relinquished by the Domin- minster, during the year 1886, on the condiion Government, were originally intended and tion that the town of New Westminster shall
set a art to aid in the construction of the contribute $75,000 in cash in aid thereof and
Canad ian Pacifie Railway to English Bay. and furnish the necessary right of way and depot
as the lands would have been so applied had grounds.
It will be necessary that the lands be
the Dominion Government fixed upon English
Bay instead of Port Moody as the western granted to trustees to be appointed by the
terminus, all of these lands should, in fair- Company, in order that they may be free
ness, be granted to the company in the event fron any lien attaching to the Canadian
of their taking up the work where the Pacifie Railway.
I have, &c.,
Dominion Government has left it and con(Signed)
W. C. VANHORNE,
tinuing the line to English Bay.
Vice-Pýe8di.
But our directors wish to meet your Government in a liberal spirit, and to ask for no
more than tbey believe to be necessary to
cover their outlav within the near future in get the 2i,000 acres of land conveyed
making their terniinus all that it should be in from the Dominion Governnent to the
the interest of the country.
Local: theywant to get possession of that
O wing to the great depth of water along the i
shores of Burrard Inlet, and the impractieability of the use of timber in permanent the mortgage that was given to the Govpiers and docks, the docks must necessarily ernment on their road iast year. They
be made along the shore, and a water front- want that free, in order that they may
age of very considerable extent will be make a few millions out of it, and, in the
of
required. The greater part of the available
water frontage is in the hands of private
parties, and it is doubttul if any material pany, that they may hold that property
arnounc can be obtained at anything like a independent of the Government lien.
There is also another rnodest request on
reasonable price.
On the enciosed plan you wil find indicated the part of this company: The small Incon
in green tint o uch of the landa belonging dia
ot
ere
n
to your Governent as our Directors dee
about 1oo Or I 5o acres, is also demanded;
necessary for tîieir purposes.
It niay be said that t he lands so indicated and the President of the road, in a letter
:
are the most immediately available; but i to Mr. Smith, the Premier of British
should be remembered that ih is the Company Columbia, wishes him to keep that quiet
tas
to meet an immediate otytlay
alone that
ak
and secret, as he was negotiating with the
The directors, whiie beieving thmat in t
event of an extension of their lne the ter- Government in order to get it, so that even
minai city will be biilt on the and fronting poor Lo was to be deprived of his birthb
on Engliah Bay, attach great importance to right by that transaction.
Now I core to another letter dated
the Granvile tract, where iust be located
fie
ala
aii
Cnda
their first dock, their shops, terminai yard,
ic; and whie desiring in every way to meet from the
the vews of your Government, they are Montreal, November 22nd, 1884, to Mr.
unabie to see how they can carry ont anything Smith, Premier of British Columbia. He
like an adequate plan without the whole of says in the second ast clause of this
t fact they deem i letter
this particular tractessentî».l.
c I have arranged with the Deprtment of
I may say for your information, that the
shops and yards of the Com pany in Winnipe Raiiways to discontinue their proposed work
occupy about 240 acres, andmore ground at on an engine-house and other terminal buildings at Port Moody, in view of our intention
that int hos already become necesary.
I n consideration of the land, as indicated h ereci thems in the vicinity of Coal Harbor
cay."
on the plan enclosed herewith, the Company and Enghish
e
t
extend the main lna of the
proposes
Harbor toalI will now refer you to what the Railto
Canadian Pacifie Bailway
Mr. Vanorne
and EngC Bay by the time the through way Departent did.
lin is rea for operation, and to estabnih states that he has arranged with the
the terminus of the Railway in the imediate Departnment to have that stopped, and yet
vicinity of Coal Harbor and Engish ay, and on het face of that statement I find in
commence the construction of the necessary
severa newspapers here and in British
workshops and other works, in time
ilities for the opening Columbia, that on the i7tb February there
necessary
provide the oyu
HON. MR. McINNES.

We8tern Terninus of [J ULY 6, 1885] Pacific Railway.

1131

Was a notice from the Railway Depart- is something radically wrong, something
ment at Ottawa, signed by A. T. Bradley, crooked, something that will not bear inas Secretary for the Department of Rail- vestigation-that there is duplicity or
ways and Canals, calling for tenders for chicanery somewhere.
the erection of an engine house at North
IBend (about ioo miles back into the
HoN. MR. POWER-Hear, hear ; lots
interior) and one at Port Moody. This of it.
notice, as I said hefore, appeared on the
17th February. Mr. VanHorne on the
HON. MR. KAULBACH-What lands
22nd day of November states that he had have the Government at Port Moody ?
arranged with the Department of Railways
that that work should be discontinued. I
HON. MR. McINNES-I am just
Would like to know how those two state- coming to that. I will for the information
rnents or transactions can be reconciled ? of the House, as coming from a higl'er
It appears that only a few tenders, one or authority than my mere statement, read
two, were received for the erection of those from a speech delivered by the Hon. Mr.
houses, but none of them were accepted. Smith, Premier of British Columbia in
I saw the acting Minister of Railways the Legislature of that Province on the
about it, and a second time tenders were 21st of January last. The report of the
called for on the ist of May, and they speech is as follows :were up on the 24 th. These tenders again
Hon. Mr.
presented plans showing
call for the erection of the engine house lands handedSmithto the railway syndicate at
over
at Port Moody and one at North Bend. Coal Harbor. He said everyone knew that
The contract for the one at North Bend under the ternis of union the province was
was awarded on the 26th May, and the bound to gire twenty miles of country on
side of the Canadian
one at Port Moody has been awarded, eachDominion, and that inPacificanRailway to
1880
Act
but on the condition that the contractors the passed by the legislature conveyinghad
to
been
are to build it wherever or whenever, not the Dominion Government a forty mile belt
the Government, but the Pacific Railway of land, from English Bay to the Rocky
Company determine it shall be. I have Mountains.
it
sometime last
From
here the specifications, and the notice had beenthat date tillthe land forty winter in
miles
held that
calling for tenders for iron piles for Port width from English Bay eastward was under
Moody wharf, and the whole specifi- cottrol of Canada under the Act. iuring
cations are given. The railway wharf, the discussion on the railway resolutions in
erected some three or four years ago, the Dominion Parliament, the Minister of
so far as
of wooden piles at Port Moody is Railways announced that, in the terminusthe
Government were concerned,
of
beginning to give way, so that it has the road had been located at Port Moody.
to be replaced, and they are going This aunouncement was followed by an
to replace it with iron piles. These ten- application on behalf of the land west of that
ders were called for in April by the point which has been conveyed to Canada
Hon. gentlemen
Department of Railways, and I un- conditionally in 1880.
eould see for themselves from the corunderstand that the contract was awarded respondence how guarded .in his language
to an English firm about the middle of Sir John Macdonald was when lie referred to
May. Now I ask in the face of this, how the matter in his letter of the 10th of April
Smith) thought there was a
could the Minister of Justice a few days last. He (Mr. that guarded language which
significance in
ago have stated here that the Govern- it might be well to bear in mind. bir John
ment were undecided as to whether an Macdonald had verbally told him that the
engine house would be built at Port Provincial Government were at liberty to deal
Moody or not ? I say that I cannot un- with the lands west of Port Moody as they
derstand this, and I would like to put as might deem expedient, and the Dominion
Government were at the present time quite
favorable a construction upon the matter
of the arrangement between the
as possible. The statements of the acting cognizant Government and the syndicate.
Provincial
Minister of Railways and the vice-president It should not be forgotten, however, that it
of the Canadian Pacific Railway I claim would only require that the Dominion should
to extend the une to
Bay in
are irreconcilable and I fear that there is decide to secure all the land Engish Burrard
order
in the
something wrong. I do not think it re- Inlet peninsula and tweunty miles on each side
quires much penetration to see that there thereof, in which event the large revenues

1132

Western Terminus of [SENATE] Pam'fc Railway.

from the sale of the lands now in the local
governmnent's hands to deal with would vanish
away like thin air.
le is beginning now to boast and to show
the flouse the great value of the lands that
he succeeded in getting back from the
Dominion Government. He points out that
if the Dominion Government extended the
road and held the lands themselves, the
Dominion treasury would be enriched, while
the province would be left out in the cold.
The hon. gentleman recounted in detail the
interviews and correspondence between Mr.
Van Horne and himselt, showing that the
application came first from the syndicate,
and that the Governmeut had simply seized
the opportunity which offered, in the most
unhoped for way, a chance of securing a large
revenue to the province, while at the same
time they were aiding the Canadian Pacific
svndicate by a grant of land which they
themselves would make valuable. There
were over twenty thousand acres now in the
hands of the province within the Burrard
inlet peninsula, 6,000 of that it was proposed
to give to the company on the conditions
specified in their correspondence, the remaining 14,000 would be for sale, and would realize
such prices that the province would be
made comparatively rich for years to come,
and be in a position to aid in the opening up
and development of the resources of the
country, as could be done in no other way
and by no other means. We could secure
the extension of the railway with all its attendant advantages for only the grant of an
areaof land not much more thanonehundredth
part of that which was conveyed to Canada
without a murmur in 1880 for exactly the
same consideration, and which we would not
be compelled to give again in spite of ourselves, if the Dominion Government should
choose to change its mind and locate the
railway twenty miles further instead of leaving it to be done by the syndicate. The hon.
gentleman explained how much the Dominion
Government would have to gain in a pecuniary sense if they should do this. HIe ad no
doubt but that it was nothing but the feeling
-in the face of the $30,000,000 which was being asked fron Parliament at the time-that it
would be well to say that the government
were not inOurringanîy expense for building a
single mile of road more than the terms of
union required, which induced the Minister
of Railways to announce that Port Moody
was the terminus, so far as the Government
were concerned. Anyone could see that the
Dominion Government had relinqutished an
opportunity to giran a rich harvest of revenue,
and if by any chance the arrangement entered
into between the provincial government and
the syndicate should fall through, there
would be a mighty temptation to the Dominion to take the thing in hand and secure ail
the land, and he was most emphatically of
opinion that Sir John's guarded language,
before referred to, was simply to leave the
the door open for that course to be adopted,
HON. MR. McINNES.

if necessary. As the resolution would cone
up in a few days, lie would reserve any
further remarks until that occasion.
That is the speech delivered by Mr.
Smith, the Premier of British Columbia.
Now I will read a very short extract frol
a speech delivered by the Finance Minister
of British Columbia, bearing on the sane
subject. The paper in which I find the
report is the organ of the Provincial Secretary and Finance Minister of British
Columbia, and is published by his brother.

It is the British Colunbian :
" The hon. gentleman," that is the Finance
Minister, "proceeded to invite attention to
the bargain which the House was in.vited to
endorse. In the terms of confederation we
had willingly given a grant of 25,000 acres a
mile towards t he construction of the railway,
and an equal area had been given in the case
of the Island railway. But what was the
country now called upon to contribute towards
continuing the great national highway down
to its true and final terminus on English Bay?
Why, Mr. Speaker, just 6,000 acres, being
exactly at the rate of 272 acres a mile for the
extension. And this paltry 6,000 acres constituted a portion of the belt Columbia had
cheerfully agreed to convey to Canada in constructing the railway down to the English
Bay; but it was only six thousand of the
bali million and more that we had originally
agreed to give. Confining consideration to
the twenty odd thousand acres held by the
Crown on the peninsula between Burrard
Inlet and the Fraser River, it would be found
that the Government were retaining fully
two-thirds. It bas been said, in opposition,
that the Goverument were giving the compan.y ail the ready valuable land, and only
retaining outside lands of comparatively little
value; but such was not at all the fact. The
]and retained bv the Government comprised
more than two-thirds of the frontage, and the
very best of the frontage, on Burrard Inlet
and Englieh Bay. Taking as a basis of
calculation the actual price received at the
sale of Hastings town lots, held before any
definite arrangement for extension had been
made, it would be found that the three
thousand acres fronting on these harbore,
retained by the Government, would be worth
one million five hundred thousand. It would
not be too much to expect that the lands fronting on these great harbors will, once the
question is finally settled and the extension
and terminal works fairly under way, bring
at least twice as much as did the Hastings
lots last year ; and at that rate three thousand
acres of the fourteen thousand reserved by
the Government might be expected to vield
three millions. He had no hesitation in'saying that, with the great railway and ocean
seeme carried out successfully, the lands retained by the Government on the peninsula
alone would, if properly handled, during the

Western Terminu8 of [J ULY 6, 1885] pacifié Railway.
lext four or five years, yield four or five millions of revenue. When it was remembered
that these lands would owe their immense
value solely to the extension of the railway,
he could not see how it was possible for any
uflprejudiced person to deny that the Government had succeeded in making an exceptionally good bargain-one which would create a
source of future revenue that would enable
whatever government night be in power to
Carry on public works for many years to
corne without increasing taxation or adding
to the public debt."
It will be seen, hon. gentlemen, by
those statements, making a certain allowance for, perhaps, the excitement of the
debate, that there is not a question at all
about it, but that those lands handed
Over by the Dominion (if they have been
handed over) would, within one year from
now, be worth from $3,ooo,ooo to $5,00o,ooo. But, while those lands would
be enhanced in value by the extension of
the Canadian Pacific Railway, I ask what
Would be the condition of affairs at Port
Moody? What value would the Dominion property immediately around and in
Port Moody possess ? Hon. gentlemen
mTay not be aware of the fact, but within
five or six miles of Port Moody the Dommflion Government own some i8,ooo acres
of land. If this road is allowed to be extended from Port Moody to English Bay
those lands would become, comparatively
speaking, valueless. Four or five millions
of dollars would be lost to the treasury of
the Dominion, which ought to go towards
recouping the Government here for thevast
expenditure that they have been at in
building the Canadian Pacifie Railway.
Now there is another matter to which I
wish to refer, and it is this: when I had
the honor of occupying a seat in the other
branch of Parliament, representing New
Westminster district, in 1879, when those
lands, as I said before, were reserved and
locked up and could not be dealt with, I
feared that rome difficulty or disputes or
hardships would arise between the squatters and the Government, and I thought
that then was the best time to get a definite statement from the Government as to
what their policy would be with respect to
those squatters. On the 31St March,
1879, I put the following question to the
Minister of Railways in the House of
Commons: "'Whether it is the intention
Of the Government to give an assurance
to all who may settle on the railway reserve

1133

lands in British Columbia that they will
be allowed to purchase all land occupied
or improved by them at whatever prices
the Government may set on adjoining unoccupied or unimproved lands."
Sir Charles Tupper speaking for the
Government made the following reply:" When the lands reserved for railway
purposes become the property of the Government they will be prepared to consider
the equitable claims of squatters." Then
he goes on to explain how-" By allowing
them to obtain possession at the price of
the lands before the improvements, or if
the lands are required for railway purposes the Government will pay them the
value of the improvements that have been
made."
That was all I could expect, in fact it
was more than I expected-it was a more
liberal policy than I had anticipated the
Government would pursue with respect to
those lands. I thought if those squatters
got the lands at the Government upset
price when they came into the market
they ought to be well satisfied ; but here
Sir Charles stated that they would get the
lands at the price they were worth when
they squatted on them. Now this railway
belt extended to English Bay and Coal
Harbor, and in the meantime a number
of squatters, not only there, but
all through the New Westminster and
Yale districts-hundreds went there on the
strength of the announcement of the
Government. How are those squatters
west of Port Moody on the lands proposed to be handed over to the local
Government to be dealt with-how have
they been dealt with ? Last year that
unpatriotic local Government went to
work and ignored their claims entirely.
I certainly think it is the bounden duty of
the Federal Government, when they had
those lands locked up and when those
squatters went there in all confidence and
good faith to hew out homes for themselves and families, to protect those
people. But such is not the case; they
have been handed over to the tender
mercies of the local Government that I
am afraid to characterize.
HON. MR. POWER-Hear, hear;
don't be nervous, don't be afraid.
HoN. MR McINNES-Thereisanother
objection, and I consider a very grave

1134

Western Terminîe of [SENATE] Pacifc Railway.

objection, to the extension of the road to
English Bay, and that is from a military
standpoint. Hon. gentleman may not be
aware that, as I read in Sir Charles
Tupper's speech of last year, the Admiralty
have selected Bidwell Bay, about midway
up Burrard Inlet, as the future rendezvous
of the British squadron on the Pacific
coast. The extension of the road down
to English Bay, and the building of a
large terminal city there would have this
effect--it would leave that city almost
wholly exposed to any enemy attacking it
by water. With fortifications at the first
narrows of Burrard Inlet, I claim that it
would be almost impossible for a hostile
fleet to gain access to the western part of
the Inlet and with fortifications again
at the second narrows, the terminus
if allowed to remain at Port Moody,
where it ought to remain, the natural
terminus, I claim would be as impregnable
as Gibraltar. There is another objection
to extending the line to Coal Harbour.
The water supply that would be necessary
for a city of any size would be entirely
wanting there, and I think that, of itself,
is a great consideration in the selection of
anyterminal city. NowIthinkIhavemade
it sufficiently plain that seven years ago
Port Moody was selected as the terminus.
It was selected by a Liberal Government;
the selection was endorsed by a Conservative administration, the present Government
In the most unmistakable and emphatic
language that could be used, it was
declared to be the terminus of the Canadian Pacific Railway. Relying on the
emphatic and solemn statements of the
Government, which ought to be and
were considered sacred by a great number,
unfortunately for themselves-hundreds,
yes I believe I am within the mark in
saying thousands have gone in and bought
largely in and around Port Moody.
People from every province in the Dominion have invested large sums of money.
there on the strength and the faith of the
Governnent announcement-hundreds
who never saw Port Moody or the province
of British Columbia have invested, some
of them, their all in property there.
Surely the Government do not think of

breaking faith with those people who have
been led on year after year to believe that
Port Moody was the fixed and indisputable
terminus of the Canadian Pacific Railwayr
HON. MR.

McINNES.

Again I have shown that by allowing the
extension of the Canadian Pacific Railway
from Port Moody to English Bay that the
Dominion exchequer will be affected to
the extent of at least $3,ooo,ooo or$4,ooo,000.

HoN.
way?

MR.

KAULBACH-In what

HON. ML McINNES-By the depreciation of the lands that the Government
own in and about Port Moody. Those
lands would become, as I said before,
comparatively valueless if the road is
extended down to Coal Harbor. They
will be depreciated, and the value of the
lands that they have so generously
handed back to the Local Government
will be increased in the same ratio. I
ask in all sincerity and earnestness are we
prepared to make such a sacrifice-a
sacrifice that will benefit only a few
avaricious adventurers-I cannot characterize them as anything else than that.
The Government will suffer, the country
will not be benefited in the slightest
degree, and the Canadian Pacific Railway, as a railway, instead of being
benefited by the extension will be largely,
I believe, handicapped. I believe it has
been stated by the Syndicate that they
could not get a sufficient quantity of
land for terminal purposes at Port
Moody. Hon. gentlemen, such is not
the case. I give that a most emphatic
denial. In December last, rumors to the
effect that the proposed engine houses at
Port Moody were not to be built, but that
the money was to be given to the Syndicate to build them at English Bay, were
current in British Columbia. On the
6th December I forwarded this telegram
to the acting Minister of Railways :
" Stated here that Railway Department
sanctions Syndicate renoving proposed terminal buildings from Port Moody to Coal
Harbor. Van Horne, when here, announced
that ail terminal works and private interests
at Port Moody would be undisturbed. Surely
G
JV~IIIU
ij lo< ~~EiUJo
iuuy
aterenove ropsed teral buidi
pose terin ouils
attrer'a
session. Property owners at Port Moody have
offered 400 acres for terminal purposes, and
ail Moody.
are prepared to give one-third ofPort private
property within one mile of
eleue communicate this to Syndicate.
Anower."

Western Termiwu8 of [JULY 6, 1885] Pacific Railway.
A few days afterwards I received from
the acting Minister a reply to the effect
that he was perfectly ignorant-perfectly
in the dark :
" Know nothing of runored removal of
terminal buildings from Port Moody. Have
forwarded your telegram."

ooo or

$4,ooo,o0o

to the

1135
Dominion,

but I want hon. gentlemen to bear
this in mind, that a breakwater will be necessary to make a harbor at English Bay,
and the cost of constructing one was
estimated by Sir Charles Tupper at $1,ooo,ooo, or $2,ooo,ooo.
Where is this
money to come from ? Is the Syndicate
HON. MR. WARK-What is the date going to take that money out of its pocket
of that ?
and build a breakwater to make a harbor
of an open roadstead ? No, the syndicate
HON. MR. McINNES-The 6th De- will come again to the Government and
cember. This is months before they say, " English Bay is the terminus ; we
advertised for the building of engine want $2,ooo,ooo or $ 3 ,ooo,ooo,"-it will
houses. Prior to that these people inter- be more likely to cost $3,ooo,ooo than
ested in Port Moody, fearing that there $1,ooo,ooo or $2,ooo,ooo-and the Domwas something wrong and that there would inion Government would have no alterbe an attempt to extend the road, made native, certainly much less excuse than
this offer directly to the Syndicate, to Mr. they have for a great many things that
Van Horne, the vice-president, Mr. Stevens they have done, and they would either
the president, being in England at the give the syndicate that amount of money
time, so that for the Syndicate or their to build a breakwater to suit their ideas, or
friends to say that it is necessary to extend go on and construct it as a Government
the Canadian Pacific Railway to Coal work. Year after year, I have no doubt,
Harbour, or English Bay, in order to the Dominion Government will be called
procure a sufficient amount of available upon to expend large sums of money in
land for terminal purposes, is a delusion keeping that place in anything like
and a snare. For five miles east of Port a safe condition for shipping.
I
Moody there is as fine a stretch of level think that is a matter, and a very imland as one can wish for. There is not a portant one, for the House and the Govvariation of ten feet in that distance.
ernment to consider. Notwithstanding
all the suspicious circumstances in connecHON. MR. MACDONALD-That is a tion with this terminus transaction at the
present time, in the face of the
long way off.
uncontroverted statement which I have
HoN. MR. McINNES-I say it begins made, (and I challenge contradiction) I
at the head of Port Moody and extends cannot believe, I refuse to believe, that
five miles eastward. The land we offered this or any other Government entrusted
was a mile and three-quarters from Port with the administration of the affairs of
Moody ; we were willing to give 450 acres this country would so far forget themselves
as a gift, and have this annoyance and as to hand over three or four millions of
dollars worth of the public domain for the
uncertainty terminated.
sole benefit of a few insatiable-yes, vulHON. MR. MACDONALD-That offer tures.
was subsequent to the bargain made with
the local government.
HON. MR. POWER-Which are the
vultures ?
HON. MR. McINNES-No, I say this
was made on the 6th December. As early
HoN. MR. McINNES-There are quite
as September last, when Mr. Van Horne a number of them.
was in British Columbia, proposais were
made to him on behalf of the people of
HON. MR. POWER-The Pacific RailPort Moody. I have also, I think, shown way people, or the British Columbia
the House that if this road is extended to people ?
English Bay not only will the Dominion
HON. MR. McKAY-Present company
lands in and about Port Moody be
depreciated and result in a loss of $3,000- excepted.

1136

We8tern Terminu8of LSENATE] Pacifi- Railway.

HON. MR. McINNES-I mean the
present projectors of this mad policy and
unwarrantable scheme. I refuse to believe that the Government will lend themselves to a scheme to deceive and defraud
hundreds of their fellow citizens, many
of whom assisted in placing the Govern-

Government, but out of the lands they
squeezed out of private individuals. The
agents of the Company last year, for
months and months, haggled like a lot of
very ordinary land jobbers or sharps with
private land holders in and around CoalBay,

to give them one-third of their private proment where they are-that they will lend perty in order to get that road, and I bethemselves to a scheme that would, or at lieve that concession was made in and

least ought to, banish a private citizen or
citizens from all honorable society. I
cannot, and I will not, believe it until I
have the most unmistakable evidence to
the contrary. I shall now . call your
attention to the last report of the Pacifie

around Coal Harbor and English Bay, and

by that means the company got hold of
somewhere in the neighborhood of 2,000
acres of private lands. This, and the
6,ooo acres from the Government, are to

be laid out as a site for a magnificent
Railway Company, which gives the items city, a second San Francisco, or, as
in connection with the proposed $5,ooo,- some imagine, a second Liverpoolooo loan. Among the different items as
they claim with very
little

given as necessary to complete the Pacific common sense it will be in a few years.
Railway I find the following:I say it is the bounden duty of the Govern" For the connection with Coal Harbor and ment to make no such concessions to that
English Bay, shops, buildings, docks, tracks or any company. To show the state of
and other facilities at Pacific terminus, feeling that exists in a certain portion of
$760,000."
British Columbia I will read to the House
Are we justified, hon. gentlemen, in an extract from a letter received by me on
allowing our property-I am speaking Saturday last from a responsible gentleman
now of the Dominion-at Port Moody to in that province. Writing of this burning

be depreciated in value to the extent of
three or four millions of dollars ? Are we
justified, in the face of these facts, in
again subsidizing a company to the extent
Of $76o,ooo to enable them to depreciate
the value of our property ? Are we justified in saddling the Dominion of Canada
with an additional debt for an unnecessary
purpose, and to promote private speculation ? This is entirely an outside issue.
It is for the benefit of a few, I believe, of
the Pacific Railway people. It is for the
benefit of a few members of the Local
Legislature of British Columbia and their
friends, and I ask in all fairness and in
all candor, is it not one of the greatest
pieces of presumption on record that the
Pacific Railway Company should come
here and ask the Government of this
country to give them a certain sum of

money by which to depreciate the value
of Dominion property and invest it in a
way that is beyond the control and beyond the reach of the lien that was given
on this Canadian Pacific Railway property
last year ? This scheme is wholly and
solely in the interest of a few individuals,
whereby they expect to make four or five
millions of dollars not only out of the
6,ooo acres of land that they get from the

question he says:-

" This robbing Port Moody of the terminus
is beginning to rouse a spirit of rebellion, and
all investors are beginning to show very ugly
teeth after being assured so many times by
the Governmeut that Port Moody was the
terminus, invested their little ail in clearing
out the wilderness and building a home; then
for the Government to turn their back on us
and allow a syndicate of land grabbing speculators to extend the line to En ish Bay. The
past history ofthe syndicate (if report be true)
is not of a very reliable or honourable charac-

ter, therefore not to be depended upon. You

may depend upon it that if there should be
a change made in the terminus that the consequences will be serious; not only will Government be held for compensation by all
investors, but, the promoters of the scheme
will run considerable risk-hard to account
for what they might do. The question is
about up to fever heat, the conflicting reports
that are constantly being circulated about are
creating such a degree of suspense that it is

getting quite unbearable. Thelpresent action
of the Government in calling and recalling

for tenders foi round houses at Port Moody
and then nothavingit built, lookslike actions
of a lot of children playing hide and-go-seek.
It was reported here that they only wanted
to find out what it would cost at Port Moody
in order to hand the amount to the syndicate
to build at Coal Harbour. In that case I
would suggest that the Government discharge
all Canadian contractors and enploy Pig
Jobbers in future to find the cost of all such

Western Terminus of [JULY 6, 1885] Paci#c Railway.

1137

structures.

You would hardly credit the all on this subject ; but what has fallen
number of people that are constanty coning
and going all the time and scarcely any in- from my hon. friend in his forcible speech
is a matter for serious consideration. I
Vestments for want of confidence."
think the Government must believe that
I would say, in conclusion, that in order Port Moody should remain the terminus
to settle this terminal question beyond all of the Canadian Pacific Railway. It was
doubt, I propose, when the Canadian so declared by the Government of the
Pacific Relief Bill comes before us, to country, and upon that declaration large
raove that a clause be added to the Bill numbers of persons have invested their
to prevent the Canadian Pacific Railway means in property at that point, myself
Company, or any member of the Company, amongst them, believing that the utteror any other company or individual, ances of the present Government, and of
extending a railway to Coal Harbor or the late Government, were sincere, and it
.English Bay for the next ten years. By is a question whether, if the Government
the addition of such a clause the Govern- should grant this money and allow the
Ment will be in a position to realize three terminal buildings to be constructed at
or four millions of dollars on their lands English Bay, it might not be so much lost
at Port Moody; the loan asked for, if money, and whether they should be a party
granted, will be applied to a legitimate to extending the railway beyond Port
Purpose-the completion of the Pacific Moody. I am not myseif prepared to say
Railway, and not to a useless extension how far the Government should interfere;
Of the road to a place utterly unfitted for if they believe they have the power, to
a terminus. If the Government refuse to prevent the extension of the road to
add this just and reasonable clause to the English Bay, where they would have to
Bill, then I claim there is only one other spend millions in building a harbor and
honorable course left for them, and that maintaining it, it is a question for considcourse is to recoup to every person every eration whether they should votemoneyfor
dollar that they have invested at Port terminal buildings at English Bay, Port
Moody since i88o.
Moody having been determined upon as
the terminus of the road. I speak with
ION. MR. POWER--I am surprised great diffidence, being interested to the
that there is no expression from the Gov- extent of tens of thousands of dollars in
ernrnent on this important question.
lands at Port Moody ; but if property is
to be depreciated in value, and private
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-You interests are to be sacrificed owing to the
have not given the Government time. My change in the policy of the company, and
hon. friend is too anxious to find fault.
the Government sanction anything of the
kind, it is a grave matter for consideration
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-Hon. gentle- how far Parliament should grant any
men
further sum of money to the company
which would have that effect. I do not
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The at this moment desire to commit myself
hon. gentleman from Lunenburg will not on the information we have before us, to
interfere with what the Company may
give the Government time either.
consider to be in the interest of the road.
ION. MR. KAULBACH-I feel that,
having a personal interest in this matter,
HON. MR. McINNES-What induced
I am in the position of a man who is his you to invest at Port Moody?

own lawyer, and consequently, according
to the old adage, has a fool for a client ;
but when we come to this House we
commence our duties by solemnly divestimg ourselve of all private interest, prejudice and partial affection.
Having
a large pecuniary interest in the
Port Moody question, I am somewhat diffident in saying anything at
W 2

HON. MR. KAULBACH - Relying
upon the statement of the Government
that Port Moody was to be the terminus.
of the Pacific Railway, I invested there.

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am

sorry that my hon. friend, who has made
this motion, did not inform me that he

1138

Western lerminu8 of [SENATE] Pac:fic Railway.

intended to go into a discussion of the
whole subject. If he had so informed me
I would have endeavored to get some
information from the Department of Railways on this subject, and would be in a
position to answer him more satisfactorily
than I can. I thought he would move
simply for the papers and defer the discussion until they came down.
HON. MR. POWER-That would be
next year.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-He
might have moved earlier for these papers.
He had six months to move this address.
HON. MR. McINNES-The reason
why I did not move in this matter before
was I interviewed every member of the
Government and did all I possibly could
to settle this question without bringing it
up in the House. That is the reason
why I put it off to the eleventh hour.
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-My
hon. friend exercised his own judgment
in the matter, and he did quite right. As
regards the position of the public in this
matter, the arrangement between the
Government and the Canadian Pacific
Railway Company was to carry this road
across the Continent, and Port Moody
was chosen and settled as the terminus on
the Pacific coast, and so far as the
Government is concerned the aid which
they gave to the railway-the mileage
allowance and the subsidy-all ceased at
Port Moody. The Government, therefore, will carry out their arrangement with
the railway company when the railway
arrives at Port Moody. The hon. gentleman does not quarrel with us, as I understand, because we go to Port Moody; but
he quarrels with us because the railway
company go beyond Port Moody, and
because that company see fit, on their own
account, and with their own money, to
carry the road ten or twelve miles further
down to English Bay. They may or may
not be right in doing so. My hon. friend
may have reason in what he says as to
the eligibility ot Port Moody as the
terminus of the railway on that coast.
He has described with great accuracy the
position of Port Moody, and I myself place
great stress on the undoubted fact that the
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL.

British Admiralty say that they can defend
Port Moody thoroughly and completely.
No doubt it will be a great point in the
future to have ports, or one of the ports,
at least, on that coast secure from
attacks from outside. I do not know how
soon we may have to defend that coast,
and we ail recognize at once the great
importance of having a point d'appui,
something safe and secure, where Her
Majesty's vessels and our own vessels
could securely lie, and where, if not the
terminus, at all events a large station of
the Pacific Railway could be established.
Now, whether the other advantages which
the hon. gentleman attributes to Port
Moody are to be found there or not, I do
not know. I was at Port Moody myself,
and to my observation it presents a high,
precipitous bank to the sea, and is not a
convenient place for erecting a large town
-that is having a natural easy descent to
the sea, affording a slope on which a town
could be erected. There is a very precipitous bank, and that would have to be
levelled and thrown into the sea, and, as
suggested by the engineer who was
with me, the land on which the future
town would have to be situated, would
have to be, if not wholly, the greater part
of it certainly, made by filling up the low
places from the cliffs.
HON. MR. McINNES-That is the
tidal flats ; there are five miles beyond that,
extending from Port Moody to Pitt River,
of fine level land.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,
but it is very difficult to get at, and is not
a convenient place for building a city. I
was struck with that fact myself, in going
about the coast and talking with persons
as to the advantages ot other spots such
as Coal Harbor, presenting a level aspect
towards the sea, and a convenient site for
a town. Whether the Pacific Railway
Company are doing right in going lower
down to Coal Harbor or English Bay, or
whether English Bay is a safe harbor, is a
point that I am not able to discuss. If my
hon. friend had given notice that he was
going into this subject on this motion
to-day, I would have endeavored to get
such information as I could upon that
point. In the meantime all the assertions
of the Government have been made in

We8tern Térninu8 of [J ULY 6,1885] Pacifc Railway.

1139

Mr. Van Horne came to the country. He
was over there and examined the ground,
and he thought the site offered by Port
Moody was too small ; that there was no
room there for the creation of a large city,
and even the accommodation at the docks,
although very considerable, and very deep
water, was not that kind of accommodation which he thought should be found at
HoN. MR. McINNES-Why not build the docks of a large city. Then the hon.
the roundhouse at Port Moody?
gentleman from New Westminster suggests that this has all been done for the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-When purpose of speculation in land at Coal
rny hon. friend asked me the other day Harbor or English Bay. That may be,
where the roundhouse was to be built, I but I do not think there is any foundation
replied that the roundhouse would be for it, as far as I have heard. There was
built, but I could not say where-whether the same opportunity for the company to
Other gentleat Port Moody or some other point to be speculate at Port Moody.
selected by the Pacific Railway Company. men seem to have speculated there, and I
That is as close an answer as I could give judge from the remarks of the hon. gentlehim from the information I had. The man himself, and from the remarks of my
reason we did not build the roundhouse hon. friend from Lunenburg, that they
at Port Moody is, we were not certain that have speculated at Port Moody, and they
the terminus would be at Port Moody. If had not a greater facility for doing so than
the termirus goes lower down it will be the Pacific Railway Company, if that
convenient to build the roundhouse lower company had thought fit to do so. I
down ; and if it is on property that does think they had some other motive in
not belong to the company, the company going to Coal Harbor, if they did go there,
will have to make allowance to the Gov- than the unpleasant one that the hon.
ernment for it. There is no sense in gentleman attributes to the Canadian
building a roundhouse at Port Moody Pacific Railway Company.
now ; it is better to wait until we see whac
the ultimate decision of the Canadian
HON. MR. McINNES-Theygot a gift
Pacific Railway Company will be. If the of 8,ooo acres of land.
company extend the railway lower
down, they will go at their own risk and
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-And
expense. Whether in the future it nay have they not a right to take a gift of
turn out that they have committed them- 8,ooo acres of land ?
selves to a very bad arrangement, and in
consequence of having made a very bad
HON. MR. McINNES-But the Govarrangement, they may have to come to
the country and ask for more money, is a ernment has no right to aid them if it is
point I am not able to discuss now. The not a benefit to the country.
papers will be brought down, and if the
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-This
hon. gentleman then sees fit to resume
the discussion we shall all be better able Government had nothing to do with it.
to take part in it than we are at present, The British Columbia Government were
and I shall be very glad, and I an quite quite right to exercise their own judgment
sure I shall be able to state to the House in the matter. If they thought it was
that the Government have endeavored to more desirable in the interest of their own
do and have done their duty in the province to get the road down to the sea
matter; that they have kept faith in why should they not grant the company
carrying the road to Port Moody, bui 8,ooo acres of land ? It seems to me the
there is no pledge that the company shal hon. gentleman only makes out a case of
not, at their own cost, extend the road possible error of judgment on the part of
further down-in fact that point neveir the Canadian Pacific Railway Company ;
came up for discussion at all until after the extension is not made by the Govern-

good faith. I have no doubt that when
rny hon. friend received his information
in December last, the Minister did
not know anything of a proposed change
in the terminus on the Pacific coast. He
was not then informed, I am sure, of any
desire on the part of the Pacific Railway
Company to go to Coal Harbor.

1140

Western Terminus of [SENATE] Pacifié Railway.

ment, but by the company on their own understand the case, selected Port Moody
responsibility and with their own money. as the British Columbia terminus of the
Canada Pacific Railway. They did that
HON. MR. POWER-I think the after a great many surveys and conHouse is under an obligation to the hon. siderable deliberation. The selection was
gentleman from British Columbia for the made in the first instance by the Mackenzie
clear way in which he has presented this administration ; it was confirmed by the
question. It is one which people on this present administration ; and, unless I am
side of the continent are not, as a rule, mistaken, their decision was embodied in
familiar with. Speaking for myself, I a statute containing the contract with the
knew nothing at all about the matter un- Canadian Pacific Railway. That is a
til the hon. gentleman began to speak ; point of view which I had expected the
and I think he has made the thing so clear Minister of Justice would have alluded to.
that it is quite impossible to misunderstand Parliament, by declarations made by resit, and I am somewhat surprised at the at- ponsible ministers and solemn agreements
titude assumed by the Minister of Justice. entered into with the Canadian Pacific
Amongst other things, the Minister of Railway Company, and embodied in
Justice advised the hon. member from statutes declaring that such a point should
British Columbia that he had better wait be the terminus of a great public work,
until the papers come down to discuss pledked the faith of the country to that
this matter. Inasmuch as the papers are effect. I think the faith of this country
not likely to come down during the pre- is as much pledged to the people who are
sent session, or at any rate, as the hon. interested in Port Moody as it is possible
gentleman from British Columbia is not for the faith of the country to be pledged
likely to have an opportunity to discuss the to anything, and that it is the duty of the
matter again this session, the advice is like Government to see that that faith is not
the old one to lock the stable door after broken ; and if they allow the Canadian
the steed is stolen ; because, if the hon. Pacific Railway Company to violate the
gentleman is right, by next session the pledge which the Government have made,
whole matter will have been settled and it the Government are just as guiltv as if
will be too late to discuss it. As he said, they had violated it themselves. I do not
out of consideration for the Govern- want to repeat what has been said so well
ment, and as a political friend of by the hon, gentleman from
Brittheirs, he has waited until the last ish
Columbia, but he has shown
moment to call the attention of Par- clearly-and that is the point which the
liament to the niatter, having failed Minister of Justice has not referred to at
to get a satisfactory assurance from the all-that the Dominion Government has
Government. I do not think it is as given up property which they owned, a
simple a case as the Minister of Justice very large property, I believe some 20,makes it. In the first place, the Canadian ooo acres-below Port Moody, and which
Pacific Railway Company in their rela- if English Bay or Coal Harbor was to be
tions with the people of this country as the terminus would have been of great
represented by the Government are not in value to the Dominion Government. The
the position of an nrdinary railway com Dominion Government have given that
pany or any ordinary business company. up, and have alienated the property
They have received already from the which ought to have brought in morey to
country a very much larger sum than the this country.
railway has cost to build. -It is to be
hoped, although I am sorry to say apHoN. MR. McINNES-If the railway
pearances indicate it is not really the case, was to be extended it should have been
that the Government are the masters and built by the Government, and the Governthe company are the servants; but the ment should have kept the land.
declaration of the Minister of Justice
taken together with circumstances which
HON. MR. POWER-Yes, the Govhave occurred heretofore, goes to show ernment should have received any benefit
that perhaps the positions ought to be that would accrue from owning that large
reversed. Now the Government, as I property. The Government in addition
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL.

We8tern Terminus of [JULY 6, 1885] PacieRailway.
to giving away that property propose to
diminish the value of the property they own
at Port Moody. It is not justifiable or
right for the Government to say that they
Will diminish the value of their own
property, even though they think it
proper to break faith with the people who
bought land, believing that the terminus
of the Canadian Pacific Railway was to be
fixed at Port Moody. They may call it
speculation, but there is nothing improper
about it. The Government declare in the
rnost solemn way, that the terminus of
the Canadian Pacific Railway is to be at
Pcrt Moody ; there is not the slightest
reason why men hearing that declaration
made should not acquire property there and
take their chances of making money out
of it. These gentlemen have invested
their money in a fair, honest and entirely
unobjectionable way; but the scheme of
the Local Government of British Columbia, or at any rate the scheme which
seems to be proposed by the Canadian
Pacific Railway is to make money
by speculation which is not of the
same character at all.
It is one
of those things, as Dundreary said,
" that no fellow can find out "-how it is
that the present Government do not
appear to be able to say no to the Canadian Pacific Railway Company as to any
thing. I do not think there is a single
instance where that Company have
asked anything which it was in the power
of the Government to give and the Government have said no. There is one
very striking instance of it in that neighborhood-not a very long way from the
western terminus- where the company
have been allowed to select a route on
which the grades are so steep as to make
the road almost valueless for commercial
purposes. I cannot understand how the
Governinent, who had, under the statute
and under their agreement with the company, the right to reject that route, have
allowed the company to adopt it The
hon. gentleman from British Columbia
has justice, common sense and logic with
hirn ; but I am afraid he will not have the
Government with him, because the
Canadian Pacific Railway are on the
other side.

1141

Government have given up land beyond
Port Moody ; the Government never
owned any there except for military or
naval purposes, and those lands they have
not given up. If the allegation be that
part of the railway belt given to the Government for the purpose of constructing
this railway below Port Moody has been
given up, the reason of that is that the
railway, as far as the Government is concerned, stops at Port Moody, and we have
no right to land below Port Moody.
When we give no payment or subsidy for
the construction of a line below Port
Moody we have no right to land west of
Port Moody.
HON. MR. POWER-You are lending
over $700,ooo now to put the works there.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Would they not
have thit at Port Moody all the same ?

HON. MR. McINNES-In reply to the
Minister of Justice I would remind the
House of the Bill that was passed last year
called the Settlement Bill with British Columbia.

It was claimed that nearly 1,ooo,-

ooo acres of land in the railway belt in
British Columbia had been alienated by
pre-emption and otherwise, and in lieu of
that they were to get 3,5oo,ooo acres of

land in the Peace River country, on the
borders of the North-West Territories. I
claim if they were short of land they should
have retained that instead of taking it
from the Peace River country.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We
could not retain it because it is not alongside of the railway. We were to have
2o,ooo on each side of the railway, and,

herefore, when we got to Port Moody
he grant stopped.

HON. MR McINNES-As you are all
aware, I am not a lawyer, but I have
studied up this question, and the hon.
gentleman who occupied this seat beside
me (Mr. Gowan), who, I am sorry, is not
here, gave me his opinion upon it. He
had occupied a position on the Bench
for some 40 years, and he told me that I
was right, and that the Dominion lands
began at English Bay, or Coal Harbor,
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-I
and extended to the eastern boundary of
do not understand the assertion that the the province, and that that was as much a

1142

Western Terminus of [SENATE] Pacific Railway.

part of the land belonging to the Government as the land north and south of Port
Moody, or at Kamloops, or anywhere else
along the reserve. That is really a very
fine technical point for the Minister of
justice to raise, and, I believe, not a very
just one.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Oh,
it is not technical at ail.

. HoN. MR. McINNES-If not, I ask
why did not the Government themselves,
knowing the immense value attached to
lands west of Port Moody, declare English Bay or Coal Harbor the terminus and
build the road to that point ?
HON. MR. PLUMB-They had given
out the contract already.

the road to the first tidal harbor." I have
every sympathy with the people who have
invested at Port Moody, but I think that
their grievance is not with the Government but with the Syndicate. The hon.
gentleman has made an eloquent speech,
but it is about an issue which had passed
long ago. He got his route and the road was
fixed as far as the Government could fix
it, but the Government could not bind the
Syndicate to stop at the terminus they
selected. The Syndicate are a commercial
company. They look at the terminus
forced upon the Governmernt by the
British Columbia members, and declare it
not fit for commercial purposes because it
is too narrow and there are strong tides
there. They look round and select the
best harbor they can find, and why should
the Syndicate go down to English Bay
and spend all this money and take all this
trouble, unless they think it in their
interests ?

HON. MR. McINNES-Was it not
within their power to give a contract for
another twelve miles from Port Moody to
English Bay ? No, they are actually
HON. MR. McINNES-They get 8,throwing away $5,ooo,ooo if that is handed ooo acres of land for going there.
back to the Local Government.
HoN. MR. MACDONALD-It is not
HON. MR. MACDONALD-The rea- worth a dollar an acre now and it is only
son they did not go beyond Port Moody by the expenditure of their money that they
was because Parliament had prevented make it valuable. The hon. gentleman
them going beyond the first tidal harbor. says the Government lose the value of
The members, from the Pacific Coast es- those lands by not going to English Harpecially, prevented them going a step be- bour, and yet he condemns that place
yond that-that is one reason.
from a military point of view and says that
they should not take the terminus there.
HON. MR. McINNES-I should like He is opposed to their going there, and
to ask the hon. gentleman where he can yet he says they lose money by not going
find that ? It is the first time that I have there. The two things will not hold
heard anything of the kind, and I water.
challenge him to show where the member
from New Westminster-and I happened
HON. MR. SMITH-From whom do
to be the member from New Westminster they get the 8,ooo acres ?
at the time in the House of Commonsever took such a view. I never at any
HON. MR. MACDONALD-The promoment advanced such an idea and never vincial Government give them 6,ooo and
heard it expressed in the other House or private proprietors give them the balhere, that the road should not be extended ance.
beyond Port Moody.
HON. MR. SMITH-The Dominion
HON. MR. MACDONALD-In all the Government have nothing to do with it.
debates there and here the contention
was that the road was to cease at the first
HON. MR. McINNES-The Minister
tidal water of British Columbia. A ferry of Justice says the Dominion Government
was talked of to Vancouver Island but it never owned it.
was put aside, and the Government said
" we will fulfil our contract by building
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No.
HON. MR. McINNES.

The Short [JULY 6, 1885] Line Railway.

1143

HON. MR. McINNES-Why was it
Bill (28) "An Act to incorporate the
kept up as a railway reserve for nine years, Dominion Drainage Company." (Mr
then ?
Plumb.)
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLTHE SHORT LINE RAILWAY.
Because at that time it was not settled
whether the terminus should be at Port
INQUIRY.
Moody or not, but when Port Moody was
fixed as the terminus we had no claim to
HON. MR. POWER rose to call attenany land below that point, because the tion to the resolutions adopted by the
road did not go beyond that.
House of Commons at the sitting of that
House held on Wednesday, the first
H7ON. MR. McINNES-I want the instant, providing amongst other things
Minister of Justice to be prepared to show for a subsidy to a line of railway from
this House that the Dominion Govern- Montreal to St. John and Halifax, and
ment did not and could not retain lands enquire of the Government whether they
West of Port Moody.
propose to make provisions:1. That no portion of the subsidy voted for
HON.

MR.

MACDONALD-The the said line shall be devoted to bridging the
St. Lawrence at or near Montreal, or to constructing any railway between Montreal and

House will see that the construction of
the 12 miles of railway is only following
out the same policy that is pursued in the
eastern part of the Dominion. Montreal
is a good harbor, but railways do not stop
there but are pushed further on, and it is
the same in the Maritime provinces.
Railways are extended beyond good ports.
They will go to the extreme jumping off
point and so it is in the west ; they will
not stop at English Bay. If there is a
chance to get to Vancouver Island they
will go there. Those things cannot be
controlled by the Government ; commercial people will carry them out. It is not
in the hands of the Government at all. I
am not against the hon. gentleman ; I am
in accord with him in many things, and I
believe Port Moody to be a good harbor,
but the grievance in this case is not
against the Government, they having fulfilied their pcomises. They have gone to
Port Moody as they agreed they would
do; the grievance is entirely against the
Syndicate and the Local Government.

Sherbrooke or Lennoxville; and
2. That a road between Fredericton and
Salisbury, or sone adjacent point on the
Intercolonial, shall forn a section of the line
of railway proposed to be constructed, and

that work on the said section shall be prosecuted simultaneously with work on the portion of the said line west of the boundary

between New Brunswick and Maine.

He said : When I put that notice on
the paper I had not seen the resolution

providing for the short line as it was
ultimately worded. The notice given in
the House of Commons by the Minister

provided for a line of railway connecting
Montreal with the harbors of St. John and
Halifax, via Sherbrooke, Moose Head Lake
and Mattawamkeag. It was provided that it
was to have a subsidy of so much. Since
giving the notice, I find that the resolu-

tion as actually adopted provided that the
line of railway in question should pass
not only through the points already
named, but through Harvey, Fredericton
and Salisbury, N. B. The amendment
HON. MR. McINNES-The Govern. made in the resolution by the Government had a right to prevent them from ment, at the instance of some a of the
certain
Lower Province members, to
going further
extent answers the question which I put
on the paper. I have also, since putting
The motion was agreed to.
the notice on the paper, read the debate
BILLS INTRODUCED.

which took place in the other Chamber.

That debate has answered another portion

of my inquiry. I do not propose to deBill (146) " An Act to amend the Con- tain the House long in connection with
Solidated Inland Revenue Act." (Sir this matter, although it is of some imporAlex. Campbell.)
tance. I think it only right to call attention

114A4A

The Short LSENATE] Line Railway.

once more to the origin of this short line
movement. The agitation did not begin
here at the capital. It originated in a
feeling which was very strong in the
Lower Provinces, that they were not
receiving any benefit from the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway;
that while they were sharing in the debt
and the taxation which arose from the
construction of that road and other undertakings that the Canadian Pacific Railway
Company went into, they were receiving no
benefit whatever from it ; and they thought
while this vast expenditure of money was
going on it was only equitable that they
should get something for themselves. What
the people of the cities in the Lower Provinces wished was that the means of communication between St. John and Halifax,
the two principal cities of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, and Montreal,
which they looked upon as the commercial capital of Canada, should be made
better than it was. I think the House
should bear that in mind ; and it is to be
regretted that it does not seem to have
been remembered by a great many of
those who have discussed the question.
The object of the Short Line, as described
by the then Minister of Railways, when
dealing with the matter two years ago, was
to give the shortest and best practicable line
from Montreal toSt. John and Halifax. The
feeling amongst the people of the Lower
Provinces was that the subsidy which was
to be granted was to connect the railways
in the neighborhood of Montreal with the
railway system of the Lower Provinces.
Owing to the unfortunate oversights made
by the English commissioners in negotiating the treaties with the United States, a
large portion of the State of Maine which
ought to belong to Canada does not, and
that State has been interposed between
the railway systern of the Lower Provinces
and the railway system in the neighborhood
of Montreal; and what was needed was a
good and satisfactory connection between
the two systems. I do not think that it
was ever contemplated when this subsidy
was proposed-it certainly was not contemplated by the people who asked for itthat a new railway was to be built all the
way from Montreal to a point in the
Lower Provinces. The object of the
subsidy was to fill up the gaps, and make
a connection between the railway system
T
HoN. MR. POWER.

of Montreal and the railway systerm in
the Lower Provinces. For the purpose
of effecting this work the subsidy which is
now granted is certainly a fairly liberal
one. I am disposed to think that perhaps the subsidy which was granted two
years ago might have been found sufficient; but there is no doubt that the subsidy proposed to be granted by the
measure introduced in the other chamber
this year is a liberal one ; and I think
there will be no difficulty found in getting
a company to construct all the road
needed to connect the railway system in
the neighborhood of Montreal with the
railway system in the Lower Provinces in
a satisfactory way.
One of the reasons why I put these
questions on the paper was that the
impression had got abroad amongst people
here at Ottawa and elsewhere that a portion of the subsidy which is being granted
for the purpose of connecting Montreal
with the sea-board was to be used in the
construction of a bridge across the St.
Lawrence at Lachine. People are, unfortunately, nowadays more suspicious than
is to be desired, but so many things have
happened which could not have been
expected, that it is not to be wondered at
that people have got to be suspicious.
However, I am pleased to say that this
particular suspicion appears to be unfounded ; because the Minister of Public
Works, in the other House when this matter was being discussed, in reply to a direct question put to him on this point,
said that no portion of the subsidy was to
be appropriated for the construction of a
bridge at Montreal, so that that portion of
my first question has already been answered. Then the second portion I think
has been answered, although perhaps not
very decidedly, and answered in a way
that is not satistactory. The impression
had got abroad that a large portion of this
subsidy was to be applied to the construction of a new road from Montreal or some
place in the neighborhood of that city to
Sherbrooke and Lennoxville. That impression was strengthened by the declarations of the friends of what is known
as the Pope line. These declarations
were heard early in the Session ; and later
on in the session when the report of the
engineers asked for by a resolution of this
House in March was laid on the table,

The Short [JULY 6, 1885] Line Railway.
these suspicious were still further strengthened, because we found that the survey
which was marked A on the plan and put
first on the chief engineer's report was a
Survey of a proposed line from a point
some few miles from Montreal-from
Marieville-to Sherbrooke; and I find on
looking at the official report of the proceedings in the other Chamber that the
Minister of Public Works in discussing the
rnatter spoke of this as being a portion of
the contemplated line. He spoke as
though it was intended to build this road
from Marieville to Sherbrooke; I do not
hesitate to say that that road is unnecessary for the purposes of the Short
Line-that there are already two roads
to Sherbrooke. The Short Line might
be connected with the Grand Trunk RailWay at Richmond, or it might be connected
with the International road in the State of
Maine, and you can go from Montreal to
Lennoxville by either of two roads at
present ; so that that road is unnecessary for the purpose of the Short Line,
and it does not open up any new country.
In the country that it would go through
there are, as I have said already, two lines
of railway running from Montreal to
Sherbrooke, and two lines of railway
crossing the country from north to south,
and this road is, therefore, unnecessary in
every sense. It appears, fron the report
of the Engineer, that this road will be a
difficuit one to construct, and necessarily
somewhat expensive. The misfortune is
that if the money which parliament is now

114A5

get freight. The Grand Trunk Railway,
or the other combinatidn of railways lying
between Montreal and Lennoxville will be
only too glad to carry freight over their
unes at reasonable rates, particularly as
there are two roads and competition.
If
a company has a ronopoly of trade, it can
be stiff and exorbitant; but where there is
competition there is no difficulty at ail in
getting freight carried at reasonable rates
so, as I have said, this road is unnecessary.
What we want, if you are going to build
from Richmond, is to begin and spend the
money at Richmond; if you are going to
build from the end of the International
Raiiway, hegin to spend the money there
-we do fot want to have the money
spent between Montreal and these points
where there are roads already existing;
but I believe the truth is that the real
object of the construction of that new road
between Montreal and Sherbrooke is not
to benefit the Lower Provinces-not to
give them better connection than they
have with Montreal-but it is for the purpose of placing the Canadian Pacific
Railway in a position to compete, at a
greater advantage than they can now
compete, with the Grand Trunk Raiiway
for the American business.
At six o'clock the Speaker left the chair.
AFTER RECESS.

voting for the Short Line Railway is taken

HON. MR- POWER-Before 6 o'clock

to construct this third and unnecessary
road to Sherbrooke and Lennoxville, the
probabilities are that the subsidy will not
be sufficient to construct the really necessary portion of the line further east ; and,
in all probability, the provinces of Prince
Edward
Island and Nova Scotia
will not have the link between
Fredericton and Moncton or Salisbury-which would make this short line
useful to them, siniply because the money
will have been spent on the road between
Montreal and Sherbrooke.
It is not
necessary, as I have said, to build this
road. There is no difficulty in having
freight carried by rail now-a-days-in the
existing condition of railway business.
Every railroad is perfectly willing to take
freight on reasonable rates and is glad to

arrived I had pointed out that any third
road between Montreal and Sherbrooke
or its neighborhood was unnecessary, and I had begun to say that
almost the only object I could see
for the construction of this third road was
the desire to place the Grand Trunk Railway Company at a disadvantage in its
competition for American business with
the Canadian Pacific Railway; and I
think that when the sitting was suspended
I was just about to point out some of the
objections to tha. I may say in the
first place, that, as I suppose most of the
members of the House are aware, in a
great many of the United States a law forbids the construction of roads under circumstances sîmilar to those which exist
in this case.

1146

The Short LSENATE] Line Railway.

HON. MR. PLTJMB-What are the to the shareholders of the Grand Trunk
Railway. Their stock is not a particucircumstances ?
larly profitable one just now. They are
HON. MR. POWER-If the hon gentle- suffering from the serious depression in
man will have patience I shal try and let railway business, and also suffering
him know. There are already roads from the competition of the Canasufficient to supply the wants of the dian Pacific Railway. Their Americountry, to transport all the freight that is can business is very valuable to them,
to be transported from Montreal to and it is exceedingly unfair to those stockLennoxville. There are two roads, which holders for the Government to enter intC
are ample for the business; and in some competition against them by subsidizing
of the United States, in a case of that their rivals, or building roads for those
kind, a charter for the construction of a rivals. I am no particular friend of the
third road would not be granted; and in Grand Trunk Railway, but still I cannot
the present instance the Dominion help recognizing that something is due to
Government is not only asked to allow the stockholders of that company. The
the building of the road, but to pay for company did get in former years a great
the construction of it. It is a thing that deal from Canada; and when it had the
would not be tolerated in any of the field all to itself it was perhaps a little overUnited States, where they have paid a bearing, and not considet ate in its dealings
good deal of attention to this question of with the people ; still that is the way of all
railway interests, and I do not think it railway companies. There is no doubt that
the competing line between Montreal and
should be permitted here.
Toronto has been largely constructed by
dare say the subsidies voted by Parliament for the
HON. MR. PLUMB-I
hon. gentleman will point out the State the main line of the Canadian Pacific
Railway. I think it would be very objec
or States he refers to.
tionable to cortinue that process, and to
HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentle- subsidize a road the effect of which would
man is more familiar with the railway be to place the Grand Trunk Railway
business of the United States than I am, Company at a still greater disadvantage in
their business. There is one feature about
and he can point it out himself.
this to which I think the attention of the
HON. MR. PLUMB-I daresay I am, House ought to be called, and the attenand they build under the general law, and tion of the Ministry in particular-that
is, the probable effect of this course
build where they like.
upon the construction of railways in
HON. MR. POWER-In a great many future. It seems to me that the logical
of the United States there are railway consequence of the course which has been
commissioners, whose duty it is amongst adopted recently will be to prevent capiother things, when a charter is asked talists in England from investing their
for, to see that the proposed line does not money in railway construction in Canada;
unduly conflict with other chartered because no matter how promising the furoads.
ture of a proposed line may be, they will
see from the history of the past that imHON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentle- mediately after their road is completed
man is making a speech on a subject that the Government may charter another
will come up again to-morrow, when he company to build anuther road between
the same points, and not only that, but
can be properly answered.
may subsidize that competing line in such
HON. MR. POWER-If the hon. a way as to render their investment a very
gentleman is not prepared to speak he unprofitable one. I think that is a conshould not have interrupted me. I simply sideration which should suggest itself to
throw out the suggestion I have made as the Government, and is of some conseshowing that what is proposed to be done quence to the future of the country. In
here is objected to in other places ; and the present case, a natural result of this
hon gentlemen must see how unfair it is policy will be that we shall have, perhaps.

he Skort [J ULY 6, 1885] Line Railway.
before a very distant period, a combination
between the two great railway corporations
Which are now competing with one another ;
and when that combination is effected it
Will be a very unfortunate thing for Canada; and I do not think that we should,
by weakening one of the competitors, do
anything that would bring about at an
earlier date that consummation. Competition between railway companies, a fair

and reasonable competition, is the best
thing for the public ; and I do not think
that we should do anything that would put
an end to it. There is one other little
Matter as to which I did not ask a question,
but as to which I should like to say a very
few words. It has been suggested to me
by reading the debate which occurred on
this Short Line question in the other
Chamber. The hon. member for Stanstead in that House intimated-and he
Spoke with a good deal of authority, as I
think he is one of those who look at the
'natter from the inside-he spoke of the
Possibility that this road would not be
Constructed, but that certain other roads
between Montreal and the Maine border
mlight be acquired-presumably by purchase.
I gather from the course of the discusSion that this money might be used in
buying up existing roads. I think it would
be very objectionable that the money
should be used for that purpose. The
roads are there, and at the present time
railways are always willing to carry freight
at a reasonable rate where they have not
a monopoly of the business; and the
money that would be spent in the purchase
of those roads might be much better exPended in constructing new roads on the
Portion of the proposed line where no
railways now exist. In order to show how
unfair the proposition to take the public
Money to purchase the rights of the present owners of those roads would be, I
shall call the attention of the House to
the position of one of those roads, the
International Railway. That is one of
the roads which it is currently understood
is to be acquired under this legislation.
That railway is 81 miles in length. It has
received from the Dominion a subsidy
at the rate of $3,200 a mile, making
altogether $259,200 of Dominion money
which has gone into it. That same road
bas received from the Quebec Govern-

1147
1

ment $391,122 ; and it has received from
the county of Compton $225,ooo-making altogether of public money used in
the construction of that railway $875,322.
That is, the International Railway has
been paid out of the public funds of the
country a sum of $1o,8oo a mile. It
must strike the House that it would be an
exceedingly unfair thing that the country
should be obliged, having paid to the
International Railway Company almost
enough money to build the road-more
than half the price of the road at all events
-that we should be called upon again to
buy that road or to furnish the money to
somebody else to buy it at a considerably
higher figure than it cost. I think the
unfairness of that must strike every hon.
gentleman, and I hope when the measure
with respect to this Short Line is being
further dealt with, that the Government will
see that provision is made that the money
which is now being voted shall not be
expended either for the purpose of constructing roads in the neighborhood
of Montreal or purchasing existing roads.
The second part of the question I asked
is, whether the Government proposed to
make provision that a road between
Fredericton and Salisbury, or some adjacent point on the Intercolonial, shall
form a section of the line of railway proposed to be constructed, and that work on
the said section shall be prosecuted
simultaneously with work on the portion
of the said line west of the boundary between New Brunswick and Maine. The
revised resolutions provide for the link,
and I am glad to see it indeed because
that link is a most important one. It
does not matter which route for the Short
Line is taken, the link between Fredericton
and Salisbury is necessary in order to make
the Short Line of any value to Nova Scotia,
Prince Edward Island and part of New
Brunswick. The line froni Fredericton
to Salisbury will run through a fertile
country, which is already pretty thickly
peopled, and which will afford a considerable local business to the road, and it is a
line which can be constructed very cheaply.
If the Riviere du Loup or Riviere
Ouelle road is subsidized under these
same resolutions, that link between
Fredericton and Salisbury will give the
northern road an additional value,
and will give, a competing line with the

1148

The Short [SENATE] Line Railway.

southern line which will be of valuemore especially to the Lower Provinces.
The latter part of this second question
asks that a proviso be put in the Short Line
measure that work on the said section shall
be prosecuted simultaneously with work on
the line west of the boundary between
New Brunswick and Maine. I think that
it is necessary, or at least very desirable
that some such provision should be inserted in the measure ; because the subsidy, while large enough to do the work
that is absolutely necessary, may give out
if it is applied in the manner in whîch we
have some reason to apprehend that it
may be applied-in purchasing or constructing railways in the neighborhood of
Montreal. We may find after those
roads have been built or purchased, and
after the connection has been made with
the Bangor and Piscataquis road in Maine,
that there is not money enough left to
build at the eastern end, and in that
case the Provinces of Nova Scotia and
Prince Edward Island would reap no
benefit from the expenditure of all this
money ; and it is only right and just to
the people of those provinces that provision should be made that they may not
be disappointed. The reason why I lay the
more stress on this is that the advocates
of this southern route, which has apparently been accepted by the Government, the men who are prominent in
the advocacy of the road, seem to attach
no value at all to the connection with
Nova Scotia or Prince Edward Island;
their object seems to be to go to St.
Andrews or St. John and then not
to trouble themselves about going any
further. The truth is, I think, that the
old Atlantic and North-West Railway
Company are really the people who are
going to have this subsidy, and their
original charter was to build from St.
Andrews or thereabout to Montreal,
or somewhere in the neighborhood,
I
and bridge the St. Lawrence.
think under those circumstances it is especially the duty of Parliament to see that
this link between Fredericton and Salisbury is provided for. I may say that another circumstance which is calculated to
make us a little suspicious about this, is,
that in addition to those declarations of
the friends of the southern line and their
antecedents, I find that while this road
HON. MR. POWER.

between Montreal and Sherbrooke, which
is not a necessary hnk of the Short Line
at all, has been surveyed and a pretty
careful estimate of its cost made, no survey whatever has been made of the road
between Fredericton and Salisbury which
is an essential link in any short line. I
think it is necessary, in order to allay the
reasonable fears of the people of the
Lower Provinces, that a provision should
be put in the Bill that the work should go
on on this part of the road simultaneously
with the work on the rest of it.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I arn
afraid I shall have to ask the hon. gentleman to put his questions again, as I really
do not know now the question he requires
to have answered, as he says some of
them have already been answered.

HON. MR. POWR-I said that the first
part of the first question had been answered
by the Minister of Public Works in the
other House.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Then
I do not require to answer that.
HON. MR. POWER-The Minister of
Public Works said that none of this subsidy should be devoted to bridging the
St. Lawrence at Montreal.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Then
that question is answered.

HoN. MR. POWER-I think that is the

only one of the questions that has been
directly answered.
HON. MR. OGILVIE-If the Minister
of Justice would allow me I would like to
ask the hon. gentleman from Halifax why
he specially stipulates that no more lines
should be bought or constructed in or
about Montreal? Is there any particular
reason why, if you can get through by
Montreal on a shorter route than any
other, you should not do it ?

HON. MR. POWER-I stated that the

money should not be devoted to purchasing existing lines or building a new line
between Montreal and Sherbrooke.

The Short [JULY 6, 1885.] Line Railway.

11A9

HON. MR. OGILVIE -The
hon. be so paid, so that there will be no danger
gentleman stated, not five minures ago, that the money will be exhausted in any
that no line should be bought in or particular portion of the road, because
about Montreal. Am I right?
only the money devoted to each particular
mile will be expended on that mile. I
HON. MR. POWER-Certainly.
take occasion to say, in answering these
questions, that it appears to me, with my
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do experience in the House, the time is
not think we can go into a discussion of rapidly arriving when this sort of debate
that subject on this question. The ques- on giving notice and asking questions and
tion will have to come up when we are so on will have to be limited very much.
dealing with the Bill to appropriate certain To-night it appears very inconvenient.
rnoneys for certain railways, and then can The hon. gentleman has asked several
be discussed properly. The hon. gentle- questions and occupied more or less time
Man from Halifax says that the first part in discussing those questions though he
of his question is answered ; he now admits that part of them have been ansonly desires to know whether any portion wered and part I am answering now, and
of this money is to be devoted to con- he knows that there is a bill coming before
Structing any railway between Montreal the House when all those questions must
and Sherbrooke or Lennoxville. The necessarily be discussed again. The hon.
resolutions declare that a certain portion gentleman has forestalled, without advanof the money is to be devoted to construct- tage to the House, a discussion that must
ing parts of the line between Montreal take place, and with inconvenience to the
and Sherbrooke. Then the other part of best mode of dispatching public husithe question that a road between Frederic- ness.
ton and Salisbury, or some adjacent point
on the Intercolonial Railway, shall form a
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-The hon.
Section of the line of railway to gentleman from Halifax stated when he
be constructed ; I think the hon. commenced to speak that he had placed
gentleman says that has been answered. the notice of motion on the paper before
action was taken on the question in the
HON. MR. POWER-It has not been other House, and the remarks of the Mindirectly answered.
ister of Justice scarcely apply to the time
which my hon. friend occupied in discusHON. SIR ALEX. CMPBELL-It is in sing this question.
the resolutions. The answer is that part
HON. MR. POWER-When the hon.
of this road will be constructed. Then
the next question is that work on the said gentleman (Sir Alex. Campbell) sat on
section shall be prosecuted simultaneously this side of the House, he looked at
with work on the portion of the line west things in a very different way. We had
of the boundary between New Brunswick then very protracted discussions on such
and Maine. We cannot say whether it is motions; and I do not think that the
to be done simultaneously or not ; but Government can complain now that very
what the hon. gentleman fears there is much time is taken up in this House by
really no danger of. He fears that the the Opposition. If the hon. gentleman
rnoney that has beer granted will be wants to know why -I asked the questions,
expended in a certain locality, and that I may say that I did so in order that
will leave none for the locality in the when the bill came up I should be able
Maritime Provinces. That will not be the to discuss it more intelligently.
case, because the money granted will be
appropriated on paper in the proportion
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
that the expense of one mile bears to the hon. gentleman might have said all he
proportion constructed, so that if there desired to say when the Bill is before
are 1oo miles to be constructed the whole us.
rnoney will be divided into '00 portions
each portion representing what a mile wil l HON. MR. POWER-But I wanted to
cost as compared with the whole, and wil l get the information beforehand.

1150

Subsidies ïn aid of [SE NATE] Bailway8 (N. W.T.) Bill.

HON. MR. CARVELL-The hon. gentleman from Halifax says that not much
time is taken up in discussion by the
Opposition in this House. The question
naturally suggests itself after that remark,
on which side is the hon. gentleman ?

fragmentary form through the press. I afn
not aware-of course I cannot be aware
-whether
any dispatch has
been
received from the General in command,

but if there is, which seems reasonable,
the information should be laid before
Parliament, particularly when the GovernNORTH-WEST MOUNTED POLICE ment ask for money to pay expenses.
BILL
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
hon. gentleman's remark, I think, is
THIRD READING.

Despatches which have
appropriate.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved been received from the General up tO
the third reading of Bill (144) " An Act to this time have been fragmentary and

authorize the augmentation of the North- altogether by telegram ; but yesterday a
despatch at length describing his operaWest Mounted Police."
tions was received, and that was laid before
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill the other branch of Parliament to-day,
was read the third time and passed.
and will be printed in the early part of the
week, and then will appear a succinct
TROUBLE IN THE NORTH-WEST account of what has been done in the
EXPENSES BILL.
North-West since the trouble began. I
do not know what more we can lay before
SECOND READING
Parliament. We have put the House in
possession of all telegrams immediately
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved on receipt of them, and, outside of the
the 2nd reading of Bill (149), "An Act telegrams, the first official paper that we
for granting to Her Majesty the sum of have received is the one I speak of, and
$1,700,000, required for defraying cer- it has been laid before the other branch
tain expenses in connection with the of Parliament by the Minister of Militia.
troubles in the North-West Territories." I might have brought a copy here, but it
He said :-I will ask that the Bill be did not occur to me. However, as it goes
read at length at the table. It is for the before the Printing Comniittee I suppose
purpose of appropriating from the Con- we will get it in printed form here almost
solidated Revenue $1,700,ooo for the as soon as if it were laid on the table in
purpose of defraying expenses in connec- manuscript. Perhaps I should have
tion with the troubles in the North-West. brought a copy of it here, and the House,
The money has already been expended, I hope, will pardon the inadvertence.
and it is for the purpose of authorizing
SUBSIDIES IN AID OF RAILWAYS
the expenditure up to the 3oth June.
(NORTH-WEST TERRITORIES)
The motion was agreed to, and the
BILL.
Bill was read at length at the Table.
SECOND READING.

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Happily

the war in the North-West is at an end.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
At least we may presume so from inform- the second reading of Bill (147)," An Act

ation received through the public press
We have waged war under
to-day.
difficult circumstances and put down a
formidable rebellion, and to the best of
my knowledge and belief, not a single
document connected with that has been
before Parliament-this branch of Parliament at any rate-except some brief
dispatches. There is naturally a curiosity
to know more than what we obtained in a

to authorize the grant of certiin subsidies
in land for the construction of the railways
therein mentioned." He said: This Bill,
which is up for the second reading, proposes to grant certain subsidies of land to
some railways mentioned therein. Those
railways are the North-Western Coal and
Navigation Company, limited, which it is
proposed to subsidize to an extent not exceeding 3,8oo acres per mile; the Manitoba

(JOn8olidated1n8urance Act, [JULY 6, 1885] 1817, Modification Bill. 1151
&South-Western Colonization Company to
the extent of 6,40o acres per mile; the
Manitoba & North-Western Railway Company to the extent of 6,40o acres per mile,
and the Qu'Appelle, Long Lake & Saskatchewan Railway and Steamboat Company to the extent of 6,4oo acres per mile.
My hon. friend who leads the Opposition suggested to me the name of a conPany which had not been included, and I
have made inquiry and informed him privately why it should be omitted. It was
the desire of the president of the company
that it should not be included for the present ; otherwise it would have appeared
with the others. These railways are likely
to go into operation in the North-West,
and they will have a good effect in developing the country there, and I understand
the leader of the Opposition favors the
policy of granting assistance to such companies. We have done a great deal in
building the Canadian Pacific Railway
there, but it is desirable that branch lires
should also be constructed for the purpose
of afiording the farmers facilities to get
their grain to market, and to develop the
country. The railways mentioned in this
Bill, with the exception of the one referred
to by the leader of the Opposition, and
which has been omitted for the reason I
have mentioned, are all the lines which
are likely to go into operation, and the aid
to them, therefore, has been general.

a great extent, to the Mutual Fire Insur-

ance companies. These companies appear
to have been doing a tolerably good business throughout the country, and they were
placed under this difficulty, that it would
seem they were contravening the law in not
complying with the conditions affecting insurance companies of another and a different character, and they have appealed to
Parliament to prevent the application of
laws to them which were intended to
apply to insurance companies at large.
This Bill is to enact that those general
laws shall not affect insurance companies
doing business on the assessment system
-a system which binds only those who are
insuring in the companies and only to the
extent of certain promissory notes which
they may give for their own premiums, I
believe. It is with reference to such companies that this Bill proposes to legislate,
and with reference to thern they are
allowed to do business in the country by
taking out a license under this Bill and
by making a certain deposit with the
Minister of Finance, by way of security,
for the purpose of enabling those who have
transactions with them to feel that their
pcl;cies will be met when death happens.
There are some slight modifications and
some slight amendments which will be
necessary, I think, before the Bill goes
through, but these I will propose in Committee. They are not of any consequence,
but I think they will facilitate the general
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill scope and object of the Bill. I doubted
was read the second time.
myself whether the appellation contaned
in the 9 th clause-" Assessment comCONSOLIDATED INSURANCE ACT panies "-was sufficiently distinct to point
out to those wishing to do business with
1877, MODIFICATION BILL.
the company the difference between them
and ordinary companies, and the words
SECOND READING.
which occurred to my mind were "limited
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved liability."
But I am told by those who
the second reading of Bill (20) "An Act know better than I do that " Assessment
to modify the application of ' The Con- Company " describes more properly the
solidated Insurance Act, 1877.'"
He position of such companies than "limited
said: There is a general law on the liability," and that those who do business
statute book preventing insurance com- with them will be as well advised of the
panies doing business unless they comply character of the policy which they get by
with certain conditions, which conditions the use of the words " assessnent system "
affect, as a rule, the companies doing bus- printed on it, as they would be if the
iness throughout the country. There words "l'imited liability " were used,
sprung up, after the statute was passed, and that the latter term would
certain companies doing business under a not adequately describe the position of
peculiar system-a system of assessments such a company, because in addition to
on the members only, and analogous, to the right to assess those who insure

1152 Consolidated Insurance Act, [SEN ATE] 1877, Modifßcation Bill.
in the companies to the extent of notes
given for their premiums there is also liability for a rest, a sum which is collected
from time to time, and which remains and
constitutes of itself, over and above the
liability on the promissory notes, a guarantee for the due performance of their
policies. I believe Parliament will be quite
ready to exempt these companies from
liabilities they have incurred by violating
the Insurance Act. Some time ago it
became my duty, in the office I held, to
take, not legal steps against some of these
companies, but to initiate steps for the
purpose of taking proceedings against
them for violating the law. That was
done on complaint made by regular old
line companies that they were violating
the law. I arm sure that Parliament will
gladly step in and protect these companies
trom being proceeded against for what
was not an intentional breach of the law.
However, in future they will have a position which they had not before. It seems
to me it is not desirable, in the general
interest, that we should allow these companies to be confounded with the older
companies which are doing business on a
different and, I must say as far as my
judgment goes, a sounder and better
system. I do not think we should allow
them to be confounded, by any loose
legislation, with companies doing what I
consider justly a stronger and better
business. That is to be avoided by the
use of the term "assessment system" engraved on their notes and printed on all
their policies. It is hoped that this will
accomplish the result aimed at, because
it is not to be desired that the strong
position held by companies doing business
under the general system should be lost
by them, or gained by these other companies, for want of legislation which will
give the world notice that one company
is doing business on one system and the
other on another system. In committee
I propose to omit some of the paragraphs
in one or two clauses, and to add a word
or two to others, but as I shall have an
opportunity of explaining that when the
House is in committee on the Bill, I will
not detain hon. gentlemen now by describing the details of the measure.

think it would be very desirable that an
amendment should be added referring tO
a different class of companies-mutual
insurance companies, where the managers
have no stock and nothing at risk at all.
They profess to be got up by benevolent
individuals who receive a certain premium
and divide all but what is actually necessary for expenses amongst the insured, but
many of these companies have been
wrecked in the United States two years ago.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
Bill does not apply to them.
HoN. MR. WARK-The Act it amends
applies to them, and I think it would be
very well to guard the public against this
class of mutual insurance companies,
because they can collect what amount they
please and charge very high premiums.
They are bound, according to their own
arrangements, to divide all again among the
assured except what is necessary to constitute a fund to meet expenses and pay salaries, and the assured know nothing about it.
I am prepared to show by figures the
necessity of something of the kind. What
I would suggest is that something should
be done to require those mutual insurance
companies to make fuller returns, to
show the amount they receive annually in
the shape of premiums, how much of this
goes to meet the necessary liabilities of the
company, how much is divided in salaries
and how much divided amongst the
assured in the shape of dividends. I
think the assured ought to know publicly
how much and to whom the salaries are
paid, otherwise they may expend and set
apart as much as they please and the
assured know nothing about it, only the
dividends they receive one year are much
smallar than they are another.
HON.

SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL-

There may be great force in what my hon.
friend says but in this Bill there is the
following clause :-

" Neither ' The Consolidated Insurance Act
1877,' nor this Act shall apply to any society
or association of persons for fraternal, benevolent, industrial or religious purposes, among
which purposes shall be the insurance of the
lives of the members thereof exclusively; or
to any association for the purpose of life inHON. MR. WARK-As the lion. the surance, formed in connection with such
Minister proposes to amend the Bill, I society or organization and exclusively from
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Temperance Act, etc., [JULY 6, 1885] Amendment Bll.

1153

it8 menibers, and insuring the lives of such affairs which are understood to be benevomuenbers exclusively."
lent associations. The former consist of

So this Bill will not apply to the companies to which the hon. gentleman has
alluded, and it is provided that none of
the old Act of 1877 shall apply to them.
Therefore, I should think they would
gradually run into discredit. Whether it
Would be better to take them out of that
Position they would likely have fallen
into under this Bill, and undertake to rehabilitate them, is a question. Does not
this description include all that my hon.
friend means-" Any society or association
of persons for fraternal, benevolent, industrial or religious purposes, among
Which purposes shall be the insurance of
the )ives of the members thereof exclusively ? "
HON.

MR. WARK-I suppose it does.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-This
Bill does not apply to such companies,
and it is proposed that the Act of 1877
shall not apply to them. If my hon.
friend thinks it wiser to propose anything,
we will be able to consider it when the
Bill goes before a committee of the whole
House. In the meantime I think it is
very doubtful whether any such amendment should be made.
HON. MR.
HAYTHORNE-Some
anxiety has been felt in the province from

which I come with respect to the position
Parliament nay take on this question.
In Charlottetown some companies exist
which may be termed benevolent societies.
Sometimes they are known by singularly
grotesque names, but the object in every
case, is, I believe, some benevolent purpose, and I take it, from the remarks
which have just fallen from the Minister
of Justice, that such a society as that shall
not come under the operation of this Bill.
I hope that is so, because all that the

owners of capital who unte for the
purpose of making a profit from their
capital; others are parties who, knowing
each other, and having confidence in each
other, unite together for the purpose of
having the benefit of mutual support and
assistance in the ordinary business of life
and on the death of members. It seems
to me these are two distinct objects altogether. The one is a ,speculation by
capitalists, involving the employment of a
large amount of capital and a large staff
of officials, all of whom are not quite so
honest as they might be, and the
consequence is that public confidence
is shaken in such societies and
we have to rely upon the action of
Parliament and of the treasury to support
our interest. The other is a totally different affair. All the parties interested
are known to each other and have confidence in each other, and any unnecessary
interference on the part of Parliament is
likely to do injury. I know from communications I have received fron a member of one of those societies in Charlottetown that such a feeling prevails in their
minds. As they have done no harm, and
as this Bill cannot possibly do them any
good, the better way would be to let
then alone.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time.
CANADA TEMPERANCE ACT, AND
LIQUOR LICENSE ACT
AMENDMENT BILL.
SENATE AMENDMENTS

INSISTED ON.

The order of the day having been

called,Consideration of Message fron the House
of Commons relative to the anendments

associated companies wish for is sirnply to made by the Senate to (Bill 92) Further to
be let alone. If they should be brought amend The Canada Temperance Act, 1878,

under the operation of the Bill and made and The Liquor License Act, 1883 ;-vide
to deposit large sums of their capital, I " Minutes," page 743.-(The Hon. Sir Alex.
Cainpbell.)
think it would probably have the effect of
HON. MR. VIDAL said: In glancing
destroying them altogether and stopping
their operation. There is a wide distinc- over the report of the debates on Thurstion between companies which are ordi- day I noticed that the hon. member from
narily known as insurance companies and i Toronto, Mr. O'Donohoe, expressed a
these more humble and unpretending wish that this matter should be postponed
Xz

1154

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Anendnent Bill.

until Wednesday. Now, I am quite pre- the responsibility of thus defeating a Bill
pared either to meet his view or go on which both Houses consider to be neceswith the Bill, as the House may desire. sary because its own opinion on one parI have no plan of my own in particular ticular point is not agreed with in the
to carry out ; I am willing to go on, other House ? I think it is only fair to
or postpone the consideration of the put it before you in that light. I do not
amendments. (Go on, go on!)
Then propose to enter on any discussion of the
I will proceed. The amendments which Bill or to introduce anything which would
I have been looking
are now to come under our consideration, lead to discussion.
made by the House of Commons to into the order of procedure in cases simithose which were made in this House lar to this, and I notice Bourinot says :and transmitted to them, I see are
" When amendments made by one House
seven in number. It will be well for hon. to a Bill from the other House are received
gentlemen, perhaps, to have our minutes back, and are under consideration, it is not
before them open at page 743, where the regular to discuss the Bill itself, or its printhereamendments made to our amendments ciple, or the policy of the Government to the
on ; but the debate must be confined
are set forth in order and at full length. amendment. Nor on a motion for disagreeBefore taking these amendments into ing to an amendment of this kind, is it reguconsideration I maybe permittedperhaps to lar to enter into a general discussion of the
make some general observations upon them. principle of the Bill, but all debate shouid be
I think the questions involved in these confined to the amendment and the reasons
for the sanie."
amendments come before us now under
Now, if we can adhere to the rule
very different circumstances from those
existing at the time when we were making which is here suggested to us, I think it
them. The House of Commons have should not occupy us any very great
given their formal decision upon all the length of time to dispose of the whole of
matters submitted to them and that de- these amendments. I imagine that as to
cision is now brought down to us. It is of six of thern there will be little or no
course in the powerof this House to disagree serious objection ; of course I anticipate
with the amendments which that House an objection to the 6th. I have said that
has made, but at this period of the session the difficulty of our not agreeing to the
I think it must be admitted on all hands amendment would probably result in
that for this House to do so and to send throwing out the Bill, because I see that
the Bill back to them is certainly equiva- the practice which is required in matters
lent tothrowing out the measure altogether. of this kind necessarily involves a certain
There can be no reasonable prospect of amount of delay. The practice of a conthat House being able to take any action ference between the two Houses in order
upon it or, if it did take action, of its coming to bring about an agreement in matters on
to any different decision from that to which which they have disagreed has become
it has already come twice, on the most im- obsolete. The permission for it remains
portant and perhapsthe onlyamendment on on the rules because occasions might
which this House would care to insist. I arise where it would be desirable to resort
think the action which will be taken by this to it, but as a matter of fact it has not
House at this time is really decisive and been resorted to at all in the Dominion
final on this Bill. If this House is willing Parliament, nor indeed since 1863. On
to accept the Bill as it comes to us from this point Bourinot says:
the House of Commons, then of course
" The old practice of resorting to a conthere is no difficulty in the way, and the ference, in order to bring about an agreement
Bill in that case can become law. If, on between the two Houses is now virtuallv
the other hand the House is not willing to obsolete, though the Commons have still 'a
accept the Bill as it comes, or insists upon rule on the subject."
carrying out its view on any one of the
And in glancing at what should be done
points, then the amendments so earnestly if this House thought it expedient to have
desired and assented to by both branches a conference, I find that the provisions
of Parliament will have to be set aside, are such that it would not be desirable to
because one amendment cannot be carried attempt anything of the kind. For ininto effect. Is the House prepared to take stance, when the delegates of the Houses
HON. MR.

VIDAL.

Temperance Act, etc., [JU LY 6, 1885] Amendment Bill.
meet in conference they have no power
whatever to discuss. The commissioners
from the House asking the conference
sinply present the record of what has been
done in that House; the others simply
receive it, and there is no authority whatever for any discussion or explanation, or
anything of the kind.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL -There
is a free conference.

1155

tion. I did desire to put two or three of
them together, and I thought it might be
conveniently done, but the impropriety
and inexpediency of it has been pointed
out to me, and i shall therefore present
as the first resolution :" That this House does not insist on its
amendments in the fifth clause of the second
proviso of its third amendment to the said

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLHON. MR. VIDAL-No, that comes That, as I understand it, is that spirits
shall not be disposed of as this amendafterwards. Bourinot says :ment contemplated-on certificate of a
" The report of the managers for the House License Inspector-but they shall
conat whose request the conference has taken
place is in substance that they have met the tinue to be disposed of on the certificate
managers for the other House, and have de- of two Justices of the Peace ?
livered to them the communication, with
Which they were charged. The report of the
HON. MR. VIDAL-Yes.
managers for the other House is substantially
that they have met the managers for the forHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
mer and that the purpose of the conference
was to make a certain communication which have no objection to that.
they have received, and which they then proceed to lay before the House. The report of
The motion was agreed to.
the managers is then to be considered, and
disposed of by the House to which it was sent,
HON. MR. VIDAL moved that this
which nmay take place immediately, or
be postponed to a future time. The result House doth concur in the addition made
will be communicated to the other House by by the House of Comm ns to the said 3rd
a message. Sonetimes a second conference amendment, that addition being to insert
will be necessary when the first has not led
words requiring a registry to be kept of
to an agreement betw-en the Houses."
all the sales of spirits.
On that second conference in the same
way no discussion takes place, but on the
The motion was agreed to.
failure of those two conferences to adjust
the difference, a free conference takes
HON. MR. VIDAL moved that this
place and here the managers are free:House doth not insist on its 6th amend'" To attempt by personal persuasion and
argument to effect an arrangement between ment to the said Bill. He said: I might
the two Houses. When a free conference is mention that this is to restore the clause
held business is suspended in both Houses." struck out of the Bill by this House,
I do not think either House would be imposing a penalty upon physicians who
willing to suspend business at this period violate the law. It is considered that
that provision should be made. It does
of the session :
" The Commons stand the .whole time un- no harm, and reflects no discredit upon
covered within the bar at the table. The any members of the profession, except
lords walk uncovered to their seats where those who are really guilty of a violation
they remain sitting and covered during the of the law.
whole conference.'
I merely read this to show that it would
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
be inexpedient to resort to a conference. dare say my hon. friend has treated this
The matter is accomplished now, as matter in a proper and regular way. I
Bourinot shows, by message, the reason propose to deal with it, not as a member
being attached explaining why there is a of the Government much less on behalf
disagreement with reference to any amend- of the Government, but as a member of
ment. Taking these amendments then in the Senate. It seems to me that as this
order, I find it is necessary that each item House has taken a certain stand upon
should be dealt with by a separate resolu- this matter, that our action should be

1156

7Temperance Act, etc., [SEN ATE] Amendment Bill.

They should
necessary is necessary.
have told us why it is necessary. I have
prepared a message in which I suggest
the reasons why the provision is unnecessary : " That the Senate doth insist on its
6th amendment to the said Bill for the following reasons:-Thatthe reasons adduced
in the message from the House of Commons do not show how or why the provision stricken out of the said amendment
is necessary in order to the proper and
effective enforcement of the law; second,
because by law provision already exists
for indicting and punishing medical
men and others, who give certificates
under the Canada Temperance Act of
1878, for other than medicinal purposes,
and that it is not'expedient that medical
men charged with such offences should be
tried summarily before Justices of the
Peace."
Now I quite agee in this. I do not
think it is a fair thing to try medical men
summarily for an offence against the Act.
The House must bear in mind, and those
members who are most in favor of this
Act will, if they reflect, admit that there
are many occasions when a medical man
gives a certificate fairly and properly, for
which he might be brought before a
magistrate who is so earnest, so to speak
-I do not want to use any offensive
words-in his belief in the virtues of this
Act, and so anxious to enforce it, that a
medical man would have but scant justice
from him, and I do not want to impose
that liability on the medical profession.
The Commons propose in addition to exrosing medical men to that risk, to expose
clergymen to it also. I think that is still
more objectionable. I would not on any
account agree to that. Is it reasonable or fair that where a clergyman,
in the absence of a medical man,
gives a certificate that alcohol is necessary, he shall be liable to be
proceeded against summarily before a
Justic of the Peace who is earnest
HON. MR. SCOTT-The Commons in his admiration of the law, and
give as a reason: " Because abuses have very anxious to enforce it ? Is it a fair
arisen in counties in which the Act has thing to expose a clergyman to that
been adopted, owing to the absence of a risk ? I think not. I certainly would not
do it, and neither would I do it as regards
penal clause of this nature."
medical men. As regards that feature of
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That the Message which cornes from the House
is simply saying to us that we are wrong, of Commons I propose that we reply
that the provision we thought was un- that we insist upon our amendment

upheld or we should abandon it; that if
the action of the Senate is to be upheld
that we should be ready to give reasons
for it, and it seems to me to be proper, as
the leader of the House, to take care that
the action of the House is properly represented, and to take care, as far as I can,
that the reasons which may be given for
the action of the Senate are such as will
justify it in its own eyes and in the eyes of
the public. I think upon the whole that
it is better for the House, with reference
to the other amendments of this Billpassing by the ones to which I have
assented-to adhere to the course which
it resolved upon some few days ago when
the Bill was before the House. We then,
after much deliberation, and after
fair discussion, and with the facts
all before us, arrived at certain
decisions as to what should be done with
reference to these various provisions.
With reference to the one immediately
under discussion, the House thought that
it was not a reasonable thing to make a
physician liable to summary proceedings before a Justice of the Peace,
and we accordingly struck out the
provision which the Bill contained to
that end. The Commons re-inserted that,
but instead of giving us, as I think we are
entitled to have had, some reason showing
why and how they thought that provision
was unnecessary, they simply assert that
the provision is necessary. Whoever
drew up that portion of the Message,
did not fairly consider the relations
of the two Houses, or represented
properly the idea which, I think, should
govern the parliamentary intercourse between the two Houses. Instead of giving
us a reason why the amendment that
we have made in that particular was unnecessary, the cause alleged in the paper
is the simple one that "the provision is
necessary in order to the proper and
effective enforcement of the law."

HoN.

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Temperance Act, etc., [JULY 6, 1885] Amendment Bil.
for the reasons I have given. I have a
general Message in my hand which I propose as a return to the Message which has
been sent to us from the House of ComMons, but I cannot go through the whole
Of it with reference to each amendment,
but wilI limit it to the amendment which
my hon. friend has moved shall be concurred in, as being the most convenient way
Of meeting it. I move the amendment
which I have read to the House.

1157
1

HON. MR. VIDAL-I cannot at all
agree with the view of the Minister of
Justice when he says that an insufficient
reason is attached to this amendment sent
up to us from the House of Commons.
They give as a reason for disagreeing to
the 6th amendment, that abuses have
arisen in counties in which the Act has
been adopted, owing to the absence of a
penal clause of this nature, and the provision is necessary in order to the proper
and effective enforcement of the law. It
is certainly the opinion of able lawyers
who have looked into this matter that
there is no provision in the Canada Temperance Act for the punishment of a
physician who in this way, knowingly and
wilfully violates the law. Is it the intention of this honorable House that a person,
even if occupying a high position in
society should escape from punishment
if he knowingly, and wilfully and frequently
violates the law?
Why should he
escape ?

HON. MR. KAULBACH-Who is to
be the judge whether he has committed a
breach of the law ?

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPEELL-It
is not that he should escape punishment, but that that kind of procedure is unwise and inexpedient, and no
reason is assigned for such a provision.
HON. MR. VIDAL-The reason assigned by the House of Commons is
suflicient, that abuses of this nature have
existed in counties where the Act is in
force, and it has been found impossible to
impose a penalty. Who does it harm ?
Over whom are we asked to throw the
shield of, our protection ? Not over the
honest upright man who discharges his
duties faithfully, but over the man who
disregards the law, who may have a prejudice against the law and sets it at
defiance.

HON. MR. VIDAL-I say that it is our
bounden duty to enforce the law, and to
protect the law, and to impose the penalty
no matter how high may be the position
in society of that person who violates the
law. If it is thought there may be danger
in having such cases tried before one magistrate, the clause might be amended by
providing that they should be tried before
two magistrates ; but I do not think that
there is any danger. I do not think the
offense would be a common one ; and
where it is committed the case can be
safely trusted to a magistrate who will not
have any object or any desire to inflict a
penalty upon any physician, and if he did
so improperly there is an opportunity
for an appeal.

HON. MR. POWER-Would the hon.
gentleman be kind enough to read the
provision in the original bill which was
struck out.
HON. MR. VIDAL-The original bill
stood thus: "and any medical man who
"gives such a certificate for any other than
"strictly medicinal purposes, shall, for the
"first offence, be liable, on summary con"viction before any one or more justices
"of the peace under the Act 3 2nd and
"33rd Vie., chap. 31, to a penalty of $2o,
"and for the second or any subsequent
"offence shall be liable, on summary
conviction, to a penalty of $40." I cannot conceive any valid objection to such a
clause reniaining in the Bill.

HON. MR. SCOTT-The Minister of

Justice says that a provision already exists
in the law for the punishment of a violation of it by a medical man. I was not
aware that such a provision existed, and I
should like to have it made clear that
there is such a provision.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-There
is no doubt that an offence of this sort
under the Act may be committed; there
is no doubt there may be an accessory to
the offence, and the person who gave the
false certificate would be an accessory to
the crime, and would be indictable as such.

1158

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

HON. MR. SCOTT-In drawing up the
Act I had not that in view, and I must
say that at that time I had a high appreciation of the medical profession and I did
not think it was possible, until after the
disclosures that came to light in Halton
and Prince Edward Island, that there were
men in the profession who would stoop
so low as to give the certificates that we
have read of-certificates ordering four
gallons of brandy for one prescription, or
72 bottles of porter, enough to take a bath
in. These were the abuses for the repression of which this amendment was considered necessary, and abuses that the
Message from the Commons properly
points to. If there is no provision in the
law to mcet such abuses, I say it is time
that that provision was made. Medical
men should not be protected when they
openly violate an Act of Parliament, and
do it for mercenary purposes. I am told
that in Princè Edward Island some medical men carry about with them certificates
for spirituous liquors which they sell at $i
each, wholly irrespective of whether they
are required for medicinal purposes or
not. It is for this reason the House of
Commons introduced this amendment.
To-day, as far as my knowledge of the
Act goes, it does not reach medical men
who violate the law in this way, unless
you choose to reach thern by a provision
of this kind, notwithstanding what has
allen from my hon. friend to the contrary.
The hon. gentleman has stated there, as
part of the record, that a provision does
exist for indicting a medical man who
gives a false certificate for spirits. This
provision asked for is no stronger than
the one he quoted, yet he objects to this
because he says no adequate reason is
assigned for it. No other reason is necessary than the one the House of Conimons
has given, that abuses have occurred and
that this provision is necessary. I myself
illustrated on a former occasion the abuses
of the law, giving the names of the parties
and the quantities of liquors sold under
certificates from medical men.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-Will the hon.
gentleman give us the name of the medical
man in Prince Edward Island who peddle

brandy and 72 bottles
prescriptions.

of porter as

HON. MR. HOWLAN-The hon.
gentleman made a statement that medical
men are travelling through Prince
Edward Island peddling certificates at $1
a piece, and I ask him for the names ?

MR. ROBITAILLE - The
HON.
hon. gentleman from Ottawa has given us
good reasons why we should insist upon
not exposing medical men to what may
become a persecution. He states here in
the presence of learned gentlemen in this
House that a medical man is blameable
because he thinks proper to give a certificate for four gallons of brandy or 72
bottles of porter to any man for medicinal
purposes. It strikes me that it is
very easily explained. Take, for instance, a person who has sickness in his family, living in a
country place, and it is necessary, in the
opinion of the medical attendant that there
should be spirits in the house on account
of those who are ill there. He gives a
certificate for four gallons of brandy for
the simple reason that it is a stock to be
laid in, may be for months, to be used for
medicinal purposes. Then the hon. gentleman must understand that if you order
a barrel of bottled porter, that it contains
just 72 pint boules, and therefore I say
that a person living at a distance from a
city, where such things cannot be procured,
should have a certificate from a medical
man in order to get a supply that may last
for some months. Who is to be the judge
that the certificatehasbeen wrongly issued ?
Would the hon. gentleman himself pretend
to say that a medical certificate was wrongfully issued which, in the opinion of the
physician himself, is a correct certificate ?
Who is going to judge the action of the
medical man? The first man you meet
in the street may come up and accuse
the medical man of having wrongfully
issued a certificate, and who is to judge
him ? He will bring him before
the first magistrate he finds-perhaps
a magistrate whose name was suggested
to the authorities for the purpose of the
prosecution which is mentioned by this
certificates at $i a piece ?
Act. I say you expose honorable men to
HoN. MR. SCOTT-I read the name be brought before a magistrate who interof the man who ordered four gallons of poses himself between the person who re-

Temperance Act, etc., [JULY 6, 1885] Amendment BiW.
ceives the certificate and the man who
issued it. He will put his opinion against
that of the medical man, and, by authority of this Act, perhaps condemn him unjustly. The physician in such case will
be ruined in character and ruined in
Pocket,andtothis risk he would be exposed
espeçially in country places where politics
run very high

in some sections, and

Where you find some political party will
prosecute a medical man of the opposite
party, magistrates will be found who will
go to work cheerfully to ruin a profesSional man's character.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I regret
very much that the hon. gentleman from
Sarnia and the hon. gentleman from Ottawa
should have made up their minds to oppose
this amendment, because it does seem
to me that there is very good ground in
the argument which has been brought
forward by the leader of this House for
the course which he has taken; and inasmuch as I have myself systematically in
these debates supported the action of the
gentlemen who are in favor of the Scott
Act, I would wish most sincerely to be able
to pursue that course throughout. But it
seems to me that the policy which the
hon. gentlemen have thought proper to
adopt in this particular instance is an unreasonable one, and I, as a man who professes to be guided as much as possible
by the best judgment I can bring to bear
upon a question of this importance, am
hindered in consequence from giving them
the support upon this motion which I have
given them hitherto. It seems to me that
a justice of the peace is not a proper tribunal to send a medical man before. It
must be pretty well known to members of

this House the class from which justices
of the peace are generally drawn in a province. They are excellent men, estimable
men in their proper sphere in life, as
farmers or members of society generally.
In our Province,at all events,I may say with
perfect knowledge of the fact, it very rarely
happens that they act in their judicial capacity, and consequently they have not that
readiness and experience in weighing and
deciding cases, so essential to the proper
administration of justice-particularly in
a case of this sort. And further I see an
objection to the course which the hon.
gentleman from Sarnia and his friends

1159

propose on this occasion, that it is reasonable to assume that the informer in
this case will carry the information before
magistrates who are notoriously in favor
of the Temperance Act. The hon. gentleman from Sarnia assumes at once that
the man is guilty of the act he is charged
with. You may take that man, who
is innocent in the eyes of the law
until proved guilty, to be tried for his
character and position in society before an
inexperienced magistrate, or before two
magistrates, both of whom are openly and
professedly opposed to the very act with
which he is charged. They are avowedly
members of temperance societies, and
strong supporters of the Temperance Act,
and that is the tribunal which the hon.
gentleman would select, and which he
insists upon taking a medical man before
to be tried on an information of this sort.
These are reasons which have such force
in my mind that on this occasion, with
great regret I admit, I am obliged to act
in a different manner from what I have
heretofore done on this important question. I shall, therefore, upon this motion,
support the leader of the Government.
The House divided on the amendment,
which was carried on the following division:
CONTENTS :

Hon. Messrs.
McKay,
Almon,
McKindsey,
Baillargeon,
MeMillan,
Bolduc,
Macdonald,
Boucherville de,
Campbell, (Sir Alex.),Montgomery,
Northwood,
Carvell,
O'Donohoe,
Clemow,
Ogilvie,
DeBlois,
Paquet,
Dever,
Read,
Dickey,
Robitaille,
Glasier,
Smith,
Hamilton,
Sutherland,
Haythorne,
Thibaudeau,
Kaulbach,
Trudel.-30.
McDonald,

No-CoNTers:
Hon. Mesers.

Chaffers,

Chapais,
Ferrier,
Girard,
Le*onard,
MoInnes,
McMaster,

Miller (Speaker),

Power,
Scott,
Stevens,
Vidal,
Wark,-13.

1160

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Anendment Bill.

HoN MR. VIDAL-It will be necessary, as a matter of form, that we take
action upon the next amendment, though
of course it falls to the ground by the
amendment which bas just carried. I
move that this House doth concur in the

bas jurisdiction by the Act. Nothing
could be more misleading than offering to
a magistrate a form to do a thing which
he bas no right to do. I propose that we
insist upon our amendments, and that we
give these reasons :-

amendment made by the House of Com-

1st. Because the forme given in the echedule
mons to the words restored to the said
to the Bill are vague, loose and misleading.
Bill in page two, line fifteen.

2nd. Because in certain cases the said
forms might lead magistrates to muake convictions contrary to law, as, for instance, the
forme numbered 8, 9, and 10 respectively in
" Schedule 0," which relate to indictable
offences not punishable on summary conviction.
3rd. Because it is not expedient to make
any further departure fron the long establireasons: 1. For the reasons above given for insisting shed and salutary rules of procedure and
evidence in criminal cases.
upon the said sixth amendment

HoN. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-I
move in amendment
That the Senate doth disagree to the further
amendment made by the House of Commons
to the words stricken out of the Bill by the
said sixth amendment, for the following

2. Because the said further amendment is
not consequent upon the said sixth amendFION. MR. SCOTT-I had nothing to
ment.
3. Because by the said further amendment do with the drawing up of those fornis
Clergymen charged with giving certificates to and have not compared them with the

be used for the purose of evading the pro. Act to see whether provision bas been
visions of 1' The Canada Tenperance Act,
1878," would be tried summarily before made for punishing parties for subornaJustices of the Peace, which is even more to tion. I find under clause îoo of the
be deprecated than that Medical men should Canada Temperance Act that any person
be.
who violates the law is liable, on sumThe amendment was agreed to on the mary conviction, to a penalty or punishment, and it makes provision for the
same division.
trial of such offences before certain offiHON. MR. VIDAL-I move that this cials. Has my bon. friend looked careHouse doth not insist on its ioth amend- fully into that ?

ment to the said Bill to which the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,
Commons disagree. This relates to striking out the forms given in the schedules. I have looked into it and had it looked
into by one of my own officers.

HoN.

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I

dissent as strongly from this as from any
other of the amendments. It was proposed in the Bill originally that certain
forms should be laid down for the
guidance of magistrates. Now those forms
are misleading, and I have instances
which I propose to offer to the
House where they are misleading.
There are three fornis given-8, 9 and 1o
-which point to a conviction before a
magistrate for offences over which the
magistrate has no jurisdiction. A magistrate bas no jurisdiction over the offence
of tampering with a witness; he bas no
jurisdiction over compromising or com
pounding a. prosecution; he has no
jurisdiction over the offence of being party
to a compromise, nor are these offences
made offences over which a magistrate

HON. MR. SCOTT-The bon. gentleman niay be right.
I have not looked
into it and cannot pronounce any opinion.
On the former point, however, I consider
the bon. gentleman is wrong.

The motion was agreed to on the same
division.
HON. MR. VIDAL moved that this

House doth not insist upon its i1th
amendment to the said Bill to which the
Commons disagree.
HoN. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-This

is the clause which proposed to permit the
sale of small beer, light wines and cider.
The House of Commons disagree to this
amendment for the following reasons:-

Temperance Act, etc., [JULY 6, 1885] Amendment Bll.
" Because it is a violation of the fundameni

tal principles of the Act, which where adopted,
prohibits the sale of ail intoxicating liquors
for beverage purposes ; and because the Act
has already been adopted in good faith by
the Electors in 61 Counties and Cities of the
Dominion, believing that under the express
provisions of the aw it would continue in
force unimpaired for three years, and would
then only be repealed by the same authority
Which adopted it; and the passing of the
amendment would be a breach of faith on the
part of Parliament with the Electors of these
Counties and Cities ; and further because the
amendment is in direct opposition to the
Wishes of a large portion of the Electors of

the Dominion as manifested by the petitions
presented to Parliament."

I cannot fancy reasons being given

which are less based on knowledge of the
constitution and of parliamentary law than
these are. They presuppose a sort of
compact between Parliament and a certain
portion of Her Majesty's subjects who may
have voted for the Temperance Act in
certain localities and that this compact
binds Parliament to those people not to
interfere with or alter the law for three
years. It is not only incorrect in itself,
but it is a violation, it strikes me, of all
those principles which are recognized by
constitutional lawyers. It rests with Parliament to deal with those things. Even
if Parliament had passed a law not to
change this Act in any way for three years,
it does not bind any other Parliament.
We could come here and legislate upon it.
It is open for us to do what we think best
for the whole country now. We legislate
as we please about it and we are not
bound by what was done last session or
former sessions, and there is nothing in
the constitution by which Parliament
has entered into a compact not to
do anything which might be considered

1161

My hon. friend from Ottawa laughs at
that. That is as true, to my mind, as
anything can be. I believe honestly and
heartily that in the true interests of temperance it is right that people should
be allowed to drink wine and cider.
2. Because the reasons adduced in the
message from the fouse of Commons for
disagreeing to the said amendment, ignore
the constitutional and sovereign authority of
Parliament in the making, amending and
repealing of laws.
It is laid down there that we cannot do
this thing, because we did so and so three
years ago. Nothing could be more erroneous, nothing less susceptible of being
maintained by any constitutional lawyer.
3. Because there is nothing in " The Canada Temperance Act, 1878,' to warrant the
Electors of those Cities and Counties in which
the second part of the said Act has already
been ado pted, in believing that it would continue in force unimpaired for three years, the
said Act providing only to the effect that nu
Order-in-Council bringing the second part
thereof into force shail be revoked for three
years ; and the true intent of sncb provision
being, not that the Act should continue for
that period unaltered by Parliament, but that
the effect of the second part when once
adopted should not be impaired by the Executive without the consent of Parliament.
And because, even if the said Act had
enacted expressly that the second part thereof

when once adopted, should continue in force

unaltered for three years, such an enactment
would have been subject always to amendment and repeal, inasmuch as nio Parliament
can bind subsequent Parliaments and becuse, according to the constitution of the
British Empire, and to the law and privileges
of Parliament, there is no compact between
Parliament and the said electors, nor can
there be any breach of faith in the passing of
the said amendment.
4. Because the said amendment is in compliance with the wishes of a large number of
the Electors of the Dominion as manifested
desirable in the public interest, and, by their petitions presented to Parliament.
besides, this message misrepresents it as the
Petitions are alleged on one side ; petilaw as it stands. The law as it stands tions exist on the other, and if it is proper

Parliament has not pledged its faith for the House to say they refuse to accept
not to interfere for three years with the this amendment because there are petitions
Act, but it is that the executive shall not presented in that sense it is quite right for
interfere for three years unless Parliament us to say that we adhere to our amenddesires it to interfere. That is the law, ment because there are petitions presented
and not what they cite. I propose:to us in this sense.
" That the Senate doth insiat upon its
HoN. MR. SCOTT-1 do not propose
eleventh amendment to the said Bill, for the
following reasons:to discuss with the leader of the House
1. Because the said amendment is desirable the first proposition whether nations can
be made temperate by indulgence in light
in the true interests of temperance.

1162

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

wine and beer. I am quite willing to
accord to hin an honest conviction when
he tells us that he believes temperance
will be best obtained by permitting the
-use of those beverages. He has quite
as good a right to his opinion as I have to
mine. It is one of those cases where,
desiring to corne to a wise conclusion, we
have dissented very widely in the opinions
we have formed on that subject. Coming
to the next point, where Parliament is
breaking faith with those who have adopted
the Temperance Act, I dissent directly
from his views. There are some constitutional lawyers in the other Chamber,
and the opinion there was, on both sides,
that in those counties where the Act has
been adopted it would be manifestly
improper, and retroactive legislation, to
disturb the state of things existing in
those counties.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am
rather disposed to agree that in those
counties where the Act has been carried
some provision should be made for them.
HON. MR. SCOTT-My hon. friend
spoke generally. He made no exception.
This Act is rather different from ordinary
acts of Parliament. It is a local option
act. We pass a law and say to the
people "here is a law which you can carry
and if it is carried it will be enforced for
three years." That is clearly the understanding that it connot be disturbed orrepealed for three years. If it cannot be
repealed it cannot be changed. Therefore, I say it is not keeping faith with the
people when we say to thern that what we
call light wines and beer shall be sold notwithstanding the Act has been carried. I
will not discuss at length, because I would
be addressing unwilling ears, why, I consider we are making a great mistake. I
only wish to express my regret that the
Senate should put on record such an opin-

ion on a question that is so purely one

relating to the people. It is a subject matter
that we relegated to the people. Parliament
said, " We are not going to pass prohibitory laws, but we will allow the people to
pass prohibitory laws in various localities.
If the temperance education is up to that
level, we will permit then to carry it and
put the law in force." I say this anend.
ment is a direct breach of faith with the
HoN. MR. SCOTT.

people who carried that law. I think the
Senate is making a great mistake, and one
which we will regret in future, in placing
ourselves so diametrically opposite to the
law we have ourselves given the people
and on which they have already expressed
their opinion. So far as those counties
which have not yet carried the Act are
concerned I think Parliament can, with
ample justice, make any provision it
pleases as to what beverages should be
admitted under this Act, but so far as
those counties are concerned which have
already adopted the Act, I say it is a clear
breach of faith.
HON. MR. DICKEY-As this is a
question affecting the constitutional powers
of Parliament the House may indulge me
in a few observations on the subject, especially as I agree with what has been said
by the hon. member from Ottawa, and at
the same time I have been impressed with
the remarks of the hon. Minister of Justice.
In such a matter as this, above all others, I
think the House will be disposed to be led
-influenced certainly-but probably they
will consider themselves in a position to
be led very much by the instruction we get
from the Minister of Justice. We have
no higher authority in this Parliament and
we have very few higher authorities in the
land than we have in him, and I am bound
to say that on the general question I
naturally concur in the constitutional doctrine that he has laid down. I think that
when we corne to look at those reasons
which have been given by the House of
Commons if we were to act upon that
principle and apply it to all our legislation
we should very soon find it entirely a new
doctrine which has been unheard of in the
history of Parliament. At the same time
I have a very strong wish, with regard to
this particular application of the doctrine
on this amendment, that it should
not affect the people who have voted
in the different counties. I have
that sort of feeling, and if it were in our
power, in accordance with the usages of
Parliament, to make an amendment to
the amendnent, which we submitted in
another place, I should be disposed to
suggest that such a change be made.
While I am upon that subject 1 may say
there are a good many gentlemen here
who are impressed with the idea that if

Temperance A ct, etc., [JULY 6, 1885] Amendment Bill.
We insist upon this amendment it will

'effectually kill this Bill. Upon that subject, also, I should hesitate to give a vote
in favor of the motion of the Hon. Minister of Justice, did I suppose it would
have that effect, but I am happy to say,
in considering the matter and looking at
the authorities, I find it cannot have any
such effect, because while we cannot
nake an amendment of our own it is quite
open to the House to reconsider their
action upon the subject and to make a
Consequential amendment to this which
we now insist upon. I find the doctrine
Very clearly laid down in Bourinot, and
before we corne to a vote upon this question I think it is quite right that the
House should understand it and that we
should not be deterred from giving an
opinion on this question by any consideration such as I have expressed myselfthat is, that the Act might not go into
operation. Bourinot, at page 553, says:-

1163

Therefore, when this amendment is insisted upon, as it probably will be, and
goes to another place, it will then be for
the House there to return a consequential
amendment, for example, in the direction
I have indicated as regards its operation
upon counties that have already passed

upon this Act, and in that way a solution
of the matter could be arrived at. I am
quite sure, from the feeling which has
been evinced by the gentlemen to whorn

I have mentioned the subject, that they
will be very much disposed to favorably
receive any suggestion like this to get out
of the difficulty ; because while we insist
upon the constitutional doctrine as to the
power of Parliament to change the law,
still we desire to give every facility
to persons situated as those are in
counties where the Act has been
adopted, to have the benefit of the Act
if they desire it, and it can be done in

the way I suggest. At the same time
I cannot too strongly insist that not only

" If one House agree to the amendments
new and most
made in a Bill by the other House, a message it is a that Parliament not unheard of
only cannot
is returned to that effect, and the Bill is con- doctrine,
eequently ready to be submitted to the Gov- alter an Act which it has passed, but canernor-General. In case the amendmente are not make a new provision.
I have only
objected to, a member may propose that the to refer to the history of this Canada

amendments be conside-ed that day three or
six months; and when such a motion is
agreed to, the Bill is practieally defeated for
that session. But under ordinary circuistances, when there is a desire to pass the
Bill if possible, a member will move that the
amendments be disagreed to for certain reasons, which are communicated by message to
the other House where the amendments were
made. These reasons are moved after the
second reading of the amendmente. If the
Senate or Commons do not adhere to their
anendments, on the reasons being communicated to them, they return a message that
' They do not insist, etc., etc,' and no further
action need be taken on the subject. But if
they ' insist on their amendment,' then the
other House will be called upon to consider
whetber io will continue to disagree or waive
ita objection in order te 8ave the Bill.-"

Temperance Act; we have been altering

that Act constantly, and the changes affect
all counties in which the Act is in operation. Every detail of the Bill before us
shows that we have acted on that principle.
What was the Liquor License Act of 1883,

passed five years after the Canada Temperance Act, but a measure to interfere
with the operation of the Canada Temperance Act, and in my own county, in
which the Temperance Act was in force,
the Liquor Licence Act was also in
operation. Nobody, in the discussions on
the Liquor License Act of 1883, ever
pretended to say that it was unconstitutional, or that we should not make such
an enactment

because

it affected the

previous law in force in certain counties
throughout the Dominion. I hope I have
made those two points clear, first, that I
should be willing to give every facility to
have this matter reconsidered in another
place, which, fortunately, by the usages of
pose any amendnent to an amendment made Parliament, it can be, and, second, to insist
Dy the one Bouse to a biIl of the other Bouse, strongly on the right of Parliament to
provided it is consequential in its nature:
that is to say, consequent upon or relevant to legislate on any matter on which they
And how that is done is pointed out
immediately after on page 554
2. Neither House can regularly, at this
stage, insert any new proviion, or amend, or
omit any part of a bill it has passed itself,
and sent up to the other House for concurrence. But it is perfectly in order to pro-

the amendment under consideration.

have legislated before.

1164

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Amendinent Bill.

HON. MR. VIDAL-I cannot allow this
amendment to pass without at least putting on record my views concerning it,
and lodging my emphatic and solemn
protest in the name of

15o,ooo

electors of

this country who have voted for the Act,
against the outrage which I insist is being
perpetrated upon them. A great deal of
argument has been adduced here to prove
the fallacy of a statement that has not
been made; in the reasons given to us by
the House of Commons for disagreeing
with this amendment there is no suggestion
that Parliament has not power to change
the law. No member of the House of
Commons would allow such an expression
to emanate from that Chamber. I contend that the language used in this
message is justified by the circumstances.
I assert that this amendment is a violation
of the fundamental principle of the Act.
Who can dispute that the fundamental
principle of the Temperance Act is to
prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquors,
without any reference to the quantity of
alcohol in them ? I hold that the amendment is a distinct and outrageous violation
of the principles of that Act. Where in
the argument used by the House of Commons do you find anything of the suggestion that Parliament had not the power to
amend its laws ? There is no such thing.
It simply says it would be a breach of
faith on the part of Parliament.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Hear! hear !
HoN. MR. VIDAL-Is it not a pure
breach of faith on the part of Parliament ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No.
What they say is the order-in-council shall
not be revoked for three years. It does
not say that Parliament may not interfere.
HON. MR. VIDAL-It does not, but it
is implied. The very meaning of that Act
is that where it is adopted it should not
be interfered with for three years.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Not by order-in-

council.
HON. MR. VIDAL-It does not matter
how. I am speaking in the name of common people, who believe in what Parliament says, that that Act when brought
HON. MR. DICKEY.

into force can only be revoked by an
order-in-council obtained by the sane
mode of procedure, but the vote cannot
be taken within three years. The people
have thus the right to expect that the Act
shall be kept in force for three years, and
it is a violation of an implied compact
which Parliament entered into with those
who believed that they meant what they
said. Therefore, I contend that the House
of Commons were perfectly justified in
saying that it is a breach of faith on the
part of Parliament with those who accepted
that Act. The Minister of Justice himself admitted, after his attention was called
to the matter by the hon. member from
Ottawa, that he thought there might be an
exception made in favor of those counties
which have adopted the law.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
said I thought they stood in a different
position.
HON. MR. VIDAL-But not until the
hon. member from Ottawa had called
attention to it.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
did not occur to me. I thought if some
suggestion were made to the other House
that they might be disposed to consider it
in a different way.

HON. MR. VIDAL- I am quite aware
that the hon. gentleman said this, and I
was pleased to hear it, and I was also
pleased to hear the remarks of the hon.
gentleman from Amherst in the sane
direction, but I hold the reasons given
here why that House does not agree to
the amendments made by the Senate are
valid and cogent reasons and will be
appreciated and understood by the people
of this country. 1 am convinced
that the legislation we are now passing
will not meet with the approbation of the country. We see it indicated by the meetings of the various
church courts since we adopted this
amendment; they speak clearly and distinctly the sentiments of the people. I
say that we are proceeding in direct opposition to the sentiments of the people of
this country, sentiments made known to
us in a constitutional way by their repre-

Temperance Act, etc., [JULY 6, 1885.] Amendment Bll.
sentatives in the other Chamber who have
twice voted on this question, once, on
the motion of Mr. Gigault, which was
voted down, and again when going to
them with the express sanction of this
House, when it was defeated without a
division.

1165

HON. MR. VIDAL-I hold that we are
not meeting the views of the country as a
high legislative body when we tamper with
a Bill which the people value so highly
and which they wish to preserve unimpaired.

MR. PLUMB-I wish to say a
My
hon. friend who has just sat down, I
regret to say, has given us very rnuch the
same expression that he gave us on a
former occasion. It is very unfortunate
that these discussions cannot take place
without the use of violent epithets and
impugning motives, and without covert
threats. As far as this amendment is
concerned the question is a perfectly
simple one. The House of Commons
give us a reason, which we do not think is
a proper one, for disagreeing to the
amendment. One reason which they give
is that we have, as it states, made a compact with the persons who have adopted
the Temperance Act, and that it cannot
be amended without a breach of faith.
HON.

HON. MR. DICKEY-Will my hon. word or two on this amendment.

friend state what were the numbers in the
first division and the numbers on the
second occasion?
HON. MR. VIDAL-1 do not remember, but it is of no consequence.

HoN. MR. PLUMB-I can give the
number.
HON. MR. VIDAL-The hon. gentlemnan, if he were running an election,
would be very glad to be elected by a
majority even of two. On this particular
amendment there was no division at all,
and we have good ground for saying the
House of Commons was unanimously opposed to it. The records of that Chamber
would justify us in making that statement.

HON. MR. VIDAL-An implied com-

pact.
HON. MR. OGILVIE-In the same way
the hon. member from Sarnia states that
he has the names of

15o.ooo

HON. MR. PLUMB-That language
electors on cannot be applied to it. It could not be

his petitions here.
HON. MR. VIDAL-I did not say a
word to that effect ; I said I represented
15o,ooo people who had voted for the Act.
HON. MR. OGILVIE-Precisely; we
have petitions here on our side of the
House from a very much larger number

of electors.
HON. MR. VIDAL-I am not speaking
of petitions, because I know how little
importance is attached to petitions in this
House, though coming from the most influential bodies in the land, but I claim

that I represent the sentiments of t50,000

people who have given their ballots for
adopting the Scott Act; that cannot be got
over. One hundred and fifty thousand of
our electors have thus distinctly expressed
themselves in favor of the Act.
HON.
million.

MR.

OGILVIE-Out

changed by an Order-in-Council, but Parliament is supreme and can change the
Act if it likes. This branch of Parliament
has chosen to change it. My hon. friend
lays great stress on what he terms the
voice of the people who have been heard
with regard to this measure.
Now
although the Act has been adopted in
many counties, a fundamental error has
been perpetuated in every election that
has been held in respect to this Act. I
have insisted from the beginning that this
Act should only be put in force by a
majority of the voters, or it never ,would
have the respect of the people. I say so
now, yet in counties which, prior to the
last election, had registered voters to the
number of over 390,000, this Act has been
put in force, and only 123,000 have

voted on both sides.
Does the
hon. gentleman speak of that as being
evidence of tremendous enthusiasm on
the part of the people? Does he not
of a know that the association of which he is a
president, has used every method possible

1166

Temperance Act, etc., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

sire to have that Act passed. The argument is used that because they do not go'
to the polls they approve of the Act ; we
have as good a right to say-in fact a
better right to say-that those who abstain
from going to the polls are opposed to the
Act. In the county of Hastings the Act
was submitted to the people and it was
sex, where there are nearly go,ooo inhabi- defeated. We have a right to assume that
tants, and where there were, in 1882, 20,- there is a re-action against the proscriptive
ooo registered voters ; how many people methods which have been adopted by the
voted for and against that Act ? Not hon. gentleman and his friends.
one-third of the people registered.
HON. MR. POWER-I rise to a quesHON. MR. McINNES (B. C.)-By tion of order: the hon. gentleman has
drifted away from the question before the
what majority did they carry it ?
House.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Two or three
HON. MR. PLUMB-I am adhering
There are about 20,000
thousand.
voters, of whom only 6,ooo went to the strictly to the propositions which have
polls. I say that is an evidence that the been made by the House of Commons in
popular will, which we are called upon to sending back this measure, and if the hon.
respect, bas not been expressed in those gentleman will read the message he will
elections. It is easy to hold meetings and see that I have done so. It says : "And
abuse this body as not representing and further, because the amendment is in
not being responsible to the people. direct opposition to the wishes of a large
Why do we not represent the people? portion of the electors of the Dominion as
Who presumes to say that a body con- manifested by the petitions presented to
stituted as the Senate is has ever shown Parliament." I have a right, on the other
that it had not a strong desire to uphold side, to say that I do not think it is in opthe morals of the community ? We position to the wishes of a large majority
honestly differ in opinion from the of the electors of the Dominion. I have
majority in the other House and we are a right to go further, and say that I do not
denounced all over the country in language believe those petitions presented by the
which certainly is not temperate language temperance people were signed by elec-- denounced in the most abusive manner. tors. There is no proof that they were ;
The hon. gentleman says we are standing we cannot say whether the signers
against the will of the people-that is, were electors or not. Therefore I say
against the will of 15o,ooo out of 1,ooo,ooo the hon. gentleman's contention that he
voters in this Dominion. I do not deny represents the sentiments of the people is
that 150,ooo persons have recorded their a weak one. From the time that this
votes in favor of the . Temperance amendment was passed I have held that
Act, but the hon. gentleman knows it was desirable that the counties which
that not long ago there was an elec- have already adopted the Act should be
tion in the county of Perth; the Scott exempted from the operation of this
Act did not carry there. The hon. gentle- amendment. Of course it is impossible
man is very fond of quoting Scripture, and for the Senate to make any amendment
he says one of the strong arguments, per- now. I should be very glad if some mehaps not of himself but of others who thod could be devised by which we could
uphold the Scott Act, is that we must do so, and I am quite in accord with the
submit to be punished because of a hon. member from Ottawa and my hon.
brother's offence. I will tell the hon. gen- friend from Amherst, who have expressed
tleman of another text which can be used: that desire. I trust that in some way or
he that is not with me is against me. other a satisfactory solution may be arYoucannot ride both sides ofthat question; rived at of that difficulty.
The Senate divided on the motion which
those who do not come to the polls we
must assume have not an enthusiastic de- was agreed to on the following division.
to bring people to the polls ? Does he
not know that there is an enthusiastic
and zealous organization working for the
Act everywhere? He bas acknowledged
that large sums of money have been
spent in carrying those elections, and yet
what do we see ? The other day an
election was held in the county of Middle-

HoN. MR. PLUMB.

Adulteration qf .Food, [JULY 6, 1885] Dmgs, etc., Bill.
CONTENTS:
Hon. Messrs.
Almon,
Baillargeon,
Bolduc,
Boucherville, de,
Campbell (Sir Alex.),
Carvell,
Clemow,
DeB]ois,
Dever,
Dickey,
Glasier,
Hamilton,
Raulbach,
McDonald,
McKindsey,

McMillan,
Macdonald,
Montgomery,
Nelson,
Northwood,
O'Donohoe,
Ogilvie,
Pâquet,
Plub,
Poirier,
Read,
Robitaille,
Smith,
Sutherland,
Thibaudeau.-30

NON-CONTENTS:

1167

that he would ascertain, before we went
into committee, how the Harbor Master
in St. John was paid, whether it was in
exactly the same way as the Harbor
Master at Halifax.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I had

forgotten.

I will ascertain and inform

the hon. gentleman at the third reading.
HON. MR. POWER-I do not wish to
oppose this measure, but I want to make
one remark ; if the harbor master has to
pay the rent of his office and boat hire
out of the $1,8oo, I do not think he will

make much by the change.

Hon. Messrs.
Chaffers,
Chapais,
Ferrier,
Girard,
Raythorne.
Leonard,
Maclnnes,
MeMaster,

Miller (Speaker),

Power,
Scott,
Stevens,
Trudel,
Vidal,
Wark.-15.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is
$2oo more than he had before.

HON. MR. POWER-But before, I
think, he had not to pay those expenses.
THE SPEAKER-Yes, he had to pay
them out of a very small salary.

HON. MR. VIDAL-As a matter of
form, it is necessary to take action on the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-He
last amendment, although in substance it paid the expenses out of his salary of
has been decided. I rnove that this $1,6oo.
House doth not insist upon this 12th
amendment to the said Bill, to which the
HON. MR. POWER-I do not think
Commons disagree.
the salary is excessive.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
THE SPEAKER-It is a very inademove in amendment,
quate one.
That the Senate doth insist upon its 12th
amendment to the said Bill, because it is the
HON. MR. VIDAL, from the Commitconsequence of the 10th amendment upon
tee, reported the Bill without amendment.
which the Senate doth insist.
The motion in amendment was agreed
ADULTERATION OF FOOD,
to on the same division.

HARBOR MASTER AT HALIFAX
BILL
IN COMMJTTEE.
The House resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole on Bill (148), "An
Act to amend the Acts respecting the
appointment of a Harbor Master at the
port of Halifax."
In the Committee,
On the 2nd clause.
HON. MR. POWER-The Minister
said,when the Bill was at the 2nd reading

DRUGS AND AGRICULTURAL FERTISIZERS
BILL.
COMMONS AMENDMENTS AGREED TO.

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
that the amendments made by the House
of Commons to the 26th clause of Bill
(W), "An Act respecting the adulteration

of Food, Drugs and Agricultural Fertilizers," be agreed to.

He said:

There is

only one amendment and it is to this
effect, that the penalties, instead of going
into the Consolidated Revenue, as the
Bill originally provided, shall go to the

1168

.Libraryof [SENATE] Parliament Bill.

municipalities, and in some instances to
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
the private prosecutor.
was read the third time and passed.
The motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjourned at 10:30 p. m.

HARBOR MASTER AT HALIFAX
BILL
THIRD READING.

THE SENATE.

HON.

SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL moved

the third reading of Bill (148), " An Act
to amend the Acts respecting the appointOttawa, Tuesday,July 7th, 1885.
ment of a Harbor Master at the port of
Halifax."
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
He said: I promised I would give my
o'clock.
hon. friend from Halifax information
respecting the amount of remuneration
Prayers and routine proceedings.
which the Harbor Master at St. John
receives. Although I had a promise from
THE NORTH-WEST REBELLION. the Minister of Marine and Fisheries that
the information would be here this aiterREPORT SUBMITTED.
noon, I have not received it, but the third
reading of the Bill can be postponed, if
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My necessary, until it is received.
hon. friend from Prince Edward Island
drew attention yesterday to the fact that
HON. MR. POWER-I do not wish to
no official report from the Major-General delay the passage of the Bill, because the
commanding the field forces in the North- information for which I ask would not
West had been laid on the table of this alter the Bill in any way; it was only inHouse. My hon. friend was quite right to formation for myself.
draw attention to the fact. To-day I
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
repair the error by laying on the table a was read the third time and passed.
copy of the official report from MajorGeneral Middleton, C.B., commanding LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT BILL.
the North-West field forces, concerning
the engagement at Fish Creek on the 24th
THIRD READING.
of April, 1885, Poundmaker's Camp
(near Crees' Reserve), 2nd May, 1885, and
The House resolved itself into a ComBatoche, 9 th, 1oth, i1th, and 12th May, mittee of the Whole on Bill (r39), " An
1885.
Act to amend the Act in relation to the
Library of Parliament."
BILL INTRODUCED.
In the Committtee,
Bill (103), " An Act respecting the
Electoral Franchise." (Sir Alex. CampOn the ist clause,
bell.)
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
TROUBLES IN THE NORTH-WEST ist clause provides that there shall be two
EXPENSES BILL.
officers, one of whom, by an unfortunate
nomenclature, shall be called the general
THIRD READING.
librarian, and the other the parliamentary
librarian. The details of the bill were
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved discussed on the third reading.
There
the third reading of Bill (149), " An Act will be an addition of one third-class
for granting to Her Majesty the sum of clerk, and the expense of the staff will be
I argued on the
$1,7oo,ooo, required for defraying certain increased by $700.
expenses in connection with the troubles second reading of the Bill that the additional expenditure is amply justified by
in the North-West Territories."
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Library qf [JULY 7, 1885] ParliamentBill.

1189

the greater number of members of Parlia- and they will be under the direction of
ment, and the increased work in the the two Speakers.
Library.
HON. MR. DICKEY-That is not so
HON. MR. POWER-The Minister of expressed in the Bill. It gives them equal
Justice thinks that the names chosen for power and control over the library. I am
those officers are unfortunate. I think it afraid there will be confusion, and I do
Would be well for the Minister to suggest not see how it can be avoided.
different names. I am sure the committee
will be willing to make the change. It
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
would be a great deal better to leave the confusion will be avoided by the rules
names as they are under the existing law, which will be laid down by the Library
and to say that the assistant librarian shall Coinmittee. They have co-ordinate powhave special charge of parliamentary work ers but different names. They will receive
and that his salary shall be larger than the their directions from the Speakers.
salary of the assistant now is. I have
HON. MR. ALLAN-The awkward
already expressed my view on the subject.
I do not think we ought to create this part of i is the last two lines of subsection
double-headed office when it is not neces A, which provides that they " shall have
sary. Let us appoint, if we will, an equal powers as respects the control and
assistant librarian with a large salary and management of the library." Now, if
with special duties, but let us not have both these gentlemen are to act under the
two men with exactly the same powers. direction and control of the Library
It is going to lead to all sorts of trouble Committee, then the Library Committee
and confusion.
must be the supreme head. Otherwise I
do not see how there can be two heads
HON. MR. ALLAN-Is it really con- having control over the Library without
templated that the duties assigned to those the two clashing.
two officers should be as this sub-section
A, in clause 1, would convey to us, that
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
one is to be in point of fact the general Committee, with the two Speakers, will be
librarian, having general charge of the the head.
whole library, the general collection of
HoN. MR. ALLAN-That will never
works, and so on, and that the other is to
be an officer who might be more strictly do.
called a parliamentary librarian, and
whose duties shall be to advise members
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My
of both Houses on parliamentary law, hon. friend recollects the system we puretc. ? If that is so, I can understand sued in the old Parliament at Quebec
sub-section A and the difference made ap- when we had two librarians ; we had Dr.
parently in the powers of the two officers ; Todd representing the Legislative Assembut if one is simply the head officer and bly and Dr. Adamson representing the
the other the assistant, I think the sub- Legislative Council.
section is rather misleading.
HON. MR: ALLAN-Were their powers
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No, co-equal ?
I think my hon. friend is not right ; there
is not to be one head and an assistant.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,
I apprehend there is to be one head to and their duties were the same and they
have charge of works relating to parlia- were at the disposal of members of both
mentary duties, etc., and law books, and Houses. The members of the Legislative
aryother to have charge of general literature Council, being better acquainted with Mr.
I understand that these two officers will Adamson, went to him, but not exclusively.
be co-equal in rank and salary. Their I remember often going to Mr. Todd to
duties will be arranged for them and dis- consult him on matters relating to the
tributed by the joint committee of the practice of Parliament, he being familiar
two Houses on the Library of Parliament, with that subject. I have no doubt other
Y 2

1170

Library of [SENATE] Parliament Bill.

charge of the Parliamentary and constitUtional Law Library, and the other will
have charge of the general business
of the Library in other department.
I can see no objection to that, because
HON. MR. ALLAN-I was under the it
strikes me that the duty of
impression that one was the Librarian and selecting the English works for the library
the other was the Assistant Librarian, and would be more properly and naturally
that, therefore, as a matter of fact, the discharged by the English librarian, and
one was to a certain degree subordinate the duty of selecting French works, no
to the other.
matter in what department of literature or
science, would be more properly in the
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It seems to hands of the French librarian. Now the
me difficult to know how a committee of Minister gives us to understand that that
Parliament will control the action of those is not to be the case. I think that the
men if they have co-equal powers given to proper course for the Government to take,
having left Mr. Decelles to act as librarian
them.
for more than a year-whatever they might
HON. MR. WARK-Was not the old have done if they had moved immediately
arrangement, spoken of by the Minister of after Mr. Todd's death-was to have apJustice, in consequence of the two bran- pointed him librarian, and then to have
ches of the Legislature having each a appointed any gentleman they pleased as
Library of its ovn ? I saw books the other assistant librarian with special duties if
day marked " Belonging to the Library of they chose, and with a larger salary than
the Legislative Council" and in conse- his predecessor had. As the hon. gentlequence of that I am of the opinion that man from York has said, I cannot see
each branch of the Legislature had its own how the business can be satisfactorily
transacted under two heads; and with resLibrarian.
pect to the work done by the Joint Com
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--At mittee of Parliament I shall call the attenthe time of which I speak the Libraries tion of the Minister to this fact, that those
were all together, and thete were two Li. two officers are just about taking office
brarians. There may have been a time now when Parliament is about to be probefore the Union when each of the Legis- rogued, and for the whole of the recess,
latures had a library of its own, and after which will probably last six months, those
the Union the Legislative Council had a gentlemen will be acting without any rule
librarian, and the Lower House had their whatever to guide them.
librarian.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-They
HON. MR. POWER-The Comnittee will seule down to their duties.
will remember that when we discussed
this matter in the House a day or two ago,
HON. MR. POWER-That is always
the line of argument adopted by the hon, the way with the Ministry let the future
gentleman was that there were two official take care of itself, and then when they
languages, and that one of those officers get into difficulties Parliament will be
would be consulted in connection with the asked to come to the rescue.
English works in the library ; that the
ordering of English works and the finding
Ho.. MR. HAYTHORNE-I expresof English works for persons who wished sed my views on this matter on the second
to consult them would be amongst his reading of the Bill, and I have since seen
duties ; and that the other officer would no reason for changing them. One great
have the selection of French works, and objection to this proposition is that when
would have charge of that Department of once we have established this course of
the Library. I do not gather from the proceeding, if it does not answer the
explanation of the Minister of Justice that expectations of those who propose it, it
that is the intention now. The Minister will not be very easy to recall it. If you
says that one of those gentlemen will have appoint those two gentlemen you appoint

members did the same thing. The two
officers received their directions from the
committee on the library and there was no
confusion.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

The Liqpor [JULY 7,1885] License Act Bill.
them for life, or during gooc behavior,
and it will be very hard to repeal this Act
and get rid of this arrangement once it is
fairly established. That is one very great
objection to it. I do not myself recollect
having heard of an instance where a great
national or public library was managed
under two co-ordinate heads. The only
instance I have heard of is the one referred to by the Minister of Justice, and we
have very little information respecting it
beyond the fact that such was the case.

1171

right of the Committee on the Library of
Parliament to make the rules remains in
force.
HoN. MR. POWER-It is clear that

when the Act of 1871 was passed, the
Government were of the opinion that the
double-headed system was not as good as
the other.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-If
you have one officer the Librarian, and
the other assistant Librarian, the latter
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL- It must be considered as holding a subordinate position, and this mode of appointworked very well.
ing librarians is consulting the good feelHON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I hope ings of both races, which I think is a very
this may work well, but I do not think we desirable thing to do.
can fairly expect that it will. The ordinary
The clause was agreed to.
principle ot management, which is carried
out in the everyday affairs of life, is against
HON. MR. SCOTT-What particular
the probabilities that it will answer. I
deeply regret myself that this is done, department of the Government has charge
because we naturally take great pride in of the appointments to the library, and
that library, and in seeing it progressing promotions ?
in utility and magnitude every year ; and
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
of course that success which we are so
proud of depends very largely upon the not think any particular department of the
management. I consider that it will be Government has it. The suggestion, I
next to a miracle if those two gentlemen think, generally emanates from the
conduct the affairs of the Library in a Premier, and is mentioned by him in
Council, and discussed there.
harmonious manner.

HON. MR. ALLAN-In justification of
what I said just now I wish to refer to the
Act which this Bill amends, and which is
chapter 21 of 34 Vic., in which the
officers of the Parliamentary Library, it is
stated, shall consist of a librarian, assistant
librarian and so on. Then it says that
their duties shall be such as shall be
agreed on by the Speakers of the two
Houses, and concurred in by the Joint
Committee on the Library. In the
schedule where the salaries are put down,
the salary of the librarian is stated at
$2,500, while that of the assistant librarian
is $î,8oo, which, I think, is a very strong
proof that the assistant was not exactly on
the same footing as the librarian.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL

Thai

HON. MR. SCOTT-I notice at pre
sent that there is a gentleman acting as
clerk in the library, who is not on the
staff-he does not appear in the estimates
as being on the staff.
THE SPEAKER-He has been put on
the staff.

HON. MR. GIRARD, from the Committee, reported the Bill without amendment.

The bill was then read the third time
and passed.
THE LIQUOR LICENSE ACT BILL
SECOND READING.

law still remains in force, and that por
tion of the statute which relates to the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
mode in which the duties are to be dis the second reading of Bill (134) " An Act
charged, is only altered by the co-equa 1 respecting the Liquor License Act, 1883."
authority given by this Bill, while th He said: Certain portions of the Act

1172

1%e Liquor [SENATE] License Act Bill.

referred to have been declared to be ultra
vires by the decision of the Supreme
Court of Canada. By the original Act it
was proivided that any of the parties concerned, the Dominion or any of the
provinces, might, if they saw fit, appeal to
the Privy Council in any event, no matter
what the decision of the Supreme Court
might be. From that decision an appeal
has been taken by the Dominion, and the
Provinces of Ontario, Quebec, British
Columbia, and 1 think New Brunswick,
have joined against it. That appeal has
been set down for argument in November
next. We tried to get it set down for
argument in July, and the Attorney
General of Ontario was anxious that it
should be argued in July; but the ultimate fixing of the time for the argument,
which rests with some of the officers of
the Privy Council of Her Majesty, was for
November, and we may look for a decision
of the question between then and the next
Even had the
session of Parliament.
argument taken place in July, we should
not have had a decision before the long
vacation. The decision of the Privy
Council is referred to in the schedule
attached to the Bill, together with the
questions and the story of the hearing and
the name of the judge who dissented from
the opinion of the Court, and who thought
that the whole Act was ultra vires.

HON. MR. SCOTT-The hon. gentleman has referred to certain portions of the
Act as being in the doubtful category of
ultra vires. My recollection of the Act is
that it embraces 147 clauses, and that all
except three of the clauses, which profess
to supplement the Temperance Act of
1878, are embraced in the portions decided as being ultra vires. This Act has
been a confusmg Act from the time it was
put on the Statute book. The Government were warned at the time that their
Act was ultra vires; still they persevered,
and made a vast amount of confusion
throughout the country by issuing licenses
under it. I think that it was due to Parliament that the Government, in suspending the Act at all, should have suspended
the whole of it, because it does seem absurd that the ceremony of appointing a
board of commissioners, and a number of
persons named as Government officials all
over the Dominion simply to look after
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL.

three or four clauses of a Statute consisting of 147 clauses, should have been
entered upon ; and it would have been
much more in keeping with the dignity of the Government if they had suspended the whole Act until the final
adjudication had been arrived at. We
should not have had this absurdity, a
Government Board of Commissioners
which had nothing to do except to embarass and confuse still further the provisions of the Canada Temperance Actbecause that undoubtedly is their mission,
and nothing else, simply to embarass that
Act and bring it into discredit, and
create confusion. Presumably the appointment of the Board was to carry out
the decision of Parliament in issuing
licenses under the Act.
HoN. MR. PLUMB-1 would like to
ask the hon. gentleman by what authority
the Government were warned that this
Act was ultra vires ?
HON. MR. SCOTT-I, on several
occasions, was one of the authorities myself; and a number of gentlemen in the
House of Commons gave the Government
warning-every gentleman that looked
into the question gave the Government
warning. This question came up in 1883
in the Speech from the Throne ; if the
hon. gentleman will consult the record of
that date he will find what my views were
then ; that the Government were assuming
to act in this matter of license over which
they had no possible control, and I called
attention to the indignity that was offered
to the Representative of the Queen in
making this announcement that the Parliament of the Dominion was to look after
the licensing of the public houses all over
the country.
HoN. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-The
hon. gentleman's opinion is not conclusive,
and when he says that the Government
were warned, and that he was one of
those who warned them, it is assuming a
rather high and lofty position, and speaking from a standpoint higher than any of
our people occupy. He warned us! The
hon. gentleman says that the whole of the
Act should be suspended. In his ardor
for his Temperance Act he speaks as if
all who attempted to lay their hands on it

The Liquor [JULY 7, 1885] License Act Bill.
were anathema maranatha. If we suspend
the whole Act, who then could deal with
licenses for the sale of liquor on board
steamers and other vessels ? If we
suspend the Act who could deal
With wholesale licenses? It is necessary
that wholesale licenses should be issued,
and without this provision in the Act, of
which the hon. gentleman complains,
restricting the operation of the License
Act to those parts declared to be ultra
vires, there would be no authority to deal
With wholesale licenses, and they could
not be obtained in any part of the
Dominion. That, the hon. gentleman
does not want, but if we do not adopt this
rneasure no licenses could be issued on
steamers, and no wholesale licenses
could be issued throughout the Dominion.
HON. MR. SCOTT-You
authority before.

had the

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We
had not the authority before, and the
Supreme Court have declared that we
have it under this Act. That is their
decision, and one is bound by the law.
The Supreme Court has decided that the
administration, as regards these two subjects of wholesale licenses and licenses to
vend liquor on board steamers, must be
governed by legislation passed by this
Parliament.
HON. MR. SCOTT-Nobody doubted

1173

HON. MR. VIDAL-Had the Bill which
was before us yesterday passed into law
there would be no necessity for me to
refer to a point to which I now wish to
invite the Minister's attention. The 145th
section of the License Act of 1883 is one
of the sections pronounced by the
Supreme Court to be intra vires and
will therefore remain in force.
By
the decision of the Supreme Court of
New Brunswick that 14 5th section
repeals all the sections of the Canada
Temperance Act of 1878, relating to procedure against, and the convicting and
punishing offenders. We will then be in
this anomalous position, presuming the
Supreme Court of New Brunswick is
correct in its judgment, that there will be
the keeping in force of a part of the law
which requires action to be taken under
another part of the law which is to be
suspended. What entire and utter confusion this will make! The necessity for
meeting this difficulty was recognized at
an early period in the session in the other
House and a short Bill was introduced for
the specia) purpose of meeting it by simply
repealing the 145th section of the License
Act. When the Bill amending the Temperance Act was adopted by that House
one of its clauses repealed this 145th
section, and therefore the hon. gentleman
who had charge of this short Bill allowed
it to drop because the other measure
accomplished what he had in view. I
think it is probable that the Bill amending
the Canada Temperance Act will fall to
the ground. We have no more reason to
suppose that the House of Commons will
recede from their amendments any more
than that the Senate will recede from theirs,
so it is likely that the Bill will not be
passed. In view of that, I would respectfully ask the Minister of Justice whether
it would not be desirable to recognize thisdifficulty, and when the House is in committee either to repeal that section or to
make some other provision to avoid the
anomaly of declaring that clause in force,
when it depends on a suspended portion
of the Bill for its operation. I venture
respectfully to call attention to it, and I
trust that some way will be found to meet
the difficulty.

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
hon. gentleman said we should suspend
the whole Act. If we did that we would
suspend the power to deal with those two
things, and if we did so there would be
no power in the Dominion to deal with
those two things. We would be all at sea
again. Therefore, I ask is it not the true
logical and legal way to suspend the Act
only in so far as the court decided it was
illegal, and maintain the Act so far as the
court declared it was legal. The language
is as plain as possible. It was only the
hon. gentleman's ardor for the temperance cause and his unwillingness to sanction anything and everything which did
not meet his peculiar views, that led him
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-I think my
to object to the Bill.
hon. friend is premature in anticipating

1174

1e

Liquor [SENATE] License Act BW.

the action of the other House. He may be
prophetic in some cases but not in this,
and until we know what is the determination of the other branch of Parliament it
would be unwise to take any action in the
direction suggested.
HON. MR. VIDAL-Does

tell him ? It tells him that certain portions
of the Liquor License Act of 1883 and
the Act amending it are ultra vires, and
that the portions which are ultra vires are
suspended. The decision of the Supreme

Court tells him that much.

It seems to

me it would bc better if Parliament had
the hon. defined the portions which are ultra vires

gentleman suggest that we should let this and not left it to the unfortunate who had
Bill stand until we know the fate of the to deal with the Bill to find out for himBill in the other House?
self what portions were covered by the
- HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
makes provision which would be sufficient
if the law is as the Supreme Court
declares it to be in that respect, but there
has been a decision in the Supreme Court
of New Brunswick which goes in the other
direction, and it was to cure the evils
resulting from that decision that the short
Bill was introduced in the other branch
of Parliament. Al I can say is that those
gentlemen who take an interest in the
subject would have been better advised if
they had adhered to that Bill, and presented it to us for the purpose of
curing an evil which became apparent
from the decision of the Supreme
Court of New Brunswick. The Bill is
complete in that respect that the part of
the law which relates to putting in force
the provisions of the Canada Temperance
Act was saved by the decision of the
Supreme Court. It saved the question of
vessel licenses and wholesale licenses, and
also that portion of the Act relating
to the carrying into effect the provisions
of the Canada Temperance Act of 1878.
So that the provisions of the Bill are
complete as far as they go. Whether the
suggestion of my hon. friend from Sarnia
should be followed or not, the subject
deserves consideration, and I will endeavor
to give it consideration ; but I cannot say
what course we will pursue.

decision of the Supreme Court. Surely
the officers in the Department of Justice
or the law officers of the House of Commons, or whoever prepared the Bill, should
have indicated particularly the portions of
those previous Acts that were suspended. I think, perhaps, even the hon. gentleman from Sarnia, who is familiar with
legislation, would find it a little difficult
to know just how much of the Liquor License Act was suspended and how much
was not ; and I appeal to the Minister of
Justice himself to say if he does not think,
in view of the fact that this Bill when it
becomes law will be intended for the
guidance of people who are not familiar
with law, that it would have been better
to define the portions of the Act that are
suspended.
HON. Si.
ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
must say I think the hon. gentleman is
hypercritical. The Bill consists ot the
enacting clause and seven lines. It simply
declares that-

The operation of such portions of " The
Liquor License Act, 1883," and of the " Act to
amend ' The Liquor License Act, 1883,'" as
the Supreme Court of Canada bas declared by
its decision, whereof a copy is in the Schedule
to this Act annexed, to be ultra vires, is and
shall be suspended unless and until the same
shail be decided by the Judicial Committee of
the Privy Council to be infra vires of the
Parliament of Canada.

Then the judgment follows, and it says
HON. MR. POWER-One most desir- thatable quality of legislation is that it should
be easily understood. I do not think this The Acts referred toin the said case namely
" The Liquor License Act, 1883," and " An
Bill has that quality. What I mean is, Act to amend the Liquor License Act, 1883,"
that a Bill should not take a very superior are and each of them is ultra vires of the
lawyer to understand it. Laws are put on legislative authority of the Parliament of
the statute books so that magistrates and Canada, except in so far as the said Acte
other people of only ordinary legal attain- respectively purport to legislate respecting
licenses
seven
ments shail be able to understand them. those said " Thementioned in section 1883,"
Liquor License Act,
of the
Now, as this Bill stands, if it goes into the which are there denominated vessel licenses
hands of the average man, what does it and wholesale licenses, and except also in so
HON.

MR. KAULBACH.

Subsidies to Railways [JJLY 7, 1885] (N. W.T.) Bill.

1175

far as the Acts respectively relate to the are repealing some clauses which are
Carrying into effect of the provisione of " The
clearly ultra vires of the decision of the
canada Temperance Act, 1878."
Supreme Court on which clauses
This Bill suspends all which are ultra for its meaning, clause 145 which depend,
is prevres. I do not see how it could be made served.
Plainer. It would puzzle anyone to write
the thing in more simple language, or to
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
express it more clearly or logically. only shows that this is the safest way of
Whatever the Supreme Court has decided doing it.
to be ultra vires is suspended, and what
the Supreme Court declares not to be
HON. MR. POWER-You throw the
ultra vires is stated in the few words in onus of interpreting it on the unfortunates
the judgment of the Supreme Court.
who have to read it.
HoN. MR. SCOTT-Perhaps the hon.
HoN. SIR ALEX CAMPBELLgentleman will tell us whether clauses 83 There is nothing to interpret.
and 84 of the Liquor License Act are
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
suspended ?
was read the second time.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes.
HARBOR COMMISSIONERS OF
THREE RIVERS BILL.
HON. MR. SCOTT-Then what is the
meaning of clause 145, which declares
that certain things shall be a contravention
SECOND READING.
of sections 83 and 84 which are suspended ? You are keeping in force one
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
clause which relies entirely for its the second reading of Bill (5o) "An Act to
operation on two other clauses, which authorize the advance of a certain sum to
clauses are suspended, and I do not think the harbor commissioners of Three Rivers."
any court can make anything out of it.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
HON. SIR ALEK CAMPBELL-That was read the second time.
very fact shows how much better it was to
say that the clauses which the Court SUBSIDIES TO RAILWAYS, NORTHWEST TERRITORIES BILL
declared ultra vires are suspended,
because if you went further you would get
THrRD READING.
into a labyrinth. This Bill says that those
clauses which are declared to be ultra
The House resolved itself into a Comvires are suspended. That is a clear landmark which will guide anyone who wishes mittee of the Whole on Bill (147) " An
Act to authorize the grant of certain subto understand the law
sidies in land for the construction of the
HON. MR. SCOTT-If that was an en- railways therein mentioned."
tire clause by itself, then it would be
operative, but to make the 145th clause
In the committee,
Operative at all, you have got to bring into
Operation two clauses which are suspended;
HoN. MR. SCOTT-I was not in the
the basis of it is gone, and that is where House when the hon, gentleman made an
the embarrassment is. If the 145th clause explanation with reference to another
were altered in its phraseology so as to be railway which I thought ought to have
independent of the other two clauses, it been included in this Bill. I understand
could be understood. The simple and that my hon. friend said it was omitted
proper way would have been to suspend because the promoter of this Bill in the
all the clauses in which the Canada Tem- other chamber did not desire to press it
perance Act is imported, inasmuch as you at the present time. However, there
cannot make sense of the clauses which seems some misunderstanding on the subare left relating to that Act, because you ject, because it was his desire that it should

1176

Subsidie to Bailway8 [SENATE] (N. W.T.) Bill.

be included. I would like to give further Government would be prepared to do
information on the subject. The company that I do not know. It is certainly unwas incorporated in i88o and was allotted a fortunate that the misunderstanding ocland grant of 6,40o acres of land per mile. curred. What I promised to do I did : I
When it was announced in the Speech laid it before the Minister of the Interior
from the Throne that that land grant was and asked him why that Company was
to be made free, it gave a stimulus to that not included. He raised no objection to
enterprise, which was an important one, it except that its terminus on the Canadian
connecting the Canadian Pacific Railway Pacifie Railway should be at some peint
with Battleford. I have always maintained west of the place mentioned, and that
that the more railways you can have in difficulty being got over, he approved of
that country the better. I should like to it beng added in the same way as the
hear that an Order-in-Council will be others. An Order-in-Council might perbrought down and approved of, giving this haps facilitate the Company in their transcompany the same advantage as the others actions. Such an Order-in-Council once
which are mentioned in the Bill, because procured, would perhaps be sufficient
if it is left over for another year there is until another session of Parliament. My
danger that it will drop out. Some $75,- hon. friend shakes his head : well it may
ooo has been expended on the line already be possible to have a Bill brought in speand it seened to the promoters of the cially with reference to that railway during
railway that it should not be left be- the present session. I will inquire and if
hind.
we can do anything about it, I shall be
very happy to meet my hon. friend's
HoN. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
views.
should be glad to assist in any way to
bring the North-West Central Railway
HON. MR. SCOTT-Parliament had
back into the position which the roads fixed the point of departure at Melbourne
mentioned in this Bill occupy. As I and the Order-in-Council recognized that
understood, the chief promoter of that under their public charter they were enBill said that he did not want the matter titled to land from Melbourne: but it
pressed at present.
appears in giving land to the Manitoba
& North-West Central Railway Company
HON. MR. SCOTT-That is a mis- it was found that they were intruding on
understanding, I am told.
their territory, that there was not territory
enough in the angle between the Canadian
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-Well Pacifie Railway territory and that claimed
it is very unfortunate. I asked about it by the Manitoba & North-Western. As
on Friday or Saturday, and I was then Parliament had given this authority for the
told by the acting Minister of the Interior, point of departure from the Canadian
Mr. McLelan, that he had been asked to Pacifie Railway line at Melbourne, and as
delay action with reference to that North- the Government had recognized that by
West Central Railway, and in consequence order-in-council, giving 6,40o acres per
had delayed it so that it does not appear mile, and as this difficulty has only arisen
in this list. That understanding, which by finding on the map that the land could
he certainly had on Friday, my hon. friend not be given alongside of the road, I think
thinks was removed by some intimation it is the duty of the Government to assist
which he got from the promoter of the the Company out of the dilemma. My
Bill on Saturday. If he did get that in- suggestion is the one I have mentioned,
tormation-I do not at all gainsay it but the Government and the Company agreeI have not heard it-it was too late appar- ing on a point further west: chat difficulty
ently to insert that railway in this Bill. could be obviated in that way. I do not
I will confer with the acting Minister of see why it should be postponed ; it need
the Interior and see what can be done. not take long to bring an Order-in-Council
We could not insert it in the Bill here, as down.
my hon. friend knows. I am afraid the
only way to remedy the omission wouhd
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
be to bring in a new Act. Whether the will inquire and see what can be done.
HoN. MR. SCOIT.

Ocasolidatedln8uranceAct, [JULY 7, 1885] 1877, Modification Bill. 117T
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I am glad
HON. MR. POWER-If they did not
to see that my hon. friend from Ottawa is ask a subsidy from us, of course, it would
in favor of subsidizng railways now. I be a matter for themselves to decide.
understood him to say the other day that
It was a sort of bribery.
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-The
North-Western Coal and Navigation ComHON. Mi. SCOTT-My remark had pany got a charter to build their railway
reference to subsidies to railways in an- on the narrow gauge. It is not for us to
other part of the Dominion. I quoted the say, because they adopt what I agree is
roads I referred to.
not the best gauge, that we should not
give them assistance. They got a charter
HON. MR. DICKEY-Is there not a to build on this narrow gauge : they have
question of the power of this House to gone to great trouble and expense : they
aniend the Act to give aid to another have raised money in England and in this
railway.
country for the purpose of building the
road on the narrow gauge system. If
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes, they have chosen to adopt a bad gauge, it
We cannot amend it ; that is why I said if is their misfortune.
At the same time
anything could be done it must be by a their object is to transport coal, and to
new bill. I will be very glad to assist my accomplish the end of their existence as a
hon. friend in any way I can.
company. I should be very sorry to think
that if they had made a mistake in that
HON. MR. POWER-A question of way, as alleged, we should withhold assisPolicy arises under the first clause, on tance. The House will see that they
Which I would ask the opinion of the receive only 3,8oo acres per mile, while
Minister of Justice. As I understand, the the others get 6,40o acres. There are
cOrnpany for which the subsidy is provided facilities now for transhipping coal which
In the first clause of the Bill propose to did not exist in other years, and which
build, or are already building, a narrow make a narrow gauge road much less obgauge road to the Canadian Pacific Rail- jectionable than it would have been under
way, a road with a gauge of three feet six the old system, and the expense of trans'riches.
Now the inconvenience of that shipping is not by any means great.
Systern, I think, is plain on the face of it :
that when the coal cornes down from the
HON. MR. VIDAL, from the committee,
mines of this company it cannot be carried reported the Bill without amendment, and
On the Canadian Pacific Railway to Wim- it was then read the third time and passed.
llpeg or any of the places where it is
likely to be consurmed, but has to be trans- INSURANCE ACT AMENDMENT
shipped where the branch railway reaches
BILL.
the Canadian Pacific Railway, and I
think it is a doubtful policy, to encourage
THIRD READING.
the construction of a road of that sort.
It would cost very little more in that
The House resolved itself into a Comcountry to build a road of the ordinary
mittee of the Whole on Bill (20), "An
gauge, from which trains could be run Act to modify the application of the
Over the Canadian Pacific Railway with.
out any change or expense. I think it will Consolidated Insurance Act, 1877.»
tend to increase the price of coal to the
In the Committee,
People of the North-West considerably.
On the second clause,
HON. MR. KAULBACH - That
should be a question entirely in the hands
HON. MR. POWER-I wish to call
of the company thernselves. If they con- attention to the fact that it has been
sider it in their interests ; if it is more suggested that another amendment is deeconomical for them to build a line that sirable, and I submit the suggestion to the
gauge, I do not think this Parliament Minister of Justice. I understand that
should interfere.
there are certain companies which do

1178 Con8olida&dInsurance Act, [SENATE] 1877, .ModißationBilt.
business in both ways ; they do business
under the assessment plan, and under the
general plan, and under the wording of
this clause it might be possible that a
company that did business in both ways
might be exempted from the operation of
the Consolidated Insurance Act. The
suggestion is that, after the end of the 2oth
line, after the word " purpose," we insert
the words " not otherwise."

claims shall be a first charge, and that
the money for such claims shall not be
used for other expenses. I submit that
for the protection of the public clause six
should remain.
HON.

SIR

ALEX.

CAMPBELL-

There is no occasion to apply the sixth
clause to orainary companies.
HON.

MR. POWER-Clause six makes

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do the subclauses of clause five apply to com-

not think it is necessary; the language is
plain enough. This Bill as it now stands
provides only for those companies which
do business in one way-that is pay liabilities solely from the proceeds of assessments or dues collected from the members
thereof for that purpose.
The clause was agreed to.
On the third clause,
HON. MR. POIRIER-I would like to
ask the Minister of Justice if it is understood that such companies are bound to
make a report at least once a year, or can
they intermit one year, and just make their
report when the Minister of Finance or the
Superintendent of Insurance thinks
proper?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-They
are obliged by this clause to make a yearly
report, and also to report when asked to
do so, and in that way they may be required to make two reports annually.

The clause was agreed to.
On the sxith clause,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
propose to leave the sixth clause out
altogether as the provisions of the 12th
clause render it unnecessary.

HON. MR. POWER-The provisions
of the sub-clauses of clause five ail apply
to foreign companies doing business in
Canada; and the object of the sixth clause
is to make certain sub-clauses of clause
five apply to companies incorporated in
Canada. I think it is a very proper
provision, when a company of this kind
is incorporated in Canada, that the death
HON. MR. POWER.

panies doing business on the co-operative
or assessment plan, that is all. Perhaps
the hon. gentleman will consider the suggestion.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
will mention it to the Superintendent of
Insurance. I move that the Committee
rise and report the Bill.
HON. MR. WARK-As the subject of
insurance is so seldom before Parliament
it might be an opportune time to introduce
an additional section which shall be a
further amendment of the Act to which
this Bill is an amendment, to afford a
greater security to parties insured in
Mutual Companies. These companies
were established in order to insure at a
cheaper rate than stock companies, because it is claimed that where no stock is
subscribed, the management is less expensive. Where no stock is subscIibed,
and there
are
no
stockholders,
Mutual companies require no such profits,
because the insured are under their own
management or under their own liabilities.
They induce individuals to insure under
their management with the assurance that
nothing more would be taken out of the
proceeds than what was actually necessary
for the management of the affairs of the
company. A stock company, whose
officers are appointed by the stockholders,
are guarded against any unnecessary expenditure, whereas these companies have no
such check upon them. They may appropriate whatever they think proper towards
salaries and expenses, and the insured,
who are scattered all over the country, are
not present at the meetings. The Directors write to the insured for proxies, and
re-elect themselves. I have had some
transactions with the Union Mutual Company of Maine. Some years ago the

COOnlidated Insurance Ace [JULY 7, 1885] 1877, ModificationBill. 1179
'Ispector or Commissioner-I do not
knOw what the title is-of Massachusetts
threw some doubt upon the position
of this company and it left its business to,
a number of individuals connected with
Insurance in different States. His report
was published in the Montreal lerald,a
cOpy of which I have in my hand. The
COmpany was organized in 1849 and comMenced business. In 1876, the expenses
of its management had swelled up to,
$654,408-45.
Seven years after-in
' 8 8 2-83-they found that they could
conduct the affairs of this company for
,$266,667.07, much less than one-half. It
1s no wonder that the Commissioner of
Massachusetts began to doubt the standing of this company, and how it was conducting its affairs. With respect to salaries,
inI 1876 it was found they amounted to
$72,300.85 ; in 1883 they were reduced

to $41,971.6o-nearly one-half. I think
the duty of Parliament would be to get
such returns from those companies as
would guarantee to the public the necessary information as to how the affairs of
those companies are conducted. It will
Inot do in these returns to say merely that
the expenses of management are so much ;
wre ought to require them to show how
rnuch they receive from the assured;
how much of this goes to meet death liabilities ; how much of it is set apart for
the reserve fund; how much the balance
IS, and how much they return to the
assured, because that is what they promise

-to return all the savings or profits to the
assured. Unless we know that, the public
is not properly protected. I think I have
made my views plain, and I ask the
Minister of Justice whether it would not
be a suitable time to require those companies
to make such returns. I have had myself
$55 returned at one time, and it got down
the next time to $22 and a few cents, and
I believe that the next year there was
nothing divided at all, whereas I was
assured in the policy that the profits
would be increasing from year to year
because I paid a very high premium.

original Insurance Act of 1877 applies to
such companies as my hon. friend has
spoken of, and there is there a very

stringent provision as to returns to be
made by such companies under that Act.
In the 2oth section there is a provision
that applies to companies incorporated in
Canada, and I only notice it for the purpose of calling attention to the oath that
is to be taken to returns made by such
companies, and in a subsequent section
applying to returns made by companies
incorporated out of the Dominion. Then
the next clause provides a severe penalty
for not making the return. The Act
seems to have met every possible con-

tingency, and I am happy to find from
reading the Statute that those provisions
embrace the very class of cases that my
hon. friend from Fredericton refers to,
and it is fortunate that the public are protected in this way. If there are any
cases where it has been overlooked,
it is not the fault of the law, but
because the law has not been enforced.
Now that is very full in the 21st sec.
tion, that is the section which affects the
class of companies referred to " incorporated elsewhere than within Canada and at
present licensed, or heretofore licensed,
under this Act, which make annual statements of their condition and affaiis under
oath of their chief agent, and furnish the
same to the Minister of Finance at the
same time as Canadian Companies."
Then the next clause provides a severe
penalty for not doing that. That is not
all, because under section 24, subsection
3, of the same Act, there is fortunately
this further provision, of a most inquisitorial character, with regard to these companies that are incorporated out of the
Dominion :« The Minister of Finance may, from time
to time, instruct the superintendent of insurance to visit the head office of any Company

licensed under this Act and incorporated

elsewhere than within Canada, and to
examine into the general condition and
affairs of such Company; and if such Company declines to permit such examination, or
refused to give any information necessary for
HON. MR. DICKEY-My- hon. friend auch purpose in its possession or control, its
license siall be withdrawn."
did me the honor to call my attention

to
this matter, and I took the trouble to look
ifto it, and I am under the impression
that it, is already provided for by the Act
of which this is an amendment. The

Now these provisions seem to have met

every possible contingency and I am happy
to find, at least according to my reading
of the Act, that they embrace every class

1180 Con8olidatedJngùrance Act, [SE NATE] 18 T7, Modifcation Bil.
of cases to which my hon. friend has
adverted, and it is fortunate that parties
are protected in that way. If the Act has
been disregarded, it is not the fault of the
law, for there are the provisions of the law
if they are enforced.

should exercise it, to have such returns
made as I have referred to.
HON.

SIR

ALEX.

CAMPBELL-

I will draw the attention of the Superintendent of Insurance to the subject, and
if the returns exacted are not 111
HON. MR. PLUMB-There is a special sufficient detail I will take care that the
provision in the Act itself that no sum details are exacted to which my hon.
received for assessments shall be paid for friend refers.
salaries. These companies that are called
assessment companies (into the merits of
The clause was adopted.
which I have only cursorily looked) seem
to me to offer very considerable induceHON. MR. POWER-I rise for the
ments, and if they are conducted, as they purpose of saying that I think the
are said to be by the best New York Superintendent of Insurance must have
actuaries, upon a sound principle, we are misapprehended the force of the 6th
bound to receive the statements of those clause of the Bill. I think that clause
actuaries, because the principle of hife is calculated to protect the interests of
insurance is very abstruse and difficult the public and to limit rather than infor laymen to understand. They pro- crease the liberties of these assessment
vide also that there shall be a companies. I think that a careful scrutiny
payment on each policy of a small of that clause by the Superintendent will
separate sum to meet salaries.
The lead him to see that he misapprehended
salaries are entirely dependent on that its force when he read it over.
payment and not on the assessments, and
that seems to obviate, so far as they are
HON. MR. POIRIER-Before this
concerned, -a very crying evil. My hon. clause is adopted I wish to mention some
friend has very much the same knowledge objections which I have to it. By striking
of one or two companies that I have out section 6 we have subsections 4, 5, 6,
myself. This is an entirely different kind 7, 8 and 9, of subsection 5, not apof insurance ; it is a mutual insurance plying to our Canadian companies, and
where the full policies are paid in and the therefore the Bill, as it is, only applies
insured divide their profits among them- to foreign companies. Our Canadian coselves,
My hon. friend refers to com- operative companies have the full benefit
panies of an entirely different character. of the law. They have its protection, and
If this kind of insurance is based on a none of the obligations that are imposed
sound principle (and we are told that it is upon regular companies. They are not
by those whose business it is to investigate obliged to give any satisfactory account of
those matters) it meets the wants of people their business ; they can do what they
who are not able to invest large imme- like with the money they get ; they
diate sums in policies,and young men who, can use the money they receive from asperhaps, for a short time wish to take out sessments as they please, and they can
policies. It is much cheaper than the pay themselves whatever salaries they like.
ordinary system, and if it is a sound We are aware that, last year, one co-operaprinciple it is a great boon to the com- tive company in Montreal paid its officers
munity, for everything which can facilitate thirty or forty thousand dollars, not from.
and cheapen life insurance without assessments, but from entrance fees and
hazarding the safety of the insured, annual dues. If they are at liberty to use
ceatainly is to be hailed as a great step in also the assessment fees in that way, they
advancing the interests of the com- can make themselves pretty happy. If we
munity.
strike out section 6, which excludes all
our Canadian companies from the opHON. MR. WARK-I think it would eration of this Act, then let us add to secbe desirable that the Minister of Justice tion 5, at the end of the 4th line, the folshould look into this matter and see if lowing words : " and also to Canadian
the Finance Minister has the power, or companies." This would include ali
HON. MR.

DICKEY.

COnflolidated JnsuranceAct, [J ULY 7, 1885] 1877, .ModifcationBiti. 1181
Companies, Canadian and foreign, as I
think this Bill should.
Our laws
are very strict with regard to stock
companies, which are called old line
comlpanies. They have to make a heavy
deposit and have a large reserve. Before
they can get a permit to begin business
they muust deposit $5o,ooo with the
Minister of Finance, and,further, they have
to deposit additional sums as the Minister
of Finance, and the Superintendent
Of Insurance think proper, and we know
that some strong companies have deposited
with the Government as much as
$75o,ooo. I believe that is perfectly
right, and that we should protect the
People who insure, because that business
Is not well understood even by lawyers,
and laymen who do not understand it at
all, should be protected. I approve of
rigorous measures being adopted, but
under this Bill those measures would only
apply to companies which are already
safe, and which have capital in some cases
anounting to$3o,ooo,ooo, or $4o,ooo,ooo,
While the assessment companies, having
no assets whatever, are permitted to enjoy
all the benefits of the law while they incur
none of its charges or obligations. Again,
I think that is not right. We ought to
protect our people, and protect the
regular companies doing business on
Sound principles, against companies which
have no assets whatever and cannot even
be brought before a court of justice to
compel them to meet their obligationscompanies represented by respectable
Men some of them, but others having at
their head men who have not a cent of
their own invested. If such companies
should fail, as I could prove they almost all
lfvariably do, because their basis is a false
one, they ought to be required to bear the
sarne burdens as regular companies. They
should not enjoy all the privileges and be
Subject to none of the responsibilities
inposed by the law upon stock companies.
For my part, I protest against cancelling
clause 6, which limits the application of
clause 5 to foreign companies, without the
Words I have mentioned being added to
rthe 5th clause, which would bring
all Canadian companies under the Act.

Superintendent of Insurance on the subject and bring the matter up when the Bill
is before us for third reading, The effect
of the language added to the fifth clause
would be what he describes. I will consult the Superintendent of Insurance and
see if there is any objection to the proposed
amendment.
HON. MR. OGILVIE-I do hope the
Minister of Justice will make a careful
examination of this Bill and look into
it thoroughly.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
is what we have been doing.

HON. MR. OGILVIE-Because it
contains some clauses that are most
vicious. Many of these companies, when
they are started, have not the least background to work upon. Take a stock
company which has to deposit $5o,ooo
with the Finance Department, and you
have not only the security of the stockholders, but you have also the security of
the deposit. Now these mutual insurance
companies pretend to insure for almost
nothing, which everybody knows cannot
be done, and they go on doing a business
that kills the regular insurance companies
and does not at the sanie time protect the
interests of the people who are insured
with them. I could mention more than
one case in Canada already where policyholders have come to grief, simply because
this was not done. I hope the Minister
of Justice, with his usual care of all Acts
that are introduced here, when the Bill
comes before us again will look into it
most carefully and see that provision is
made for a proper deposit before such
companies are allowed to go into operation at all.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLCertainly, I will see about that before the
third reading.

HON. MR. DEVER, from the commit-

tee, reported the Bill with amendments,
which were concurred in.
The Senate adjourned at 5:10 p.m.

HON. SIRALEX. CAMPBELL-There

rnay be something in the point which the
hon. gentleman takes. I will consult the

.1182

The Short LSENATE] Line Railway.

HON. MR. POWER-I think it is the
sane thing to the Minister. There is nlot
much to be done to-day, and what I have
Otawa, Wednesday, July Bth 88.
to say to-day will not be said to-morrow
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three when the Bill comes up, so that the thing
is about as broad as it is long ; and furo'clock.
ther I think it well that the Minister
should be in possession of the views
Prayers and routine proceedings.
that are entertained by a great manY
persons on the subject before he introduTHE SHORT LINE RAILWAY.
ces the Bill here ; and he will be i a
better position then to answer those obMOTION.
jections than if he did not know what
they were.
MR. POWER moved
HON.
THE SENATE.

That an humble Address be presented to
His Excellency the Governor-General, praying His Excellency to cause to be laid before
this House, copies of the Petitions of the
County Council of the County of Drummond,
in the Province of Quebec, and of other Petitions asking for a Survey of the Central or
Richmond route, for the proposed Short Line
Railway from Montreal to St. John and
Halifax.
He said : For various reasorns I have
not had time to be brief in connection
with the notice I have given. I am very
sorry, but I have preferred to speak to
this motion to-day rather than to defer it
until to-morrow, because I see from the
notice paper that there is very little business before us to-day, and our time is
likely to be fully occupied to-morrow. I
need hardly remind hon. members that
the Statute of 1884 provided a subsidy
for a line of railway fron Montreal to the
ports of St. John and Halifax by the
shortest and best practicable route to be
ascertained after the surveys of engineers.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-The policY
of the Government might be changed by
it.

HON. MR. POWER-I do not think
the policy of the Government is likely to

be changed by what I say, but the Minister will understand better what objections
there are to the policy.
HON. MR. PLUMB - They will be
instructed by the hon. gentleman.
HON.

MR. POWER-I dwelt on this

matter at some length in March last,
when moving for surveys and reports which

have been since laid on the Table of the
Senate, and I do not wish to trouble the

House with repeating what I then said.
The return shows that as far as I went I
was pretty accurate then, although my
statements were made without official information; and it shows too that there
was no survey made of the shortest line-

Now, I wish hon. gentlemen to bear that the line of which I spoke-by the central
in mind : that the object of the subsidy route; and on this point I ask to be
was not a short line to St. Andrews ; it allowed to read a portion of an article
was not a short line to any port in the which appeared in one of our Nova Scotia
State of Maine--but it was the shortest papers, when Mr. Schreiber's report on
and best practicable line from Montreal the short line was first made public. This
to St. John and Halifax.
article puts the thing more tersely and
better than I could by far.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Does
HON. MR. PLUMB-Who is the author
the hon. gentleman not think that we
might better discuss this when the Bill of the report ?
for the short line is before us.
HON. MR. POWER-I do not think

so.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLNo body can reply or explain now.

HCN. MR. POWER-The paper I an
reading from is the Halifax Herald,which
is an organ of the Government.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Who is the author

Iof the article ?

T'he Short [JULY 8, 1885] Line Railway.

1183

" There are surveys to the right of it, surHON. MR. POWER-It is an editorial
written by the responsible editor of the veys to the left of it, and surveys across it,
but no survey whatever of the une-'" the
IIerald
shortest possible line "-that it marks."
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-You

rnight spare us the editorial.
HON. MR. POWER-The articles in

HON. MR. PLUMB-I do not pay
much attention to the impertinences of

the hon. gentleman from Halifax.

the Halifax Herald are sometimes very

HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentleman is out of order. " Impertinences " is
not a Parliamentary word ; I suppose
however we shall pardon the hon. gentleman as in the country he came from they
" Mr Schrieber's report on the Short Line were not so particular about Parliamentary

Well written and very interesting to the
Government, and I think after the Minister has heard a little of this one he will
think it remarkably well worth reading:

surveys, shows that there has been a great decency as we are here.
deal of surveying done in connection with
that project, and that a large and varied
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentleassortment of routes bas been provided by
man is trespassing

which a " short line " from Montreal to the

ocean seaboard of the Maritime Provtnces
Inay be constructed. If variety in choice
were any advantage, we should say that a
great work had been accomplished by the
various surveying parties of whose work Mr.
Schrieber gives us an analysis and epitome.
The result of their labors, proves that they
did a great deal of surveying, that they
examined a great number çf routes, and
that they placed within the reach of the
Government and people of Canada a large
amount of information respecting several
districts of Quebec, New Brunswick and
the State of Maine, hitherto but imperfectly
known. But we are afraid that when that is
said, the best possible is said of their work.
Tous it appears that their surveys have been
very largely of impossible routes, while the
route respecting which they were sent out to
obtain information bas yet to be examined.
They were sent out to atscertain "the shortest
Possible line," and it only requires a glance
at the map accompanying Mr. Schrieber's
report to see that none of the lines surveyel
can possibly be the shortest obtainable,-that
15 if Euclid was correct in his view that a
straight line is the shortest possible line
between two points."
Accompanying the report-as we have
already intimated-is a map, purporting to be
a 'map of the section of Canada and the
United States lying between Montreal and
Hahfax.' It is prepared by the Department of Railwavs at Ottawa, with the special
object of affording information on this very
short line project. If any one will take the
trouble to place this map on a table, and
etretch a cord from Montreal to Moncton-the
two termini of the projected line--they will
find that the surveys of' last summer are not
in it-s neighborhood.

on the patience of the

House.
HON. MR. POWER--The article continues :" According to the map the distance from

Montreal to Moncton by an air line, such as

indicated, is 416 miles. Of this, 76 miles,
from Montreal to Richmond Junction, are
built, and about 85 miles more, from Moncton
to Fredericton are surveyed. So that all the
country traversed by this air fine, regarding
which there can be any doubt, is the distance
between Fredericton and Richmond Junction,
of about 255 miles. Practically this was the
only ' gap' in the proposed Short Line that
need be surveyed at all. Yet of all the
country ' between Montreal and Halifax' it
appears to have been the most caretully
avoided. Thus we have a line running
almost parallel to it, 20 or 30 miles to the
south ; another starting 20 miles south of it,
and crossing it twice; but none starting from
Richmond Junction, for the purpose of ascertaining the shortest possible lIne between that
point and Fredericton. Why is this ? Why
take Sherbrooke 20 miles the south of an air
line, or Quebec 70 miles to the north as the
starting point of several lines each, while
Richmon d Junction lying directly on an air
line, is carefully avoided ? The« public certainly have a right to have this remarkable
neglect explained.
'' The best the surveyors of last summer can
do in the way of shortening the distance between Moncton and Montreal is to reduce it
fron 662 miles-the distance at present by
the Intercolonial Railway and Grand Trunk
-to 532 miles, or a saving of but 132 miles.
If anything like an air hne were built the
distance would not be greater than 450 miles
-or even 80 miles less than the shortest of
I will call the attention of the hon. the 30 lines yet surveyed. And of course
member from Niagara to this part of the what is true of Moncton is true of Halifax.
editorial because it will touch his poetic The maximum reduction in our case is from
890 miles-the distance at present by rail
Soul a little :between Halifax and Montreal-to 720 miles.

118A

The Short [SENATE] Line Railway.

It is hardly necessary to point out that with
the ever increasing speed of railway locomotion the value of such a reduction in distance
will every year be growing less. But even at
present we doubt if many people in Nova
Scotia will feel like supporting an expenditure
like that contemplated for the Short Line
Railway, to secure a reduction of only 130
miles in the distance to Montreal. It mav be
worth the money, but there are people vho
will persist in thinking that it would be
possible to make a more judicious use of our
means."
The table of distances which I submitted
to the House in March showed that the
Central Route would shorten the distance
from Montreal to Halifax over 200 miles,
that it would make the distance from Montreal to Moncton 467 miles, to Halifax
654 miles, and to St, John 425 ; and the
report which we have of the survey made
of that portion of the line in question
which was surveyed confirms the figures
which I then gave, and no one has attempted to show that they are incorrect.
I may say now, feeling certain of what I
am saying, what I ventured to state then,
from the information in my possession,
that there are no serious engineering difficulties in the way. I presume hon. gentlemen who are interested in the matter have
looked over the reports of the various
engineers who were employed to make
those surveys. As to these particular
ines I shall quote from page 32 of the
report-this is the report on the line from
Chesuncook Lake to Canterbury, by
Vernon Smith :" On the whole the route proposed presents
a very favorable line for the construction of
an economical first-class railway. On the
profile shown there is no gradient exceeding
I per 100, or 53 feet per mile, and no curve of
over 4° or 1,433 feet radius. With the exception of three places, each of less than 6 miles
in length, there is no necessity for even this
gradient. By slightly increasing the earthworks, I believe that on a re-survey the
objectionable points may be greatly improved,
and that the whole distance from Harvey to
Chesuncook nay be covered with gradients
not exceeding 35 feet per mile, and with no
curve exceeding 3 degrees or 1,910 feet
radius."

from the end of the International to Canterbury-and he makes the average cost
per mile $16,217. Hon. gentlemen will
see that that is a cheap road, and the reports of Mr. Duffy and Mr. Smith show
that there are no difficulties in the way,
very few bridges to build, and that the
gradients are favorable. When the matter
was under consideration in March there
was a good deal said about an all-Canadian route. The surveys have shown
that those routes, in addition to being toO
long to be by any possibility called short
lines, are replete with engineering difficulties. We really do not need any other
all-Canadian route than we have. We
have the Intercolonial which is a very
good all-Canadian route. On the former
occasion I made a comparison between
the International and the Central routes,
and I gave a table of distances by the InAt the time I had
ternational route.
given the benefit of the doubt to the
International; and I find on referring to
Mr. Schreiber's report that the International line instead of being 460 miles to
St. John, as I made it, is 472, and tha
instead of being 701 miles to Halifax, as
I made it, is 720.
HON. MR. PLUMB-That shows the
disadvantage of the hon. gentleman bringing those questions down before he is sure
of the correctness of his figures and making some statements concerning it.
HON. MR. POWER-There is this
difference between the hon. gentleman and
myself: I do not make a practice of making statements that I am not fairly informed about, and in making the error I made
it against myself. There was just one
portion of the road the length of which I
had no means of finding out, and I made
that less than it really was.
HON. MR. PLUMB-You stated it as
a fact : you were giving us information
then as you are now.

HON MR. POWER-My hon. friend
It appears, from the sumniary of grades
.and curves annexed to Mr. Smith's report, does not know what I stated.
that the line in those respects is an exMr. Smith
HON. MR. PLUMB-I have it before
ceptionally favorable one.
gives a careful estimate of the cost of the me. The hon. gentleman stated it as a
road-that is the cost of the whole road fact.

HON. MR. POWER.

The Short [JULY 8, 1885] Line Railway.

1185

did not state tions would probably cost about half a milI stated it as an approxima- lion of dollars. On this southern route at

HON. MR. POWER--I

it as a fact.
tion.

the border the summit is nearly 19oo feet ;

then after crossing Moosehead Lake
HON. MR. PLUMB-You did not use which is about i,ooo feet above the sea
that term at all.
level you have to go up some 6oo feet
within a very few miles.
HON. MR. POWER-I appeal to the
chair to preserve order. The hon. gentleHON. MR. KAULBACH-It is not
ran has no right to interrupt me. If he proposed to cross Moosehead Lake.
is able to establish that I mis-stated anything he can do so after I have done, but
HON. MR. POWER-If my hon. friend
it is altogether improper to interrupt one reads Mr. Schreiber's report he will find
that it is proposed to cross it. I think, in
as he is doing.
fact, that will not be done, because it is
HON. MR. PLUMB-It is very easy to alleged that by crossing Moosehead Lake
establish it : I do not think I shall take the saving in going to Matawamkeag over
the trouble.
the other way going round by the Bangor
and Piscataquis road would be only some
HON. MR. POWER-I was just saying, thirteen miles, and the steep grades that
when I was so improperly interrupted, have to be gone up between Moosehead
that the mistake which I made when Lake and Matawamkeag would more than
dealing with the International was that I counterbalance that gain.
The road
made it some 20 miles shorter than it would be practically longer to go over
really was, and I made that mistake in these hills than to go round; and I have
the distance between the end of the rail- no doubt the road will go round and not
way and Matawamkeag. I thought the go up. If the figures given for the
distance was somewhat less than it really Central route are correct, and as far as we
is. Mr. Schreiber's report makes the have had an oppoetunity of verifying them
southern route 47 miles longer to St. they have been shown to be quite accurate,
John and 56 miles longer to Halifax and then there is no comparison whatever
Moncton than the central route. Then between the Central route for the short
another element which enters into the line of railway and any othtr route. It is
construction of a railway of this sort is the incomparably the best. I will not go over
summit-level, and I notice that although the advantages other than the character
the Address which was presented by this of the road which I mentioned before.
House to His Excellency asked for a I may briefly say that one of the great
statement of the highest summit level on advantages is that it would have the
each of those routes, the report brought whole northern part of the State of Maine
down gives none of the summit levels. I to itself and could not be tapped by any
I do not wish to say that there is any American line or any American port.
improper object in that omission ; but I Hon. gentlemen are probably aware
may be allowed to state that the summit that a good deal of controversy has
on the Southern or International road is arisen between Mr. Schreiber and
admitted to be considerably higher than one of the engineers employed by the
on any of the others. Then the grades Department in connection with these suron the International Railway are as high as veys, that is Mr. Light. I do not propose
seventy-four feet to the mile, and there to enter into that controversy at any
are a good many of them ; and on the length. Mr. Light has answered for himportion of the contemplated road east of self, and the figures speak for themselves.
Moosehead Lake, the Engineer Spoffard, I have, for my own satisfaction, made a
and his assistant Burpee, report a very little calculation-taking the recognized
difficult road to construct with a con- figures-with this result : That the length
tinuance of heavy grade. That road will by the southern line, the International line
involve the construction of a bridge -the distance from Montreal to St. John,
across Moosehead Lake, which if built in leaving out the question of gradients and
the usual way of iron with stone founda- *all that, but just taking the distance in
Z2

1186

Tke Short [SENATE] Line Railway.

miles-is 472. By Mr. Light's line it is
481. And the distance to Halifax by the
International line is 720 miles, and by
Mr. Light's line 710 miles, so that apparently as far as regards the mere item of
distance, the International line has an advantage of nine miles to St. John over
Mr. Light's line, and Mr. Light's lire has
an advantage of ten miles over the other
one to Halifax. It is alleged, and the reports of the engineers on the different
lines go to show that it is truly alleged,
that the superiority of Mr. Light's line in
the matter of gradients and curves will
more than make up for the difference of
nine miles to St. John, and will still
further increase the advantage of his
line in
going to Halifax.
I do
not propose to enter at length into
this controversy, but anyone who has read
Mr. Schreiber's report, and has also seen
Mr. Light's reply, will see that, to say the
least of it, Mr. Schreiber does not treat
his subordinates in a very courteous way.
I find at page 51 of the official report
some few comments of Mr. Schreiber's on,
Mr. Light's report. First he says that :Mr. Light, on pages 2 and 3, expresses a
belief that the maximum grade between
Quebec and Moncton by way of Chesuncook
and Harvey would be 35 to 40 feet per mile,
and that the surveys of last season have
established that the grades above-mentioned
can be obtained between Chesuncook and
Harvey.
Then Mr. Schreiber, commenting on
that, says Mr. Vernon's Smith's survey, the only one
nuade between Chesuncook and Harvey last
season, shows maximum grades of 53 feet per
mile.
But as Mr. Light properly remarks, Mr.
Smith, in the passage I read in the
beginning of those remarks, shows that
that grade can be reduced to 35 or 40
feet. Mr. Schreiber says :"Mr. Light gives, on page 7, the distance
from Montreal Io Harvey, via Quebee, as 248
miles.
This should be 406 miles."
Mr. Schreiber here omits the words
"to build " used by Mr. Light, which
make all the difference in the world.
I have taken Mr. zchreiber's own figures
for the purpose of comparison, and I do
not propose to introduce Mr. Light's
character as an engineer, or Mr. Schreiber's

I shall only say this about Mr. Schreiber,
that I am not aware of any instance where
that gentleman has made a report against
the well understood wishes of his chief.
I do not think that there is any record of
any case where Mr. Schreiber has made a
report adverse to what was understood to
be the wish of his chief. I notice that in
another place some hon. members took
occasion to make very serious charges
against Mr. Light in connection with this
matter. I think the better way would
have been to have shown that Mr. Light's
calculations and figures were wrong, and
not to have gone into his previous history,
which does not concern us in this matter
at all. Mr. Light recommends a combination line which would be identical with the
Central route as far as the north end of
Chesuncook lake, and then would run Up
to Quebec by the Etchemin and Famine

rivers, while a branch of it would run
down to connect with the International
railway by the line surveyed by Mr. Duffy.
I throw out the suggestion that a better
combination than that can possibly be
had, for if, instead of following the International all the way to its termination,
which is eight miles east of the border of
Maine, we leave the International at the
north end of Lake Megantic, which is
some 21 miles west of the end of the
road, and going down the Chaudiere river

and diverge when we get some distance
to the north east, we reach, by going altogether for some 46 miles, the Portage pass
leading into the state of Maine. Then
by continuing the Levis and Kennebec
road from its present terminus to that
same point, a distance of about 30 mies,
we have both the branches of the combination line in the Province of Quebec
free from the control of any foreign state,
or any foreign corporation, and we would
have to build in the State of Maine just
the one line north of the mountains,
and that is a line which does
not interfere at all with any American
road, and could not excite any hostility.
You can comie best to the border of Maine,
across the northern portion of that State,

and then go north to Quebec by the Levis
and Kennebec road, or go south to Lake
Megantic and there connect with the
International. That would involve the
construction of comparatively little railway
character as an engineer into this debate. except on our own territory, and it would
HON. MR. POWER.

1]'e Short [JULY 8, 1885] Line Railway.
Probably satisfy for the present at any rate,
the wants both of Quebec and the Eastern
Townships. By and by if the business
grew, the road by the Etchemin river
could be constructed also. The objections to the southern line, which appears
to be the line favored by the Government
Judging froni the resolutions introduced in
the other Chamber, I have given already
at some length. There are two or three
of them to which I venture to refer again.
One of the objections is that this is a route
intended for United States business ; and
1 rnay say that the hon. member for Stanstead, in the other House, almost admitted that in the recent discussions on the
resolutions. He said in so many words
that one great business of the road would
be to carry freight down to Bangor-that
there would be a great deal of freight
going to Bangor over this road. I do not
think it is the object of this country in
granting this subsidy, to enable the people
Of Bangor to get their freights easily. The
objectas I stated at the beginning, was to
give the best possible connection with St
John and Halifax the commercial capital
of New Brunswick, and the commercial
and political capital of Nova Scotia.
There is talk of doing something to build
up St. Andrews, or some little place in
that neighborhood. That was not the object
Of the subsidy ; the object was not to build
up some unknown place on the western
borders of New Brunswick into a considerable town ; but to connect the present
business centres ofthe two Lower Provinces with the business centre of the Dominion; and it would be very small
Comtort indeed to the people of Nova
Scotia, Prince Edward Island, and
New Brunswick to know that this International road was likely to carry
a good deal of freight to and from Bangor. Another objection to this road is
that its gradients render it unfit for heavy
freight or for speedy passenger trains. A
Very important objection to this road,
which has not been sufficiently adverted
to is this: this road-the road between
the Eastern Townships, and the lower pro-vinces, will be really under the control of
the Maine Central railway. The traffic will
have to .pass over the railway owned by
the Maine Central Company and will be
dependent upon the good will of the
directors and shareholders of that com-

1187

pany. I think that is a very unfortunate
position in which to place our traffic.
The people of Maine and the railway
men of Maine will be sure to see that
they get the best of any bargain that they
make with our people in connection with
the business going by that road; and the
natural tendency on their part will
be to bring the trade
down
to
their own harbor at Sullivan below
Bangor. Then it has been given as a
reason why we should select this southern
route that it will utilize existing roads, and
will not involve the building of quite as
much new road as some other lines would.
It should not be an advantage in our
eyes that the route that is proposed is
going to utilize a certain amount of American railway, and that is what the fact is.
I do not think that that is an argument in
favor of the road at al]. Then some of
the gentlemen who are opposed to the
central and compromise route, and who
advocate the southern route, say, "very
well, supposing that this is the best line,
there will be no session of the Maine
Legislature until 1887, and you will not
have a chance to get a charter for it." In
reference to that I may say it is an objection which is of very little weight ; because
if any hon. gentleman will take the trouble
to consult the Revised Statutes of Maine
he will find that it is not necessary to get
a charter from the legislature at all in
order to incorporate a company to build
a railway in the State of Maine. All that
is necessary is for a number of personsand this is what is done-to file articles of
association with the railway commissioners
and to go through some other forms.
If the line of railway were proposed to
be located in the immediate neighborhood
of an existing road, then there might be
some difficulty raised about it ; but as this
central road would not interfere with any
other line there could be no question at
all as to getting a charter. Another

thing it does not cross any navigable
water. Orie of the reasons why the
International Railway Company had to go
to the Legislature for permission to locate

their road as they proposed to do is that
it crosses navigable water at Moosehead
Lake, and it also trespasses on the ground
of two American railways, and comes into
their neighbourhood; and the result was
that the charter was granted only on the

The Short [SENATE] Line Railway.

1188

condition that the company should make
connection with those American railways.
There is really nothing, I think, in that
objection at all. Another reason given
for selecting this southern route is that it
is said that something must be done at
once; that the Canadian Pacific Railway
wishes the southern route, and iore to
that effect. On that point I wish to be
allowed to refer to another article from
the Halifax Herald:In the first place the plea that further surveys will lead to further delay, and that further delay will force the C. P. R. to secure
another winter outlet, for next season at least,
could have been urged in the session of 1884
just as effectively as it can now. If expedition in securing a winter port for the C. P. R.
is the principal thing to be considered, then
it was folly to waste the whole summer of
1884 making surveys of all kinds of impossible routes. But we contend that it is not the
principal object the country bas in view in
promoting the Short Line railway scheme.
What the people of Canada want, and what
the Goyernment have promised to assist them
in securing, is

"

the shortest possible line "

between Montreal and the Atlantic ports of
the Lower Provinces. And it was solely with
a view of ascertaining what the shortest practicable line really was, that the surveys of
last summer werc authorized. And if, as is
apparent, these surveys have so far wholly
failed of their object, then certainly they
ehould be continued until the shortest possible line bas been clearly ascertained. To stop
surveying at present, on the plea that it wiIl
cause delay, is tantamount to saying that all
we want is a short line, no matter if it reduces
the distance between Montreal and Sullivan's
Harbor three times as much in proportion as
it reduces the distance between Montreal and
Halifax. And that is a proposition that we
do not think " Merchant" or any other man
in Canada-much less iii Nova Scotia- would
care to openly advance.
It does not seem to me to me that
it makes very much difierence to the people of the Lower Provinces or for that
matter to the people of the upper
provinces, whether the Short Line is in
the hands of the Pacific Railway Com.pany or not.
Whoever owns the
road will not have a monopoly of the
business.
The Intercolonial railway
will always be a rival road, and the
proposed road by Edmonston and River
Ouelle will afford another rival line; and
whether the Canadian Pacific Railway
Company own this Short Line, or whether
an independent company own it, or
whether the Grand Trunk Railway own it
HON. MR. POWER.

is of very little consequence.
The great
thing is to get the shortest and best road. I
think under all the circumstances, that it
must strike every hon. gentleman as being
singular that no survey was made of the
central route. The only ground on which
that survey could have been omitted
one would suppose is that nobody had
suggestcd it. I think that that would not
be an excuse, because it is so plain that
it should have suggested itself to the Chief
Engineer and the Railway Department
without any suggestion from outside. But
I have been informed and verily believe
that several petitions asking for the
survey of the central route have been sent
to the Government or to the Railway
Department, and the resolution which I
have the honor to move asks for copies of
those petitions. If it is a fact that those
petitions have come in there will be no
excuse whatever for the conduct of the
Government in omitting to have the
survey of this route made. There is just
one circumstance to which I may be
pardoned if I call attention now. The
chief engineer in his report states that the
route which he recommends, route No. 5
to St. John and No. 6 to Halifax, is the
best, and the only reason he gives for its
being the best is that, while it is the
same distance to St. John by that line
as by line No. 8 which runs north of
Moosehead and Chesuncook Lakes, it is
one mile shorter to Halifax by the route
across Moosehead Lake. It would strike
one as being rather singular as the roads
run together nearly all the way from
Canterbury to Halifax that one should
be a mile shorter tharn the other. If
any hon. gentleman will turn to page
9 of Mr. Schreiber's report he will find
that in giving the distances by line number 9 he puts down section B of the survey at 212 miles. On referring to the
engineer's report I find that the distance
is only 210 miles ; so if you subtract that
two miles which Mr. Schreiber has inadvertantly added to the distance by the
northern line, you make that route a mile
shorter than the southern line instead of
a mile longer ; and if it was such a triumphant and conclusive reason for selecting
the Southern line that it was a mile
shorter, we have the same conclusive reason for selecting the Northern line, for it
is a mile shorter. That is not the only

The 8hort [JULY 8, 1885] Line Railway.

1189

isrepresentation-unintentional I preumne ot course-that I find in this rePort. Mr. Schreiber gives the unsurveyed
Portion of the line from the point of junction near Harvey, New Brunswick to
Moncton, as being i 19 miles, that is, on
the Northern line, number 9. On the
hne which he selects, No. 6, he gives the
Portion not surveyed, 113 miles. The
Portion not surveyed on No. 6 ought to
be longer than the portion unsurveyed on
the other. I am not going to show that

crossing the river at Montreal and going
in an easterly direction even without any
inclination south, must be to a large extent
a feeder to the Railway system of the
United States, and my hon. friend had the
audacity-if I may be permitted to say so
-to tell me in effect that I did not know
what I was talking about. It seems now
that I converted him, that he has changed
his mind and his views are in consonance
with what I then said. My hon. friend is
in favor of a line to Quebec and from
now, but such is the case. The truth is, there by the Chaudiere down to Canteradopting the southern line to the end of bury, or by the road from Richmond across
the International, it is really shorter to go to Canterbury.
round the north of Moosehead and
Chesuncook Lakes, to Halifax, and the
HON. MR. POWER-I think the route
sane distance to St. John, as by the route by Richmond is the shortest and best, but
which the engineer has recommended.
if we cannot get that I think the other
should be had, the Combination line.
8

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I

was in

hopes that the hon. gentleman who has

Introduced this matter would have taken
the Suggestion of the leader of the House
and deferred his remarks until such time
as the question of a Short Line Railway
came up in a more direct manner, and
Probably then they would have afforded
More interest to members, and it would
have opened up a wider discussion than
it has, owing to the time and manner in
Which it has been introduced. I do not
complain of my hon. friend's criticism : it
is essential, I think, that there should be
a full criticism of this matter in view of
the interests and money involved, that no
false step should be taken. What my hon.
friend has said is true: that we have the
chief engineer of railways reporting in
favor of a certain line which the acting
Minister of Railways has, no doubt, some
interest in, and which the Canadian Pacific Railway would be inclined to favor.
Therefore, there is greater reason why
this House and Parliament should more
carefully watch the proposition and
action of the Government in regard
to the line which it is proposed to
establish.
I do not exactly agree
With my hon. friend in much that he has
said. I do not think he has decided himself where this line ought to go whether
by the North Shore and cross near Quebec,
or via Richmond to Canterbury. When
this matter came up before, under an
array of figures from my hon. friend I opPosed his views, I said that any line

HON. MR. KAULBACH-Exactly, so
my hon. friend is coming to my views in
entering into the combination line with
me now, to avoid if possible getting
entangled with the railway system of the
United States. He says it does not
matter who builds or owns this Short line
railway. Our people in the Maritime
Provinces are inclined, I think, as far as
possible, to have the Canadian railways,
freed from any foreign system of railways
to maintain them against foreign rivals.
We are inclined to regard the Canadian
Pacific Railway as the national highway of
the Dominion, and wish it extended to
the extreme end of Nova Scotia. To
facilitate trade between the Maritime
Provinces and the west, it is believed that
we should have a continuous line in the
hands of one company. The road being
in the hands of the Canadian Pacific
Railway they will have an interest in
carrying the trade upon their line as far
as possible, and conveying it to ports in
the Maritime Provinces, making them the
winter ports for the grain of our NorthWest. So when my hon. friend says it is
immaterial what line of railway this
connects with I think he is neither advocating the interests of Canada as a whole,
nor of the Maritime Provinces, nor what
the people of those provinces conceive to
be their interests when asked to pay

$25o,ooo a year for

20

years.

My hon.

friend says there is no objection to some
delay.

'1190

Te Short [SENATE] Line Railway.

HON. MR. POWER-Excuse me, I fused a charter north of the lake to the
did not say that.
Megantie Railway for that reason.
Therefore to say, as my hon. friend says,
HON. MR. KAULBACH--The hon. we must go along the north shore of
gentleman's remark was tantamount to Moosehead Lake is in effect saying that
that-that the people of the Maritime we cannot go through the State of Maine
provinces were not so anxious about that at all with the Richmond and Canterbury
as to get the shortest line.
route.
All these things must be considered, and if my hon. friend thinks that
HON. MR. POWER-I did not say we can do as we please with the State of
that.
Maine he is entirely mistaken. In
order to find an argument to sustain the
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-My hon. position he has taken, he has really misfriend conveyed that meaning, and he represented, I think, the obligations as well
knows that for a number of years the as the disadvantages and restrictions we
clamor in the Maritime provinces has been are under in attempting to construct a
to secure the trade to their winter ports, railway through that portion of the State
and when there is an opportunity to get a of Maine. To put any railway even in
short railway they do naturally object to the manner in which he says from Richany delay which can be avoided. I am mond to Canterbury is not, as my hon.
not in favor of this route myself ; I do not friend asserts, constructing it north of the
believe it is the line which should be range of mourtains, hecause the rivers do
adopted, or that by it very much of the run southward of the shortest line
winter port traffic will ever reach Nova that can be drawn between those two
Scotia, but at the same time his contention points. That is perfectly obvious to any
here, if approved of, would probably be one who will glance at the matter-the
the means of delaying the construction of natural inclination of the country is
any road for an indefinite time, and the southward, even the waters of Lake
final result might be that we would get no Chesuncook flow to Bangor, and therefore
short railway. As regards the route, my he is wrong in supposing that the mountain
hon. friend says it is immaterial where it range would keep our traffic from being
goes through the state of Maine-that it drawn to the United States ports. I am
might go, and there was nothing to stop not satisfied that ail that could be done to
it going, north of Moosehead Lake. Now satisfy this House or country with data
we know very well that the State of has been accomplished; the surveys are
Maine has control, at least in the locating not sufficient to establish the shortest and
of all railways within its borders. best practical line, if I am rightly informed,
Will ny hon. friend tell me that you can between Matamamkeag Lake and St.
run a railway through the State Andrews, because 6o miles of the proposed
of Maine whether the state authorities short line is yet unsurveyed. I am told by
approve of it or not ? We know that it some parties that there is a fair route for a
cannot be done in any country and that railwaythroughthere. Others say that there
it cannot be done in the State of Maine. is not : that it is almost impracticable to
They are alive to their own interests. put a line through there. Therefore I do
When the Megantic line, which is pro- not think that the Government have sufposed as a part of our Short Line was ficient data to decide upon any line as
run through the State of Maine the com- being the shortest and best practicable
pany wanted to have the option to go route between the Maritime Provinces
north or south of Moosehead Lake, but and Montreal. But even after the shortthey were forced to go south. What did est line is discovered, there is a great deal
the State of Maine say ? " You cannot more to be considered-the summits,
go north of Moosehead Lake, because we curves, gradients, the engineering features
want to make your line tributary to our and also the character of the country
system of railways, and if you go north of through which it is to pass. Ail these
Moosehead Lake we will not derive the have to be considered, and we should be
advantages that we expect from your cautious before we construct a railway for
road." This is very significant ; they re- over 150 miles through the State of Maine,
HON. MR. KAULBACH.

fle Short [JULY 8, 1885] Line Railway.
developing a foreign country. I have
always felt and yet feel great reluctance to
spend our money on an enterprise of that
kind, although not to do so seems to be
adverse to the feelings and conceived
interest of the people of Nova Scotia and
New Brunswick. I have contended from
the first that a line down to Quebec on
the north shore and thence via the
Chaudiere to Canterbury would not increase the length of the line to such an
extent as should prevent us building it as
a short line of railway ; and although the
Government may have decided on this
hne, the International, yet my views have
not been changed. We find on that combination line the maximum grades are not
heavy-that is if Mr. Light's figures are
correct, and I am sure that the position
he has held in this country, in the confidence and the employ of the GovernMents of Nova Scotia, and Quebec, and
Of the Dominion, give him an engineering
standing of importance, notwithstanding
what those interested in the Southern
route say of him. Mr. Light says that the
maximum grades would be 35 or 40 feet
per mile, on combination line from Chaudiere, and the maximum curves 4 degrees.
Fle says that the distance from Montreal
to Halifax by that route is 710 miles,
337 of which are to be built, and from
Montreal to St. John 481 miles, 242 of
which remain to be built. If these figures
are correct there is not such a divergence,
or difference in distance, between a line
by the North Shore and the Southern
route, as to justify the Government subsidy to the latter route. The Government seem pledged to extend the Canadian Pacific Railway to Quebec. If
they are committed to that and
if they have decided to expend some

$1,500,ooo to accomplish that object, it is

a grave question for us to consider, and
the country will consider it, whether we
should build or subsidize with $6,ooo a
mile another line of railway which would
to a large extent be a rival to that running
through a foreign country, and divert
trade to a foreign country without any
corresponding advantage to the Lower
Provinces. As I said before, this argument
has corne upon us unawares and I have
not given it that attention which it ought
to receive. But although it has corne
1ipon us prematurely, in view of the policy

1191

of the Governrent to construct or subsidize a railway, under ail the circurstances,
considering that the Canadian Pacific
Railway and Quebec ought fairly to be
consideredand favored bytheGovernment,
and th-- some member of the Goverment
is known to be interested in the southern
route, it is but fair that we should have a
full discussion of the subject, although I
arnot quite satisfied with the criticisrn of
my hon. friend from Halifax, believing it
to be untirely, and that he himself is rather
adrift and undecided as to where the road
should be. Can we afford to wait-will
the maritime provinces be satisfied to wait
for an indefinite number of years for
another route or until we obtain a right to
carry the road, which ry hon. friend
rather advocates, through the State of
Maine? Ail delays are uncertain, and,
therefore, although I ar prematurely
speaking to this matter yet possibly
Parliament may consider, in view of the
clamor there has been for a winter port at
Halifax and St. John, that the Government may have done wisely in acting as
tbey have done, and pursuing a course
which seers to be in accord with the
views of the people's representatives in
the other branch of Parliament.
inconHON. MR. PLUMB-Tbe
venience of making addresses, such as my
hon. friend fror Halifax has delivered,
must be very apparent to every member
of the House. Tbis is the third speech
that he has favored us with upon a question which is fot fairly before us, ofwbich
we have not been informed by any definite
papers, and wbich is likely to corne up
for discussion on 2n important measure
wbich will be subritted to us in two or
three days. At the close of the session
he moves for papers which cannot possibly be brougbt down this year, he bas
given us statements wbich cannot be conclusive, he quotes anonymous articles in
newspapers, and reports of engineers who
are rival professionals, and bas gone, I
think, very much out of bis way to throw
a slur on the Government engineer who,
I think he said, if I understood hîr rigbt,
was never known to rake a report contrary to the desire of the head of the Department Itdidnotrestwithrnyhon.friend
to make sucb a statement as tbat: the
engineer is not here to defend himself.

1192

Dominion Drainage [SENATE]

Company'8 Bill.

Looking back at his speech of the I 7th have this motion disposed of and proceed
March I find it is very much of the same to the orders of the day. I will therefore
character as the two speeches he has postpone my remarks until the Bill is bemade yesterday and to-day. They cannot fore us.
amount to anything, they take up the
time of the House, they weary the memSIR ALEX. CAMPBELLHON.
bers and are only productive of a few There is no objection to the address.
pages of the Debates, which the hon.
The motion was agreed to.
gentleman may wish, for reasons known
to himself, to fill up. I. think a discussion of this kind should be left until we CONSOLIDATED INLAND REVEare seized of the facts-of what is to be the
NUE ACT, 1883, AMENDMENT
policy of the Government. When that is
BILL.
before us the hon. gentleman will have
plenty of opportunity to attack it, and
SECOND READING.
there are probably those here on the floor
of the House who will take occasion to
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
defend it. We will then have something the second reading of Bill (146) "An Act
before us. The hon. gentleman has made to amend 'the Consolidated Inland
three attempts to prejudge a question Revenue Act, 1883.'" This is a Bill
which is a very important one to the which relates almost exclusively to matpeople of the Maritime Provinces, and in ters within the authority of the House of
fact to all of us, because we are all inter- Commons, concerning the sale of spirits,
ested in having a direct route to the the stowage of packages, penalties for viosea. We are all interested in having, lations of the Act, distilleries, breweries,
as nearly as possible, one which will tobacco and cigar manufacturers, etc.
have the best grades and curves, which When the Bill comes before us in Comwill give the nearest approach, which can mittee of the Whole we can find out if it
be operated with the greatest saving and contains anything that requires our
will open up the best country. Those are special consideration.
problems to be solved :the hon. gentleman
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
has not approached them : I do not think
there is a single man within the sound of was read the second time.
his voice who is better able to come to a
conclusion now than when the hon. genDOMINION DRAINAGE COMtleman commenced his speech. There is
PANY'S BILL.
nothing in it : there is no conclusion in it,
no definite information in it, nothing in it
SECOND READING.
except the controversies with which we have
been flooded for thelast twoor three months
HON. MR. PLUMB moved the second
in regard to matters where the opinions of reading of Bill (28), "An Act to inengineers differ so widely that its almost corporate the Dominion Drainage Comimpossible for a non-professional man (and pany." He said-This seems to be a Bill
I do not suppose that my hon. friend to incorporate certain gentlemen a
claims to be anything else) to come to a company for the purpose of undertaking
conclusion. When we know what points we the drainage of lands. They ask that they
have to decide, then is the time for those may have power to contract with the
arguments, and I trust that the hon. gen- Crown or with any private person, firrn or
tleman, having delivered himself on three corporation, municipal or otherwise, for
different occasions, will spare us a speech the drainage of their lands, and to supply
when this measure comes before us.
or furnish all dredges, excavators and
other implements, labor and materials
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-My inten- requisite for such work, and to construct
tion was to say a few words on this ques- all canals, with lockage if necessary, that
tion, but a discussion will probably take they may require to construct for effectual
place on a Bill which is to come before drainage, and to build and prosecute such
us. I see that the House is anxious to work to completion.
HON. MR. PLUMB.

Dominion Drainage [JULY 9,1885] Company's Bill.
They propose to have a capital cf
$400,ooo, in 8,ooo shares of $5o each,
the company to go into operation so soon

1193

BILLS INTRODUCED.

Bill (z52) "An Act to amend the
Militia Act, 1883." (Sir
scribed. There is also a provision that Alex. CampbelL)
the Joint Stock Companies Clauses Act
Bill (154) "An Act further to amend
of 1869 shall apply to this company. They the Acts relating to the culling and
contemplate working throughout Canada. measuring of timber in the Provinces of
It is well known that in the western part Ontario and Quebec." (Sir Alex. Campof Ontario, in the Counties of Kent and bell)
and Essex, there have been very large
Bill (156) "An Act to restrict and
drainage works which have been of very
regulate Chinese
immigration
into
great importance, and thousands of acres
of fertile lands have been reclaimed and Canada." (Sir Alex. Campbell.)
Bill (155) " An Act for the final settlenade arable by the application of a system
of drainage, which is often so large and ment of the claims made b'the Province
requires so much capital and plant, that it of Manitoba on the Dominion." (Sir
cannot be carried on very well by private Alex. Campbell.)
individuals. The members of this com
The Senate adjourned at 4.50 p.m.
Pany are well known contractors : among
them are Angus P. McDonald, Alexander
Manning, Peter McLaren, William John
Morris, A. F. Manning, Randolph Macdonald and others. It seems to be a new
scheme in this country, but I think it will
THE SENATE.
commend itself to the House.
as $2oo,ooo of the capital have been sub- Consolidated

The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time.
HARBOR COMMISSIONERS OF
THREE RIVERS BILL
IN COMMITTEE.

Ottawa, Thursday, July 9 th, r885.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
DOMINION DRAINAGE COMPANY'S BILL.

The House resolved itself into a ComTHIRD READING.
mittee of the Whole on Bill (150), " An
Act to authorize the advance of a certain
HON. MR. READ, from the Committee
sum to the Harbor Commissioners of
on Standing Orders and Private Bills,
Three Rivers."
reported Bill (28), "An Act to incorporate
the Dominion Drainage Company," with
In the Committee,
certain amendments.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is
HON. MR. PLUMB-The report of the
evident that these comrnissioners are now
paying six per cent, and it is proposed by committee shows that the amendments are
this Bill to take up these debentures by merely verbal and I move that they be
new debentures to be issued at not more concurred in presently.
than four per cent., and to give them the
The motion was agreed to.
difference between what is necessary to
take up the $63,6oo of old debentures,
HON. MR. PLUMB moved that the
and the $82,000, to complete their works.
Bill be read the third time as amended.
HON. MR. READ, from the committee,
The motion was agreed to, and the
reported the Bill without amendment,
|Bill was read the third time and passed

1194A

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

HARBOUR COMMISSIONERS OF remain, and therefore I assent to the suggestion made by my hon. friend from
THREE RIVERS BILL
New Brunswick, and supported by the
hon. member ftom Halifax that the clause
THIRD READING.
be restored, and I now move that it be
The order of the day having been restored.
called for the third reading of Bill (15o),
The motion was agreed to.
"An Act to authorize the advance of a
certain sum to the Harbor Commissioners
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
of Three Rivers."
the third reading of the Bill as amended.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL said:
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
I had put the third reading of this Bill off was read the third time and passed.
until to-day, because of an expression in
the third clause which struck me, and it
THE FRANCHISE BILL.
is this:«Upon the payment or advance of any sum
SECOND READING.
under this Act to the said Harbor Commissioners, they shall deposit as such commissioners, with the Minister of Finance and
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
Receiver-General their own bonds."
the second reading of Bill (103), " An Act
It is not meant that they should put in respecting the Electoral Franchise." He
their private bonds, but their official bonds, said : In moving the second reading of this
and I would like the word " own " to be Bill a member of this House who is charged
stricken out of the third clause.
with that duty is met with the usual
embarrassment attending the reception in
The amendment was agreed to.
the Senate of bills of this nature, and more
particularly this Bill which has occupied so
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved unusually a long time in the House of Comthe third reading of the Bill as amended. mons. I shall not attempt to make any
elaborate speech upon the subject which
The motion was agreed to and the Bill has already become so completely familiar
was read the third time and passed.
to the ears of everybody who listens to me
-a bill that has been debated in the other
CONSOLIDATED INSURANCE ACT branch of Parliament for eight or nine
AMENDMENT BILL.
weeks I believe, and not only the
principles but the details discussed
TH1RD READING.
at such elaborate length that it is quite
out of the question that any person
The order of the day having been proposing the second reading here will be
called for the third reading of Bill (20), able to offer any new observations on it,
"An Act to modify the application of the or will be able to present it to anybody in
Consolidated Insurance Act, 1877."
a new light. I will content myself therefore
with alluding to the general reasons which
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL said: present themselves to the Government for
When this Bill was appointed for third the creation of a general and uniform
reading to-day I promised a member of franchise throughout the Dominion. Hon.
the House from New Brunswick, who is gentlemen know very well that by the
now in his place, that I would consider charter of our hberties-by the Act under
again the sixth section of the Bill which in which this Parliament sits--the Confedercommittee was stricken out altogether and ation Act of 1867, it was contemplated
which my hon. friend desired to have that sooner or later, probably sooner than
restored. It was to make certain sections has been actually done, this Parliament
of the Act apply to domestic companies would take into its own hands the franchise
as well as foreign companies. After con- which governs the election of those who
ferring with the Superintendent of In- represent constituencies in the House of
surance I think that the clause might Commons. The provision in the Act of

Tke Franchise [JJLY 9, 1885] BiU.
Confederation was, that until other provisions should be made, by the Parliament
of Canada, the franchise should remain
as settled in the different provinces,
and that it should constitute, until
altered by Parliament, the franchise
which should entitle gentlemen to seats
in the House of Commons. It was
evidently contemplated by the Imperial Parliament that at an early day the
Parliament of the Dominion would take
that subject into their hands and legislate
for themselves as to the franchise which
should govern the rights of those who sit
in the House of Commons. Two methods
suggested themselves by which this might
be accomplished. One, which I confess
recommended itselfto me, was to take the
franchises in the different provinces and
crystalize them-adopt them as the Dominion franchise-each province by itself,
and to put machinery in force by which
the existing franchise in each province
might be preserved unalterable except by the Parliament of the Dominion.
That would have been a simple plan,
and would have avoided some friction,
because it would have given to the
constituencies in each province the
franchise to which they have been accustomed. But there were some grave
objections to that system and I yielded my
preference willingly. There was a want
of symmetry in it; you would have
members elected in one part of the
Dominion by one franchise and in other
parts of the Dominion by another
franchise. There was a want of symmetry
and harmony in it, and it does seem to
recommend itself to one's judgment that, if
it be possible, we should establish one and
the same franchise throughout the whole
Dominion. They would all be holding their
seats by the same authority and by the
same franchise, and it would have the
tendency to unite us as one nation more
than the other mode could possibly have
done. There are arguments on both sides,
but, on the whole, the system presented
to the House for its consideration is the
one which recommended itself to the
Government, and is the one which, of the
two, presents the more statesmanlike
theory to this Parliament for its consideration. Having adopted that plan as the
better of the two, then the question of
lowering the franchise or making it higher

1195

was to point which the Government had
to deliberate upon. The franchise which
is now presented to the House for consideration is lower than it was found to
exist at this moment in most of the provinces. It is a lower franchise than exists
at this moment in Ontario, sumewhat
lower than that what exists in Quebec and
in one or two of the other provinces. It
is a franchise which is not only enlarged
by reason of diminishing the standard in
value, but it isenlarged bybringing into the
bodyof constituents many persons who
havenot now votes. In many respects,
therefore, I think the Bill ought to
recommend itself to those members of
this Honse who belong to the Reform
party, because it is an enlargement of the
franchise ; because it gives votes to those
who have not now votes, in many
instances not only lowering the franchise,
but including those who have not it
at all. I understand, and I am sorry
to hear that some of my hon. friends in this
House to whose support I have long been
indebted, and whom it is always a
source of grief to me to find not in
accord with the views that may be presented by the Government, are not satisfied with the franchise which is now
offered for consideration, because it is
too liberal in the way of bringing others in,
because it lowers the franchise in a
way which they think is inconsistent
Those genwith conservative views.
tlemen come chiefly, I believe, from
Quebec, and I am sure they will
allow me to point out to them that
if that evil is really deducible from the Bill,
it is one which affects the "province of
Quebec much less than the other provinces
because Quebec has a stable population
not increasing rapidly, I apprehend in
Quebec that the voters under this Bill, if
it should become law, will be very much
the voters who are on the lists now, but
in the other provinces there would be an
increased number of them. I hope too
that my hon. friends from Lower Canada,
some of whom, I believe, have this feeling,
will bear in mind that there is a necessity
imposed on every Government to keep
time, as it were, with the events which
are going on-to march in line with the
general sentiment ; and I think one may
safely say in this country the general sentiment at this moment is in favor of giving

1196

The Franckùe [SENATE] Bill.

votes to all those who can safely be should have time to discharge completely
intrusted with them. We may not go so the duty of a revising officer with reference
far as many gentlemen desire in this to all the constituencies in his county,
respect, but having endeavored to and other difficulties might arise which
hit a point which would be half-way would render it desirable that they should
between the two. The Bill not only not be employed the whole of their time,
increases the constituents, but it also at all events, on the occasion of revising
makes provisions for the regular registra- the list of those who have to vote, and retion of all those who may be entitled to vising barristers are therefore to be apvote, provisions which have excited a pointed. Why there should be such
great deal of comment elsewhere, and jealousy of revising barristers I do not comwhich were supposed to indicate a deep pletely understand. Revising barristers are
design on the part of the Government to to be men of five years' standing, and I
maintain their own positions and to keep myself have confidence that such a
the present Opposition where they are for barrister, no matter from what party he
years to come, a scheme which bas been might come, no matter in what province
attributed to the Premier, and in which, I he might be appointed, would discharge
believe, it has been alleged by some of his duty according to law. There grows
the Opposition, that he has had the assist- up in the legal profession a respect for the
ance of his Satanic Majesty in devising. law and a desire to discharge thoroughly
That is if true would go to show that we and legally any duty which may be
I am entrusted to a member of it. I should no
were making unholy alliances.
happy to say that it is not true. The more suppose that a revising barrister
scheme is one which recommended itself would wilfully go wrong in the discharge
to our judgment as one which enlarged of this duty than he would wilfully go
the constituencies while, at the same time, wrong in the discharge of his duties if he
it preserved some of the elements of con- were made a judge or a commissioner. I
servatisni which were,as we thought, suf- do not appreciate or sympathize with the
ficient to justify us in increasing, to the ex- view which distrusts revising barristers
tent which the Bill does increase, the because they are appointed by the Governvoters in the Dominion.
Then the ment. I cannot think that any man of
scheme contains provisions for the pur- five years' standing at the bar would wilpose of framing the original list of voters fully sit down and write on the roll the
and of revising it from time to time. The name of a man who was not a voter. That
officers appointed to do this duty are seems to be an apprehension which my
some of the judges of the land and revis- experience at all events does not justify.
ing barristers. It bas been supposed that But there has been given in the case of
the judges would only be appointed oc- any decision by a revising barrister, an
casionally, and that the normal state of appeal so that if the barrister should go
things would be to employ revising barris- wrong or disregard his duty, or be
ters appointed by the Government, and influenced without his knowledge pertherefore supposed to be in the interests haps by that bias which is supposed by
of the Government; but assurances have some to be unavoidable-his political
been given elsewhere, and I repeat them bias-there is an appeal which would
here, that as far as it is possible to select bring his decision before a judge.
judges under
the
Bill and as Now, I think that of itself would be a suffar as that can be done without ficient check on any man to prevent him
interfering seriously with the discharge of from doing that which is wrong-I would
their other duties they will be selected and submit to the House that revising barrisbarristers will only be appointed where ters are officers appointed in England, and
this cannot advantageously be done. Of there is no suggestion there that they discourse in many counties of the Dominion charge their duties unfairly or improperly.
where there is but one judge there are I know it will be said by my hon. friends
several electoral divisions,-divisions each opposite " Oh they are not appointed by
of which is entitled to return a member, the Government." It is true they are not
and it might be found impossible, in the appointed directly by the Government,
administration of the Act, that the judge but they are appointed by the Lord ChanHON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL.

TlA Franchise [JULY 9,1885] Bill.

1197

cellor for the time being, and he is a justice of the course pursued by the Senate
upon that occasion seems to have been
member of the Government.
admitted, and no subsequent effort was
HON. MR. SCOTT-The Lord Chan- ever made to restrict the franchise of
cellor appoints only in London ; in the Prince Edward Island. British Columbia
country revising barristers are appointed is in the same position, and hon. gentleby the judge on circuit.
men will easily see that with reference to
the provisions as stated, it was a much
HON. MR. POWER-It is the Lord stronger step to take, and one more apart
Chief Justice who makes the appointment from all their past experience to say that
there should be a franchise of real or
in London not the Lord Chancellor.
tenant property or any other kind, restrictHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It ing them beyond what they had in
used to be the Lord Chancellor I the past in the way of an electoral franthink. That removes it one step from chise. I desire to point out the difference
the Crown at all events, and in that between the franchise as it exists under
respect it is a degree more distant from the this Bill, and the franchise as it exists at
centre of authority that it is under this this moment in the different provinces,
Bill Here they are to be appointed by and then to say a word or two in reference
the Government, and they are to hold to those which have been added. The
That franchise as it exists at present in the vaoffice during good behavior.
was a rule which it was supposed would be rious provinces, I had put some time ago
favorably received by any critic of the in the shape of a memorandum which is
Bill, because a man once appointed is re as follows: in Ontario an elector must be
moved from all Government control or a British subject, of age, assessed for real
influence. That was the provision made property as owner, tenant or occupant of
with reference to the revising barristers, the following value :and with reference to the persons by whom
In cities $400, or be assessed for inthey were to be appointed. Then when come of not less than $400.
the Bill was finally before the House,
HON. MR. SCOTT-Not now.
certain exemptions to the general principle
were made, one in Prince Edward Island,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
where the suffrage in the past was universal, and one in favor of British Columbia, has been altered since this memorandum
where the suffrage was of the same was drawn up. They may alter it from
character. In this House, some years ago, day to day if they choose, and I believe
when Prince Edward Island entered the they do.
Union, a bill, which passed the lower
HON. MR. SCOTT-It was amended
chamber, which altered the franchise of
that province, and which gave the franchise at the last session of the Legislature.
of those who had a right to vote for the
menbers of the Legislative Council, as the
HON. MR. PLUMB-It was altered in
franchise for those who voted for a mem- anticipation of a Dominion Franchise Bill,
ber for the Commons, it was altered in order to embarrass us a little.
by the Senate, and we thought then that
the franchise as it existed at that time in
HON. MR. SCOTT-It is not now the
Prince Edward Island was the proper one law of Ontario.
for that province, and we made it so; so
that this House, as far as its judgment
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
went on that occasion, supported the has been so far as elections up to now are
principle of this Bill as laid down so far as concerned. The last alteration is that
Prince Edward Island is concerned. The in towns he must be possessed of real
Senate has been much abused for that, property of the value of $300 ; in villages
and for other steps which they have $200; in townships $200. That is the
taken in regard to bills which came last alteration which they have made in
from the House of Commons but that bill Ontario, and the interruption of my hon.
was never again presented to us. The friend opposite suggests to me one of the

1198

TAe Franc&ise [SENATE] Bill,

strongest reasons, which I omitted when
I was referring to the point, for the passage
of this Bill and the establishment of a
franchise which shall be firm and lasting
with reference to members of the House
of Commons and it is this ; that they are
altering perpetually the franchise law in
Ontario and in some of the other provinces,
and I think I may safely say without fear
of successful contradiction that those
alterations or some of them have been
made for the very purpose of having
influence upon the elections of the House
of Commons. They have been altered at
times, and so abruptly, and in the immediate presence of an election for the
House of Commons, that one cannot but
believe that they are altered for the purpose
ofinfluencingthatelection,andthathas been
done in other provinces besides Ontario.
It has been a subject of remark, and has
suggested to members of the House of
Commons and to members of the Government, and no doubt to many members
of this House, that the only way of getting
over a great evil of the kind was to take
the franchise into our own hands, and
create such a franchise as we thought
proper for the House of Commons, a constituent part of this Parliament. I have
stated to you the franchise which exists in
Ontario. In Quebec the real property
qualification in cities is $300, and elsewhere $200: or $20 annual value, or a
tenant paying annual rent for real estate
in cities of $ 3 o-elsewhere $20 : provided
the real estate itself be rated at $300 and
respectively. In New Brunswick
$2oo
he must be assessed for real estate to the
value of $ioo. Personal estate, or real
and personal estate together to the value

of

$20.

In Nova Scotia real estate to the

value of $150, or personal estate or real

and personal estate together to the value
of $3oo. In Prince Edward Island, residence for one year, and being on the
voters' list and paying a poll tax for the
year preceding ; or he must for 12
months preceding revision of voters' list
have owned, or been entitled to a freehold
estate of clear yearly value of $6.40, or to
one whole water lot, common lot, town
lot or pasture lot within the town of
Georgetown or Charlottetown, etc.
Now the provisions of this Bill are: in
cities he must be the owner of an estate to
the actual value of $300. Hon. gentlemen
wiil see that it was $400 in Ontario, $300

in Quebec, and $200 in some of the other
Provinces. We have taken the mean sum
of $300 in cities, and in towns $200 ; or
as tenant at a monthly rental of at least
$2, or a quarterly rental of at least $6, or
half yearly rental of at least $12, or an
annual rental of at least $20, and whose
last year's rent has been paid ; or as occupant of real property, if in a city, under an
agreement to purchase from the Crown or
any other person or corporation, or occupies in any other manner, except as owner
or tenant, property to the value of $3oo,
and

in

towns

$200.

Then

copied

from some of the Provinces the vote
given to the following persons, having an income of $300

annually from

his earning or from some investment, and residence in cities or towns:
in counties he shall be entitled to
a vote if he is the owner of real
property of the actual value of $15o ; that
again varies somewhat from what is now
the case, and it varies in some provinces
augmenting it, and in other provinces
of $400, or have an income of $400.
diminishing it.
In New Brunswick real
HON. MR. POWER-It has been al- estate to the value of $0oo would now
give a vote; whereas we require a value of
tered there.
$150.

Then a tenant must be under

MR. PLUMB-It has been al- lease at a monthly rental of at least $20 a
year, and has really and bona fide paid one
tered there, and changed back again.
HON.

ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,
to meet an election in the House of Commons. In British Columbia the franchise
is universal suffrage. In Manitoba the
owner of real estate to the value of $1oo,
or tenant of real estate of value $2oo, and
rent of $20. per annum, or occupant and
householder of land to the annual value
HON. SIR

HoN. Sut ALEX. CAMPBELL

year's rent for such real property at not
less than that rate, or if an occupant, if he
is the bona fide occupant of real property
to the value of $150, whether such occupation be under license or agreement to
purchase from the Crown or any other
way. There is also a vote given to the
possessor of an income in the country of
not less than $3oo.

The vote is also

The Franchi8e [JULY 9, 1885] Bill.

1199

given to fishermen, and I was very glad to the Government. They are not wards of
see that, and I hope it will recommend the Crown in the sense that the crown
itself to the favorable consideration of can deprive them of anything. There is
those gentlemen who are from the Mari- no sort of influence that the Crown can
time Provinces-fishermen owning real exercise upon them that I know of to
property and boats and net and fishing induce them to vote one way or the other.
gear and tackle which, together, are of the They are just as free as any other class of
actual value of $150.
Then the vote is Her Majesty's subjects and it seems to
given to farmers' sons and to the sons of me, are just as entitled to vote as any
other persons entitled to vote under simi- other class of Her Majesty's subjects. I
lar provision in the Ontario franchise. have informed the House what the proThen after giving all those persons votes vision of the Bill is as to registration of
there is a restrictive clause saying who voters and revising barristers ; but it would
shall not vote at elections, and amongst perhaps be convenient that I should menothers who are disqualified are the Indians tion to the House the provision of the Bill
n Manitoba, British Columbia, Keewatin for the beginning of the voters' list, a
and the North-West Territories, and any provision which attracted a great deal of
Indian on any reserve elsewhere in Canada attention in the Lower House, and which
who is not in possession and occupation was somewhat altered, but is now presented
of a separate and distinct tract of land of in principle to a large extent as it stood
the value of at least $15o, and who is not originally. The revising officer who preotherwise possessed of the qualifications pares the first list of voters shall obtain a
entitling him to be registered on the list certified copy of the last revise or final
of voters. Great opposition was raised to assessment roll of the district and also
this provision about Indians in the other certified copy ofthe lastrevisedlistof voters,
branch of the Legislature. It seems to me and that voters' list having been supplied
a most unjust one. I know something of by him shall be communicated to those
the Indians in Tyendinaga, which is a who are chiefßy interested, in a variety of
township on the confines of a con- ways pointed out by the Bill, and then
stituency that I once represented, there shal be a revision when people can
and where I knew the Indians some- be heard for or against the list as it stood,
what intimately, and I know from what I after which there is a final settlement of
saw of them in their domestic life that the voters' list. I do not know that any
manv of them were as well qualified to vote body could suggest a better way of coras white men. Many of them were men pos- recting an original list. You are to take
sessed of considerable amount of property; the list that was voted on at the last eleccould read and write, and were as intelli- tion. You revise that list, and your revigent, and were quite as entitled to vote, sion is subject to appeal. You are obliged
as many of their white neighbors. The to send it to the persons interested, to each
restriction here is that the Indian member of the Councill of every city,
although on the reserve ; must be town, township or village in the electoral
possessed of a separate and distinct district, to the clerk and treasurer, to each
tract of land either on the reserve or else- postmaster in every municipality or polling
where. It seems to me that it is the division ; to the sheriff, warden, clerk of
height of absurdity to deny those people the Peace and county Judge and to the
votes. They were here before we were unsuccessful candidate at the last election,
here ; they were the owners of the coun- and every suggestion to make the thing
try before we were, have always been public, and bring to bear upon it
loyal to the Crown, and they are educated, the light which public opinion throws
some of them perfectly educated-I know upon all things of the kind, and
one of them a member of Oxford Univers- which enforces fairness and reasonity, and there are lots of them educated able decisions and reaionable actions
at the common schools of the country, upon the part of those who have to deal
and are as well educated as the with the matter, is here adopted. These
children of white people. The objection are the general provisions of the bill which
taken is that they are wards of the Crown, has received the sanction of the House of
and as such are likely to be influenced by Commons who are chiefly interested in it,

1200

The Franchi8e [SENATE] Bill.
had in view the franchise that was in
operation in the only two provinces then
united, Upper and Lower Canada. Under
that franchise there was uniformity, no
doubt, but the preparation of the lists, the
filing of the papers, the whole arrangement of these details was relegated to the
municipal authorities. The Parliament of
Old Canada simply provided that the
franchise should be a certain and definite
sum, the mode of arriving at which was
through the different municipal institutions
that prevailed in the provinces. We
know that the municipal institutions of
Upper and Lower Canada were not alike,
and had this Bill followed those lines I
should have seen no objection whatever to
it, but because it is a departure from the
principle which then existed and which I
think the promoters of the British
North America Act had in view
when framing it, I am disposed to
question the fairness and the justice
of the measure submitted to us. In the
first place, I do not think it can be argued
that the change has become necessary.
The hon. gentleman has endeavored to
make it appear that the Province of Ontario was so intent on affecting the election
of members to the House of Commons
that they altered their franchise on the
eve of elections for the Parliament of

and which is now presented to you for
your consideration. I am happy to believe that it is one which presents to the
country an increased liberality as regard
those who are entitled to vote. It gives
votes to those who have a small interest
in the country, that interest being a permanent one. Ail those things tend to
permanency, and to restrict the right to
vote to those men who have a real and
lasting interest in the country, and to such
we should all be willing to give votes.
Of course I feel that in lowering the
franchise it may possibly be that some
are included, and some may get votes
who are not of the class that we
would like to see enfranchised; but
I think they would be the exception,
and that such instances will be few in the
country, and they will not be sufliciently
numerous to influence by their votes, the
position of those who are, for the time
being, entrusted with the Government of
the country. I submit the Bill to the
House with every hope that it will receive
your favorable consideration.
HON. MR. SCOTT-The Minister of
Justice, in submitting this bill for our consideration, prefaced his remarks with the
usual frank and candid expression of his
own views which indicate the fair-minded
man. He told us there were two opinions
as to the franchise which ought to be proposed to the Parliament of Canada.
This is evidently not the bill that, had the
subject matter been left exclusively to
himself, he would have framed for our
consideration. He spoke rather favorably of giving to the Provincial authorities
at least the right of arranging the list, and
of continuing, as far as possible, the system that has already existed, saving and
excepting, perhaps, the question of uniformity of franchise. He stated that at
the time of Confederation a provision was
introduced in the British North Arnerica
Act providing that when the Parlianent oi
Canada saw fit to establish a uniform
franchise for the Dominion it should
quite under
I
Now,
do so.
stand the reasonableness of that proposi
tion, and if the franchise that is submitted
to us to-day were in harmony with the
view then taken by the promoters of the
British North America Act, 1 should no,t
raise my voice against it. They, no doubt ,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Canada.

I deny that in toto.

If anyone

looks at the system in Ontario it will be
seen that it has been a broadening and
widening system, giving the franchise to
larger numbers as the changes were made,
increasing the number of those who had a
right to vote for members of the Local
Legislature and of the Dominion House
of Commons. Certainly there has been
no agitation in any part of Canada against
the franchise which has been exercised
now since Confederation, nearly 20 years.
No petitions have been presented against
it, there has been no exhibition of public
feeling in favor of a change, and it does
appear to me that the Conservative party
have very little right to complain. There
have beenfive electionssinceConfederation
and they have had four of them. In the last
two elections they have had very considerable majorities, in the last one, I
believe, a majority in all the Provinces.
It cannot, therefore, be that the system in
operation has worked injuriously to their
interests. That is obvious. Do they feel

Te Franchise [JULY 9, 1885] Bill.
that it is necessary to entirely block out
the Liberal party from any participation in
the administration of public affairs-to
deprive them of that one-fifth chance they
have had to govern the country for the
last 20 years ? It would appear so from
the measure which was submitted in the
other Chamber, the object of which was
to secure the majority in their seats in the
That was the
House of Commons.
object, as clearly as any measure could
have an object. The hon. gentleman has
commented on the time that has been
Spent in the debate on this Bill in
another place.
It is fortunate for the
Country that there was a patriotic
body, if weak in numbers yet strong
in patriotism, who during those seven
weeks battled with the Bill as introduced
by the Government, and succeeded in
striking out many obnoxious clauses.
They were unable to make it a fair and
reasonable Bill, it is true, but many portions of that measure, for which no possible defence could be urged, which it
was not possible to justify, were stricken
Out in the various stages that were taken
in the long period it was under discussion.
It was a fight for political life by the OpPosition in the other Chamber, because
the Bill, as submitted by the Government,
meant giving for all time to come the
right of being elected to the Conservative
party.
Practically it made the revising
barrister the absolute arbiter and judge of
who should be on that list, and who
should not. It gave him powers without
appeal: it allowed him to make out the
list of his own mere motion : it allowed
him to override the assessment roll ; he

was not bound by the valuation of
the assessors ; it gave to the tribal
Indians
the right
to vote.
Very many important changes have been
made in the clauses to which I have referred
in its passage through the lower House.
As we all know, there may be a divided
Opinion as to woman suffrage, but the Bill
as brought down gave to widows and
unmarried women the right to vote. The
Chinese were given the right to vote,
though they were at a subsequent stage
disfranchised. The revising barrister cannot now be a candidate. As the Bill
stood, and as it was pressed upon the

1201

completed them, if an election came on
he was an eligible candidate. He could
have that in view at the very time he
framed those lists, and he had the power
to add names to the list at his own mere
motion. He did not require the suggestion of any outsider; he could take the
list into his own private room and put on
or take off the names of any he pleased,
and that power can be best appreciated by
the fact that for the first time in
this Dominion the vote is largely

in-

creased by the addition of farmers' sons,
wage earners, and those having a vote
under the income clause-all those are to
be put on. It rested with the revising
barrister to say whom he should select of

those, because it was a matter of discretion
whether a farmer having a farm of 500
acres, and two sons should give his two
sons the votes or not. It gave, as I said
before, the right to refuse an appeal from
his decision. All that, fortunately, has
been changed. The Bill, no doubt, has
been broadened in its operation. The
franchise in towns has been reduced, since
the Bill was brought in, from $3oo to
$2oo, and also in the case of occupants

to some extent.

The income franchise

has been reduced from $400 to $300.

In

the matter of appeals, very large and important changes have been made, giving
sorne sort of security against the decision
of the revising barrister, and also giving
increased publicity. As first proposed, the
time within which those lists were abso-

lutely confirmed and parties absolutely
shut off from appeal, was much shorter
than it is now ; it was originally two
weeks; it has now been enlarged to four
weeks, and in some instances to six weeks.
Those were the prominent changes in the
Bill, and they were important modifications
that were gained by the stubborn fight
to which Her Majesty's loyal Opposition

were obliged to resort in order to secure
an appearance of fairness in this measure.
I come now to the principal objection
to this Bill : that is, that it is going to
create very great confusion throughout the
whole Dominion. In no respect is it
similar to the franchise in any one of the
provinces. In some provinces, as the
hon. gentleman explained, the franchise is
higher: in some it is lower. Its object
House of Commons, the revising barrister apparently was to obtain uniformity, yet
had only to make up his lists and, having when British Columbia and Prince Edward
A 3

1202

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

part of an Indian reserve, it has all to be
done through the agent. He calls the
tribe together, and is their guide. It is
the agent who would direct the Indians
how to vote. The hon. gentleman says
there are some graduates of Oxford
among the Indians. I believe there is one
Indian who is a graduate of Oxford, and
this one is brought forward as a typical
Indian. We know that is not the condition of the Indians. They wander over
this country seeking whiskey where they
can get it-they are poor, wandering and
begging people. The Indians have never
asked for the franchise; who suggested it ?
Whoever heard that they required it ? Is
there a gentleman in this Chamber who
ever heard, during the last five years, of
pressure being brought, on the part of the
Indians, upon the Government to give
them the right to vote? Is it not extraordinary to make those fundamental
changes in our constitution-because they
are fundamental changes, they will change
in some parts of the country the whole
franchise-in order to give the Indian a
vote? By whom will the vote be conHON. Sir ALEX. CAMPBELL-Oh trolled but by the agent, and who appoints
no; he is not a pensioner; he is drawing the agent ? The Government of the day.
Those Indians are being rapidly educated,
money that belongs to his tribe.
no doubt : they are being educated now
HON. MR. SCOTT-We set apart a into the mysteries of a Conservative soreserve for the Indians and undertake to ciety. They are being made Orangemen,
pay them so many dollars a year, but we with a view of educating them up to a
do not regard them as ordinary citizens political level. That, no doubt, was the
because we do not collect taxes from them. great inducement of the Conservative
We protect them in many ways. We do not party to give them the right to vote.
permit liquor to be sold to them-we are They were being educated up as Orangenot so careful of white men as we are of men, and as Orangemen they would be all
the Indians-and there are strong penal swept in to vote for the Conservative canlaws for selling liquor to them.
didates on the day of election-the agent
being their guide. My hon. friend knows
HON. MR. PLUMB-You have made very well that this is the case-that halls
the same provision for white men in some which are paid for out of the public
parts of the country.
money for the Indians are being used
throughout Ontario as Orange lodges.
HON. MR. SCOTT-We know from
reading reports of the Indian Department
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No.
year by year that the Indians ask the I never heard of it before.
Government for advances of seed. They
are improvident, as we all know, and omit
HON. MR. SCOTT-I do not know
saving seed for their farms and advances
that my hon. friend can give the password,
have to be made to them. Everybody
knows that the Indian agent is all power- but he should be aware of it.
ful with the tribe ; that when land has to
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
be sold for a railway, or any other purpose, or if a person wants to purchase a I never heard of it.

Island insisted on being omitted, they were
let out, so that all those who have been in
the habit of voting in those two provinces
in the past will have the right to vote in
future. It cannot be contended therefore
that uniformity has been secured so far as
these two provinces are concerned. The
hon. gentleman justified the Indian vote
by the legislation in Ontario. The Indian
vote as permitted in the province of
Ontario by the new Bill is reasonable ; had
the Government here taken that as an example I should have no objection to it.
In Ontario an Indian, in order to vote,
must hold land on which he pays taxesland entirely apart from the Government
reserve. It is a matter of notoriety, and
the hon. gentleman's experience with Indians all over this Dominion must have
convinced him of the truth of what I say,
that the Indian, as a rule, is not educated
in the politics of the country. He pays
no taxes : the very basis of representation
is paying taxes. Does it not seem preposterous that a man who pays taxes, who is
a pensioner of the nation-

HON. MR.

SCOTT.

The Franchise [JULY 9, 1885] Bil.
HoN. MR. SCOTT-Here is the organ
Of the Orange body, the Orange Sentinel,
Published in Toronto. It seems up at
Moraviantown, an Indian village, there is
an Orange Lodge. This is what the
Sentinel says in its issue of April 3oth :" W. Bro. Huigh Gallagher, District Master,
District No. 2, Co. Kent, writes as follows:I made a visit to Moraviantown (Indian)
Lodge No. 543, at their regular monthly meetIng last Monday eveninu. a week ago, and am
happy to say the lodge las every appearance
of being a grand success. I think the warrant
is in first-class hands. There is a determination amongst the menibers that none but good
Men and true shall be admitted to nemberShip, and one and all take the most lively interest in the working of the lodge, and are
anxious to carry on their work strictly in accordance with the constitution and the prin-

1203

HON. MR. SCOTT-No doubt some
of them are worth $15o, but the property

is not theirs ; they cannot sell it, because
it belongs to the tribe. It is a reserve,
just as much as these buildings are reserv
ed, and they should have no more right to
vote upon the property in the reserve than
one of our servants should have to attempt
to vote on this building. The Indian who
wants to vote, and has this house and

plot of ground around it, on which he
grows potatoes and a little corn, can have
it valued at $15o by the revising barrister ;
the Indian has no control over it. He
could not sell it and he pays no taxes.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
know lots of cases where they lease it.

ciples of Orangeisnm."

HON. MR. SCOTT-The individual
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Is Indian has no right to lease his land.
not that all right ?
HON. MR. PLUMB-He has a right
HON. MR. SCOTT-I say that is and I will prove it in good time.
the preface to their political education.
laving become Orangemen they are fit
HON MR. SCOTT-I dare say it is
for voting.
not pleasant information to be conveyed
to the country, but, nevertheless, it is true.
HON. MR. PLUMB- It shows that they The Government should have followed the
are intelligent men.
plan adopted in Ontario; where the Indian
acquires land of his own and pays taxes, he
HON. MR. SCOTT-And Orange votes-I say that that Indian has earned
lodges have been established elsewhere on the right to be a voter just as the white
the reserves.
man has earned the right when he has by
industry acquired a little holding worth
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Why the amount that we fix as the limit of the
not ?
franchise ; but you are giving the Indian
an advantage over the white man: you
HON. MR. SCOTT-I suppose, that deny the wage earner, who is of value
being done, the next step is to enfranchise in the community, and is earning $200 a
them ; but it seems to me a departure year, a right to vote, though he contributes
from the fundamental principles on which to our expenses here, though he pays taxes
governiments are carried on that those and consumes dutiable goods largely ; but
who pay n-> taxes, who are looked after you give the vote to the Indian who conand protected just as much as the inmates tributes no taxes whatever, who has no
of an asylum, should be entitled to vote, municipal obligations of any kind, who
and on the flimsy pretext that they are cannot be called upon to be a juror, and
Occupying a hut and land on the reserve is not regardea as one of the community,
worth $150. All that the revising barrister who is isolated from all the rest of
has to do is to ascertain that they are all the country-that is the man whose
good true Conservatives and then he puts vote you think ought to be put in juxtathem on the voters' list. They all live in position with the vote of an intelligent
their individual wigwams and huts no white man, who is contributing to the
doubt.
revenue of the country and paying municipal taxes in the community in which he
HON. SIR ALEX.CAMPBELL-Many lives. The hon. gentleman attempted to
of them have good houses.
justify the revising barrister by reference
ION

1204A

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

to what has been done in England. It is
an unfortunate reference, because we all
know very well that the revising barrister
there is appointed in the country districts
-at all events outside of London-by the
judge on circuit; that he is only appointed
pro tem, and that these barristers are
selected promiscuously by judges of standing, and owe their appointment, not to the
Government of the day, but to their own
honesty, integrity and standing at the bar.
But how is it with the revising barrister
here ? The hon. gentleman passed some
high encomiums upon the members of the
bar. I am quite willing to accord all that
he said of them, but do you mean to tell
me that where you appoint a man for the
purpose of framing a list on which members of Parliament are to be elected, the
Government will fail to select warm political friends-that they will give offices
away to those who are lukewarm, indifferent or opposed to them? No, we are all
conscious of the fact that all Governments
do differently, and certainly this Government would be extremely slow to appoint
anybody who is not in political sympathy
with them to an office of that kind. The
officer would know very well from the
beginning why he was appointed. He
would know that it was because he was
expected to make the lists for his friends
(Oh, oh, oh!) Hon. gentlemen may say
"oh, oh, oh ?" but from an impartial
standpoint that is the conclusion. If my
hon. friend would take an independent
view of this subject he would agree with
me. He states that, to make the revising
barrister independent of improper influence, he is appointed for life-that is
to say, if by accident the Grits got in,
you cannot turn him out and he will prepare the lists to suit his friends.
HON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
man would do his duty, I suppose.
HON. MR. SCOTT - The House
knows very well that in many parts of the
Dominion the elections are very warmly
contested : that the members in many
counties are elected by majorities within
a hundred. At one election a Reformer
is elected, at another a Conservative. In
many the majority is often less than oo
-there are many in which the successful
candidate is elected by a majority of 20
HoN. MR.

SCOTT.

or 25 votes. It is idle to discuss the subject on an other basis than that the revising barrister is there to aid the Government, and do you mean to tell me
that, without being open to the charge of
manipulating the roll, he could not make
that difference in the number either one
way or the other ? He has a right to
name anyone he pleases. You say that
every voter has a right to appeal. Take
the case of a farmer and his sons.
The barristet asks, "What is the value
of your property ? "

He replies " $500."

The farmer is asked "How many sons
If
have you ?" He replies "three."
they are political friends of the Government the revising barrister puts them on
the list-he puts them on at the instance
of his political friends. Will he do the
same on the other side if it is not
established by indubitable evidence that
the voters have a right to be there ? The
Reformer and his sons must prove their
case, and even then the barrister is nîot
He has every possible
bound by it.
advantage ; but as a matter of fact we
know how these things are usually done.
We know that people are slow, except
under the exitement and pressure of an
election, to be bothered with the lists.
The revising barrister makes his list in his
office; he gives formal notice, but many a
man will say " there will be no election
this year ; I will let it go." Nobody takes
any interest in the list, and unless an election is to be fought in the revising barrister's
office and an excitement is got upunless people are called in from all
parts of the country and information
is obtained to find out the true facts
of the case whether John Brown and
his three sons are on that roll properly,
or whether John Brown's property warrants that they should be on the roll, who
is going to inquire into it ? Nobody will
take the trouble. There is where the
party in power have the advantage, I say,
owing to the inertness of the mass
of the people at the time these lists
are being made up. Unless each political
party name counsel to look after it and
have commissioners and employ very much
the same machinery that they have before
general election, I say these lists will be
neglected. It is idle to talk about outsiders (because the Liberal party are the
outsiders on this occasion) getting fair

he Franchi8e [JUJLY 9, 1885] Bill.

1205

Play without an appeal. They cannot get should not require to bolster up their
fair play unless they appeal, and there will position at a new election. It does seem
be no appeal in most cases; the lists will to me that it is asking more than is reasonable
go by default and it will be found, when and fair. The Government of the day
too late, that the dice have been loaded have all the advantages which attend the
and there is not a fair representation of possession of power, and they are not satisthe people. There is no subject on which fied with the advantages which circumPeople are more sensitive and tender than stances-circumstances that are fair and
this question of fair play at the elections. reasonable-have given them. They find
It does seem monstrous that the Govern- it necessary to introduce the revising barment should avail itself of its numerical rister into the arena in order to strengthen
influence to frame a bill of this kind to them in the several constituencies-begive it such an immense advantage in the cause, argue it as you may, the revising
general election. It would seem as if be- barrister would be an angel if he had no
fore a general election some scheme had political feeling. If he were receiving an
to be adopted to keep the Government in amount large enough to make him indepower. How was it in 1882 ? Members pendent of any influence I could underwere told to arrange their counties, to lop stand that he would cease to be a partizan.
off a township here and put on one there, We know how gentlemen, when appointed
and where possible to " hive the Grits," here, lose their political proclivities-beas the expression got to be recognized, come perfectly independent-and,no doubt
and it was a true saying. Where there if the revising barrister were paid $4,ooo a
was 90 per cent. of Grits, they were year he would becorne independent, as the
gathered together, roped into one con- Senators are ; but the revising barrister is
stituency, and their influence taken from to receive a limited amount--seven, eight,
the surrounding constituencies. By that nine hundred dollars a year-I cannot
means, the present Government secured say what the Government will give him
their majority. Is that dodge going to -but, at all events, it can only be a fee, not
fail, or are the people indignant that a a permanent remuneration on which he is
trick was played on them, and the munici- going to live. Nobody pretends to say that
palities were broken up in Ontario merely he will receive from the Government sufficfor the purpose of securing a Con- ient to support him; he is to be paid for
servative majority from that province, special work, in the same way as counsel
and this measure is to be adopted who are employed in an arbitration, or to
merely because that will not work do any special work. To that extent only
a second time ? Is it because the is the revising barrister an independent
people are being educated to what is agent. He still acts with his party and is
going on, and will not permit themselves one of them. He is not the same as a
to be grouped together to support or reject judge who receives an emolurnent which
certain principles, that recourse must be removes him from the political arena
had to this device ? Certainly in no free altogether. He will receive a comparacountry would a measure of that kind be tively small sum, and therefore will be an
tolerated, because people living under free active agent of the party; and will anygovernments are sensitive in that, above body pretend to say that it will not be the
all things, and we ought to see that, as voters who are reliable friends of the
between the two political parties, when Government who will be appointed revis
you come to place them before the tribun- ing barristers ? We all know very well
al of public opinion, each party is on equal that it is the natural tendency of all Govground and there is no disadvantage on ernments to appoint their friends. I do
either side. The Government of the day, not say that this Government would do
particularly, a Government that have been so to a greater degree than any other
in office three-fourths of the time since Government, but we know that the patronConfederation, that have appointed a
great majority of the officials in the coun- age is exercised by the friends of the
try, that have had the opportunity of Government and therefore the revising
carrying on great public works and barrister would be an angel, as I said
Strengthening themselves in every way, before-

1206

The Franchi8e [SE NATE] Bill.

HON. MR. ALMON-Who ever heard Mr. Mowat's provision respecting Indians
of one being a barrister?
and the provisions in this bill on the sanie
subject. As I have explained, Mr. Mowat
HON. MR. SCOTT-I think a revising gives the Indian a right to vote when he
barrister is an occupation that an angel becomes a tax-payer and is assessed for
would not like to take. There are, of land like the white man, and steps outside
course, a great many other objectionable of the dependent position which, naturclauses in the Bill to which I will call ally, he occupies as a ward of the Governattention, perhaps, at a later stage. At ment of Canada. Now I think if this
present I content myself with pointing out House will recognize fair dealing between
those glaring instances in which the Bill is parties, as they do when commercial intermanifestly unfair and unjust, where it ests are under consideration, then I believe
places one political party at serious dis- they will not be disposed to pass this Bill.
advantage. If I had given no other We must remember there have been no
illustrations than the two or three I have substantial grounds for fault-finding with
mentioned, they would be sufficient to the franchise, which has up to the present
warrant the House in coming to the con- time been in force since Confederation.
clusion that it is not a reasonable or fair If any change should be made it ought to
bill as between the two parties. Does my be in the direction of establishing a unihon. friend mean to say that either Lord form franchise, to be carried out, the lists
Salisbury or Mr Gladstone would intro- to be made, and all the machinery to be
duce such a bill in the British House of arranged by the municipal authorities. We
Commons ?
are now stepping in and taking from the
people a privilege that they have heretoHoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes, fore enjoyed, of saying who shall vote and
I think if they were well advised, they how the lists shall be arranged. I have
would.
never heard of any charge, or seen it discussed, even in the party papers, that any
HON. MR. SCOTT-I think not. unfairness had arisen from the present
They had a distribution bill there as my system in the past It cannot be said
hon. friend knows, and if he will read the that there is no unfairness under this proConservative reviews on the fairness of posed system, because the Government, in
that distribution, he will find a marked appealing to the people upon lists precontrast between the re-distribution there pared by their own friends, practically
and the one here in 1882.
name the tribunal before which they are
to answer to the people of Canada when
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Do they go to the polls on the next occasion.
you mean Mr. Mowat's last distribution ? It is for these reasons, and because the
Bill is so objectionable to, at all events, a
HON. MR. SCOTT-No, I am talking large minority, if not a majority of the
.now of the re-distribution by the Parlia- people of the country, that I wish to take
ment of Canada of the constituencies in the sense of this House on the second
1882. Mr. Mowat's re-distribution is one reading. I therefore move that the Bill
on which we can challenge the hon. gen- be not now read the second time, but that
tleman's criticism at any time.
That it be read the second time this day six
distribution did not break up any bound- months.
aries at all.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I much
HON. MR. PLUMB-Oh, yes it did.
regret that I feel bound to oppose this
measure. No doubt a public man must
HON. MR. SCOTT-The distribution have very strong reasons before he can
bill of 1882 broke up some counties al- honorabiy

separate

from

bis

political

together. It took two or three townships friends, from those under whose leaderfrom one, and two or three from another ship he has fought the batties of his counand joined then together to forni a con- try year after year, and I go so far as to
stituency.

There is just the same differ- say that in case of doubt, such a politician

ence between the two that there is between shoud give bis leaders the benefit of any

Ihe Franchise [JULY 9, 1885.] Bill.
doubts which may exist in his mind. This
I have done always, and would be ready
to do now, if I could be persuaded that
there are any doubts as to the good or evil
resuits of such a measure as this which is
now proposed for the consideration of this
honorable body. But there can exist no
Sich doubts in my mind ; on the contrary
it seems to me evident that the very prinCiple of this Franchise Bill is a bad
one : one far from being in any way conservative, its tendency being altogether towards universal suffrage-a principle which
I consider, in all cases, a most wretched
One, but especially so when considered
as being proposed to be applied to this
country, and I regret to say that this is not
the first step which has been made in that
direction. I remember I had occasion in
1874 to call the attention of hon. members
to a measure which had the same tendency,
when it was proposed to do away with the
property qualification for members of the
House of Commons.
I opposed the
scheme then, but Parliament adopted it.
My reasons for opposing it was that it was
the first step in the direction of universal
suffrage, and I predicted then that it would,
no doubt, be followed by another step in
the same direction, probably at a not far
distant day. Such a franchise, I considered
then, would be against the best interests
of the country at large, and contrary to
the well understood interests of the French
rninority in the Dominion of Canada in
particular.
My views have not changed
since then ; on the contrary, I feel now
that I was right and that I ought not to
alter my views, but should stick to them.
This will explain the stand I propose to
take in the present instance.
In support
of my views, and as proof of the logical
standpoint I take on this measure, I will
take the liberty of quoting from a Conservative journal, and a Government organ,
the following : The Montreal Gazette of
the 26th ultimo, says :" All things considered, the proposition in
favor of manhood suffrage, received a very fair
measure of support in the House ot Commons.
" The other principle, that of property qualification has up to this time been the basis of
franchise in Canada, although in latter years
in accordance with the axiom, that representation and taxation should go hand in hand.
an inconie qualification bas been established
in those pro~vinces in which income is taxable.
" Taxation is the true basis of the suffrage,'

1207

everv man who contributes to the cost of
government ought to exercise a vote.
" Manhood suffrage, with registration, need
not be dreaded by any class of people. It will
corne sooner or later, and judgmg by the
liberality of the Bill now before Parliament,
is already well-nigh reached.
"The Franchise Bill now before Parliament
is a long step towards it-manhood suffrage."
Another journal on the Government
side, the Montreal Herald of the 27th
ultimo, says :' We agree with the Gazette in its position
that every one who contributes to the cost of
Government ought to exercise a vote.
" We are glad to notice that the Gazette is

fully committed to manhood suffrage, which
it says must be conceded by Parliament in a
in a few vears.

".This is what the Berald has all along
niaintained, and we are surprised to find such
hesitaion in the Government ranks in regard
to the frank concession of a right which will
yet be wrested from Parliament, in spite of
the real " Tories " who are handicapping the
Conservati% party in its race with its ope
ponients.
" Manhood suffrage stands to.day as the
one comprehensive measure by the adoption
of which the sins of the party can be wiped
out, and its clains to lead in ali progressive
measures iaintained."

The arguments brought forth by the
writers of these articles are wholly
based on what they improperly call
an axion.
They say "Taxation is
the true basis of the suffrage."
If
so, why then are Indians, who pay no
taxes, given a vote ? This proposition is
much less an axion than is this other :
"I-roperty is the true basis of suffrage."
Indeed, it is a rule which is much less
sure and certainly, for a new country, it is
a dangerous one. As a matter of general
principle and of sound basis for suffrage
in a country like this, an agricultural
country, it seems desirable that the only
truly interested parties in the welfare of
of the country ought to have a voice in
its administration.
Who are those, if
not the holders of the soil? Al others
must necessarily have less interest in its
good government. They necessarily must
be less anxious for the successful working
of its institutions. They have left their
native land to find a better living, and
until they succeed they will not be quiet.
If they do not meet with sufficient success
here amongst us, they will go elsewhere.
They have nothing to attach them to this
part of the world more than to any other.

1208

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

Where their efforts will be crowned with
better success they will stay. If amongst
-us in Canada they find their desires
fulfilled ; if they meet with success here and
are satisfied,they soon will be holders of the
soil, and become really interestedinthegood
government of this their adopted country.
If it be so ; if the basis of the project
under consideration is a long step towards
" universal suffrage," then it is practically "universal suffrage," a principle
which not only is not conservative, but
which is not even a principle which many
Liberals would acknowledge.
Indeed, it
is a radical change which I am astonished
that the leaders of the Conservative party
could have entertained, and should have
tried to impose on their followers.
I have already said that a party man is
bound to stand by his leaders ; he ought
not to refuse, or even hesitate, to give
thein his support, except in very exceptional cases.
But while such are the
duties of the rank and file of a party, it is
far more the duty of a leader to stand by
the principles of his party : such a duty
being a logical consequence of the obligations of his followers towards him. He
has no right to change or abandon the
principles which he has been chosen to
maintain, and for the triumph of
which
he has
promised
to
do
his utmost.
He has been selected
to carry the standard of the party.
To the principles which this standard represents, he must be true and devoted.
Failing in that his supporters are free.
They have a right, nay it is their duty to
refuse to follow him out of the way and
they are bound to stand bytheir principles.
I was born a Conservative ; I have
lived a Conservative. How could I then
accept a measure such as that which is now
submitted to this House ? No doubt, in
this i 9 th century,when principles,it seems,
are so very little cared for throughout the
whole universe, our Canadian society cannot be presumed to be altogether free from
such an evil, and sincere politicians have
sometimes a difficult task before them.
They have now and then to accept such
legislation as is not quite sound. They
have often to take the best out of two propositions when both do not meet their
views, but to pass from conservative principles to radical and revolutionary ideas
is rather too much, and I am surprised
HON. MR. BELLEROSE.

that the Government could have met in
the present instance with such success as
they have achieved with the representatives of the people in another part of these
buildings.
In view of these facts I am at a loss to
understand how it is that there is a Conservative party and a Liberal party, when
we Conservatives are ready to go as far,
indeed further than moderate Liberals are
Why not then be
willing to advance.
united, since such principles as have separated us into two camps, exist no more ?
Another objection to this Bill is its tendency towards centralization. No doubt
this Parliament has full power to pass such
a measure. The British North America
Act leaves no doubt on this matter, but
the 41st clause giving such power is permissive and no more imperative than is
the 2 5 th clause of the same Act, which
provides that "The Queen may appoint
three or six 'Senators' over the number
allowed as the ordinary representatives of
the Dominion in the Senate.'" Yet who
ever thought of using this last privilege
before it became an imperative necessity
to do so ? So in the present instance, that
of the Franchise Bill, such a centralization principle ought not to be adopted
before it became an absolute necessity.
No doubt it was wise to give power to this
Parliament tolegislate on the franchise; just
as much as it was to provide for the appointnient of extra Senators, but because this
Parliament has such power, it does not
follow that it must be made use of before
it becomes absolutely necessary, or there
are very strong reasons for so doing ; any
more than the Crown will ever exercise
the power to appoint extra Senators, before
a deadlock in the Senate makes it necessary for the carrying out of the business of
the country. Centralization is not in the
interest of the smaller provinces, it will
inevitably lead to a legislative union of the
present confederated provinces.
We
have had too much already of similar
legislatton, since Confederation. The Senate ought to pause and reflect seriously
before it is too late.
The Montreal Herald of the 27th
ultimo, was good enough to inform its
readers that such a suffrage " was needed
for the unification and solidarity of the
Canadianpeople," an announcement which
will no doubt, be food for reflection to

The Franchi8e [JULY 9, 1885] BiU.
such members of French origin as may be inClined to give their support to this meaure.
As I said before, there can be but one
Opinion as to the power of this Parliament
to deal with this important question. But
the question which we have now to consider is, whether such legislation is desirable, whether it is in the best interests of
the country, whether it is necessary, as supPorters of the Bill assert. I say, without
the least hesitation, that it is not. No
evidence has been brought to show that
it is at ail necessary or even desirable.
Indeed not one single serious argument
has been used which could shew that
this measure is at ail desirable, while many
facts and circumstances fully demonstrate
that it is not. No complaint has yet been
made against the present state of thingswhich has been working perfectly well
ever since Confederation. Not one single
demand has been made by the people to
change it. Our population at large, from
one end of the Dominion to the
other are fully satisfied with it. Each
Province has carried out its own system,
and not one of them has complained.
Indeed, how could it have been otherwise
when it was left in their own hands to say
what franchise they would have, and who
should have a right to choose the men
to represent their province in the ParliaMent of their country ? What difference
could it be to them whether one province
had manhood suffrage, while another had
Property suffrage, and so on for every kind
of suffrage ? What difference could it
mTake to other provinces, how Quebec
should send her sixty-five members to the
Commons ? Surely no difference. But
the fact that such a difference has existed
ever since Confederation took place, and
that the people are, and have always
shown themselves to be perfectly satisfied,
is evidence that this proposal of the Government is not in accord with the wishes
of the people, and that the forcing of one
province to change its suffrage and adopt
that of another, as is now proposed, is
an arbitrary act which cannot but bring
trouble, discontent and

1209

kind which can neyer be assimilated. As
an example, the22nd and23rd clauses of
The British North America Act, providing
that senators shah be appointed for the
provinces in which they live, and for, their
qualification, make an exception as to
Quebec senators, and provide that in that
province senators shah be appointed for
the electoral division in which they live,
or in which they hoid their property quaiification. Wben that province is made
an exception of by the constitutionai Act
in the case of her representatives in the
Senate, to suit the views and principles of
the people, why shouid she not also be an
exception in the similar case of her representation in the other branch of Parliament when such a radical change is to be
made? Lt is to be regretted that the representatives of that province in the other
branch have fot stood by such principles
as the late Sir George E. Cartier, himself,
maintained and had incorporated in the
Union Act of 1867 for the protection of
that province in the Dominion. Until
a very strong case, supported by
irresistibc arguments, can be made out, 1
unhesitatingly say that such a measure is
not at ail necessary, that it is against
the best interest of the country at
large, of the smaller provinces particularly, and especiaily that of Quebec.
Two main arguments are advanced by the
supporters of this measure; flrst that the
Dominion Parliaient has no power over
the muncipalities, and, consequently, that
the municipal officers or other officiais
having the custody ofthe voters' list, might
refuse to provide such iists. This seems
to me to be a very poor argument, since
such officiais, municipal or others, are
bound to give copies of ail such documents. In my own province the 165th
article of the Quebec Municipal Code
enacts
'"The Secretary-Treasurer is bound to delver, upon payment of bis fees, toauy person
apply
for the eame copies of extracts from
an boks, rolis, registers, documents or
otherpapers %vhichform part of the archives,

dissatisfaction. &c.

Until a good case is made out, I unhesitatingly say that it is wrong to change the
present system and assimilate the franchise
in ail the provinces of the Dominion-an
assimilation which is no more necessary
than that of many other iaws of the same

The promoters of the Bil know themselves that such is the case, and that this
objection of theirs is not worth much.
Indeed the Bil itself enacts that the
Revising Barrister shah use the voters'
hists of the muicipalities. Why lnot then

1210

Tle FraniMae [SENATE]

have the Dominion voters' lists made by
competent men in the municipalities, men
who have a full knowledge of municipal
matters, and have such lists, when so
made,
revised
by
a
commission
appointed for such work, and chosen in
the county for which such lists are made.
Such a system would certainly be more
acceptable, and would evidently cost
much less, while it would be received
with a confidence which the revising barrister will not inspire.
The second objection is the hostility of
some of the local legislatures, which may
vary the franchise in their province.
This objection does not seem to me to
be any stronger than the previous one.
As I said before, whatever may be the
franchise in any one province, it matters
very little for the others, provided justice
is done to every member of the community in each such province, and provided the views and principles of the
majority in each such province, are
carried irito effect. Then, even if such
fears were legitimate, would not such a
state of things be much less objectionable
than the arbitrary powers given by the present Bill to the revising barristers, who
will be better able to abuse them than
under the present system, are the municipalities or the Provincial Legislatures.
It is further argued that under the present
law a farmer, say in Ontario, may probably
have no vote while a farmer similarly
situated in Quebec would have a vote.
No doubt it may be so, but this cannot be
prevented ; it will also happen under the
Bill which is now under consideration.
The value of land is not the same throughout the Dominion ; it-is not even the same
throughout a whole province. But of
what importance is that, if in each province the people are satisfied with their
lot ? It is certainly not a reason to
impose upon any one province a
franchise for which it does not ask,
and which is opposed to their principles.
Even if it were not evident that the people have no desire for such legislation,
that they do not want it, that they seem to
be opposed to it, there would be the best
reasons to reserve it for a future time,
when the finances of the country are in a
better position. It cannot be denied
that such a system as that proposed by
this Bill will be very expensive, and
HON. MR. BELLEROSE.

Bill.

the saving of some thousands of dollars
yearly ought not to be disregarded
by the politicians of this country. It
seems to me that it is not when the
country is in so gTeat need of money, when
the Governmenthas to face such enormous
expenses for our public works, our canals,
for the completing of our Pacific Railway
-when millions will have to be expended
in pacifying the North-West-when our
public debt has reached the enormous
figure of about $25o,ooo,ooo, that we ought
to indulge in such unnecessary expenses.
Such a great increase of our expenses from
the public treasury, part of which were
unforeseen, foreshadowsveryheavy taxation
on the people of this country.
How
could these representatives expect to be
excused if, by their votes, they were to add
such an unnecessary and, let me say, such
a comparatively enormous expense as that
which the present Bill will impose on the
public treasury ? I am much mistaken
if the adoption of such a law will not be
badly received by the people, and if so,
who could say they are wrong ?
Then, let me add the great expenses
which the people throughout the length
and breadth of the Dominion, will have
most probably to bear by the numerous
cases of appeal from the decision of the
Revising Barrister, which will be the
inevitable consequence of this system.
Such revising officials, whether judges,
lawyers or other professional men, being
appointed by the Government, will necessarily create suspicion and uneasiness, and
consequently raise grave doubts as to
their fairly dealing with the important
matter entrusted to their care.
One of the worst features of this Bill is
contained in the 13 th clause, providing
for the appointment of revising barristers.
By this clause, the most important powers
which, since Confederation, had been left
with the people of the different provinces,
will be placed in the hands of one single
officer of the Government, an officer who
will evidently be a creature of the Government of the day, and consequently not
quite independent of their influence and of
theinfluence of the Government candidate.
It is argued, in answer to this objection,
that an appeal will lie against the decision
of the revising barrister. Very well, but
this only signifies that parties suffering an
injustice, or believing that they are, will

Ae FrancÀise [JULY 9, 1885] Bil.
have a remedy by an appeal to our courts
Of law for redress, a fact which is more in
the interest of gentlemen at the bar than
of those who, in every case, will be the
Paying parties. This answer, that an
appeal will lie, is a poor consolation for
those who see great danger in the powers
vested in the hands of a single man whose
appointment will generally be, or at least
probably be, a political one, could
Politicians lose sight of the fact that a
good part of our population are not so
well circumstanced that they can waste
money for such an object. It might be
answered to this that in each party there
are men whose interest it will always be to
attend to the making of such lists, and
who will be ready to bring such cases
before the courts at their own expense.
This may be true, but what is this, if not
Opening the door to corrupt practices in
Our own elections, and helping to
dernoralize our people ? It seems to nie
that we have already made too much progress in that direction, and that we ought
not to go farther but rather step back.
Viewing this enactment from the
responsible point of view of a legislator,
I candidly admit that I find this feature
of the Bill a most dangerous one, one
Which seems to me to be altogether at
Variance with all past legislation, and the
reverse of sound legislation. Indeed,
this measure seems to me to be one which,
I regret to say, will call for retaliation at a
future, possibly at a not far distant day.
It may be said that I take an extreme
view of the case. But if the present state
of things is taken into consideration, it
Will be easily seen that it is not so. Indeed, who could have heard for years past
the attacks and charges of both political
Parties against each other-charges which
very often were found to be well-founded
-who could have been a witness to so
rnany corrupt practices as it has been our
lot to hear of-who could recall to mind
the many evils of daily occurrence and
say that I take an extreme view of the
case ? No, I regret that it is so, but it is
only too true that my appreciation of the
present state of things is borne out by the
facts,
Such is my honest and conscientious
appreciation of this measure. I regret
that it has not been possible for me to
view it in another light. I regret that I

1211

have been forced to the conclusion that it
was not a good measure, some parts of it
being based on wrong principles. Nevertheless, however bad I may consider it
now, as it stands before us in the Senate,
I candidly admit that it is somewhat better,
by the amendments made to it in the
Commons, than it was when it was first
submitted to Parliament. It then contained
some provisions which I am bound to
acknowledge were much worse than those
it now contains, such as the clause dealing with woman suffrage. This I regarded as a retrograde step, dangerous
and even anti-Christian legislation.
Amongst Pagans and Infidels women are
not considered much more than brutes.
They are kept in a degraded state of
slavery. The Reverend J. Watts Lethbridge says that, "under the influence of
barbarism woman is regarded as a mere
animal, under oriental despotism a plaything for the time." Mrs. Childs in her
history of women, says:" The wonien of Babylon were put up to,
auction by the public crier, while the magistrates presided over the sales."
Among savage nations woman is still a
hewer of wood and a drawer of water,
providing by her labour for the daily sustenance and support of her family,
while man, abdicating his natural duties,
lives in shameful indolence and ease.
Such inversion of nature has, as a
matter of course, distorted and perverted
the disposition of woman who stood in
such a condition. Her heart has been
literally unstrung, and like a broken musical instrument has completely lost its harmony. Undersuch circumstances and such
a state of things, I can easily understand
that women could have deemed it a great
privilege to take part in public assemblies.
I am not surprised to hear that among the
ancient Greeks, where women were kept
under very strict discipline, and where
they lived quite a retired life, even locked
up and guarded, that such women
delighted in the exercise of the privilege
of voting; but not so with Christian
women. Not so, since the long slavery
of the fair sex was terminated by
the advent of our Blessed Redeemer.
No so, since woman has been shown as
being equal to man and a companion of
man. Not so, since Christ has restored
her lost privileges and made known the

1212

The Franchie [SENATE] Bill.

important mission which had been entrust-ed to her since the very beginning,
but which had been lost sight of
by the perversity of the human race.
Let me open the book which contains the laws of Christianity. I will
make use of "The Teacher's Bible."
My reason for selecting a Protestant
book is to show that not only Catholic
but also Protestant books are adverse
to such a suffrage as that of woman.
I find in Genesis Chap. ist that at the
beginning; " God created the first man
and created him both male and female."
In the 27th Verse, " God created man in
His own image, in the image of God
created He him, male and female created
He them." Also that out of one of the
ribs of the first man God created the first
woman whom he gave to man as a companion and a wife. Genesis chap. ist
verse 22 : "And the rib, which the Lord
God had taken from man, made He a
woman and brought ber unto the man."
" Therefore, shall a man leave his father
and his mother and shall cleave unto his
wife, and they shall be one flesh." I find
that God ordered man to love, honor and
protect his wife, while he commanded
woman to love, tear and obey her husband. For (says St. Paul to the Ephesians)
" the husband is the head of the woman."
Further on the Divine Book shows what
the mission of both men and wonien is:PROVERBS, Chap. xxxi, Verse 1O.-Who
can find a virtuous wonan, for ber price is
far above rubies.

12. She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh
willingly with her bande.
19. She layeth ber hands to the spindie,
and ber hands hold the distaff.
23. Her husband is known in the gates,
whcn he sitteth among the eiders of the land.
24. She maketh fine linen, and selleth it,
and delivereth girdles unto the merchant.
26. She openeth ber mouth with wisdom;
and in her tongue is the law of kindness.
27. She looketh well to the ways of ber
household, and eateth not the bread of idleness.
ST. PETER, lst Epistle, Chap. i, Verse 1.Likewise ye wvives, be in subjection to your
own husbands, that, if any obey not the Word,
they also may, without the Word, be won by
the conversation of the wives.
7. Likewise, ye husbandsdwell with them
according to knowledge, giving honor unto
the wife.
ST. PAUL, Ephesians, Chap. v.:22. Wives submit yourselves unto your
own husbands, as unto the Lord.
HoN. MR. BELLEROSE.

23. For the husband is the head of the wife,
even as Christ is the head of the Churcb.
24. Therefore as the Church is subject unto
Christ, so let the wives be to their own
husbands in everything.
25. Husbands, love your wives, even S
Christ also loved the Church, and gave Hiself for it.
28. He that loveth his wife, loveth himself.
I. ST. PAUL, to Timothy. v. 11. Let the
woman learn in silence with all subjection.

12. But I suffer not a woman to teach, nor
to usurp authority over the man, but to be in
silence.
According then to Divine law, in a
family well ordained the husband cornmands while the wife has to obey. " Like
every other society, a family is composed
of more or less members ; like the physical
structure each of them is jointed into the
socket of another; each one is charged
with a distinct office and harmony prevails
through a mutual dependence," says the
Rev. J. Watts Lethbridge. You cannot
then reasonably and legitimately ask for
and from woman that which nature and
Providence have not qualified her to sustain and perform. Man is charged with a
distinct office, so is woman. Harmony
will therefore prevail in a family through a
mutual dependence.
In creation every
order of existence is nicely balanced.
Take any one part away and there will be
a deficiency, insert any new order therein
and the thing will be overdone. If woman endeavors to become mannish she
produces disgust with all its sad consequences. Woman's heart, head,and hands
are not as hard as man's are. Let woman
then know her place in society and keep
it ; let her be educated and qualified for
engagements suited to her nature and condition. She has then a right to be protected
and respected in the due discharge of the
duties of her sex. What would women
magistrates, legislators, lawyers, voters, etc.,
do when they happen to be in the interesting way they like to be ? In public, then,
manisby nature constituted the head of the
womnan, and in private lite woman is legitimately the glory of man. If women had the
franchise granted to them, strange scenes,
no doubt, would occur, from the different
political tendencies of the husband and
the wife, which would recall to mind
the proverb, " A house divided against
itself cannot stand."
Let then every man remain in his own
order, and every woman in her proper

The Franchise [JJLY 9, 1885] Bill.
Place ; let every woman, and, I may add,
every legislator, learn a lesson from the
Past. Let every woman learn there is a
Possibility of going in for too much and
Of losing the whole; and, above all, let
legislators not allow Christian women to
become viragoes, manly or bouncing
Wornen, as they will certainly be (and experience shews it is so) if called to take
Part in public meetings, meddle with
Politics, and go to the ballot box.
A Protestant writer, the Rev. J Watts
Lethbridge, says :" When history is weIl written, the subjective as well as the objective view of the
sexes wil be placed before the mind. The
subjective is Dreferred by woman, the objective by man. ' He glories in the epic she in
the lyric side of lite. Man fights his country's
battles; woman dresses the soldier's wounds.
Action is to one what feeling is to the other.
Affection and not rule, constitutes woman's
Power. Those who would bring her upon
the platform of public life, do not understand
the nature of the being whom they want to
thrust forward to the public view. She, the
rnost fearful of animais, suffers most when
exposed to the commotions, to the breakers,
storms and quicksands of an active, busy,
and competing world. Home and the welfare
Of Society fill ber heart-home is lier palace
and tamily associations the state.
" For tie maintenance of order in the State
and in the Church, the right persons must
occupy the right place. W hat, then, are the
Constituent elements of the male and female
constitution.
Woman, being the more par
ticular or special in ber modes of thouglt and
action, is the better adapted by nature and
Providence for the select societies of private
life. Man looks at the greatest numbers in
a general way, whereas woman looks at the
Individual in a particular way. Man acts
from general rules, woman fron more special

1213

and flowing of the tides that move along the
busy world, she remains in contented ignorance of the manner in which the stirring
affairs of business are managed, and occupies
separate grounds, as well from her taste and
feeling as from her intellectual training. Man
can work out the problem of science and
woman can build thereupon. The useful and
the beautiful always go together in creation,
they should keep each other company in
society. Man the useful, can lay down the
foundation; woman the beautiful can decorate
with ornaments of grace the superstructure.
One without the other, cannot be made perfect.
Her proper and distinctive business is the
practical developement of lier character in
private life, as well as the practical regulation
of the home. Scenes of warfare are not her
field of glory. Home is ber place of
action and her throne of state. The
enjoyment of woman is centred in her
home. And what is it that man seeks in the
companionship of woman ? A woman to
share the home and the one to make the other
happy. Woman's promise bein2distinctly fixed
ber training must be in harnony with it.
Home, with its management is ber province,
as the world, with its activities belongs to
man. He is both educated and instructed for

Her hushis duties, she must be the same.
band is known in the gates when he sitleth
among the elders of the land. She maketh
fine linen, and selleth it, and delivereth girdles
unto the merchant -Proverbs, chap. 31.
"Such being the important mission of woman
let ber not then-even if she be single-be
educated for anything else. Let ber training
be in harmony with it. Let ber not be given
privileges for whiclh the %7reatBeing who
created her, lias not prepared her. Let ber
then, in ber early age, be excluded from the
agencies, impulses and motives of the busy
world. Let her ignore the manner in which
the stirring affairs of business and public life
Let ber tlien prepare by
are managed.
proper education to fulfil ber mission as the
glory of her daily life in the promotion of
ones, To put woman before the public to every good and noble work pertaining to her
Preach, lecture, &c., would be to lay upon her sex."
a heavier burden than either nature or Providence intended lier to bear. Unless the right
Some will say that while we could not
women, as well as the right men, find and allow women to become members of parkeep their Iroper places, society must go liament, they ought to be allowed to share

wrong.

To claim

for woman, however, the the franchise with men, when paying taxes.

rights of the discharge of public functions, is
to take ber out of the sphere of womanhood,
Putan unnecessary and unnatural burthen upon
her shoulders, to work with instruments prePared for other hands. She is neither at home
amidst active business pursuits, nor scenes of

strife, nor the complicated machinery and the
turbulent characters which take their place
and act their Dart upon the stage of life. For
Sucb aflairs she is not qualified, either by
education or habit; delicacy of conception and
feeling excludes lier from actual experience
ii the affairs of the commercial world; and
heing excluded from the agencies, impulses,
and motives that give direction to the ebbing

I have already answered this argument
of the "paying of taxes giving a right to
vote ;" let me only add now, that if this
be sound argument, why should not also
woman be allowed a seat in parliament,
when she has to submit to the laws of her
country ? Why should she be deprived
of the right of supervising from her seat in
parliament the expending of the money
she pays into the public treasury ? Why
should she not be allowed to become a
lawyer, when she is so often summoned

1214A

The Franchi8e [SENATE] Bill.

before our courts and her best interests
are at stake ? No, hon. gentlemen, such
arguments are not sound ; they look so at
first sight, but they are specious and nothing more,and are generally very easily
answered and refuted. It is alleged that
there is, in some quarters, a strong feeling
No doubt
in favor of woman suffrage.
such is the case, but I am very far from
seeing in such a feeling an evidence of
the moral good which the adoption of
such a principle would produce. On the
contrary, the progress of such ideas elsewhere, and especially in the great republic
near to us, has convinced me of the
danger of a wrong step in that direction.
As it always happens, when people forget
the great principles upon whichsound legislation ought always to be based, and when
innovations are proposed without due consideration, partisans of such ideas cannot
help being carried by the logical consequences of their first wrong step, further
than they intended at first. So that after
having advocated woman suffrage, you
will find them advocating the right of
women to become lawyers,doctors,preachers, legishtors, etc. You have Mrs. Stanton who, advocating before the Committee of the Assembly and the Senate of
New York state, the rights of woman, is
reported by the New York Tribune, as
having vindicated for women the right to
appear on the hustings.

and I do not think the House would be
disposed to stop the hon. gentleman in the
remarks he is making.

ask the hon. gentleman if he is aware that
under this Bill the suffrage is not extended
to women, and therefore his argument is
question
entirely irrelevant to the
before the House ? I do not wish to
interfere with his speech, but he may not
be aware of the fact.

pose it well managed, representing ultimately

HON. MR. PLUMB-I wish the hon.
gentleman to understand that I am speaking on .ny own responsibility. I wish to call
attention to 'he fact that there is no clause
in this Bill concerning female suffrage,
and he is therefore discussing a questionl
which is not before the House.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I am talking about something that I know, and it
is seldom that I have to be called to order.
The hon. gentleman may as well make up
his mind to listen quietly ; I know I an
not eloquent, but I have a duty imposed
upon me and that duty I will discharge.
Then you have Mrs. Dall in her first
lecture delivered in Boston in 1861,
saying " Dependent upon the right to labor, as we
have already seen, is women's civil quality.
If all the fields of human labor are thrown
absolutely open, if women enter and grow

wealthy therein; if every second woman, for
instance, were an intelligent property-holder,
is it credible that she, or lier husband for her,
would reinain contented in lier present minority-Would she not want a seat in the
legislature to protect her property, a vote to
control appropriations and taxes."
" Bow I should rejoice to see a large Lowell
mill wholly owned and nanaged by wotnen l
What is to make it possible ? Only, that the
unoccupied women of wealth and rank, at
this moment in the commonwealth,
HoN. MR. PLUMB-I should like to combine to build or buy such a mill. should
Sup-

HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I am mistaken if on this Bill I am not to discuss
the question from every point of view. I
have to put ny views on record and I am
sorry that the hon. gentleman should be
instructed to ignore such things.

a million of dollars; Do you believe it would
long remain without political power ?"

Again, the same lady, in her second

lecture at the same place and year,
speaking on " Woman's Rights," alluded
to the fact that the university-town of
Upsal had granted the right of suffrage

to women owning real estate and others
doing business on their own account;
she continues:-

" This is the way the matter is to begin.
By-and-by the interests of labor and trade will
force the authorities of Bristol and Manchester,
Newcastle and Plymouth, to do the same
MONTGOMERY -- I thing, and after women have gone on for some
MR.
HON.
should like to ask the hon. gentleman twenty years electing mem bers of parliament,
nobody will be surprised to find some women
what clause of the Bill he is discussing ?
sitting in that body. But, objecte somebody,
if that ever happens we shall have women on
THE SPEAKER-Very great latitude juries, women pleading at the bar, women
is allowed in discussing a Bill of this kind, as attorneys, and so on."
HON. MR. BELLEROSE

2/e Pranchi8e [JULY 9, 1885] Bill.

1215

" And this is exactly what we want," I may add that it would be better for the
Conservative party in the Dominion not to
Such are the excesses consequent on a interfere with Quebec, because there alone
fIrst wrong step, especially in a question sound conservative principles will be
Of principle. Let us not, then, force found to prevail, thirty, forty, or fifty years
women to leave the sphere of womanhood hence, if only that province is fairly dealt
and let the man and woman keep their with. Then the Minister said there was
Places according to the views of the no other way to carry out the provisions
Great Being who created both. Such of this Bill unless revising barristers were
is the view I take of the matter appointed. Any farmer who has a good
Under consideration.
Such also are, education could discharge the duty. Such
amongst many others which it would be men have made the local lists for eighteen
too long to enumerate, my reasons for years past; why not pay therm so much a
abandoning my leaders in the present year to continue to make them ?-$20 or
case. With a question of principle you $5o would be sufficient remuneration.
cannot deal as you could do with other Why not appoint a commission of three
questions. With principles you have to farmers to revise such lists in each counrity ?
adhere to and stand by them; whereas, As to the confidence which the minister of
Where no principle is involved, a party- Justice has expressed in officials, I may
mtian is more free to set aside his own tell him that I am far from endorsing his
views and adopt those of his leaders. idea. The public service is good but
Convinced that it was my duty to take there are exceptions, and if he gives
such a view of this measure, I thought I me an inquiry, I say from my seat
was bound to explain my position and here to-day that I am prepared to make
give ny reasons and my arguments, so good my assertion. If so, and it is so
that if they could be met, and it could be even in his own Department, I am justishown that I was wrong, I might continue fied in refusing revising barristers.
mny allegiance to my leaders in the present We are told to pass this Bill and that
Instance, as I have generally done in honest men will be appointed. As a
others, and give them an honest and legislator, sharing a great responsibility
conscientious support in the passing of for evil or good that will follow the passthismeasure. The Hon. MinisterofJustice ing of this Bill, and for which some day
Said it would have been easy to leave to I will be answerable, I am asked to take
Quebec the management of her own fran- such an assurance when I know that so
Chise; headmitted thatsuch was his opinion. many acts of corruption are perpetrated
iad the Government done so they would even in Parliament. This I cannot do
have been carrying out honestly the views when there are so many reasons why I
Of the great leaders of Canada at the time should not feel confidence. I have always
of Confederation, and the view which the worked honestly as a legislator and this I
hon. member from Ottawa expressed to- will continue to do. I cannot help it.
day when he said that it was never in- I suppose I will will have to suffer for it.
tended, at the time of Confederation, that Never mind, I will do my duty. I am a
such a franchise should be inaugurated in Conservative and always shall be one, but
Canada. Sir George Cartier would never if every one else in the country becomes a
have allowed it, and the proof of it is to Liberal I will have to choose between two
be found in the Confederation Act, where evils. Look at the Montreal Gazette ? Is
an exception is made in favor of Quebec there a more Tory paper than that in the
on account of her peculiar circumstances, country, and yet it is advocating universal
and I am not surprised that a gentleman, suffrage ! I will not speak of the Herald.
So honest as the Minister of Justice has It was a Liberal paper at one time. It
shown himself to be, was himself inclined was bought by persons whose policy it
to give to our province that to which she may be not to change too quickly and beis entitled, and which was promised at come Conservative all at once. Am I to
the time of Confederation ; but now, by be confiding when I see such things under
numerical force, by the power of votes, my eyes? I say this Bill is a radical
gettîng them by every means they can, they change in our institutions, and I never
force Quebec to abandon her principles. approve of radical changes. I am sorry

adds Miss Dal.

1216

The Franchse [SENATE] Bill.

to take up the time of the House, but if I
have not succeeded in eonvincing my
hearers, I at all events feel assured that I
have done my duty.
It being six o'clock the Speaker left the
Chair.
AFTER RECESS.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The first thought
that occurs to me in speaking on this
important question is that it is evidently
supposed by our friends on the other side
that there is no great danger to liberty or
to the constitution, from the fact that so
few of them are in attendance to watch
the progress of this debate.

HON. MR. POWER-The country is
safe in the hon. gentleman's hands for a
time.
HON. MR. PLUMB-My hon. friend
complains a good deal of interruptions
when he is speaking, and yet at the very
outset of my reniarks does himself what
he complains of in others. I do not care
about it myself; but since he is so sensitive
he ought to have a little consideration for
others. The leader of the Opposition, no
doubt, in his speech to the Senate to-day,
has given us all the arguments which can be
adduced against the general principles of
the Bill which is now before us. I followed
his arguments rather closely, and I was
surprised to find that after all the objections which have been made throughout
the country, after the agitation of which
we have heard so much, after the absolute
stoppage of the business of Parliament for
more than two months and a half in
opposing this measure, my hon. friend who
has watched the debate from the beginning
to the end, and who has a marvellous
capacity for seizing the salient points of a
controversy, was able to say so little, and
that that little was so easilyanswered. From
my hastily taken memoranda I find that
his first noticeable remark was a reference
to the statement of my hon. friend who
nits in front of me, the respected leader of
this House, to the effect that he had been
at one time of the idea that it might be
possible to frame a franchise bill which
should crystalize or consolidate the general franchises of the different provinces,
HON. MR. BELLEROSE.

and make those franchises permanent.
But then of course I have no doubt my
hon. friend intended that the Government
could apply to any system of that kind
their own system of revision, which is a
crying evil in this matter, and which it is
most important that the Franchise Bill
should deal with. As the franchises stood
four or five years ago, I confess that I myself had very much the same opinion, but
it must be remembered that there has
been a constant change of system. The
Ontario Government has often altered the
franchise, and has changed more particularly the method of dealing with the
voters' lists, and the appeals, until the
laws on those subjects are in such a maze
that it is almost impossible to understand
them, or in any way to act under them,
except by the aid of counsel, and to my
hon. friend, Mr. Bellerose, who spoke today of the cost of appeals, I may say it is
a very serious matter to have to look after
the voters' lists of Ontario, and I know
myself the expense of sending to each
electoral division some one who is qualified
to unravel the intricacies of the law of the
Ontario Government, and attempt to deal
with the voters' list, and to do justice to
the electors of Ontario.
HON. MR. ALLAN-Hear, hear.
HON. MR. PLUMB-It was more than
anything else the pressure of the condition of things in that Province that compelled the Conservative Government to
adopt a Franchise Bill.
HON. MR. HAYTIORNE-Oh,

oh.

HON. MR. PLUMB-I am glad to see
my hon. friend take a note of that, and I
can tell the hon. gentleman that the
Franchise Bill in Ontario was altered
twice in one session to suit some possible
exigency of the gentlemen who represent
the majority in that province. And I can
tell the hon. gentleman also that the
Franchise Bill which is now in this House,
was first drafted nearly three years ago
and has been before the people of
Canada since that time, and it was
understood that it was to be brought
forward this year to be pressed to a
vote. What did the Ontario Government do in view of that ? At the last

The franchi8e [JULY 9, 1885] Bill.
session of the legislature of that Province
they passed a Bill cutting down the Franchise to a point which they thought would
so embarrass the Dominion Government
that they could not meet it. They reduced the franchise in such a way that
they thought it would be impossible to
make what is called a horizontal franchise,
Suiting Quebec,suiting the other provinces,
and yet avoiding the outcry that we had
disfranchised some of the voters of Ontario
and elsewhere ; and the cry has been
raised everywhere that we have disfranchised Ontario voters. My hon. friend from
Ottawa, (Mr. Scott) was disingenuous
enough to use that argument to-day.
They have not acted under the new franchise in Ontario as yet. The Bill was
Passed last session, and it cannot go into
Operation or effect, so far as the Ontario
legislature is concerned, until its term has
expired which will be three years hence.
That was one of the causes which justified
this Government,in self-defence and for the
protection of the voters of this country, in
order to enable their representatives to sit
in the House of Commons upon an
equality, to introduce a franchise Bill.
The hon. gentleman who was speaking
said that everybody was contented with
the provincial franchise.
HON: MR. WARK-Hear, hear.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I am glad to hear
the sound of my respected and hon. friend's
voice. He says "hear, hear." If the
People of the provinces had been
contented with the Franchise Bill does
my hon. friend suppose that the large
majority of the members of Parliament,
after the opposition which has been shown,
would have ventured to pass it ? Does
My hon. friend undertake to say that those
gentlemen are not the representatives of
the people ? The standing argument of
My hon. friend opposite me is that we
ought not to meddle with questions in
which we do not directly represent the
People. If the members of the House of
Commons do not represent the people
who do? They sent this Bill to us, a
large majority supported it. When the
final vote was taken there was a motion
for a three months hoist, and yet after all
the agitation, after three months' obstruction of Parliament ; after three months
B3

12917î

of paralysis of public business ; after three
months of a course which was never pursued before in any legislature in the world;
after a course which, had it been commenced in the Democratic Congress of the
United States or in Republican France,
would have been promptly shut off by a
motion for the Previous Question, or the
cloture, on the last vote on this Bill, the
names of exactly 35 of the gentlemen who
were sacrificing themselves for the good
of their country will be found recorded.
The three-months hoist was moved by a
former Minister of the Interior, an active
leader of the Opposition, and had the
support of the number I state in the
House which we are told is representative
of public opinion and of the people.
I do not intend to follow my hon. friend
closely through his speech, but as I
do not feel myself bound to defend
a Bill of this character which comes
up to us from the popular branch, I
think that the better way is to take the objections of one who himself poses asa representative of the minority which opposed
that Bill in all its stages, and with a very
few remarks other than those I shall make
in answer to him I shall content myself
to-night. He stated, if I understood him
correctly, that the framers of confederation
had the acceptance of the provincial franchises of their day in view. Now, I think it
requires a good deal of courage to make a
remark of that kind. It is understood, if
anything is understood relative to the subject, that the framers of confederation
intended that there should be a uniform
franchise for the Dominion Parliament.
The idea is expressed in the British North
America Act. It is there provided that
until the Parliament of Canada, which was
not then able to do it, should frame a
general franchise, the franchises of the
provinces should govern; and how should
they govern ? In order to prevent them
from stealing a march in the way that has
been done by Ontario
HON. MR. HOWLAN-In furtherance
of that they passed a Bill.

HON. MR. PLUMB-Yes, but it was
provided that from and until the Dominion
Parliament should otherwise provide, the
franchises already existing at the time that
Confederation was formed should be the

1218

The Fr"anchise LSENATE] Bill.

franchises that should govern the election
of members of the House of Commons.
What could be plainer than that? It was
not intended that without the consent of
Parliament those franchises should be
changed. I admit that at the time of the
passage of the Controverted Elections
Act of 1883 there was a consent on the
part of Parliament which had never been
given before, and which probably was
necessary in order to frame an election
law-there was a consent that the provincial franchises as they then stood should
be the franchises for the time being.
There was another Controverted Elections
Act passed in 1874, but since that time
parliament has not consented affirmatively
to a change in any of the franchises.
There have been changes made, and I
have already cited one, in the province of
Nova Scotia, and I appeal to my hon.
friend who sits opposite me (Mr. Dickey)
and to my hon. friend from Lunenburg
(Mr. Kaulbach) to confirm my statement
that in order to gain a possible advantage over the party in power in
the Dominion Government, the franchise of Nova Scotia was changed
to bring in a set of voters, and to
exclude a set of voters, for a Dominion
election and for the local election.
My hon. friend (Mr. Haythorne) disputed that statement when I made it.
I appeal for confirmation to what I said
to the gentlemen to whom I have referred
-the hon. member from Amherst and
the hon. member from Lunenburg. That
was reason enough in itself to justify the
Dominion Parliament in protecting its
voters. There
was
no foundation
for the statement that it was intended that
the franchise of the provinces should rule
the Dominion. There was every right on
the part of the Dominion to make a franchise, and when it was found that the
privileges which were left to the provinces
referring to the Dominion only, were being
abused, it was very natural to think it time
that the Dominion should take to itself
the power to decide the qualifications of
those who should vote for members of its
own Parliament, and I repudiate the idea
that no such right is retained by the
Dominion Parliament, or that no such right

the abuses growing out of the franchise
laws of Ontario. I happen to know how
the voters' lists are stuffed and I use the
word emphatically. I myself on one
occasion struck out 43 bogus votes in one
township, on one scrutiny, which had
been left unchallenged by the Ontario
system, until I took it up myself. And
every man of those 43 voters was a voter
upon the Opposition side, and was brought
in by the system which was adopted, as I
believe for the purpose of giving an
advantage to the side which was in power;
and my experience is that, I presume, of
one-half or three-fourths of the members
from Ontario to-day, and I dare say my
hon. friend who sits below me can confirm
my statement-the hon. gentleman who
has borne so gallantly the Conservative
banner in the county of Glengarry, and
who came to the rescue when scarcely
another man dared to confront the powers
that were then in existence, knowing he
had not only to fight the Opposition but
had to fight the voters' list where the
mischief is concocted.
HoN. MR. McMILLAN-Yes, from
the municipal councils down to the
appointment of assessors.

HoN. MR. PLUMB-Yes, and yet
my hon. friend opposite (Mr. Scott)
says there has never been any objection to the Ontario franchise. He
tells us that we are not in any way
justified in dealing with this matter;
that we ought not to deal with it ; that
nobody bas complained of it ; that nobody
has petitioned against it ; that nobody has
has found fault with it. I can tell the
hon. gentleman that as far as my experience is concerned it has been a cry ing
evil in the Province of Ontario ever since
I have had any part in public life. He
also stated that my hon. friend (Sir Alex.
Campbell) said that the Ontario Government bad altered the franchise on the eve
of an election. He did not say any such
thing; he simply said that the franchise
had been altered in Ontario, and had
been altered with a view of giving
an advantage to the majority who
altered it.
That is my statement
belongs to it : that it has no power, or no also, and I believe the only way to
right, or no authority to exercise it. I get a fair voters' list in Ontario is
happen myself to know something about to have the machinery for perfecting the
HON. MR.

PLUMB.

1e

Branchise [JULY 9, 1885.] Bill.

VOters' lists in other hands than those to
which it is given by the Ontario Act; and
I think every man who is not a partizan
of the Ontario Government, who has had
experience there, will say the same thing.
The Franchise Bill was brought into Parliament upon fair notice. It had been
before Parliament for two years. It had
been examined for two years, it was discussed and it was supposed that it would
be brought to a vote, but it was withdrawn
either at the close of last session or the session before. It wàs no new thing. It was
no surprise. The first two months of the
present session were occupied upon the
thrice-told story of the national policy. It
was turned over and under and inside out,
and discussed in every way, and it was
impossible while that discussion was
going on to proceed with the general
public business.
It would be easy,
by referring to the Commons Debates,
to see who was responsible for that.
When the franchise was brought down it
was said to be a surprise, brought in at the
end of the session; that so important a
Bill as that should have been brought in
at an earlier part of the session ; that the
Opposition were not to be allowed any
time to discuss it or examine its details;
that it was a Bill of tremendous proportions, dealing with questions which had to
be examined section by section and line
by line, and that it was an attempt to
Spring a bill on parliament and to get a
Snap judgment upon it. The tu quoque
argument is not always a sound one, but
I can tell the hon. gentleman that in my
Political experience, which is very limited
compared with that of many hon. gentlemen in this House, an Act of the greatest
importance was forced through parliament
by the late Government,without an opportunity for discussion being afforded
to the Opposition of the day-I refer
to the Act authorizing the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway passed
in the Session of 1874. The Bill was
introduced May 12th, read a second time
May 2oth, and passed May 21St ; Parliament was prorogued on the 26th. The
rnajority refused to listen to the Opposition,
prevented them from being heard by unseemly noise and interruption; and shouted
down all criticism unrebuked by the
Speaker or the leader of the Government.
The Bill was forced through at three

1219

o'clock in the morning. We had good
reason to complain of the tyrannical
attempt to choke off debate upon a
measure of such vast importance, but we
were not sufficiently revolutionary to adopt
obstructive tactics. But the Opposition
complained that it was too near the end of
the session to examine the Bill, that no time
was permitted for discussion. Now considering that the patriotic Opposition have
discussed it, according to my hon. friend's
statement, for more than two months, they
cannot complain that they have been
treated as we were under their regime,
on the occasion to which I have referred.
As far as I can remember-I used to go
into the House occasionally. Whenever
I was there L never heard any one speaking on our side.
I heard gentlemen
on the other side discussing it, and
I never heard
anybody preventing
them from discussing it. There was a little
horse-play for the first two or three nights,
and then there was a sepulchral silence
on the Government benches. The Opposition talked, I will not say debated, as we
were told to-day, for eight weeks. Hon.
gentlemen, it was an attempt, a deliberate
attempt, of a minority to coerce the
majority. It was a deliberate attempt to
destroy the principle of Parliamentary Government. If that attempt had
been successful Parliamentary Government
would have been impossible from that
time.

HoN.

MR.

HAYTHORNE-Hear,

hear.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentleman knows that there is no restriction to
the constitutional usage of the British Parliament upon the Opposition. Except by
the late Liberal Government of England
no attempt has been made to choke down
debate ; it never has been proposed except
by Mr. Gladstone's Government in their
desire to stop the factious obstruction of
the Parnellites, who were not in the posi
tion of the recognized party styled " Her
Majesty's Loyal Opposition."

HON. MR. HOWLAN-And he has
paid the penalty of it.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Yes, he has paid
the penalty, and it has never been put in

1220

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

force, because it is contrary to the British what we have seen for the last two or
principles of free speech. Every latitude three months that the leader of the
is given for discussing public questions on Opposition and his friends never expect to
going into committee of supply and on va- get in power. They would never have
rious motions Such has been the ter.der put themselves in such a position if they
regard of the British constitution for the had considered success possible for their
rights of the minority. No such regard party. It is impossible that they would
for the minority can be found under re- have done so ; it is impossible that an astute
publican institutions. There is not a constitutional leader would ever have
legislature in the United States that has allowed his followers to place him in the
not a clôture by which they can stop embarrassing position which Mr. Blake
debate at any moment. In the French would occupy to-day if he ever expected to
Republic and in the United States Con- take the reins of power. My hon. friend
gress and State Legislatures, the previous from Ottawa stated that his patriotic
question can be moved, and any man can friend had compelled the majority to
be stopped in the middle of his speech, and adopt certain amendments. Now I fail
you can take a vote then and there on the to see that. I remember the story Mark
question under discussion, and if his re- Twain tells us when he was temporarily
marks are irrelevant, or tedious, or the editor of an Arkansas newspaper; he
improper, any member has the right to was assaulted by a man much more powermove that the previous question be now ful than himself and he said " we inserted
put, and if, in the division which must our nose vigorously in the teeth of that
follow, the mover can get a majority of gentleman; we planted our eye again at
one, that puts an end to the discussion. his right fist, and threw ourselves on our
If there is a majority of one they ruthlessly back, and in that way we conquered
stop such flights of oratory as we have him." I can tell hon. gentlemen here that it
heard sometimes, with greater or less is quite an open secret that the main
pleasure and amusement, in this House. amendments to the franchise Bill were
The reason why British Parliamentarians agreed to in caucus betore they were prohave not found it necessary to curtail the posed by the hon. gentlemen on the other
rights of the minority is this : it is supposed side. It was natural in the course of the
that the minority assuming that theywill in debate on such an important question
course of time become the governing that changes should be suggested-it
majority, will never put themselves in a was a new procedure. That Bill was not
position by which they maybe hampered in an iron-clad measure ; it was expected
turn when they come into power. That is all that any reasonable proposition which was
the restriction that is necessary for people made fairly and logically sustained in a
of ordinary judgment and common sense. proper spirit whether by the Opposition or
They can see very well that if 50 or 6o by supporters of the Government would be
people out of 210 can prolong a legislative fairly considered, and I can tell hon. gentlesession for three or four months, by an men that if one week had been employed
attempt to force their will on the repre- in a reasonable and sensible discussion of
sentatives of the people who are in a very that Bill by the Opposition they would have
large majority; parliamentary Govern- gained all--yes, more than they gained by
ment becomes impossible, and therefore their two months and a half of obstructhey know if they succeed in their tion. If they had spoken upon it as men of
endeavor to throw out the majority and common sense should have done, instead
come into power nothing is to prevent the of talking as they did, misrepresenting the
then minority from pursuing the same Bill as they did, letting the whole ruck of
tactics. It is because minorities have the benches loose with their floods of
heretofore been restrained by that con- drivel and irrelevant chatter, if they
sideration, that it has not been considered had applied themselves to a reasonanecessary to limit debate or apply any- ble consideration of the Bill without
thing like the previous question or the passion or prejudice, in the way men
cloture. Now this leads nie to a should meet a question of that kind,
conclusion which I think is perfectly in the way a loyal Opposition should
I think it is evident from 1debate a question of such importance, like
logical.
HON. MR.

PLUMB.

The Franchise [J ULY 9, 1885] Bill.
gentlemen who desired to promote the
best interests of the country-there would
have been no difficulty about it whatever,
and all proper concessions would have been
been obtained. The amendments were reasonable, they were right. I am glad they
are there, and we are not discussing the
Bill now, as it was when first introduced.
It is absurd for hon. gentlemen here,
when this Bill is before us perfected by
the other House, and discuss what might
have been in the Bill-what possibly might
have been put in the Bill, and what was in
the Bill at the beginning. We have
nothing now to do with that, and we
have nothing now to do with woman-suffrage and other questions which have been
discussed. We have nothing to do with
the revising barrister pure and simple.

1221

urge any argument in favor of that
being the case. In the discussion of a
Bill so important as this, affecting
the constitutional rights of the people it
would be most improper for the House to
curtail the debate in the slightest degree.
While, however, I decided that the hon.
gentleman was not out of order in my
opinion when he indulged in that line of
argument I passed no opinion whatever
as to the relevancy or necessity of that
argument. With regard to the point of
order now raised in reference to the hon.
member from Niagara I think he is not
attacking or assailing my decision in any
way when he attacks the relevancy or
propriety of the argument of the hon.
member from De Lanaudiere.
HON.

MR. PLUMB-I did not intend

HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I rise to a to attack the propriety or relevancy of the

question of order. The hon. gentleman hon. gentleman's argument. I was anhas no right to criticise the decision of the swering more particularly the argument of
Speaker.
my hon. friend from Ottawa, whose absence I again regret, and I was saying that
HON. MR. ALLAN-Hear, hear.
I saw no necessity for discussing matters
which are not in the Bill as it is before
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-The hon. us.
I do not think we should amend the
gentleman says hear, hear. I say the hon. Bill: we should either accept or reject it.
member from Niagara is criticising the It does not effect our seats here: it is
decision of the Speaker and he has no more especially a Bill affecting the House
right to do so. He is every day calling of Commons who come from the people
others to order : he never succeeds, yet at and who are responsible to the people.
this very moment he is out of order him- My hon. friend from Ottawa says that it
self. Was he in order in alluding to the was not modelled upon the franchise of
eight weeks' fighting in the other House ? any of the provinces: it could not very
well be so. We could not take any special
I say he was not in order.
province and make that a pivot upon
THE SPEAKER-The
question of which to move our franchise bill. It cerorder was raised by the hon. member who tainly would have created great jealousy
has just resumed his seat. On that ques- on the part of other provinces if we had
tion I considered on the second reading taken the franchise of any one of them
of a Bill of this character very great scope and thus virtually asserted that that provWas necessary and properly allowed to ince had a perfect franchise. Would it
gentlemen engaging in the debate. The have made it more palatable to other
bon. gentleman chose to indulge in a long provinces if we had accepted the franchise
argument against a principle which the of any one particular province ? I thought
Bill did not contain. Whatever might be my hon. friend from Ottawa was*very singuconsidered with regard to the necessity of larly infelicitous in the remarks he made
such an argument I thought it was quite on that part of the question and I thought
proper for the hon. gentleman, if he chose that, and other remarks he made showed
to indulge in that line of argument, to do that he was only half-hearted in his opposo, just as it would have been proper for sition to the Bill. He also said the bill had
gentlemen who hold a different opinion- in a certain way done good-that it had exwho hold, for instance, that the Bill should tended the franchise, giving it to the
contain a clause providing for female suff- farmer's son in imitation of the Act which
rage-to take the Bill on that ground and had already been passed in Ontario,

.1222

The Franchise [SE NATE] Bill.

and
that
it
had
also
extended against the revising barristers I ask who
it to wage earners. While there are ob- are the men to be selected under this Act ?
jections in this House-and I can feel What manner of men are those who are
great sympathy with the gentlemen who held up as such monsters to the commuraised them-to the extension of the nity ? Let us try and find out ; here is
franchise.
We
must
march
with the Bill. Clauses 13 and 14 Of the Bill
events. We must learn to trust the peo- are as follows :-

ple. We cannot expect or hope to make
The Governor General in Council may,
any cast-iron rule for the franchise, within Ihree months after the comnin into
and adhere to that rule. This Fran- force of this Act, and from time to time therechise Bill, so far as I can read it, after, when the office is vacant, appoint a
is an an advance in a liberal direction proper person to be called " the revising
-- as far as I think we ought to advance officer," for each or any of the electoral districts of Canada, who shall hold office during
at this time. I can conceive, however, good behaviour, but who shall be removable
that before many of the younger men of on address by the House of Commons, and
this House have become as gray as I am, whose duties shall be to prepare, revise and
that there will be a necessity for a further complete, in the nannerbereinafter provided,
persons entitled to vote under the
concession. I can conceive that ; I do the lists of of this Act in such electoral disprovisions
not object to it ; I think it will come ; I trict, and every such officer shall, before
do not think we should set ourselves ob- entering upon bis duties, take an oath of
stinately agairst it, and I think the true office before any Judge of a Superior Court or
way is to look it fairly in the face, and to Court of Record of the Province in which he
in the
form A
accept it as an inevitable thing, but at the is to act,toin theAct, which contained forthhe shall
this
Schedule
same time to throw about it as many safe- with thereafter cause to be filed with the
guards for the protection of the electorate Clerk of the Crown in Chancery at Ottawa;
as is possible to provide, both in election and in the event of the death. resignation,
laws for preventing and punishing corrupt removal, inability or refusal to act of any
such revising officer. another inay, in the
practices, and, what is more important, for same way, be appointed in his stead, who
preventing the poisoning of the ballot shall hold office under the saie tenure, and
boxes ; preventing fraud at the fountain with the sane duties and powers.
A revising officer to be appointed under
head; preventing the corruption of the
voters' list. There is where the battle has this Act shall, in every Province except
Quebec and British Columbia, be either a
to be fought ; there is where it should be Judge or a junior judge of soue county or
fought ; there is where the trouble begins, district court in the Province in which lie is
and I say this Bill is a step in the right to act, or a barrister of at least five years'
direction. Hon. gentlemen claim that we standing at the bar of such Province; in the
shall be
ought to trust the machinery which is Province of Quebec lieof Lower either a judge
Canada, or au
of the Superior Court
framed by the local legislature rather than advocate, or notary of that Province of at
to trust that created by ourselves. Upon least five years' standing, and in the Province
what ground ? for what reason ? what pos- of British Columbia he shall be either ajudge
sible logical support can people find who of a superior court or of a county or district
least five years'
urge that ? Why should we not appoint court, or a barrister of at magistrate : Prostanding, or a stipendiary
our own men ?
What better are the vided always, that the same revising officer
assessors and the revisers of the voters' may he appoinited for, and be required to
lists of the different provinces ? What discharge the said duties in respect of more
better are the men that might be ap- than one electoral district, and nay be
electoral district.
pointed as commissioners-farmers of the appointed for a portion of'any
is the bug-bear of the revising
That
different districts, as has been proposed
by the hon. gentleman who has objected barrister-wherever a judge of a county
to my method of speech ? Parliament court or a junior judge can be selected
Now,
has a perfect right to provide for ap- the duty is to select him.
pointing its own cfficers and I say against other revising barristers' decisions
we ought to put them there. The there is an appeal-an appeal which has
men who are to frame the voters' lists no machinery in it which is expensive or
for our Parliament ought to be men selected difficult, an appeal which entails no charge
for that purpose and qualified to do the beyond that of subpenaing witnesses
work, and when we hear such an outcry and the expenses of the attendance of
HON. MR. PLUMB.

Tw Pranchi8e [JULY 9, 1885] Bill.
witnesses. Instead of that being comPlex and expensive as we are told, it
is made as inexpensive and simple
as possible, so that every man can take
advantage of it, and I can tell hon.
gentlemen that it will be far less difficult and expensive than the appeal procedure of the various courts of revision in
Ontario. I know something of those
Courts, and I know from experience how
troublesome and expensive they are. The
appeal in this Bill is without expense : it
is a direct one and it is to bring about a
speedy and effectual settlement of the case.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-If I have a
right to reply I would say there are
expenses. Who pays the lawyer who
manages the appeal ?
H1ON. MR. PLUMB-The judge of the
Court can award cost for expenses for the
attendance of witnesses and subpænaing
them but no more, and any man of comMon sense can go and look after his own
case. My hon. friend from Ottawa said
We first intended to admit the Chinese
and the Indians without restriction to the
franchise, but he acknowledges that the
Bill was much improved in that respectin fact he rather approved of it altogether.
Weil, the only change that I can see is
that the Chinese are excluded. The
Indians of a certain class are admitted.
It was never intended to admit any others,
and I say to-day that no more just and
meritorious thing has been done by the
Parliament of Canada since I have had
the honor of having anything to do with
it than the justice, tardy though it is,
Which has been done the Red Men
who live on our soil and who possess
the qualifications which are required
in this Bill. I know something about
thern. The greater part of the Red
Men of Ontario who will be enfranchised by this Bill live in the Counties
Of Brant, Middlesex, Haldimand and
Hastings, and some others are scattered
about in Kent, Essex and some other
counties.

H1oN. MR. ALLAN-And in the county
Of Simcoe as well.
HON. MR. PLUMB-But the largest
numbers are in Tyendenaga on the Bay

1223

of Quinte, and in the County of Brant.
Who are those men that have been stigmatized by my hon. friend from Ottawa who
has just told us that they are living in wigwams and huts, that they are non-tax
payers, pensioners upon the Government,
improvident people, who lose or consume
their seed grain and must oftenbeprovided
with a fresh supply ; and last of all as the
very worst thing he could call them-are
so ignorant and debased as to be Orangemen ? The Indians, he tells us, do not
pay taxes: that they do not sit on juries,
and worst of all, that they are Orangemen.
When the American revolution broke out in
1776, the ancestors of the red men of the
Grand River and Tyendenaga had their
Hodonesaune, or Long House Confederation established between the waters of the
Hudson and those ot Niagara. They were
the Iroquois, emphatically called by
Parkman "the Indians of the Indians,"
led by Joseph Brant, (Thayendanegea) the
Mohawk Chief, who went to England in
that year to investigate the cause of the
quarrel between the King and his subjects ;
they took his opinion that the King's cause
was just, and resolved in councii that they
would not break the alliance with the
Crown-thecovenantchain-that isthe term
they used. They were the Mohawks, the
Oneidas, the Onondagas, the Cayugas, the
Senecas, and the Tuscororas, forming six
independent nations, each speaking a different, although cognate language, each
governed by its own traditions and laws,
and they decided to stand by the British
Government, a few only dissenting. What
was the result? They fought bravely but
without success. They lost their land, the
fairest in New York State-most beautiful
for situation. I know it well. I have
travelled through it often. When the
war was over those homeless people still
led by Brant threw themselves upon the
generosity of the English king, and how
did he receive them ? On the 24 th day of
October, 1784, a royal grant was executed
by Governor Haldimand, which recited
that in consequence of their adherence to
the Crown the six nations had lost their
property in New York, that they were a
homeless people, and that in recognition of
their great services and unswerving loyalty,
a tract of six miles in width on each side of
the Grand River, then called the Ouse,
from its mouth to its sources, was given

1224A

The P"ranchi8e [SENATE] Bill.

in perpetuity to them and their descendants. To that magnificent heritage
Brant conducted them. There they
settled, eight years before Ontario was
separated from Quebec.
I had the
honor of being invited by their descendents a year ago to address them at
the centennial celebration of the grant,
and I
then attended their annual
agricultural show, and I tell hon. gentlemen that it would compare favorably

deservirig disfranchisement to be one of
them. I myself am not one, but if I were
I do not think it would be good ground for
disfranchising me. Here is a letter written
by an Indian living on the Grand River reservation, a young man about 35 years of
age, with an Indian wife, and an Indian
family. I wrote to him making some inquiries as to the organization, land tenure,
&c., to which I got this reply :" Kanyengeh, May 22nd, 1885.
"DEAR MR. PLUMB,Your favor of the 9th inst. was duly
received, and its contente noted. And, in reply, allow me first of ail to thank you for the
very high compliment paid me in thus seek-

with any local agricultural show in Ontario.
Their agricultural society has 350 members. It has been organized 17 years.
They pay liberal prizes and receive large
sums for gate-money. They exhibited as
from me concerning my
good barley and wheat, and oats, and corn ing intormation affairs generally. And now
people and their
as I saw anywhere last year. They had with regard to the state of things on the
excellent horses, and well-bred cattle and reserve. First: Our lands consist of about
sheep, and the show was attended by 55,000 acres, surveyed into 100 acre lots, and
great numbers of orderly, well-dressed although the whole of the lands are covered
deed, still these lots
men, women and children, but they were by one common property, are not looked upon as
but are held by
all of the Indian blood, and all fall under individuals just the same as if they held then
the ban of my hon. fuiend from Ottawa. in fee simple, with the advantage that they
Those are the people who, we are told, lose cannot sell the improvements to anyone outtheir seed grain, those are the people who, side of their own band. These lois are held
either by virtue of the original location made
we are told, are controlled by the Govern- by the council of chiefs, or by the improvement agents.
When they prepared ments that have been made by the occupant
for their centennial celebration they himself, or purchased by himi from another
took the matter entirely into their own who may have made the improvements, or he
may also
hands. The agent was invited. They another, have purchased the same from
who had a right to sell the same.
invited me and several other gentlemen And none can be dispossessed except when
and delegations from the remnants of their the lands are required for public use, and,
tribes who are scattered about in other even then, full compensation must be made
parts of the country and in the United for the occupant's improvements, or any improvements
States. When I called on the agent Mr. which he is to which h e had a right, and of
thereby deprived. An Indian

Gilkison, in Brantford, he did not know belonging to the band may hold as many lots
what the arrangements were. Nothing as he purchases from his people. Some hold
would be more unwise than for him to as many as four lots, and, I believe, in one or
interfere with their internal polity. My two instances even more. I believe 1 sball
be
hon. friend knows something of the Indian arequite safe in saying that about 25,000 acres
under cultivation, 15,000 in pasture, and
character, and he must be aware that they 15,000 in woods or bush. There are no
will resent interference with their freedon national boundaries on our reserve. Every
of action. Most of the Indians of the six Indian is at liberty to buy ju-t where he
nations are men of independent means. likes best if he can make a bargain with the
Our organization consists of seven
On the Reservation they have 13 schools, occupant. viz. :-Mohawks, Senecas, Onondanations,
they have temperance societies, and I gas, Oneidas, Cayugas, Tuscaroras and
could have told my hon. friend from Delawares. Each of these nations bas a hereOttawa, who is opposing the extension of ditary chief, according to the number of its
the franchise to these people, that those totems or clans; thus the Mohawks are
of three clans, the Bear, Turtle
temperance societies have a very large composed and each of these chiefs has
and Wolf;
membership, and doubtless sustain the his second chief, and his war chief.
Scott Act. Some of those Indians Some, or at least two, of the nations
may be Orangemen;
there are a are composed of more clans than the
and the
good many Orangemen in the country, of Mohawks, I know. Delawares have but one,
as far as
There are however exequally good standing with the hon. mem- ceptional cases where a warrior is elected
ber, and I am not aware that it is a crime chief, either as a reward for services or as an
HON. MR. PLUMB.

The franchi8e [J ULY 9, 1885] Bill.
acknowledgment of abilities that may be
rossessed by him, so that we only partly ad.ere to the old organization at the present
time; that is, if it was not so doue from the
beginning, but my belief is that these exceptional cases of election were allowed from
the beginning by the ''League" (the HodOnesaunee.)
Any of the chiefs may be
deposed for dishonesty, intemperance, imimorality or incompetency; for the first
three he must have had a fair warning to
amend, then if he does not heed the warning
he must be removed, and another appointed
who is next of kin. This only applies to the
bereditary chiefs. But in case of the removal of an elected chief there is no successor
elected. The powers of our council of late
years have become more limited, and its rules
are also much changed, and both are gradually being swallowed up in the Indian Act.
The provisions lor the opening and repairing
Of roads, building bridges and making other
Public improvements are just what is contained in t he Indian Act. Before the passage
of the Indian Act the sanie thing was in operation, only perhaps not to the sanie extent as
now. Our agricultural society has been in
Operation for 17 years and has done a great
deal towards stimulating our people to adopt
the improved methods of agriculture and the
rearing of improved stock, so that at the present time our agricultural exhibitions are far
ahead of any township exhibitions that have
ever come under our notice, and I believe I
can safely say that ours is ahead of any townShip agricultural society in the Dominion.
In 1883 the members numbered 170, in 1884
225, and in this year, 1885, they number 350
rembers. Our schools about 12 in number
are partly supported by the New England
Company and partly by ourselves."
The New England Company was
formed in England about the time of the
restoration of Charles II., and Lord
Clarendon was an active member. They
have a small fund which yields £6oo or
£8oo annuilly, I think, and they devote a liberal portion of their income
to missions and schools among the
Iroquois of the Grand River. I might
speak of the Iroquois of St. Regis and
Caughnawaga, and the Hurons of Lorette,
Of the Munceys and Delawares, and of
the Masasaugas of Haldimand, whose
Chief is a highly educated physician in
large practice, and give many other
instances in proof of the justice of the
clains of the Red Men to enfranchiseMent, who are permanently settled and
Possess the required qualifications. The
attacks upon them have been wholly
unwarrantable, and they have been made
Victims of a desperate party struggle.

1225

The writer continues:
" The Episcopalian churches are supported entirely by the New England Company. The M~ethodist denomination by the
Conference and the Baptist and other denominations, I believe, are dependant on the
voluntary contributions of their members.
Our interest money is simply the interest of
capital invested by the Government for us
from the sale of our lands."
The hon. gentleman to whom I am
replying called them pensioners upon the
Government. They are not pensioners;
they are great land owners.
The Six
Nations or Iroquois held their title deeds
from the Crown before there was a
Dominion Government; before there was
a Province of Ontario. They permitted
some of their land to be sold, because they
had more than they could utilize-they
had ceased to be hunters and trappers,
and required only the area that was needed
for farming. The letter continues:" The cheque,when the interest becomes due,
is sent to our Superintendent for distribution,
each getting an equal share and each one is
at perfect liberty to do what he likes with his
money, there are no restrictions whatever. la
fact I think I cannot do better than draw
your attention to Dr. Oronhyatekha's letter in
the Mail, of the 6th of May, which shows everything in its propr light.and is better than
anything that I can prepare, but at the same
time I am and will always be only too glad to
give you any information in my power. I
was sorry that I was unable to see you when
the deputation was down to Ottawa. Any
public documents you may be pleased to send
will be thankfully receivei. Please excuse
me for not being able to prepare my communication in better shape. My time has been so
fully occupied by making the necessary
arrangements in connection with my misfortune, and I have as it were snatched this hali
hour to do my duty to you and to my people,
and I know that I have come very far short
of it, but I know that you will kindly overlook
that on account of my circumstances."
Of money, they have about eight
hundred and fourteen thousand dollars in
the Government Treasury, the proceeds of
sales of their lands, and it is as much
their own money as if it were in a savings
bank at their credit. The Government
holds more that three million dollars of
trust funds belonging to Indians. This
letter which I hold in my hand from that
gentleman is in a most beautiful handwriting, as any hon. gentlemen who have
any curiosity to examine it will see ; it is
without an ungrammatical expression, and
there is not a word in it mis-spelled.

1226

The Franchi8e [SENATE] Bill.

HON. MR. READ-And he never had eloquent men I have ever heard speak on a

a vote.
HoN. MR. PLUMB-He has never had
a vote, and has never had justice done
him until now, and yet in 1839 a
commission appointed by the English
House of Commons to report on the condition of the Indians of Canada, says:" To all the Indians residing within the
boundaries of our provinces the fullest and
most complete participation in the rights of
British subiects should be distinctly and unreservedly granted ; and means should be taken
to make them promptly aware of the fact, as
well as of the value of the boon and of the
mode of taking advantage of it.
" Their present ignorance in these respecte,
thongh an impediment to their at once deriving the full benefit, and a valid argument for
their having the temporary assistance of well
selected guardians, does not seem to preseut
any reason for delaying the measure which it
would be scarcely possible for then to abuse,
but which would prove grateful to their feelings and a stimulus to their exertions."
A copy of this report, perhaps the only
one to be found in this country, was kindly
handed to me yesterday by the Librarian.
It was then, it will be seen, desired that
some amelioration should be made in
the condition of the red races among
us. I do not know anything more
worthy of the attention of the public
of Canada than the present position and
future prospects and possibilities of the
Six Nation Indians. They are emphatically the Indians of the Indians. They
have shown great powers of adaptation,
while,at the same time, with that peculiarity
which distinguishes the savage from the
civilized man, they have adhered with
great tenacity to many of their traditions. To this day their councils are
talked into the wampum belts. Their
system of mnemonics is still practised. It
is not more than two years since Chief
Johnson, formerly Speaker of their council,now 93 years of age, one of the most
eloquent of a race of orators, was called
upon to decide a question in dispute and
he read the wampum belts for two whole
days, and stated the words they perpetuated as consistently and as clearly and
precisely as any man could do from a
printed book. Another chief, one of the
Mohawks of Tyandenaga on the Bay of
Quinte, a distinguished temperance advocate, Chief John Green, is one of the most

public platform. We had a meeting at
Niagara in August last in celebration of the
the iooth anniversary of the settlement of
the peninsula by the United Empire Loyalists whenhe addressed the assemblage in
most logical and vigorous language.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
know him well: he is a very intelligent
man.
HON. MR. PLUMB-No man could
have delivered a more appropriate or
His enfranmore forcible speech.
chisement is objected to by my hon.
friend, who is the leader of the
Liberal party in this House, and who urges
the extension of the franchise, and yet
is unwilling to extend it to the intelligent
Indians. Chief Hill, the grandson of the
celebrated Brant, also delivered an address
on that occasion, and Chief Smith,
the man whose letter I have just
read, addressed us in as well chosen
sentences and with as much pertinence
and grace as any one that you will
usually hear in a public meeting.
A deputation of thirty Chiefs came to honour the occasion ; they would not permit us
to bear any part of their expenses; they
brought with them a skilful, well instructed
brass band, and all the performers weretheir
own people. They have their own extensive educational system; their own system
of taxation; they build their own roads and
bridges ; they do not ask the Province for
anything, and they pay their taxes as other
subjects of the Dominion. They are taxpayers just as much as any who sit in
this House or in the House of Commonsthey pay taxes on the dutiable goods they
consume. They do not ask the Province
of Ontario to supply their schools or build
their bridges-they are an independent
people and pay the same taxes that white
people pay upon the articles that come
under the tariff of the Dominion,
which they consume in as fair a
proportion as any of the farmers in their
vicinity, and it is a sneer upon them which
I repudiate, to urge that they are in any
way unworthy or unqualified to be enrolled
as voters. They tax themselves for municipal purposes-there is no other form of
provincial taxation-and I must again
express regret that my hon. friend (Mr.

Te Franchise [JULY 9, 1885] Bill.
Scott) is not here to show upon what
grounds, and upon what basis, those men
are not to be considered tax-payers. In
asserting that they are not he begs the question, and does not present fair, ingenuous
argurnent. He tells us thatthose men live in
Wigwams and huts, but I can inform the hon.
gentleman that many of the houses of those
Indians are furnished quite as well as the
houses of their white neighbors. In many
of them you can hear the music of the
Piano-I would rather in many instances
there and elsewhere that it was replaced by
the hum of the spinning-wheel; many of the
Iidian families drive to church and market
in as good style as the white farmers
around them, and are in fact quite as
Prosperous as their white neighbours.
Some of them occupy and cultivate
as many as four hundred acres of
land each.
They are worthy men,
but it must be confessed that the Indian
has not the instinct of acquisitiveness as
strongly developed as the white man, and
therefoTe I think it is desirable that their
valuable heritage should be guarded in
such a way that they shall not be a prey
to the white land-shark. 1 hope they
mnay long enjoy the usufruct of the domain
fairly won by the blood of their brave
ancestors, and that they may never be
tempted into taking away from the Government treasury the vast fund which
they hold there, the interest on which is
Paid regularly, and honestly distributed.
Designing men may look with covetous
greed upon the fertile fields of their reServes, and may endeavour to obtain legislation by which they may be alienated;
Such efforts have been made, I trust they
will never succeed. If they do, the redmen would soon find their money dissiPated, their children in want. They are
brave men, loyal men, men who are true to
their families, and whose domestic virtues
are an example which people of our race
may copy, men who keep their children
Well dressed, well fed, well educated, and
Who are fit to rank with us in every partiCular, except perhaps that they have not
the money-grabbing faculty developed in
them to so large an extent as we have, and
I do not love them any the less for that.
I may say that they are a law-abiding
people. They have hardly an officer of
the peace amongst them, nor do they re-

1227

quire police restrictions except to repress
vicious outsiders. You do not hear of
any outrages there. They are becoming
a very temperate people; they are a
virtuous people, a people of whom we
ought to be proud rather than ashamed ;
whose efforts in the arts of peace and
civilization we should by every means
encourage. Dr. Oronhyatekha to whom
the letter of Chief Smith which I
have quoted refers, is a licentiate
of the College cf physicians and
surgeons of Ontario. He is one of the
Indians of the Grand River reserve, and
has not the right to vote until this bill becomes law-I think I could show from his
letter that he is quite competent to vote
alongside of his white neighbour. We
should make those Indians a typical race ;
we should endeavor to show, by what we
can do for them, what are the possibilities
of the forty or fifty thousand people,
who, in God's providence are left to our
protection, whose condition we, as the
stronger dominant race, should do everything in our power to ameliorate. We
should study the social evolution of the
Iroquois and learn by it what may be
done with other red men. From extreme barbarism, savages of the savages as
they were 200 years ago, having the fiercest characteristics of their race. they have
long since become an industrious lawabiding people who have buried the tomahawk, and have successfully taken up
peaceful occupations. We should ascertain by watching the progress of the Iroquois what we may possibly do with
those unfortunate bands which are
thrown upon our hands-that we have
to provide for and protect, that we
have either to fight or feed, or
teach to feed themselves. It has been
our disgrace that in the debates and comments upon the Bill before us, elsewhere,
every possible contumely has been heaped
upon those unfortunate people, who cannot
defend themselves, and I intend, as long
as I have the power to do so, to answer for
them as to what I believe are their capabilities, their possibilities, and I say that it is
a shame to keep those intelligent men any
longer in subjection, whose condition I
have described.
HoN. MR.

READ-Where were they

found in 1812 and 1815 ?

1228

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

HON. MR. PLUMB-Yes, and where
werc they found from 1776 to 1784 also ?
Found fighting under the British flag, as
true to the Government as the most loyal
of British subjects, never swerving from it,
always ready to shed their blood and
devote their energies to the defence of the
Crown, and of the people with whom they
were associated. Hurrying to our aid
from the pathless forest, at the call of their
indomitable chief-ubiquitous, untiring,
irresistible, doing the duty of ten timcs
their number-so marvellous in their
power, so quick in their movements, so
terrible in attack, that in 1763, Sir William
Johnson wrote to the Lords of Trade in
England that the Iroquois had conquered
the whole of the territory, extending from
the Atlantic sea-board to the Mississippi,
from the Great Lakes to the mountains of
Georgia, Eastward to New Brunswick
and the Bay of Fundy, and northward
as far as the snows would permit them
to go. He stated that they held that
great extent of country by right of
conquest-that they had brought its
Indian inhabitants under subjection as
tributaries. It is supposed that they were
never able to muster more than 5000
Braves for the war-path-but the extraordinary league by which they were united
freed them from the fear of foes at home,
and they were enabled to extend their
conquests wherever the forest trail or the
stream might lead tliem.
HON. MR. READ-And at Lundy's
Lane they were to be found.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Yes at Lundy's
Lane and at Stoney Creek, wherever there
was a battle to be fought or a desperate
act to be performed they were in the
front, and to-day in the Haldimand
Battalion there will be found volunteer
companies of Iroquois of the Grand River
Reservation who will rank in discipline
and appearance with the best white
men, and will be able to do good
service whenever they are wanted.
My hon. friend from Ottawa said that the
Indians were not drawn as jurors. I do
not consider that it is a necessary qualification for a Dominion voter that he
should be a juror. I am not aware that the
Dominion Gcvernment prepares jury lists.
They are made up in the counties from

tax lists, and I venture to say that as
intelligent a jury could be selected from3
among the Indians who are to be enfranchised by the Bill under consideration, as
could be found elsewhere. I sincerely
congratulate my Indian friends upon their
admission to equal privileges with ourselves.
They well deserve them and will make
good use of them.
My hon. friend from Ottawa was pleased
to refer to the distribution of seats in
1882. He said that then as now, we
played with loaded dice, that we have
again endeavored to so frame a measure
that it will perpetuate the power of the
Conservative party, and that we have won
four general elections outof five,andthatwe
ought to be satisfied with that. Well, if
we have won four elections out of five, it
shows that we are very liberal in making
changes that may jeopardize the strong
position he acknowledges we hold, and that
we are taking considerable risk in dealing
with a subject with which perhaps we
could not or would not deal if we
were now in a weaker position. I think
that is a logical answer to the argument
of the hon. gentleman.
HoN. MR. POWER-It is so kind of

you.
HoN. MR. PLUMB-I do not heed the
interruptions of the hon. gentleman from
Halifax. However intended they do not disturb me in the least. I was about to say,that
my hon. friend from Ottawa, in speaking
about our redistribution Act said nothing
about the redistribution Acts of Ontario
of which we have a right to complain.
He said that Mr. Mowat's Government
did not divide townships. I happened to
know, that in what was called the redistribution Bill of the Ontario Government,
they did divide townships-they split them
along main roads and concession lines,
put one part in one district and one part
in another. In that way the county of
Dufferin was made what is called a hive for
conservatives; the idea was borrowed from
the swarm. There are several such
hives in Ontario. Mr. Mowat was far in
advance of us in that sort of bee-keeping.
The County of Dufferin is so Conservative that no man has ventured to offer as a
Liberal candidate in the constituency since
Mr. Mowat packed it. It is so in other

The Franchise [JULY 9, 1885] Bill.
Places. There are gentlemen here from
'Ontario who well know the facts that I refer
to. A redistribution of the same ingenious
sort has been made within the last year.
Sincethisvery franchise Billwas introduced,
the Government of Ontario has again distinguished itself in that way. I do not
Wish to use an unparliamentary word, but
its last redistribution bill is more flagitious
than the one it passed twelve years ago.
It is well worth my hon friend's study, his
familiarity with Ontario politics will make
it specially interesting to him. He says
there have been no complaints that any
Unfairness or abuse has arisen from the
Provincial franchise regulations of Ontario.
There have been a thousand complaints
in the public press.
They have
been made at public meetings everywhere.
They have been reported from year to
Year in records of courts of revision. I
have been familiar with them from the
tirne I entered public life, and I think I
can appeal to my Conservative friends
frorn Ontario here to bear witness that
there has been a general outcry on the
Part of the public-perhaps not from the
Liberals. It is very probable my hon.
friend from Ottawa does not hear any rernonstrance from his side. It is very
natural that they should not grumble as
long as they have the advantage ; but if
ve can judge anything of the public feeling in regard to the necessity for the
change we seek, we can judge it from the
effect of three months of agitationsuch agitation as has never been known
before in the history of Parliament, such
attempts to prejudice public judgment as
have never been paralleled under any conStitutional Government. The party managers ordered the local drill-sergeants to
call out the faithful, and hold indignation
meetings at which fiery resolutions,
ready-made, were produced by party
fuglernen, petitions were drawn up and
men were employed to obtain signers at
15 cents a hundred, and after all
this agitation what has happened ?
There has been no enthusiasm, there has
been no public excitement. You can go
through the whole Province of OntarioI can only speak for that Province-and
YOU can hear conversation on general
topics ; you can hear men speaking about
the crops; you can hear them asking
when Parliament is to be prorogued;

1229

you can hear them complain that Parliament is sitting too long, and that a Cromwell should enter the Commons and disperse it and order Mr. Speaker to "take
away that bauble," but you hear nothing of
this wicked franchise Bill that we are told
here is to destroy the liberties of the
people of Canada. You hear speculation
as to the result of the trials in the NorthWest, and you hear enquiry when the
volunteers are coming home, the comparing of opinions about the crops, you
see the electors of Ontario calmly smoking
their pipes in peace and comfort; but
that there has been any special interest
excited against the Franchise Bill, or that
thecountry has respondedto the Opposition
outcry is untrue. We have had lately the
result of an election to this Parliament in
a district not far from the seat of Government-in a district where the Government
were said to be more unpopular to-day
than it was anywhere else in Canada ; and
yet the Reform party dared not put up a
candidate to oppose the Conservative
nominee who was elected by acclamation,
and who was introduced in the Commons
two or three nights ago while the leader
of the Opposition was making a six
hours' speech against the Government upon
the North-West troubles which I think he
might have let alone under the circum
stances, though I have no right to criticize
it here. That election does not look as if
the public took any stock in the outcry
against the Franchise Bill. I am very sorry
for having detained the House so long,
and I greatly regret that my hon. friend to
whose speech I have endeavoured to reply
is not here to-night. I can only say that
I have tried fairly to meet some of the
arguments which it contained, and that for
my part I consider the Franchise Bill as
it now stands a measure worthy the
support of the Conservative party, and also
of those liberal members on the other side
who can see a little beyond party lines. It
has my sincere, hearty approval. I shall
vote against the hon. gentleman's amendment and for the Bill, and I hope when
they come to reflect upon it even our
friends on the other side will find that the
remarks made upon it to-day, and the ten
weeks' arguments in another place should
commend it to their confidence, and I
trust that when the division is taken upon

1230

Te Franchi8e [SEN ATE] Bill.

it those gentlemen will be found largely ple serve then. They wanted farmers
ranked on our side.
for their farms, and they wanted servants
for their houses, but, according to the
HoN. MR. TRUDEL-Some allusions regulations, they could not have any with.
have been made to the feelings of the out permission from the Department here,
members from the Province of Quebec and that permission was refused.
I
cohcerning this measure. I might, per- applied several times myself to the Minishaps, go so far as to say that I do not ter of Justice asking that some provision
think there are many members from our should be made to extend to those Indians
Province in the other House who at first the ordinary rights of British subjects.
received that Bill with much satisfaction. There are many other provisions in this
I find in this measure a great many good Bill which I consider a great improvement
features, and as regards the point which on the present law, and if we could have,
has just been alluded to by the hon. what I do not expect we can obtain, the
gentleman from Niagara, the enfranchise- right to fix the franchise left to the proment of the Indians, I think it is a very vincial or municipal powers, I think there
proper thing to do. I had several times would be a great deal in this Bill to comduring the past year occasion to call at mend it to the House. Whatever may
the Department of the Interior and to be the merit of this Bill, it does not change
claim the rights of the Indians of Caugh- my opposition to it as a whole. In my
nawaga who reside close to the division I opinion, in legislating for this Dominion,
represent in the Senate, and I may say - we should do our best to preserve provinthat there are many Indians in that dis- cial rights as carefully as possible. I contrict who occupy such a good social sider that in this lies the future prosperity
position that they ought to be accorded of the Dominion. I do not question the
the same political rights as other subjects right of Parliament to enact such a law as
of Her Majesty. I may say that I have this. Of course I do not think that right
had for the last three years one of those has ever been seriously challenged ; but,
Indians in my office as law student, and I as the hon. gentleman from DeLanaudiere
understand that he has presented himself has very properly stated, while Parliament
to-day for examination for admission to has the right to legislate in the direction
the bar of Quebec, and from what I know proposed by this Bill, it does not follow
of his qualifications I have no fear as to that we should so legislate. It is a prohis success. I am satisfied that he is position which nobody will deny, that
now admitted to the bar. He is a very since Confederation the right to regulate
intélligent and hardworking young man, the franchise has been left to the provinand for the last two years he has been the cial powers. This is a right which has
President of the Legal Association formed hitherto been enjoyed by the provinces.
among the law students of Montreal. I By this legislation it is proposed to take
mention this fact to show that there are away that right froni the provinces, and
among those Indians men whose public give it to the Federal Parliament. It is
position it is desirable to improve. There impossible to deny this proposition, so
are families in Caughnawaga who have that it is, in fact, a transfer from the proamongst them wealthy merchants. I vincial power to the Dominion, of a right
know of one Indian family who cultivate exercised by the provinces-in other words
not less than six farms. They have it is a step in the direction of centralizaadopted a good system of agriculture, and tion. It is a question in which all the
they are successful stock-raisers, and have provinces are interested, inasmuch as
well-stocked farms. I am very glad to most absolute authority should be left
hear the statement of my hon. friend to the province to control its own affairs.
from Niagara as to the condition of the I say that it is in the interest of the
Indians in Ontario, and this confirms me provinces to assert this principle; and, as
in the view that the mode in which some everybody knows, the province to which I
of our Indians are treated by the Depart- belong is specially interested in maintainment here is not justified. In fact, last ing that position. It is well known that
year I had to apply here to obtain for one of we have our own peculiar institutions, our
those families the right to have white peo- laws our language, and a great many
HON.

MR. PLUMB.

Te Franchise [J ULY 9, 1885] Bill.
Other interests which the great majority of
Our people contend for, and to which the
mfajority of the Dominion are hostile ; so
that it is a very important right which is
now under the control of the majority in
the Province of Quebec, and when this
Bill becomes law that control will pass into
the hands of the Dominion-that is, it
Will be in the hands of the majority-I
do not mention it in a sense that will be
Offensive to anybody, but it will be in the
hands of a majority which is, politically
speaking and socially speaking, hostile to
Our laws, our language and our institutions. So that I consider that it is our
duty and our interest to keep our provincial rights, and especially for Quebec
there is a decided interest in continuing
to exercise those rights, and that is the
reason why, though I am sorry to be in
this position, I shall be obliged to vote
against this measure. There is another
principle laid down in this Bill which I
Consider to be wrong. It is the concession of what is called here the " farmers'
sons franchise." At first sight it appeared
to me a proper thing that such a right
should be granted to a certain class of
farmers' sons ; but I do not consider that
it should be granted in the way it is proPosed in this Bill. For instance, as here
proposed, the political power of the son,
or of the sons of the farmer, as created by
this Bill, will be equal if not superior to
that of the father. We ought not to lose
sight of this fact. Take the case of the
farmer who has five sons; the sons being
granted the right to vote will be in a position, if they differ in their opinions from
their father, to destroy his vote five times
Over. If that were the only objection we might perhaps say that
there is an equal chance that the
sons might entertain as sound views as
the father; but as the law is framed, the
franchise may go to one of the sons, who
in one sense should not be considered as
" a farmer's son." Take for instance the
case where the property possessed by the
father is not sufficient to qualify three or
four sons as voters. The property will
qualify first the father, second the eldest
son, and so on, to the extent of its value.
Then there is a provision that the fact of
the sons being absent as fishermen or
rnariners will not disqualify them as
oters-or the fact that the son may be

1231

studying in the city will not disqualify
them. Supposing a man has a property
valued at only $3oo, and he has a son

studying in a city for the profession of
law or medicine, and that he has a second
son who remains on the farm ; that
second son may be the only party in the
family cultivating the soi], and still he will
have no right to vote on that property.
The right will be first with the father,
second with the son who is studying in
the city, perhaps hundreds of miles away
from the homestead, while the only man
whom the law has in contemplation, that
that is, the son who is to succeed to the
farm, who is working on the farin, and
who is supporting the family, will have no
vote at all. This shows that the idea
which is at first conveyed by this proposition to give the farmer's son the right of
voting, will in a great nany cases be a
failure. I must confess that when I heard
of this Bill, before reading it, I was pleased
to a certain extent to know that the farmer's son would have a vote. 1 thought
it was contemplated to give to the son
who remained on the farm with the
father, and who is one of the principal
means of the support of the family, the
right to vote ; but it is nothing of the
kind. The same right is given not only
to the eldest son, but it is given to the
son-in-law, so that a case which will happen very often will be that the father will
be obliged to receive into his family, on
the farm, either his son-in-law or one
of his sons who will not consent
to work--often the scapegrace of the
family. The father is obliged to support him at home to prevent him running
the streets and dishonoring his name ; yet
that man, who may be what is called in
French a mauvais sujet, will come from
the city and eat the bread of idleness at home, and will be there to
fight against his father's interests and
cancel his vote by his own. If the father
has two sons of the same character, his
political influence will be completely destroyed. Of course I do not contend that
this right of voting should not be granted
at all to the son ; because if the father bas
property enough to enfranchise the four
or five sons, it is for himself to decide at
the proper time to give property to his
sons, and the better way is to leave this
power to the father to control his family

1232

The Franchie [SENATE] Bill.

by encouraging those who are doing well,
and punishing those who are doing wrong.
But if this Parliament should come to the
conclusion that something should be done
in this direction, it should not be done
otherwise than by allowing the father to
say which son shall be entered on the
voters' list.

to contest a case at law, he may be brought
from one court to another, and the suit
will have, practically, noend. Now,we have
thelocal elections, andthe Federalelections.
We have a contestation of those elections
which, as everybody knows, is a source of
law suits. We have the Circuit courts and
the Court of Commissioners, or Municipal
Councillors, which are so many bodies
HoN. MR. VIDAL-I would ask my which partake, to a certain extent, of the
hon. friend if it is not one of the require- judicial character ; and to learn, for inments of the law that the son shall have stance, how to maintain all their rights
resided a whole year on the farm with the before those different organisations or
father; and if that would not be a sufficient powers is a matter of study which very
protection ?
few farmers can undertake, and very few
of them can hope to learn how to avail
HON. MR. TRUDEL-There is a pro- themselves oftheir rights in that respect. By
vision in the Bill which does something this Bill we create new machinery-there
more ; it provides that the fact of the son is a revising officer who will have the attrigoing from home to study in the city, or butes of a court. For instance section 28
his being a fisherman, or a sailor, is not to says :deprive him of his right to vote, so that in
" The revisingofficershall, for the purposes
those cases the sons may go round the of the said preliminary revision of the first
lists of voters and of the final revision of the
world seeking their fortunes-sometimes
spending the money which their father has first lists of voters for polling districts, as well
revision of any subsequent lists of
provided them with, and may afterwards as for thepolling districts under this
voters in
Act, have
come home and acquire the right to divide ail the powers of any Court of Record in the
Province, as to compelling the attendance
the privilege that should belong to the
father, of voting on the father's property. and the examination of witnesses, the production of books and documents, and the taking
of evidence under
HON. MR. KAULBACH-He should or sitings held by oath before him, any court
him for any such prelimibe treated as a prodigal son.
nary or final revision, and sfiall have, generally, ail the powers of a Court of Record."
HON. MR. TRUDEL-Of course there
So that there is one more set of maare agreat many provisions in this Bill which chinery created as a Court of Record.
are open to objection, but I do not wish The hon, gentleman vill see by the 42nd
to occupy the time of the House by refer- section that these officers will have such
ring to them at present. I will only refer powers as to be in position to impose penen passant to the machinery which is alties ; after a person is served with a
created for the revision of the voters' list. summons the revising officer may punish
I think that in putting in force such a such person as if it were a Court of Record;
Bill as this it will be a great misfortune, so that there will be this new machinery
as it will create difficulties in the country, dispensing to the population not only the
and will be a source of expense. One benefits of the law but also its punishgreat source of expense, and, I may say, ments. I consider if there was only this
of ruin, is the number of tribunals in the reason against creating another tribunal,
country. For instance, we have three or that it alone would be sufficient, because
four courts to which we appeal from one we have too many tribunals already.
to the other. In Quebec we have an Everybody knows that I am a lawyer and
appeal from the Superior Court to the I am not speaking in the interests of the
Court of Review ; and then we have an profession to which I belong. If the object
appeal from the Court of Review to the of the bill was merely to create a single
Court of Appeals, and from the Court of magistrate, or judge, or revising officer,
Appeals to the Supreme Court of the there would not be so much harm in it,
Dominion, and from the Supreme Court but bear in mind that these officers will be
to the Judicial Committee of the Privy obliged to employ assistants. Our revisCouncil. In this way, when a man has ing barrister will have officials for his
HON. MR. TRUDEL

The Franchise [JULY 9, 1885] Bill.
Court, and in great centres of population a
good many officials will be required.
Th is will create in some places a lot of
Small officials, who will receive a few
dollars of salary, not sufficient to make a
living out of, and anyone who knows
mluch of these matters must be aware that
there is no worse population than those
who exercise functions which place them,
to a certain extent, above the laboring
classes but do not yield then sufficient remuneration to give them an honest standing in the community. Those officers
Will have, to a certain extent, reason to
abandon their ordinary occupations; they
will be above the positions which they
held before, and will be obliged to derive
a revenue from some source. These
Officials are the worst class of people we
have, and though we have already ten
timnes too many of them, we are going to
add another class to their number. AIthough I am not familiar with what has
taken place in the province of Ontario for the last five or ten years,
I think that this legislation has been
Provoked, to a certain extent, and
frorm a certain standpoint may be considered necessary by many, owing to the
way in which the municipal powers have
been abused. I shall feel greit reluctance
in voting against the Bill, because I have
heard sufficient on this subject to be satisfied that those who support it are tully
justified in seeking a remedy for a state of
things which could no longer be tolerated.
It is with nuch regret, therefore, that
I find a remedy chosen which, to
My

mind,

is

worse

than

the

evil.

12:33

ber from Niagara has made an appeal to
me on a point of fact, and it is due to him
and to the House to mention my impression of the correctness of his statements.
He referred to the fact of a law having
been passed in Nova Scotia disqualifying
certain officials of the Dominion and, as
bearing upon this question, the necessity
of this Act. I am bound to say that the
statement he has made is perfectly correct;
-that it is so, I need only refer to our own
statutes to prove, because if the House will
look at the statutes of 1882, chapter 3,
section 5, they will find a provision which
it became necessary to make in consequence of an enactment by the local
legislature of the Province of Nova Scotia.
I hope my hon. friend who has just sat
down will listen to this, as it enforces in a
very strong manner the remark which he
made as to the provocation which was upon
the Dominion Parliament to make some
law of this kind. The section is as follows:

" Notwithstanding anything in any law of
the Province of Nova Scotia or of the Dominion of Canada no employee on the Intercolonial
Railway in that province shall be di-qualified
to vote as an elector at any future election of
a member or ienbers to serve in the House
of Commons of Canada, if lie shall have the
necessary property and other qualifications
therefor required by law. lii the event of the
naine of any such elector being an emnplovee
on the Intercolonial Railway, having been
omitted by the revisors fron the list of
qualified voters for a nenber of the General
Assenbly of Nova Scotia inder the laws
in force in that province, or to be returned
to the county clerks or clerks of the peace, or
onitted fron the lists of voters deposited by
the Sheriff with the county clerks or clerks
of the peace or obtained by the returning
officer or furnished to the deputy returning
officer, it shall be lawful for such 'en loyee to
vote as an elector at any future election of a
muember or nembers in the House of Comnons of Canada, on his taking or offering to
take before the Sherift or returning officer the
folliowing oath, viz
I (A.B.) do swear that I an legallv qualified to %ote at this election, and I verily
believe that mv name was omitted fron the
list of electors by reason of niy being an eniployée of the Dominion Government on the
Intercolonial railway at the time such list
was last perfected and for no other reason."

I repeat it is too bad that we who come
frorm the Province of Quebec should find
ourselves in such a position as to be obliged
to vote against the Bill, but the principles
and interests involved are such that I do
not think we ought to hesitate. What I
imentioned first is of such importance that
I consider under no circumstances whatever ought ve to give our consent to
depriving the provinces of the exercise of
some of their rights. Now, I know we
have a perfect right, as members of this
Parliament, to pass this Bill; but ic is also
our privilege to refuse our consent, and I
Now, that law was passed becaus> it
consider, under the circumstances, that it was found necessary, in consequence of
Is our duty to vote against the measure.
an Act which had been passed by the
legislature of Nova Scotia disfranchising
HON. MR. DICKEY-The hon. mem- in local elections all the employees on the

C3

123A4

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

Intercolonial Railway, and they were very otherwise, the elections should be run
upon the local franchises in the provinces.
numerous in that province.
HON. MR. POWER-It was perfectly

HON. MR. KAULBACH-There was

right, too.

no machinery.

HON. MR. DICKEY-I am not going
to enter into the question whether that
was a proper law to pass for the purpose
of preventing them from voting at local
elections : that is not the question, but the
point is this : that in consequence of that
enactment they were z/so facto disqualified
and disfranchised from voting in Dominion
elections, and that arose from the operation of the law, which is still the law of
the land until this Bill passes, as affecting
Dominion elections. What is that law?
That the franchise for Dominion elections
shall be the same as that for local elections. I had not intended to say anything
on this question at ail, and yet after listening to the long and ingenious speech
which was made by my hon. friend from
Ottawa, I confess I was very much impressed with the weakness of the position
which he took, and I conchuded that it was
not right that I should remain silent, after
the extraordinary statements which he
He said, with
made on that occasion.
regard to this point, that he thought the
provision in the British North America
Act showed that the intent and meaning of the framers of that law and
of the British Parliament, were that
this franchise should remain forever to be
settled by the local authorities--in other
words, that the local franchise should alMy
ways be the Dominion franchise.
hon. friend surely, when he made that
statement, must have given very little
attention to the subject, because if he had
reflected for a moment he would have
that provision wmas
seen the reason
put in the British North America Act.
'ithout it there wdculd have been no
franchise at ail to vote upon for emobers
to serve in the first Parhiament of the
Dominion. That wcas the reason, anD the
There required to be an
sole reason.
election before Partiament could meet to
with respect to the franchise,
make any
or upon any other subject whatever, and
as that was necessary there was a )rovision, which was not merely experimental,
but a necessary provision in the Act, that,
until the Dominion Parbiament decided

HON. MR. DICKEY-There was no
rachinery. We could neyer have assembled here because we could not have
represented anybody, There could not
have been a House of Commons, because
there was no franchise on which members
could be elected.
Now, that is the
simple point, and while my hon. friend
did not for a moment profess to doubt
any more than my hon. friend who has
just sat down, the propriety of the franchise being left to the Dominion, he based
his argument against this Bil, upon
the very slender foundation, that because
to meet this contingency that, in the first
election there would be no ehectorate unless the British North America Act provided it, that, therefore, it shail ahways
remain so.

HON. MR.

DICKEY.

TRUDEL-Does not the
HON. 'R.
hon. gentleman think that if it had
been the intention of the framers of the
Confederation Act to leave it to the
federal authorities after the first election,
they might have pursued a course somewhat similar to that which is followed
before a speaker is elected in the House?
The clerk proceeds, and it is provided
after the speaker is elected the House
will then 1-e presided over by its proper
offlccr. They might just as well have
said that for the first election the list prepared by the municipal powers shouhd be
used, and after that another haw should be
passed, but nothing of the kind is said in
the Act.
tohy
Ho n.
MR. DICKE -- My hon. friend
is reduced to a very desperate expedient
to be obliged to put the case in that way,
because it amounts just to this that
because a temporary provision was made
for a particular purpose, and because the
House of Commons have not thouaht
proper to pass ahaw and send it up to us
law
ifor the purpose of rnaking a change of this
kind until now, that therefore it sha l
remain 50 forever and there neyer shoud
be a change. This is the argument of
my hon. friend, and whihe I am upon the

The J"ranchi8e [JULY 9, 1885] Bill.
subject I may as well notice the admission
he made, very frankly, that he admitted
the right of the Dominion to make this
law.

1235

exercising this right now, and that by this
Bill we were taking away the exercise of
this right and giving it to the Dominion.

I do not pretend that it is a breach of the
constitution :

I do not pretend that it is,

HON. MR. TRUDEL-Yes, I admit it. constitutionally speaking, a violation of the
HON. MR. DICKEY-But he says "In

making that law you will interfere with
the local regulations which at present
exist and therefore I shall have to vote
against the Bill." Now has not my hon.
friend reduced himself to a singular
dilemma when he is obliged to use an
argument of that kind. Because how
could the Dominion Parliament enact a
law which would not necessarily interfere
with the local regulations with regard to
Dominion elections ? How is it possible
that any law could be passed ? They do
not interfere in any way with the regulations for local elections, but they simply
provide for Dominion elections. I have
called his attention and the attention of
the hon. member for Ottawa to the fact
that so early as the year 1882, three years
ago, Parliament found it necessary, in
consequence of the action of the local
legisiature in one province, to legislate in
this way, and enact that notwithstandofficiais of
ing those
laws these
the Intercolonial Railway should not
be disenfranchised-that they should
have their rights. If my hon. friend is
correct that law should never have been on
the Statute book, as it would be a law
which would be an invasion of the local
rights under the Constitutional Act. My
hon. friend knows very well upon that
point that he always has found me standing
by his side when any improper attack was
made upon the rights of the different
provinces. I have frequently stood alone
here, among gentlemen who usually act
with me, upon that point, and exposed myself to some invidiousness for standing up
for the rights of the provinces, but on a
question like this I feel that I can no
longer take a position of that kind because
this is a measure not interfering with the
rights of the provinces but simply affecting
the right of the Dominion to pass a law
with regard to the election of its own members.

law, but I say that this is a right which, as
a fact, is exercised to-day by the provinces
and I do not see that there are sufficient
reasons to change the present state of
things and to take the exercise of the
right from the provinces and give it to the
Dominion.
HON. MR. DICKEY-Of course it is
exercised by the provinces at present, and
yet my hon. friend admits that we have a
right under the British North America
Act, and can at any time exercise that
right.

HON.

MR. TRUDEL-Yes.

HON. MR. DICKEY-My hon. friend
admits in terms that the right exists in the
Dominion, and that they do not interfere
with the present local rights any further
than the British North America Act empowers them to do-that is to say, to
regulate the election of Dominion members. That is ail.
My hon. friend
from
Ottawa based
his first and
chief
argument
against
this
Bill
on the ground that, as he phrased
it, the Conservative party ought to be
satisfied to leave the law as it stands,
because they have been successful in four
out of five elections. I can quite follow
the answer given him by my hon. friend
from Niagara on that point, and tell him
that so far from proving this Bill
ought not to pass it proves the very
reverse. It proves that while the Conservatives ought to be quite satisfied, as he
says, with the position of matters now,
they are yet willing to give up the advantage that they possess at present, and to
enlarge the franchise. They are willing to
run the risk of a larger franchise, a greater
number of voters to pass upon their conduct, and so far from this Bill being open
to the attack which has been made upon
it, any fair minded, person can see that the
Bill did not originate in any view of giving
a party advantage, but quite the reverse.
HON. MR. TRUDEL-I stated as a My hon. friend from Ottawa asks triurmfact that the provincial legislatures were phantly, in speaking of this question of

1236

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

the revising barrister, " would Lord Salisbury or Mr. Gladstone ever think of
bringing in a Bill with such provisions in
it as there are here, with regard to these
revising barristers." I will answer them
on that point, from their acts not very
long ago-within a few months : but before I do that, I will ask upon what ground
he wishes this House to object to this
provision for revising barristers looking
after the list of votes ? What has the law
done ? The law of my own province is
that assessors are appointed by the local
authorities. Formerly the grand jury
elected a double number, such as six, and
from these the Court of Sessions selected
three. This power has since been transferred to the Municipal Councillors, but it
is in fact the same-it is a local appointment. Every person who has been conversant with elections in a province must
know that when you look at the names of
the revising officers you have a pretty good
idea of what the complexion of the list of
voters will be when it is returned.
That is the result of these assessors going
on and making lists of voters. They
publish it and call for objections to be
made by a certain day. The voters are to
appear before them on that day ; what is
the result then ? They appeal but the appeal is from Cesar to Cæsar-from their
own list to themselves-to see whether
those should be struck out, and then the
names are decided upon by these assessors
and so far as I recollect there is no appeal from that decision whatever. That
is the state of the law now; but what have
you got here? The security that you have
is one responsible person, an educated
man.
HON. MR. SCOTT-A politican.

Therefore I cannot sympathize with the
objections which have been taken to that
part of the Bill, and I now will answer the
challenge which has been issued by the
hon. member from Ottawa as to what
should have been done or should
not have been done in another place.
My hon. friend says " would Lord Salisbury or Mr. Gladstone think of introducing a Bill with such a provision as thisproviding for revising barristers of this
kind ? Why, I tell him, in the registration
Bill which has recently become law in
England, these revising barristers in Ireland were to be appointed by the Lord
Lieutenant-by the Government.
HON. MR. SCOTT-Hear, hear! that
is Irish freedom
HON.

MR, DICKEY-It begins to

pinch.
HON. MR. SCOTT-No, not at all.
HON. MR. DICKEY-These revising
barristers are appointed by the Government through the Lord Lieutenant, and
one of the Home Rulers made an objection . He rose and argued when the Bill
came down to the House of Commons
again from the House of Lords, and the
suggestion was made that they should not
be so appointed, but by some local
authority-by the judges or otherwise.
HON.

MR.

HAYTHORNE -

Hear,

hear!
HON. MR. DICKEY-My hon. friend
says " hear, hear " ; do not be in quite
such a hurry. We will see whether Lord
Salisbury or Mr. Gladstone is capable of
doing such a monstrous thing as this is
described to be. These objections were
made, and, after being talked over, the
Home Rulers, who have never been slow to
challenge a division of the H ouse when they
wished to put their views on record, gave
up the contention and allowed the Bill to
go without a division.

HON. MR. DICKEY-A politician, my
hon. friend says ; there is no politician
among the assessors ! I have stated, and
it is a matter that cannot be contradicted,
that it is notorious, that these assessors are
appointed for certain purposes. That is
the result of these local appointments ;
but the revising barrister can be removed
at any time by the House of Commons
for misbehavior; he is to be of a certain
HON. MR. POWER-I should like to
standing and if he chooses to do anything ask the hon. gentleman to produce that
wrong he must take the consequences, statute. It referred to the city of Dublin,
including an appeal from this decision. and not to the whole of Ireland.
HON. MR.

DICKEY.

The Branchi8e [JULY 9, 1885] Bill.
HON. MR. DICKEY-In the Times,
from which I obtained my information, it
said that it referred only to Ireland, not
to England. It does not matter whether
it referred to Dublin alone, or to the
whole of Ireland, because the challenge
was that Lord Salisbury or Mr. Gladstone
would never legislate in such a way. It
proves this that the matter was so clear
that the Home Rulers were quite satisfied with the propriety of it and did not
ask for a division.
It proved another
thing, that it was a provision made by a
Liberal Government headed by Mr. Gladstone. That was the legislation, and it is
a distinct answer to the challenge which
has been given.
HON. MR. SCOTT-Legislation for a
country governed as Ireland is, does not
apply to Canada. We are a free people
here ; they are not a free people in
Ireland.
HON. MR. DICKEY-The hon. gentleman challenged us to show where Lord
Salisbury or Mr. Gladstone would do such
a thing.

1237

denounce any attempt to interfere with
the legislation from the House of Commons in a matter which concerned themselves. What have we before us ? A
resolution placed in the Speaker's hands
to throw back this Bill in the face of the
House of Commons-this Bill which bas
caused so much anxiety and trouble in the
minds of the hon. gentleman's friends in
that quarter. He proposes to burke it,
not in the way they attempted there, but
in his own peculiar way here, by asking
this House, in a matter which concerns
the House of Commons, which regulates
the franchise to elect their members-he
asks us to give it the six months'hoist and
to throw it back to them. Well I do not
think that is exactly the course that
moderate men in this House will be disposed to pursue, but I think they will be
less induced to do it when they find the
source from which it comes, from an hon.
member who bas repeatedly warned us
against taking any such course with
measures of that kind from the House of
Commons.
HON. MR. SCOTT-The warning did
not prevail.

FLON. MR. SCOTT-Coercion laws do
HON. MR. DICKEY-The hon. gentlenot exist here ; that is no parallel. We
are not governed by Dublin Castle or a man says the warning did not prevail, and
grand jury named by Dublin Castle.
therefore my hon. friend bas got one rule
for himself when he is in power and
HON. MR. DICKEY-My hon. friend another rule for himself when he is in
evidently did not know anything about it opposition. I feel I am not trespassing
on courtesy when I call attention to his
when he issued the challenge.
own inconsistency. Under the circumHON. MR. SCOTT-I was perfectly stances I think the House would do well
familiar with it. It was mentioned in the to negative that motion, because it strikes
other flouse and was ridiculed there. at the Bill: it admits of no amendment.
The idea of attempting to apply a principle He refuses to take the Bill into considerahere which is applied in the Govern- tion at all. He throws it back to the
ment of Ireland!
House of Commons. A position more
repugnant to parliamentary courtesy I have
HON. MR. DICKEY-It was done by never witnessed before in in the whole
a Reform Government led by Mr Glad- course of my parliamentary experience.
stone. If he chooses to attack it I am
perfectly willing. Now we come to the
HON. MR. POWER-Before entering
amendment which has been moved and upon the subject generally I wish to say a
the vote which has been asked to be few words in reply to what has fallen from
passed on this Bill, and there again we are the hon. gentleman from Amherst. That
met with a difficulty. Some of us who hon. gentleman undertook to produce a
are here at present and who have been precedent for the action of the Government
here much longer than I have been, in the creation of the revising barrister
recollect how on repeated occasions we provided for under this Bill. The hon.
have heard my hon. friend from Ottawa gentleman from Ottawa challenged any

1238

The Franchise [SE NATE] Bill.

member to produce an English case where
such an officer had been created, and my
hon. friend from Amherst has his case at
hand. The facts of that case came out in
connection with a statement made by the
leader of the Government in the other
House. The Premier, challenged in the
same way, after some time produced this
case. He said " In the city of Dublin the
same thing was done." He did not make
the thing general, as my hon. friend has,
but gave the case of the city of Dublin.
He said that for the city of Dublin a
revising barrister is appointed by the Goveriment and is not appointed as the other
revising officers in the United Kingdom, who
are appointed by the judgeson circuit, or the
municipal authorities. If there was one
case in the city of Dublin it would have
been a very poor precedent. But, when
this case came to be explained, as it was
explained at the next meeting of the
House, it lost its value altogether. The
facts of the case are these ; under the
election law as it stood, the Recorder of
Dublin was the revising officer, and was
also the officer charged with the duty of
revising the jury lists. The recorder of
Dublin was a man somewhere about 90
years of age. He had become incapable,
from his great age, of discharging the duties
of revising the electoral list and the jury
list, and his was such an exceptional case
that the Government had to step in, and
apply this exceptional law to meet his case,
and when it comes to be explained in that
way, the case loses all its value. In fact
it is a precedent the other way. Then the
hon. gentleman reflected on the impropriety of the motion that the Bill be read
this day six months. I think there is a
great deal to besaidin favor of the propriety
of that motion, even admitting that the contention of my hon. friend from Amherst was
right, and that the Senate was wrong in interfering with some small bills respecting the
elcctoral franchise which came before us
in former years. This House is supposed
to represent, in a peculiar manner, the
rights of the Provinces. This right of
deciding who shall vote for members of
the House of Commons has heretofore
been exercised by the Provinces; and
now it is proposed

to take that

right

away from them ; and I think that there
is a very strong argument in favor of this
House throwing out a Bill of that sort. I
HoN. MR. POWER.

fail to see why the hon. gentleman from
Ottawa should be taunted with being
inconsistent at all in this matter. The
hon. gentleman from Amherst said a
good deal about the revisors in Nova
Scotia, reflecting, I think, very unjustly and
unfairly on the character of the officers in
that Province; and we had some reflections from the hon. gentleman from
Niagara on the revisors in Ontario. It is
a somewhat singular thing, if the revisors
all over the Dominion are as partizan as
they are represented to be, and if they
are as we are told partizan chiefly on the
Liberal side, it is an astonishing thing that
so large a majority of Conservative members are returned on the lists made up by
those partizan Liberal officers. The thing
is absurd on the face of it.
HON. MR. DICKEY-I did not say the
revisors were ail Liberals. I said that
whenever you come to see the complexion
of the revisors you could foretell the way
the election would go.
HON. MR. POWER-I understood my
hon. friend to say that the revisors were
all on the one side. In the county of
Halifax I have had opportunities of knowing how the lists are made, and I think
one can gather almost nothing from the
politics of the assessors or the revisors. I
have hardly known a case where a charge
of unfairness against the revisors or assessors has been substantiated. It is as well
while dealing with the remarks of the hon.
gentleman from Amherst, to dispose of
this question of the local assessors and
revisors. Comparing the position of the
assessors and revisors with the revising
barrister, we find that the assessors are, as
a rule, chosen by the county councils, or
elected by the people in the snall districts
in the several municipalities. The Assessors act under the eyes of the people who
know them well. If the assessors assess a
man for $50 more than he ought to be
assessed for, everybody in the neighborhood knows it, and there is an outcry
about it. If a man is assessed for less
than he is worth, he is not always so
ready to cry out ; still other people will,
and acting as the assessors do, and as the
revisors act now, under the eyes of their
neighbors who know them, and the circumstances of the people on the list, it is

TAe Franchise [JULY 9, 1885] Bill.

1239

Practically impossible for the assesssors or district. He will get from him the list of
revisors to be guilty of any gross outrages names that ought to go on-that is in
or improprieties. There is no doubt that addition to the names which are upon
the revisors as well as the assessors occa- the assessment roll; and I imagine it will
Sionally have their leanings towards one be found to be an exceedingly difficult
Party or the other; but hon. gentlemen thing to put on the name of any liberal
will see this, that if the assessors in one poll- voter which does not appear on the asIt will be an exceedingly
ing section happen to lean one way., the sessment roll.
probabilities are that the assessors in the difficult thing to get the names of Liberal
adjoining district will lean the other way, voters on income franchise in provinces
and as a rule, taking any one county in where there is no income tax, as in
the province, you will find that the lists Nova Scotia, upon the voters' list.
are on the whole, made out fairly. If in Going back to the general question, I
One county there may be a little unfair- do not think that the arguments advanced
ness in one direction, it is made up by a by the hon. member from Ottawa and the
little unfairness the other way in the hon. member from DeLanaudiere have
adjoining county-not deliberate, open been met at all. These two hon. gentleunfairness, but the result possibly of a men laid down this principle, and I think
little bias in those officers. The fact is it is a perfectly sound principle, that legisthat there has never been any serious lation which affects the large mass of the
Complaint made. We have heard mur- population as this legislation does,
murings from defeated candidates. The and which is not asked for by anybody,
natural tendency of the candidate- is to for which there are no petitions, and for
think that the man who gives him fair play which there has been no demand by
gives him a little le3s than fair play. You public meetings, is to be regarded with susrarely or never find a charge of unfairness picion, that it is prima facie bad and
substantiated against a revisor or assessor ; objectionable. We have never heard of
and that is the best evidence that there is any petition for this Bill, or that there
nothing very serious in those complaints. have been any resolutions passed in favor
Let us now compare the position of the of it before its introduction ; and therefore
revisors and assessors under the existing I take it that this measure is one that the
law with the position of the revising bar- public did not call for, and which is to be
rister under this Bill. As I have said, the looked at by the public with suspicion. It
assessors and revisors are acting among is perfectly true that under the British
their neighbors. If a name is improperly North America Act we have a right to
left off, the neighborhood knows it. They pass this Bill ; but there are a number of
know that John Smith who is qualified to things we have a right to do under the
vote is left off, and if the omission is dis- the British North America Act which we
honest, public opinion is brought to bear do not do, and there are numbers of proupon the officers, and they are compelled visions in the Act which are worded in
to do their duty. How is the revising the same way as the provision with resbarrister ? He comes down once a year ; pect to a Dominion franchise is worded,
he knows nobody in the district ; does not and which have been let run on for a
know how much people are worth, or any- long time without being interfered with.
thing else about them; and if he has a There are several of those provisions in the
Party bias, as he probably will have, being Act.
appointed by one party.
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-What are
HoN. MR. ALLAN-He is appointed they ?
by both.
HON. MR. POWER-I do not feel
HON. MR. POWER-He is appointed called upon to read a great number, but I
Oy the party in power.
When he comes shall read some, and I may say that the
down to the polling district, how will the very next section to the 41st section shows
list be made up ? The revising barrister how accurate the hon. gentleman from
will probably get his information from the DeSalaberry was as to the question which
Conservative manipulator of the polling arose between him and the hon. gentle-

1240

The Franchise [SEN ATE] Bill.

HON. MR. ALLAN-Or the Governman from Amherst. The 4 2nd section of
ment of that province.
the British North America Act says :
" For the first election of members to serve
in the House of Conmons the GovernorGeneral shall cause vrits to be issued by
such persons, in such forms and addressed to
such returning officers as he thinks fit, &c."
If it was the intention of the framers of
the Confederation Act that the franchises
existing in the provinces at the time of
confederation should cease to be the
franchise after that election, the provision
would have been worded in the same way.
Then section 47 says " Until the Parlianent of Canada otherwise
provides, in case of the absence fron any reason
of the Speaker fron the chair of the House of
Coinmons for a period o! 48 consecutive hours,
the House may elect another of its mem bers
to act as Speaker, and the nieniber so elected
shall during the continuance of such absence
of the Speaker have and execute all the
powers, privileges and duties of Speaker."
There are scorei of provisions worded
in that way.
HoN. MR. DICKEY-And some of
then have been acted upon.
HON. MR. POWER--Some of them
have and some of them have not been
acted upon ; and it is not necessary to act
upon them at all. Here is the fact, that
we have worked under this system since
1867, and there has becn no serious complaint made of the working of the system.
We have had no petitions asking that the
systern be changed, and it has not been
attempted to be shown that there was any
serious objection to it. The only complaint made has been the sort of complaint
we have heard to-night from the hon.
gentleman from Amherst that the revisors
are sonietimes partizan. We know that
the revising barrister will be always
partizan, except where he is a county
judge.
HON. MR. CARVELL-Do not except
the county judge please.
HON. MR. POWER-Well, I shall.
We must remember that it is natural to
suppose that the legislature of a province
would know better what franchise suited
that province than the Parliament of the
Dominion.
HON. MR. POWER.

HON. MR. POWER-The legislature
knows best what suits the people of the
province. My hon. friend seems to think
that that is rather absurd. Hon. gentlemen will remark that when the leader of
the Government introduced this Bill in
the other Chamber, he did not speak on
it for three quarters of an hour or half an
hour as the leader of this house did ; he
spoke for 8 minutes, and the only reason
he gave the House for introducing the
measure was that uniformity was desirable ;
and now we find that towards the close
of the discussion that uniformity has
been broken through altogether. We find
that, driven by the logic of facts, finding
that if the principle of uniformity were
carried out the Bill would probably result
in serious injury to the Government in
certain provinces, the Minister decided
that they would give up the sole reason
for introducing the measure, as far as
Prince Edward Island and British Columbia are concerned. If the Government
have recognized the fact that the legislatures of those provinces know better what
suited them than the Dominion Government do-

HON. MR. KAULBACH -Or
Dominion members.

the

HoN. MR. POWER-I contend that as
long as a province is represented here by
a certain number of members, the legislature can be trusted with deciding by whom
they are to be elected. Supposing there
was something in the argument as to revisors in the various provinces, I think the
course which the Minister of Justice indicated that he would have preferred, might
have been adopted, and we might have
left the franchise with the several provinces, and the Dominion Government
might have appointed officers to revise
lists. I do not see myself that that would
have been necessary ; because in the province of Ontario, as to which the greatest
complaint is made-in fact it is the only
province as to which complaint is made
-in that province, at the present time,
the county judges are the court of appeal
from the revisors. I do not know whether
the hon. gentleman from Ottawa has called

The Francki8e [J ULY 9, 1885] Bill.
attention to the fact, and it is a very important fact, that in the United States, the
greatest and most successful Republic
that the world has yet seen, they have had
every since the declaration of Independence the same system that we have found
to work so satisfactorily here since Con.
federation.
It has been said by
Some hon gentlemen in this House, and
it is one of the reasons given outside
for the introduction of this measure that

1241

British Columbia and Prince Edward Is-

land there will be three franchises ; because
taking Prince Edward Island, you will have
in that province for the local elections
manhood suffrage ; then for the Dominion
elections you will have a body of voters
who are 21 years of age at the time this
Bill goes into operation, and they will be
entitled all their lives to vote; then you
will have a third class who will come of
age after the passage of this bill who will
We should have a franchise of our own. not have the right to vote unless they have
That is a narrow-minded sort of argument. property. There are three franchises in
If we do not find the need of a franchise those provinces. in Ontario you have two
-if we find the lists are properly made up voters' lists made up on almost the same
now, and do not feel the want of a fran- basis ; for in some cases the qualification
chise of our own, why should we have it ? differsbyonly$5o. The franchise in Ontario
You might as well provide that each mem- is, contrary to what has been stated by the
ber should be provided with a rattle ; there hon. gentleman from Amherst and by
Would be just about as much common the leader of the Government, more
sense in the provision. My bon. friend liberal than that embodied in this Bill.
from British Columbia is making sonme in- The law which is in force there now, and
articulate sounds behind me; but that hon. which would be the law that would govern
gentleman and his friends have taken care the Dominion elections if we did not pass
that the benefits of this Bill should not be this Bill is more liberal and gives the
applied to British Columbia, and they have franchise to more people than this Bill
taken care also that the Indian who is does. There is a difference in some cases
looked upon as being such an addition to of $ioo, and in others of $5o. The Bill
the voting power of the older Provinces which we have before us requires a real
shall not vote in the Pacific Province: and estate qualification in a cityof $300. Under
I do not think it' lies in the mouth of hon. the Ontario law it is only $200. The
gentlemen from that province to say any- income franchise in Ontario is $250 ;
thing against our opposition to the Bill. under this Bill it is $3oo, and so on ; and
the same thing applies in the other provinces. In Nova Scotia there will not be
HON. MR. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I
an very sorry for the exception myself.
a very great difference between the two
franchises, but there will be a great deal
HON. MR. POWER-Then I an very of confusion to the ordinary voter, who has
Sorry that the hon. gentleman has not a not time, and is not enough interested in
little more weight in the councils of his party. politics to look after his rights. One of
As to this one argument which has been the results of this system will be that the
advanced in favor of the Bill-the argu- revising barrister will do away with the
ment of uniformity-1 think it is something necessity for the employment of any solilike what the crater of Vesuvius was found citor for the conservative candidate, and
to be by the hero of " Used Up,"-there the liberal party will have to employ a
is nothing in it. There is nothing in this solicitor of their own to look after the
plea of uniformity. First we have British interests of their party. It is an exceedColumbia and Prince Edward Island ex- ingly clever move to make the country
cepted, so that the uniformity is broken pay for the legal business of conservative
there. Then we have the tribal Indians candidates throughout the Dominion, while
enfranchised in the eastern provinces, while the liberal candidates will have to pay for
the same Indians are not enfranchised in their own solicitors. I do not care to dwell
Manitoba and British Columbia. The truth at this hour of the night on the confusion
is there is less uniformity now than before ; that will be caused in the minds of the
because before, in each of the provinces electors in other ways by the existence of
there was one franchise: now there will be those two lists, confusion which will be
two franchises in each province, and in the greater on account of the close resem-

1242

The Franchise

SENATE] Bill.

blance of the franchises. There is one
subject which has not been adverted to by
anyone in the discussion here, and that is
the vast expense that the working out of
this Bill is going to involve. We cannot
sappose that the revising barrister will be
paid less than $5oo for his services, because
no barrister of any weight or respectability
at all would undertake the duties for any
less sum than that-in fact it is putting it
too low altogether. Then the revising
barrister is to have a permanent clerk, and
a bailiff ; and one cannot suppose that the
expenditure will not exceed $i,ooo for
each constituency. In this way the annual
cost of the machinery of this Bill will be
something not less than a quarter of a
million of dollars a year-nearly as much
as a session of Parliament used to cost a
few years ago ; and when one thinks of the
very little substantial good that is to be
got out of the passing of the Bill, he cannot
help feeling that a quarter of a million of
dollars is altogether too much to pay for it.
There is another circumstance which hon.
gentlemen supporting this Bill have left out
of sight, that is the fact that the right to
make up the lists of the persons who shall
vote is taken away from the people who
have had it for a great many years, and
who still have it in every English-speaking
country in the world. There is no Englishspeaking country, and I think hardly any
free country in the world where the lists
of voters are not made up in the first
instance by officers selected by the people,
or officers selected by representatives of
the people ; but this Bill proposes to take
that right away from the people. It is
not for the people to say now who are to
select their representatives ; it is the
Governrnent of the day who take to themselves the right to say who shall elect the
representatives. It would be a much
shorter way, perhaps, if the Premier were
to select the members himself, it would
save a great deal of expense and trouble.
These are some of the objections that
have struck me as applying to the Bill
generally without reference at all to its details. As to the Bill itself,anyone can see on
looking into it that it is a very complicated
measure, and will require a great deal of
study. It will require a good deal of
study from a lawyer or a legislator before
he will understand it, and it will be a
complete puzzle to the ordinary elector.
HON. MR. POWER.

I do not think it necessary to say anything
as to the Indian question, because I think
the Indian should be just in the sarne
position as the white man. We make no
distinction as to color between the negro
and the white; and I do not think we
should make any distinction between
Indians and whites; and I call attention
to the fact that in Ontario the Indians are
placed in exactly the same position as
whites. I find there, amongst the persons
qualified to vote:" All Indians or persons with part Indian
blood, who have been duly enfranchised, and
all unenfranchised Indians or persons with
part Indian blood who do not participate in
the annuities, interest, noneys or rents of a
a tribe, band or body of Indians, and do not
reside among Indians, subject to the same
qualifications in other respects, and to the
sanie provisions and restrictions as other
persons in the electoral district."
That, it seems to me, is as much as any
Indian has a right to ask. If those Indians who are so eloquently described by
the hon. gentleman from Niagara are all
that he pants them, why is it that they are
kept in tutelage by the Government under
the Indian Act ? Will the Government
enfranchise these men and give them a
right to buy and sell and make contracts,
to sue and be sued? If they do then the
Indians would have the right to vote under
the Ontario Statute ; but until that time,
while they are treated as children in the
eye of the law, they should not be treated
as grown men for the purpose of voting.
The Indian now enjoys immunities from
execution and so on; and in return for
that he is deprived of the right to vote.
If he chooses to assume the responsibilities
of a white man, he should be allowed the
right to vote, and he then has a vote in
Ontario. One thing that must strike one
in looking over the Bill is that there is no
principle running through it at all. The
franchise is not based upon land ; we find
land and, we find income, we find relationship to persons who own land ; but personal property does not seem to confer a
vote except in the form of income. As to
to the revising barrister, enough has been
said by gentlemen who have gone before
me. I only say that you will search the
records of all the free 'countries in the
world without finding any precedent for
this revising barrister. In England the
revising barrister in Middlesex is appointed

lhe Branchise [JULY 9, 1885.] Bill.

1243

by the Lord Chief Justice of England ; in
Other counties he is appointed by the Senior Judge of Assize, and is appointed only
for one year.

"in the Post Office, the Custom House,
the Inland Revenue Department, the
Lighthouse service, on the Government
railroads, in the Crown Land office, or the
local Public Works and Mines."
HON. MR. GOWAN-They are con- It bas been customary to disqualify
tinued from year to year during good be- civil servants. Until very recently, in
havior, and practically it is for life.
England, the civil servants were disqualified from voting, and the title of that Nova
LHON. MR. POWER-It is as a rule. Scotia Act indicates its object. It was for
If a judge appoints a revising barrister this the purpose of securing the independence
Year, and he does his duty properly he is of the House of Assembly. Hon. gentlereappointed next year, but still his tenure men will remember that at that time imis from year to year, and he is appointed portant matters were being discussed beby the judge and not by the Government. tween the Dominion Government and the
I might mention that in one case at any province, and the object was to prevent
rate, the revising barrister-Beales I officers of the Dominion Government from
think was his name-was not reappointed, nfluencing the elections to the Local
because he had been taking an active part Assembly ; and as to the railway officials,
inl politics, and was known to be a strong I think there was no doubt as to the
partizan; and his services were discontinued necessity of this measure, because I know
When the year ended. There is one mat- that on one occasion-in 1870 or 1871ter to which the hon. gentleman from Am- the railway employés of Halifax went to
herst referred and which I have overlooked. the polls in a body, ana it was perfectly
lie referred to the Statute passed in the natural that the Local Legislature should
Year 1882. It was an amendment intro- disfranchise those men because their vote
duced in the Senate to the redistribution was not a free vote.
Bill. I thought myself at the time it was
one of the most objectionable Acts ever
HON. MR. READ-Did they vote by
Perpetrated by the Senate. The redistri- ballot ?
bution Bill of 1882 did not deal with the
franchise at all; it simply dealt with the
HON. MR. POWER-The vote by
boundaries of electoral districts, and this ballot at provincial elections was introarnendment which my hon. friend read duced in 1870, I think, and at Dominion
Was introduced in this Chamber for the elections in 1874. There was just one
express purpose of carrying the county of matter that the hon. gentleman from
Halifax for the Conservative candidates. Niagara laid some stress on, and I think
I might mention that it was successful; that it deserves to be mentioned. The
that if it had not been for that amendment hon. gentleman said that Mr. Mowat's remade here in the Senate, the county of distribution bill of this year was a gerryHalifax would at the election of 1882, mandering bill. I have paid some little
have returned one Conservative and one attention to the discussion on that matter,
Liberal member-that there were enough and I do not think it has ever been estabrailway votes given to one of the Conser- lished that there was anything very unfair
vative members to secure his return. I about Mr. Mowat's redistribution bill.
want to call the attention of the House to
the facts about the Nova Scotia statutes.
HON. MR. CARVELL-Of course not.
The Minister said that in the provinces
they kept continually altering the franHON. MR. POWER-I am going to
chise. I may say that this year 1885, is give an authority on that point. I notice
the first time that any serious alteration that the Toronto Week which is generally
has been made in the franchise of Nova supposed to be a fairly impartial paperScotia since 1863. In 1871 an Act was
Passed by the legislature of Nova Scotia,
entitled " An Act to secure the Independence of the House of Assembly,"
-and that that Act disqualified employés

at lcast it was during the
the time this measure
Local Legislature, or
measure had passed,
not be fairly looked

winter-said at
was before the
just after the
that it could
upon as be-

1244

The Francise [SENATE]

ing an unfair or partizan measure.
I take the opinion of the Week in preference to the opinion of gentlemen, no
matter how well informed, who have very
strong political feelings. i think we shall
only be doing our duty if we save a great
deal of money to the country, a very large
annual expenditure, and if we leave the
provinces the power which they have
exercised ever since Confederation and
exercise fairly as well as one can see, they
having returned Conservative majorities
to the House four times out of five. I
think it is exceedingly ungrateful on the
part of the Conservative Government to
undertake to treat so badly the people
who have treated them so well.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Although
the hour is late I wish to reply to the
remarks of some of my hon. friends. The
hon. member from Halifax thinks it is not
right to " treat so badly " those who have
treated the Government so well. I agree
with him, but I do not see that there is
anything unfair about this Bill. Not a
man is disfrarnchised by it, not even
in British Columbia or Prince Edward
Island. All those who enjoy the franchise
now will still have it, and in every way
there will be an improvement. Therefore
I cannot see why my hon. friend says that
anybody is treated unfairly by this
measure. If there is any subject which is
peculiarly within the power and province,
and belongs specially to the House of
Commons it is one of this character, and we
should be caretul before we attempt to
change this Bill. We may give it a fair
criticism, but if there is anything which
belongs peculiarly to the House of Commons on which they have chiefly to determine, it is a Bill of this kind. I think
the representatives elected by the people
are the best judges of the franchise which
they ought to have. We fnd that after
devoting two months to the discussion of
this measure in the other branch of Parliament, out of those who voted upon it
only thirty-five of the whole House supported the motion for the three months' hoist.
Therefore I hold that this Bill is not only
one peculiarly belonging to the other branch
of Parliament and therefore one which we
should be slow to amend, but the opinion expressed by the representatives of the people
in that Chamber has been very strongly in
HON. MR.

POWER.

Biu.

its favor, and the Bil has been passed by
such a large majority that I thjnk the
leader ofthe Opposition ought to hesitate
before he moves the six months' hoist, Or
endeavor by any means to destroy ils
usefulness and effective working, and defy
the franchise to tens of thousands of the
wealth-producing people of this countryAs regards civil rights and the basis of the
franchise for the local legisiature, we do
not attempt to interfere with it.
We say
the franchise for the Local Legislature is
with the province.
Provincial legislatures
ignore municipal boundaries, and so do we
provincial boundaries.
In the same way
the basis ofrepresentation in the Dominion
Bouse of Commons should rest, as our
constitution declares it rests, with the
Parliament of Canada, and we should
recognize no provincialism or provincial
bounds in a matter of this kind
I knoW
that the people ofthe Dominion have been
surprised that the Dominion Government,
that the Parliament of Canada, have so
long deferred exercising the rights of
franchise, the fountain of law and order
which belong to them, and the root of
government, a matter wholly within the
purview and authority of the Dominion
Parliament-that we should be content to
let the local government legisiate for us.
In one province a man may now be disfranchised who, in another, would have a vote;
it seems unreasonable on the face of it,
and justice and common sense dictate
and the great mass of the people, through
their representatives, say that we should
have a uniform franchise.
It is quite
evident to my mmd, and it cannot be
denied or doubted that the framers of the
constitution intended that this power
should be in and exercised by the Dominion Pariament-that the representatives
elected to this Parliament should make
the franchise and provide the machinery
by which members of the Bouse of
Commons should be returned; otherwise the British North America Act
would not have so declared it, and it
would not have gone on the statute book
in such emphatic terms, and it is only, as
the hon. member from Amherst has remarked, because it was absolutely necessary that we should take at first the
existing machinery in the different provinces by which the members of the first Parliament held after confederation could be

The ]franchise [JULY 9, 1885] Bill.
elected ; and before such parliament assembled how could it exercise the rights
Possessed under the Confederation Act to
fix its own franchise ? The provinces,
therefore, were allowed, of necessity, not
to fix the franchise for Dominion elections,
but the first House of Commons was to be
returned by the franchises then existing.
But what do we find ? Not only does the
Confederation Act confer the right on
this Parliament, but we find immediately after the Union the framers of
the constitution who came here to
carry it into operation as the representatives
Of the people, recognized that right at the
very first meeting of Parliament. We find
in the first speech from the Throne after

1245

but as a matter on which the Dominion
Parliament should legislate and as to which

all parties were agreed. In the speeches
from which I am about to quote there was
no denial of the principle that there should
be a uniform franchise. It was admitted
and recognized by everyone at that day,
and it was never advocated by anyone on
either side that each province should continue to be allowed to fix whatever franchise it pleased for the election of members
to the Dominion House of Commons. The
chief details of the Bill, which was then
proposed, were very like those of the Bill
now before us. The Hon. Mr. Mackenzie
was then leader of the Opposition, and
these are his words: " When the Ministhe union, amongst the subjects mentioned ter of Justice first introduced the Bill, he
's a franchise bill for the Dominion. The said it was not a party measure, and the Op-

hon. gentleman from DeSalaberry says position were quite ready to treat it in that
that it never was intended by the framers way." The Hon. George Brown, in the

of the constitution that this subject should Globe,the organ of the Liberal party, on 15th
be taken out of the hands of the local March, 1870, said: " There is no doubt
legislature : yet here is the fact, the indus- that a judicious election law is very
Putable fact to the contrary, that in the first much needed "; and in the same paper,
speech from the Throne delivered after on 2oth May, 1872, Mr. Brown comthe union our right to fix the franchise for plained and censured the Government
the Dominion is recognized, and a bill for for its failure to push the Franchise
that purpose is foreshadowed, and was in- Bill to its second reading, and stated
troduced in 1869 ; and again, I think it there was no excuse for the delay.
Mas introduced in 1870, when, although it I ask hon. gentlemen opposing this
Ias discussed, no definite action was taken Bill, how these facts, and the utterances
Upon it. We find at that time it was of the Liberal leaders, accord with their
lot made a party measure ; our right to it assertions here this evening : that it was
and the necessity for it were not questioned. never intended that this Parliament should
The desirability of uniformily in the frait- deal with the franchise ? They know well,
Chise was recognized by ail parties, and it as everybody knows, that for years, ever
was not considered to be a party measure sirice Confederation, a franchise bill has
at all. Both parties recognized the right been talked of in Parliament and out of
and not only the right but the duty of this Parliament, and ail the main features of
Parliament to fix a franchise for themselves. the Bill have been for years before the
I quote the language of the then leader of1 country. We find Mr. Blake, the present
the Opposition, Mr. Mackenzie, and I will leader of the Opposition, also sayng, in
also show that the present leader of the the Parliament of 1870:0
PPOsition endorsed the principle of the
« They were
necessity
Bil and thatbothrecognized the right which of an Electoralail agreed as to the inuch he
Act, and however
we Possess and our duty tolegislate thereon. might oppose some of the details of the ineaI may state also as a fact that the late sure he hîad no idea of opposing the second
Senator Brown, in his crgan the Globe, then reading.'
censured the Government of the day for
We find, as I said, the present leader of
lot having passed a bill of this kind and the Opposition, then a leading member of
condemned the delay. Therefore I say the Opposition in the House of Comnot only has the right been conferred upon mons, admitting the principle of the Bill
us by the constitution but, the moment and approving of it, and we find at the
Parhiament met to legislate here under same time that when the Bill did not pass
the constitution, that right was recognized but was delayed, the Hon. George Brown
and acted on ; and not as a party question published articles in his newspaper, the

12A16

The 1ranchi8e [SEN ATE] Bil.

Globe, in 187o and 1872, approving of a
franchise measure and saying it was very
much needed, and urging that a Bill of
that nature should be passed. It was well
known that the present leader of the
Government favored establishing a uniform franchise for the Dominion. Not
only that, but for the last two or three
years we have had a Franchise Bill before
the country, and if the people were opposed
to a measure of that kind we would have
had both Houses flooded with petitions
against it, for we know how cheaply the
Opposition can get them up. But the
hon. gentleman from Halifax, as well as
all others, has failed to show that there is
any hostile feeling in the country to this
measure. Had there been such a feeIing
my hon. friend would have been the first
to fan the flame of discontent. He has
been down to Nova Scotia since the introduction of the measure and he has
failed to find any feeling in that Province
hostile to the Bill. In fact we all feel
down there, every Nova Scotian, every
fisherman feels,that in passing this measure
Parlianent is conferring a boon upon the
people. It is extending the franchise to
tens of thousands of the wage-earners of
the country, the men who make the
wealth and build up the prosperity of the
country. Instead of injuring the people
this Bill extends the franchise everywhere
to the laboring, wealth-producing people,
so that every man who deserves the name of
a man will be given the right to vote. The
vagrants and tramps only will be excluded.
I can easily understand why the Opposition here, who refused when in power to
grant any incentive to labor in the country; who would even now deprive the
working classes of those industries which
give them employment; who would
have thern beggared as they had been
beggared by the policy of the late Government-I can understand why the Opposition when they find every industry in the
country active and the laboring classes
praising the policy of the present Government which enables them to obtain a fair
day's pay for a fair day's work-I can
understand why the Opposition here should
fear the result of extending the franchise
to those men whom they kept in pauperism and bondage during the five years that
they held the reins of power. They may
well fear and tremble at the consequences
HoN. MR. KAULBACH.

of passing this Act which would enable the
farmers' sons as well as the industrious
masses of the cities to express their views
at the polls and declare who shall represent them in Parliament. Now what class
of people should be excluded? Why do we
find gentlemen opposed to this bill? Is
the franchise too high or is it too low ?
We find some gentlemen from Quebec expressing the opinion that it is rather toO
extended, and preferring real estate as the
basis, while on the opposition side of the
House they do not venture to sa)' that it
is either too contracted or too expanded.
What industrial class in this country has
not been favored by this bill ? Are they
not all alike ? I would go further than
this Bill extends, and approve of manhood
suffrage with residence and registry. I believe it it the purest franchise you can get
under all the circumstances. In rural
districts I think it is the right suffrage
but there are certain tramps and vagabonds always to be found in large towns
who ought not to have the suffrage,
and if it were not for that class I would
freely and willingly go for an extension of
the suffrage to all residents with registry,
being men of full age. Now I have shown
what you all know, that not only was this
right given to us under our constitution,
but that it has been recognized from the
very first meeting of the Parliament of
Canada and the principle of a uniforni
franchise for the whole Dominion has been
admitted at all times not by one party only
but by all parties in the Dominion. It is
only now, when the Opposition fear, and
rightlyfear, the consequences of giving such
an extended franchise that they desire to
obstruct legislation and to defeat the will of
the people expressed through a very large
majority of their representatives in the
other House. As the hon. member from
Amherst remarked, it cannot be said for a
moment that the Government here are
afraid to go to the same people who returned therm at the last election. Not a
man, by this Bill, is to be disfranchised
who, at last election, voted, but we are
also extending the franchise to tens of
thousands, to those who, under the pohcY
of this Government, a paternal policy,
have qualified themselves to vote under
this Bill, who have acquired sufficient
property and earn sifficient wages co enable them to vote. As regards the Indians

The Franchise [J ULY 9, 1885] Bill.

124AT

I will say nothing: I think the hon. wrongs shall make a right ; that, because
member from Niagara showed us so fully the lists are not properly made out in

and in such an admirable speech, what
their rights are, that we must all be convinced that we should be the last to
trample upon them and deprive then of
any rights which they can demand. We
have taken from them their property, and
deprived them of their natural mode of
living ; the _hon. gentlemen who are opposed to this Bill would like to keep them
in bondage instead of encouraging them
to become good citizens and to take a
share in the privileges and duties of citiZenship. As regards the revising barristers, my hon. friend says there is no
necessitv for them in Nova Scotia. I
Will ask'him to refer to the proceedings in
the Nova Scotia Legislature when the new
franchise was introduced there. We had
on that occasion even members of the
Government declaring that the present
assessment was inefficient and bad, and
that they could not approve of it. If the
hon. gentleman will look back over the
fyles of the papers, he will flnd that members of the Government in the House adIitted that the assessment system was
faulty, that it was to a large extent unsatisfactory : that may not have been the
Word used, but it conveys what was
rfneant, and they unsparingly condemned
the present revising system-that it was
not at all satisfactory. We know that under the local laws the revisers and assessOrs are generally selected by violent partizan councillors for party purposes. We know
that under the municipal system there is a
great incentive to elect councillors who will
control the electorate. For that object
great excitement is got up, and were it
flot for that fact the best men would be
returned ; but instead of returning the
best men, violent partizans are returned
Who will appoint such men as will
carry out the wishes of the party to which
they belong, and generally most rabid
Politicians are appointed as assessors and
revisors. Is this Parliament to be controlled by such a system as that ? The
hon. member from Halifax says if such a
thing happens in one county, it is counterbalanced by some other man if another
county, who will act on the other side the
other way. Is that an argument why the
the will of the people should not be properly expressed at the polls ; that two

one county, the evil is to be counterbalanced by a corresponding evil on the
other side in an adjoining county?
That is the argument that he made
here. I cannot help dwelling on it-it is
monstrous, that although in one county
by the improper exercise of their duties
by revisers and assessors, a wrong man
may be returned for Parliament, partizan
officers in the next county, on the other
side, may make up for it. I ask hon.
gentlemen to pause and consider if such
machinery should be the basis of responsible government by a parliamentary majority. That shows that the whole system
is bad, and when he attempts to compare
such irresponsible revisers with men who
will be appointed under this Act, men
selected from one of the highest professions in the country ; men who must and
will be appointed because of their fitness
for the position : the hon. gentleman fails
to appreciate the value of this measure.
Those men are responsible for their acts,
and besides, there is an appeal from
their decision not only on matters of fact
but on matters of law, so that I do not
know of any greater guards and checks
that can be made and thrown around this
Bill to perfect it and to prevent it from
being used in a partizan manner. A barrister who wants to live by his profession
and be respected in a country cannot act
as a partizan when he takes an office like
this. He knows that if he performs his
duties faithfully and honestly, his office
will be continued as long as he is able to
perform his duties. He is as independent
as a judge on the bench, and is as qualifled as a judge on the bench for the position he holds ; and I am surprised that my
hon. friend, occupying the position he
does as a member of the bar, should
have made such a remark that the
men appointed as revising barristers
would be appointed for partizan purposes,
would always be paitizaris, and they would
act as partizans as long as they held that
position. I am surprised that the hon.
gentleman, knowing as he does or ought
to know the dignity and standing of the
profession in Nova Scotia, should say that
any man could be found in the profession that would act in the way he
charges. If we take the act referred to

12A8

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

by my hon. friend from Amherst, passed The list is then open for correction and,
by the local legislature, we will find that if necessary, revision in court. Aftcr the
ts whole scope and object was against, and first voters' list is perfected there is very
that it disfranchises, not men voting for little to be done year after year in revisifg
themselves, but men who vote for Domi- or correcting it, and I cannot see or
nion elections. They attempted in that believe that in that there will be the exlegislature to control the representation in pense that my hon. friend refers to. Hon.
the Dominion Parliament, as well as in the gentlemen have not been able to attack
Local Assembly, and it is no wonder that this Bill or to show that any class of peothis Parliament, urged by public senti- ple have been wronged or that any party
ment, should have stepped in to counter- who has been hitherto entitled to the
act such an abuse of the rights and privi- franchise will be deprived of it. Every
leges of Parliament. Read this Bill with- man in Prince Edward Island who now
out party prejudice, as everyone should has a vote will hold his vote. We are
do, and then it would not fail of con- not doing our duty as representatives of
vincing everybody that it is designed the people in this independent branch of
to secure the purity of our elections, and the Legislature if we do not give what the
its cost is not to be weighed against the constitution not only intended but did give
securing of such a boon-the return to to the people of this country, and which
parliament of the people's choice. I un- they directly demand through their members. If the constitution intended that
derstand in someof the other provinces-I
am thinking of Ontario-the reformn party this parliament should regulate the francontinue in power, by skill in manipulating chise-which it expressly does-no one can
and framing of franchises, and with the deny that we would be acting in a tyranniundisguised object of interfering with the cal manner, in fact we would be acting at
Dominion Parliament, and bringing it the tip-top of our powers if we, whose
into accord with their own views and seats are not affe:ted, interfered with the
wishes. I do not desire further to occupy expressed wish of the people as declared
the time of the House at this late hour, by their representatives, not by a close vote,
but I have failed as yet to find any but comparatively by an immense majority
reasonable or valid argument in opposi- in Parliament assembled, in a matter which
tion to this Bill. The hon. gentleman purely affects their own seats. I say it
from DeLanaudiere, it seemed to me, telt would be monstrous for a body like this,
so, as he was forced to construct and set under such circumstances, to interfere
up an image, for the purpose of knocking with their constitution and peculiar rights
it down again.
Three-fourths of his and privileges in that way, and if we did
speech was with regard to woman suff- so I should not be surprised at it creating
rage, which is not thought of, which is not such a storm of indignation throughout
in the Bill, and to which nobody had the country as to sweep us out of existence.
referred. I have seen children playing
hard in building up a snow-man for the
HON. MR. POWER-What about the
purpose of knocking it down again. Scott Act ?
It is an illustration of the course of the
hon. gentleman, who set up a fancy of his
HcN. MR. KAULBACH-I do not
own simply to knock it down. As regards know what the Scott Act has to do with
the expense of the machinery to carry out it, but I tell the hon. gentleman that, as
this Bill, I cannot conceive that it is going to the petitions sent in against the Scott
to be anything like what the hon. gentle- Act, the men who signed them were as
man from Halifax and the other obstruct- numerous as those who petitioned in favor
ers of this Bill say it is. The revising of it; and the Commons is much divided
barrister takes the last electoral list of the on it ; and as to f.he opposition to this
constituency, and if that is not to be had Bill, the people everywhere laugh at the
he takcs the last assessment roll. He obstruction tactics of hon. gentlemen,
does not manufacture the first list ; but he knowing that under responsible governtakes the old one, and to that he adds ment the majority rule, and are responthe names of the voters qualified under sible to the people, not to the Opposition,
this Bill, on the information he receives. the minority. The Opposition not only
HON. MR. KAULBACH.

-The Franchi8e [J ULY 9, 1885j Bill.
criticised this act of the Government,
Which they have a right to do, but they
deliberately obstructed the business of
Parliament and the ordinary affairs and
duties of Parliament. Such a position
Was never contemplated by our constitution ; but instead of gaining popularity by
such conduct they have lessened themselves in public estimation by avowed
obstruction, and instead of adding to
their weight and strength they have only
shown, by their opposition to this Bill,
that they are conscious of their weakness
and dare not approach the intelligent
people of this country under a pure franchise bill and ask for a commendation of
their conduct. It is now so late in the
evening that I think it would be wearying
the House if I went over the very large
number of notes I have on my desk, taken
of the speeches of those who preceded me.
I think hon. gentlemen will be satisfied if
I leave this subject now. I say again that
there has never been a bill before Parlia
ment that received more of my cordial
approval than the measure now before us.
As far as possible we should do away with
provincialism in Dominion politics. It is
a matter in which we ought to have
uniformity. I always advocated one franchise, and it is a reproach to the Governments of the country which have allowed
this want of uniformity so long to exist.
As far as I have listened to the gentlemen
opposed to this Bill they have not shown
us that it is too wide or too contracted.
they are not united on any grounds of
attack and they cannot attack it upon any
reasonable ground. They merely contend
that because for a number of years we have
allowed this privilege to remain in the
hands of the Local Legislatures (who, we
say, abused it,) that we should allow it to
continue there, and that the revising barrister is sure to be a partizan. This Bill
should be sustained by the unanimous vote
of this House.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-The hon.
gentleman who has just resumed his seat
attempted to make a strong point by
attacking
the
hon.
member
from
DeLanaudiere. He tried to make it
appear that the hon. gentleman had set up
a kind of Nebuchadnezzar's image,
with feet of clay-a gaudy image with all
kinds of curious materials worked into it
D 3

12 A9

-but for my part I could not see that the
hon. gentleman from Lunenburg brought
forward any valid argument to prove the
indictnent he laid against the hon. gentleman from DeLanaudiere. It seems to
me that he failed altogether in his
attempt to identify that hon. gentleman
with a broken-down argument.
The
Minister of Justice in introducing the
Bill made, as I thought, a very becoming
speech, very much so indeed. It was a
very quiet, and no doubt a very conclusive
speech in the opinion of hon. gentlemen
who are of his stripe of politics; but I
cannot say that when the hon. gentleman
had finished, he had reconciled any
prejudices which existed in my mind
against the Bill-on the contrary he
seemed to strengthen them, when I came
to understand that a gentleman of his
great experience and ability had so very
little strong, sound, convincing argument
to produce in support of the Bill. He
enlarged, as several gentlemen have done
since, upon the beauty of the principle of
is
Certainly,
uniformity
uniformity.
beautiful under some conditions and
The hon.
under some circumstances.
gentleman spoke also of the beauty of
symmetry. We acknowledge that also,
but I myself am not of the opinion that
this is a subject on which uniformity
under all circumstances can be attained.
Setting aside for a moment the case of the
electoral franchises in British Columbia
and Prince Edward Island where it has
been abandoned, the principle of uniformity can hardly be enforced in a
country of such enormous dimensions,
and such diverse capabilities as this
Dominion of ours. Unless there can
be also a uniformity ot values it is
almost impossible to say that there
can be a uniformity of franchise.
A dollar, for instance, commands more
labor on the shores of the Atlantic, in the
eastern provinces, than on the shores of the
Pacific, and if it were not so, would there
be such abundant room for the employment of Chinese labor as there is now ?
and yet this principle of uniformity without reference to the value of money, or of
property, or men, and general conditions
of things, is insisted upon throughout the
country. The hon. gentleman and his colleagues had so little confidence in their own
darling principle of uniformity that they

1250

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

actually let it slip through their fingers.
When the pinch came, they found that
that principle of the Bill was so offensive
to at least two of the provinces of the
Dominion that they had at once to
abandon it, and away it went. The hon.
gentleman, I think, in introducing this
measure, spoke of the dissatisfaction which
existed at the reduction of the franchise
in some of the provinces, and denied that
any plan existed by which the Government could derive any special advantages
from the introduction of this Bill ; but I
do think that one conversant, as that
hon. gentleman is, with law, and with
constitutional rights, and with everything
that becomes a free man, should not have
lost sight altogether of the recognized right
-recognized
in amongst every Englishspeaking community-that once a free
man, a man is always a free man; that in
one way only can he be deprived of bis
rights as a free man, and that is if he disgraces himself, that is, if he is found
guilty of bribery and corruption, and I
know of no free man, who, having
honestly used bis privileges, bas ever
been deprived of those privileges by the
vote of Parlianent. If any such example
does exist, 1 should like to know
by whom and when it was introduced.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-In the
Legislature of Nova Scotia; there was
manhood suffrage in Nova Scotia, and it
was afterwards restricted. I was returned
in 1863 under manhood suffrage, and the
next election after that, it was on assessment.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-There
is a case in point.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I do not
know whether Joseph Howe was living at
that time.
HON. MR. KAULBACH--He was.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I do
think he could have been a party to
destruction of that franchise. If he
he was in opposition to all his written
spoken sentiments.

not
the
was
and

HON. MR. DICKEY-The Hon. Joseph
Howe was the author of that Bill that took

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

away manhood suffrage. I was in Parliament myself at the time.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Will the
hon. gentleman say there was no reason
for this ?
HON. MR. DICKEY-I

will not dis-

cuss it.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-It is quite
possible that those men who had enjoyed
the electoral franchise in Nova Scotia had
in some way disgraced themselves. It may
be that they were guiltv of bribery and
corruption, and I for one would be most
reluctant to insult the memory of such a
man as Howe by admitting for one moment
that he could have been guilty deliberately
of depriving men of the electoral franchise
who had been guilty ot no crime, and
unless some better authority can be produced to demonstrate beyond the possibility of a doubt that such is the case I
shall continue incredulous.
HON. MR. CARVELL-The member
from Amherst and the bon. gentleman
from Lunenburg notwithstanding.

HAYTHORNE-Yes.
MR.
HON.
However I may have a little more to say
upon that point yet. We have had the
merits of the revising barrister discussed,
and I think from the Minister of Justice
down, throughout bis whole supporters
here, we have had bon. gentlemen insisting
on the great excellence of this scheme for
allowing the appointment by the Government of the revising barrister, who is to
decide upon the franchises of those who
are to return their supporters to this Parliament. Perhaps no hon. gentleman went
further in this regard than did the hon.
gentleman from Amherst. He went to
great lengths in affirming the beauty and
excellence of the system, and I think the
hon. gentleman who last spoke indulged
in no little emphatic declamation as to
the impossibility of any man who is a barrister in Nova Scotia so far forgetting
himself as to allow political influence to
have any effect on bis decisions in bis
court. All I can say in that regard is
that I would be the last man in the world
to cast any reflection upon any of those
honorable professions. We were accus-

The Franchi8e [JULY 9, 1885] Bill.

1251

tomed in the country from which I come
HON. MR. PLUMB-He has only to
to call theirs one of the three learned pro- show that he is worth enough to qualify
fessions, and they enjoyed certain privi- him. He need not show how much he is
leges which other professions did not, and worth, or what is the actual value of his
we always looked upon them as being men property.
of the highest honor and highest integrity ;
but I do not say that the legal profession
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-The fact
is immaculate. It was held here a few remains, that generally a voter has no
days ago that men of another learned pro- difficulty and no hesitation about going
fession (the medical) were not to be trust- before a court of which he has a voice in
ed with certain duties which were allotted the selection, the personnel of which he
to thern with reference to another act of is acquainted with, and on whose integrity
he can rely. He can go before a court of
Parliament, and it was almost decidedthat kind with confidence and state his
in fact I think it went to the vote herewhether or not a medical gentleman case with confidence.
He does not
should be tried for certain offences before require legal advice. He can plead his
two justices of the peace. We had a case with confidence himself; but when
division in this House the other day upon you send down from Ottawa, or from any
that very point. Now I say prima facie other place, a barrister of whom he knows
we had as much right to expect the gentle- nothing, and whom he is inclined to susmen of the medical profession to be im- pect because l)e is appointed by the Governmaculate and irreproachable in this and ment, and be knows that the Government
all other mattersas the gentlemen of the bar. want t> have a majority in his district
I think that the members of the three learn- -I say that that man has good reason for
ed professions should be held as highly hesitating before appearing before such a
honorable and untainted men ; but unfort- court, and for not having confidence in
unately the way the world goes at present such a court. I am not going to insist
you can hardly venture to claim that of any upon the fact that upright barristers may
profession ; and we know besides this that not possibly be appointed. There are
governments will appoint men of that barristers, and barristers ; and there are
sort to positions who are in favor of their some upon whose character no blemish
In this matter confidence is can be cast, but there are others who, withown views.
essential, and the people whose rights out any blemish on their characters, are
those barristers are charged with, having simply partizans, and there is nothing in
no voice in their appointment, will have this bill to prevent the Government from
very little confidence in their decisions. appointing a partizan. I believe myself
The Minister of Justice spoke of voters that it is the very object of this Bill. I
going before a court constituted as the believe the very point insisted upon by the
court is under this Bill as quite an easy, hon. gentleman from Ottawa is the real
every-day affair for the résidents of an and unjust one-that the very object of
electoral district ; but I do not think if this Bill is to put the matter strongly under
that is really his opinion, and I presume the control of the Government.
it is, that he is very familiar with the way
the ordinary countryman thinks upon an
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
event of this sort. The establishment of no, no.
his vote, and the giving of bis vote, are
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-The hon.
important events in that man's life. Perhaps he may be very reluctant, if he is a gentleman says 'no, no," but I will tell
Man of retiring habits and thoughts, to go him a lesson I have learned during the
before the public and establish the fact time I have been in public life. I did not
that he is worth so much money, and that commence my political education perhaps
he is entitled to his vote. He has very quite so early as the hon. gentleman did.
little hesitation indeed about going before I had gray hairs before I entered upon
a body of his own neighbors who are politics; but I took good care to study the
acquainted with his circumstances, and question as closely as I could and to conwho are men of integrity in whom he has sult the best authorities. I have always
confidence.
made it my study in framing legislation

1252

The Franchiâe [SENATE] Bill.

here that we should anticipate that the
parties against whose action we are about
to guard are disposed to break the law.
We are to suppose that those barristers
will not be immaculate men, but that they
will be just the contrary, and if we do our
duty here we will put it beyond the power
of any such men to do any mischief whatever. That is, I conceive, the first grand
principle of legislation which every gentleman ought to apply to each law as it comes
before this body. We ought to hold that
instead of men being disposed to observe
the law, that they will be disposed to break
the law and to take advantage of it in every
way they possibly can ; and therefore it
should be our endeavour to place no
temptations in their way, or opportunity
to do mischief in the position in
which they are placed. It seems to be
inevitable that if you put a man in a certain position of trust you expose him to
this temptation, and I say it is unwise, and
unstatesmanlike to do so. Have we not
the experience of the Mother Country to
guide us in this matter ? There are gentlemen in this House sitting all around me
as far advanced in life as I am myself, who
must still have a keen recollection of the
passing of the first Reform Bill ; and I
can recollect the first voters list being
posted up against the parish church doors
as provided by that law. I can recollect
the revising barristers appointed by the
judges of the Courts of Assize, performing
the very duties which we are now about
to place in the hands of the nominee of the
Government ; and yet with all this experience available for us, the experience that
this plan devised by Brougham and Russell, and Althorp affords-this plan which
has met the approval of the men who have
had registered voters' lists for 50 years and
more, is set at naught and considered
worthless by the Government of Canada.
I think it is a matter of regret that any
attempt of this kind should have been
mado. We have had this Bill three years
before the legislature, and the suspicions
of the people respecting it have been lulled
to sleep by the length of time it has been
allowed to remain on the tables of Parliament without action having been taken
upon it. I did not myself believe at the
commencement of the session that it would
be proceeded with. It was not at all
generally believed or thought of that any
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

part of the labors of this session would be
in connection with the Franchise Bill.
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL-My

hon. friend is mistaken there.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I may be
wrong,but such is my belief, that when hon.
gentleman met here this year they thought
the session would be a very short one, and
that certainly could not be the case if they
knew that a Bill of this kind was to be
brought up.
HON. MR. CARVELL-We are not
taken by surprise at all.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-No, not
at all. I would for a moment detain the
House by comparing the complicated
machinery of this Bill with the simplicity
of the system that prevails in Prince
Edward Island. There we have no revising courts ; every man of 21 years of age
who has performed his statute labor or
paid commutation for it, is competent to
vote at elections. Here is the question
decided in the most simple, uniform and
inexpensive way. That it worked well
and favourably is clear from the fact that
it has been at least 30 years in operation
in our province.
HON. MR. PLUMB-You are a very
exemplary moral people there.
HoN.

MR.

KAULBACH-Honest

farmers.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-They are
not, I think, any more exemplary than
other people are; but it seems to mereplying to the remark which has just been
cast across the floor at me-that if the
people elsewhere are immoral we ought
to make some effort to improve them. If
it be so that there is a large portion of the
population of Canada, of the older provinces, who are unfit to exercise the
electoral franchise, someone is to blame
for that. Either you have neglected their
education, or you have neglected them in
some other way; otherwise there ought to
be no large proportion of the people in
such a country as Canada who are unfit
to exercise the franchise. I have no
doubt that the hon. gentleman, who is so

The Franchi8e [JULY 10, 1885] Bill.
exceedingly well read and learned, and
who picks up everything that can bear on
political questions, has sometime or other
thought of the remark of Mr. Lowe on
the passing of the Reform Bill in
186o, " These are our masters, come let
us educate them !" Have we done that
in Canada ? If we have, there is no reason
to be afraid of the town population ; if not
we have been remiss in our duty. It is
true that there are a few foreigners imported as immigrants but their numbers
are small, and it not unfrequently happens
that they are amongst the best people we
have, and if occasionally there are a few

1253

tion. I move that the report be taken
into consideration on Monday next.
The motion was agreed to.
THE FRANCHISE BILL.
SECOND

READING.

The order of the day having been called
for

Resuning debate on the Hon. Mr. Scott's
motion in amendment to the Hon. Sir Alex.
Campbell's motion for the second reading of
Bill (103) respecting the Electoral Franchise,
viz.:-" That the said Bill be not now read a
mauvaise sujets amongst them, that you second time but that it be red a second time
must expect to find in any community, and this day six months."

their numbers would be insignificant
compared with the number of voters that
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE said: It
manhood suffrage would bring to the polls. will be in the recollection of the House

that in the course of my remarks yesterday
HON. MR. POWER called attention to evening I had occasion to allude to certhe fact that it was midnight and sug- tain changes in the electoral law, and I
gested that the debate should beadjourned. stated my impression that there was no
instance on record of the abolition of a
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE moved the body of freeholders, whereupon my hon.
adjournment of the debate.
friend from Amherst interrupted me by
saying there was such an instance in Nova
The motion was agreed to.
Scotia, and I, perhaps very improperly
and hastily, declined to accede to his
The Senate adjourned at 12 o'clock statement. In fact I expressed my in(midnight).
credulity.
On consideration I am not
now surprised to find that my hon. friend
is a little offended with my statements
Ail I have to say is that for any remarks of mine which had the effect of
offending the hon. gentleman 1 am heartily
THE SENATE.
sorry, and I am ready, and most willingly
without any arrière pensée withdraw them,
Ottaw'a, Friday,July ioth 1885.
and I do so with the greater readiness and
satisfaction because I have had an opporThe SPEAKER took the Chair at three tunity of ascertaining that the hon. gentleo'clock.
man himself, in his place in the Nova Scotia Parliament, opposed the abolition of
Prayers and routine proceedings.
the franchise referred to, with all the ability
in his power, and for that reason I can
THE PRINTING OF PARLIAMENT. easily understand that all the facts of the
case are very firmly impressed on his mind,
EIGHTH REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE.
and therefore with my hon. friend's permission I ask him to accept this explanation of
HON. MR. READ, from the Joint Com- the rudeness I committed last evening.
mittee on the Printing of Parliament, preIt may be in the recollection of the
sented their eighth report. He said: I House that last night, before the adjournbeg to say that it is not expected that this ment, I was contrasting the great simplicireport will be taken into consideration, ty of the electoral franchise which had exas in the other House it has been sent isted so many years in Prince Edward Isback to the Committee for reconsidera- land, with that which it is sought to esta-

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

1254A

blish by this Bill, and I think the hon.
gentleman from Niagara had made some
suggestion across the floor which led me
to say that perhaps Ontario was somewhat
to blame if she was afraid to trust the
people with manhood suffrage or anything
approaching thereto-that perhaps she had
not fully educated her people. That may
be so or not ; I simply refer to it for the
purpose of taking up the thread of my address. Perhaps the most incisive and
most formidable speech which was made
on the question was that of the hon.
gentleman from Niagara. He stated very
positively and in very strong incisive ]anguage, several propositions. There was
one to this effect, that the action of the
Opposition in another place had been very
unusual and very uncalled for ; that a deliberate attempt was made by the minority
to choke down the majority ; and that the
action of the Opposition had actually
caused a paralysis of the public business,
and he also told us that the Opposition
would have gained more by tem
perate and reasonable opposition than
has already been gained. These are
some very positive and very precise
statements, but unfortunately for the
hon. gentleman's argument he made another statement which is entirely opposed
to the former, so that if one class ofassertions is correct the other must be wrong.
He made this statement also that every
one of the amendments to the bill was
agreed to in caucus before the bill was
brought down.

who were opposing it had opposed it in
the ordinary manner of a constitutional
opposition they would have got all their
amendments that they wanted, and would
have got them without the necessity of
detaining Parliament for two or three
months.

PLUMB-No; decidedly

HON. MR. HAVTHORNE-Tbe hon.
gentleman's eal, on tbis occasion, rather
carried away bis discretion. I tbought at
the time that the lion, gentleman was
somewhat indiscreet in referring to transactions that occurred in a party caucus at
ail. I have always understood, myseif,
that the proceedings in caucus are generally held to be confidential, and when
the hon. gentleman made that statement I
saw at once that it was utterly incompatible witb the fact that the Reform party in
the other House had made a factious
opposition, whicb is cextainly not the
case. If the hon. gentleman had listened
attentively to the address of tbe hon.
member who spoke from the seat behind
him (Mr. Bellerose) he would certainly have heard
that gentleman's

HON.

MR

not.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Does the
hon. gentleman say he did not make that
statement?
HON.

MR.

PLUMB-Not

in

that

form.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Will the
hon. gentleman be kind enough to correct me if I am wrong.

HON. MR. PLUMB-I did not say before the bill was brought down, because
that would have been an absurdity. I
said during the progress of the bill and in
anticipation ; and I said if the gentlemen
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Did not
the hon. gentleman say that these amendments to the bill had been agreed to in
caucus?
HON. MR. PLUMB-Certainly.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Is that
statement compatible with the previous
one to which I have called the attention
of the House ?
HON. MR. PLUMB-I do not see any

discrepancy.
HON. MR. HAYTH ORNE-I say they
are not. I say if the one statement is
correct the other cannot be correct.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Of course the
hon. gentleman knows enough about parliainentary matters to be aware that I
would not be expected to know exactly
what passed in a caucus of the House of
Commons that I did not attend, but I say
that is the statement which has been given
to me, and I only give it as far as I know,
and I also say that the two statements are
not at all incompatible.

The Franchiee [JULY 10, 1885.] Bill.

1255

opinion of the amended Bill as contrasted
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I was
With the Bill as brought in. That hon. just about to refer to their taste for music,
gentleman expressed his satisfaction with which the hon. gentleman informed us of.
the improvements in the Bill, so far as it Having asserted that these men were fully
went, but he said it was still one he could fit to exercise the rights of free men, he
not support. It must be, I think, a very admitted at once that there was one point
small matter for congratulation to the on which they could not be trusted as
Government to see that some highly inde- other men are-that is they could not, if
pendent members among their usual sup- I understood him, be trusted with the adporters are dropping quietly away from ministration of their own affairs ; that in
them on this occasion. It shows the money matters they could not be trusted
inherent badness of this Bill, and I think to look after their own interests; that in
if the hon. gentleman had bestowed that point of fact they still require a trustee.
attention on the address of the hon. I think that these are, if not the
gentleman from DeLanaudiere which it ipsissina verba which the hon. gendeserved he would hardly have spoken in tlemai used, the tenor of his rethe way he did of the action of the Oppo- marks about the Indians. I say they
Sition in the House of Commons. As for were exceedingly satisfactory and inthat statement of his that the Opposition teresting but they lack one thingwould have gained more by reasonable they lack the important point that
and temperate criticism than they have these Indians, civilized as they were
gained as it is, all I can say is it is not too described in all other respects, were not
late now to give those additional advan- able to take care of their own property.
tages which, he says, we might have It seems to me that it is almost blameable
gained by more temperate language and in a party that have been in power so
language more satisfactory to his party many years as this Government have
and friends. If there is anything held been, to allow these Indians to remain in
back, it is not too late to give it to us : let this highly civilized state without doing
us have it by all means. I felt it necessary anything for them. It seems to me that
to express my opinion upon those parts the remains of these nations of Indians
of the hon. gentleman's speech, because which have arrived at this pitch of civilizahe hirnself certainly put about as much tion should have come to their friends in
force into them as, I think, he is capable Parliament to be emancipated from all
of, and, no doubt, he did good service to thraldom ; that they should have been
his friends, and to the Bill itself. His admitted into the comity of colonies and
speech was an able and powerful one, but made a real part of the Dominion. That
I think there is an answer to that part of I think was the natural course to pursue,
it at all events. But there is another and had that course been pursued four or
portion of the hon. gentleman's speech to five years ago, and had those Indians been
which I can refer with unmixed satis- living amongst us showing that they were
faction. I listened with great pleasure to competent and willing to take part in the
the hon. gentleman's statement respect- government of the country and to share
ing the Indians of Canada. It was a most in the responsibility of citizenship, as
interesting and gratifying statement, and white men do, then we could very fairly
ail I can say is it was only impaired by and properly have expressed our willingthe last remark which the hon. gentleman ness to adopt, as free men among ourselves,
made on that subject. After having told those who are willing to share our
us to what degree of civilization the In- responsibility ; but as I say, and as the
dians on these reserves had reached, and hon. gentleman informed us, these Indians
having told us of their successful agricul- lack one important feature which was to
ture, of their beautiful and well furnished qualify them-that is, that they could not
houses, of their tasteful music, of their ac- take care of their own affairs ; that they
acquirements in the arts,andin other ways- needed a trustee yet, and if so, that man
must exercise great influence on their
HON. MR. PLUMB-They have two thoughts, feelings and actions in the crisis
splendid brass bands ; they play of a general election. I am assuming
splendidly.
that the Indian of Ontario genèrally is as

1256

The Franchise [SENATE]

Bill.

described by the hon. gentleman. I am the Engiish Government and Parliarnent
not going to gainsay that fact at all ; I am had carried into effect a gigantic redistri
not personally acquainted with that sub- bution Bil, with what is known in Canada
Here in Ca
ject, but I know in our own province the as the gerrymandering Bil.
Indians are very different indeed to the nada, Ontario becare entitled to, I think,
Ontario Indians as described by the hon. four additional members, and in order tO
gentleman. I have been brought in con- find thern suitable constituenci2s the
tact with Indians in Prince Edward Island whole province was cut up and broken
officially in the course of my political into shreds, and a very bad impres
life, and I know they were always a source sion was raised throughout the Dominion
of the greatest anxiety to the Govern- that ail this had been done with
ment. We always felt that the treatment an object. It is fot the time or place to
of the Indians was a chronic trouble, debate that at present; I simply want to
that with the best intentions our put this matter on its right footing. The
views were almost invariably defeated. hon, gentleman referred to the action of
The Aborigines Protection Society of the Imperial Parliarent and Governrent
London had purchased an island for those upon this question, and I wiil read a few
people. Before that we had rothing in lunes which show the kind of spirit in which
the shape of a reserve on Prince Edward that re-adjustment was carried ont in the
Island, but when this society becarne old country and what the rival parties
aware of their position they purchased an thought of the manner in which it had
island off the north shore of Prince Ed- been done. On June 9 th, the lies wrote
ward Island, and it was vested in the Lieu- upon it in this manner, refcrring to the
tenant Governor and President of Execu- opinion expressed the day before by Lord
tive Council as Trustees. It was the in- Salisbury. The Times says
tention and wish of the Government and
-It would be unjust to attribute the corLegislature of that Province for years to parativeiy easy passage of the Bil throuh
induce men to do what the hon. gentle- Mol Houses of Parliament soiely to t he
man says the Indian of Canada has done.the
Iman speaking
Inowa of eCnda hich
I am speaking now of events which oc- leaders of the two great parties. This agreeoc- etapidol
opicpeadteBl
curred years ago, and I am sorry to admit is eressentiaiiy a inatter of detail. For the
that our efforts have been so comparative- adjustment of these details with skiil,
ly unsuccessful, for I fear it is the case in iînpartialitv and success, infinite credit is due
the Island Province that there are very to the menihers ofthe boundary Comission,
justly paid
Inian to 'ho it oul beMy
Indians
few if any few f ay to whom it would beto whose labors a highi tribute wvas 'He neyer
by Lord Salisbury yesterday.
justifiable to commit so important a trust knew a public body,' lie said, which peras the elective franchise. For myself I formed so difficuit a task in so short a time
may say that I have known but one in that and with sncb general satisfaction;' and
province whom I should consider compe- thisjudgment wiii be endorsed by al competent to exercise this privilege. Neverthe- tent politicians wîthout distinction of Party?
less, I do think that the statement which
Now, I think it must be admitted that
the hon. gentleman made is highly inter- we did not conduct these affairs in Canada
esting and at the proper time and place it with the same spirit of fairness and success
might be put to an exceedingly useful in which a much larger undertaking was
purpose. I wish to refer to an episode in conducted in Great Britain. This is a
this debate in which Lord Salisbury and point which I wish to bring to the notice
Mr. Gladstone's names were introduced in of the House and explain the position
connection with the statement made by which was taken by my hon. friend, a
the hon. gentleman from Ottawa. I think position which 1 think is unassailable. I
some misapprehension prevails there. My have heretofore been speaking principally
hon. friend, if I am not mistaken, in speak- of remarks which occurred in the course
ing of Lord Salisbury and Mr. Gladstone, of this debate. I wish to make a few
referred not to the revising officer but to rerarks now with reference to the position
the redistribution Bill, and if I mistake of Prince Edward Island as to this neasure.
not also I had called the hon. gentleman's T is well known to this House-the House
attention to the subject not many days indeed has reason to know-that the
before, contrasting the happy way in which Island
has enjoyed for a number of years a
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

The Fanchie [JULY 10, 1885] Bill.
franchise nearly equal to manhood suffrage. Every man who arrives at 21 years
of age and has performed statute labor in
the vicinity, or paid the commutation
equivalent to it, is entitled at the next election to vote, whether for members of the
Local Legislature or for members of the
Dominion Parliament. I think it must
have been about the year 1874 or 1875
that a Bill was brought into Parliament respecting the Election law by the Mackenzie Government. That law required the
existence of registration courts. It appears that in all parts or the Dominion except Prince Edward Island such courts already existed, but in the Island we had
nlone. Our franchise required none, and
We were happily without them, but the
Government of the day were unwilling to
establish courts at the expense of the Dorninion in the Island, because they saidand I dare say very properly-that it would
be used as a precedent for charging the exPense of registration courts all over the
Dominion on the Dominion treasury, and
for that reason they refused to bear theCost of establishing registration courts in
the Island. Meantime the local Governrnent had given a sort of undertaking that
such courts should be established: but
Some delay occurred in establishing them,
and meanwhile the Bill passed through the
other Chamber and came up here with a
Clause which disfranchised a large number
of voters in Prince Edward Island. It
directed that in any election until registration courts should be established the
electorate should be that of the legislative
council of the Island, which was a body
voting upon an estate valued at, I think,
old currency. But still it would
£200

have had the effect of excluding a very
large number of voters. Since that time
some changes have occurred in the Senators from the Island : one gentleman who
sat amongst us for a number of years has
since been appointed Lieutenant Governor
of the Island. He was not content to allow this disfranchisement to take place. I
am not sure myself whether another
hon. gentleman who still sits amongst
Us
was not foremost in the sanie
Cause. For my own part, I know that I
was absent in another place at the time,
but returning here and finding the state
of affairs I gave all the support I could to
these senators who were endeavoring to

1257

prevent the disfranchisement of the Island
voters. Accordingly an amendment to

that clause was moved in this House, and
I recollect well the arguments that were
made upon it. Many hon. members were
opposed to the principle of universal or
manhood suffrage, but they said : " In this
case we find men of all parties agreeingmen who had acted as leaders of the Opposition and men who had acted as leaders of the Government united to demand
protection for these voters." It is not at
all surprising to find that the House im-

mediately coincided with that view. The
amendment was carried ; the bill was sent
down to the House of Commons and
came back with the amendment accepted.
That is a simple and concise history ofthe
Island question as it occurred here some
ten years ago. We find the Government
adopting and acting upon the very principle which I contended for yesterday, that
once a freeman a man is always to be a
freeman, unless, indeed, he forfeits his
privileges by bribery or corruption in
some form or other. They recognized this
and actually consented to break through
their darling principle of uniformity sooner
than incur the responsibility which would
have attended the breaking up of the franchise as existing in Prince Edward Island.
I must say, hon. gentlemen, and I must express my opinions clearly about this, that
it seems to me the Government had a very
meanappreciation ofthe feelings and principles of the people of Prince Edward Island
when they thought to satisfy them with such
a trifle as this, in lieu of the liberal franchise which they had before. Did the
Government think to satisfy them with
enjoyment during their lives of a franchise
which they could not transmit to their
sons, and which any stranger who might
come to settle amongst them could not
share ? It seems to nie they must have
formed the meanest opinion of the people
of Prince Edward Island, and let me
tell hon. gentlemen such an opinion is
altogether undeserved ; for although I am

not a native of that island and shall always
entertain a warm feeling for the place of
my birth, yet that is the place in which I
have expended my life's labour, and the
people there I know have the very highest
sense of honor on a matter of this sort,
and you cannot deprive them or their
sons of such a privilege and expect that

1258

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

these men will sit down content under House will pardon me while I read a few
such a stigma. Hon. gentlemen might sentences from the pages of Sir Thomas
have learned a lesson from the representa- Erskine May. He says :-

tives of that island in the other House. "That Englishmen have been qualified for
The member for Queen's was willing to the enjoyment of political freedom, is mainl
take all he could from the Government, due to those ancient local institutions by whic,,

but still desiring to get something better they have been trained to self government" The affairs of the people have been admin"
he deserted his party and voted with the
opposition on the amendment moved by istered, not in Parliament only, but in the
the board meet'
the hon. member from King's county. vestry, in the town council,
ing, and the Court of Quarter SessiOns'
For this I give him all praise: he acted like England alone, among the nations of the
an honorable son of the soil as all these earth, has maintained for centuries a constrgentlemen did. There are men here like tutional polity ; and her liberties may be amyself who have lived their lives there and cribed, above" ail things to ber free local
institutions I
reared their families on the island and feel
" Since the days of their Saxon ancestors,
very much in the same way. We do not her sons have learned at their own gates,
want to see any man there deprived of any the duties and responsibilities of citizens."
" Associating, for the common good, they
right he enjoyed, and which he hoped
public affairs."
and believed he would transmit along have become exercised in communities have
"Thousands of small
with his property to his sons and relations. enjoyed the privileges of self government,
I claim, therefore, that those concessions, taxing themselves, through their representaso called, although they involve a breach tives for local objects; meeting for discussion
of the uniform principle, are very inade- and business, and animated by local rivalries
quate concessions to the people of Prince and ambitions."
Edward Island, with which they are not
These are the terms in which Sir
at all likely to be contented. I intend, Thomas Erskine May speaks of the origi.n
on the third reading of this Bill, to move of British freedom, and just so long as this
an amendment as nearly as possible identi- freedom was carefully watched and guarcal with that which was moved in the ded and preserved, just so long it
other House of Parliament, and supported remained intact : but when the time came
by all the island members, without refer- that wealth and business and other causes
ence to party, and I shall claim of this led men to delegate to others the powers
hon. House that they shall do on the which their forefathers had exercised in
third reading of this Bill what the Senate person, these liberties came to be less
did some ten years ago, when they saved carefully watched than they ought to have
the franchise of Prince Edward Island been and the consequence was-as we
from only temporary destruction: this is have most of us read in our histories-that
permanent destruction. We do not know this boasted municipal freedom which was
the hour or day that the danger we the nurse and guardian of English libertY
once incurred shall be permanent. had dissappeared almost entirely, and had
This is a far greater danger, but be become a nest of corruption in the days of
it great or small what I say is this, that the Stuarts and further along indeed up tO
it is the duty of all members of Parlia our own time. Those municipal institument, and all patriotic men to watch and tions which in early Saxon times had been
guard their political rights and privileges the seats of liberty had in our times bewith the greatest care and caution. Let come the seats of corruption. And how
me, while I am on this subject, refer to a did this come about? Simply by relaxing
few illustrations from English hstory. this watchfulness which if it had been preLooking at the pages of Sir Thomas served would have saved those institutions
Erskine May, I have read with the great- from ruin. I ask hon. gentlemen is not
est interest what he has said of the origin this a lesson for ourselves if we admit for
of English liberties. I wish my treacher- a moment that these municipal privileges
ous memory would enable me to give of ours, these noble enfranchisements
those sentences without reference to the should be interfered with by a Government
paper before me, but I arn obliged to con- measure of this kind, but can we say we
fess that my memory is not perhaps what it are content to allow the Government tO
has been in former years: so, perhaps the establish a court for the registration of
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

The PrancÀise [JULY 10, 1885] Bill.
Voters among ourselves, a thing we can do
better, more cheaply, and more satisfactorty to ourselves in every way-if we admit
this, we admit at once the commencement
of this insidious destruction which befell
the English municipalities. Hon. gentlermen know perfectly well that amidst the
municipal corruption of many of our cities
there remained no voters at all. There
Wasa mayor and aldermen and perhaps
a common council and they carried on
ail the municipal affairs. When these
bodies required renewal, by death or
resignation of any of their members, the
aPpeal was not to the people, but to the
rest of the body, and the rest of the body
elected men like themselves ; and thus
this state of things was perpetuated-the
very same danger that my hon. friends are
Warning theGovernment of in thisBill. We
say there is a danger in this Bill of
Perpetuating the majority in the House of
Commons, and we warn you against doing
anything which may have the effect of
Perpetuating in that body any dominant
Party. Are we right or are we wrong ?
Have we reason or precedent on our
side ? Does not our history confirm this
statenent ? Can it be denied for one
'noment ? I perhaps nay find it answered
because I was rather shortly stopped
Yesterday in making a bold assertion, but
I believe it is the case that scarcely any
COUntry possesses this unbroken municipal
franchise. I know that in Hungary the
patriotic Kossuth claimed that the same
sYstem remained in his country and had
kept liberty alive all those years up to a
recent period, and there is some shadow
of it existing there still even up to this
time.
HON.

Russia.

MR PLUMB-It

prevails in

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I believe
it Prevailed in Switzerland too, but that

1259

diction, fairly well performed all the duties
of a nation during that time ? She has put
down foreign invasions-met them on her
own borders, and within her own territories, and defeated them. Has she not
quelled rebellion ? She has, but yet I
think we have to look to a much earlier
period-a period much further back in
the history of the British colonies to
understand the important point how it is
the love of liberty has sprung up amongst
us, and how it has been nurtured, and how
it has grown. To understand all this, I
think, we must look back to the earlier
history of our British colonies-in speaking of one we must speak of them all.
No doubt the Mother Country gave to
most of her colonies as much if not more
freedom than she herself possessed. She
gave us representative institutions, sometimes interrupted by nominated councils
for a time ; but there was always an
appeal to the people themselves ; liberties
were not abrogated by any insidious acts
of the Government appointed by the people. Their liberties were increasing rather
than diminishing yearly, and such is the
process going on through all the colonies.
I know that in my own province we
battled for a hundred years, that sometimes we contended against the operation of
the proprietary tenure of land, sometimes
for representative institutions, and finally
obtained them. The British Goverînment
gave us ail that she had to give-all she
knew at that time. Since then there has
been a great development of what we now
understand as Parliamentary government
in England, but I think it has not reached
further than it has here.
Here we are
quite as jealous of our liberties and our
constitutional government as they are in
the Mother Land, and, I think, it is to
this struggle for parliamentary government
-for parliamentary responsible government-that we owe the great love of liberty
which prevails throughout this Dominion,
and it is to that love of liberty, that
high estimation and regard in which our

was owing perhaps more to the inaccessible
situation of that country than to any
Other cause. They gained their liberties ; rights and liberties are held, that we must
Iow ? By constant watchfulness.
But, look to obviate the evil effects of this Bill
dropping ancient history and foreign should it become law. I have to tender
history, let us speak of our own.
to the House for the great
What has happened here in Canada ? my thanks which they have listened to
patience with
Did not the Dominion the other day my remarks. I am aware that for some
Pass her, eighteenth birthday, and has cause or other unknown to me, there is a
she not,I may say without danger of contra- desire that a division should take place on

1260

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

this Bill this evening, and I am not willing to incur the denunciations of the hon.
gentleman from Niagara, who might think,
perhaps, I am becoming factious in my
oppositicn and unnecessarily tedious in
my remarks. So I will endeavor to draw
them to a close. Some apprehension
perhaps exists on the part of gentlemen
who form the Opposition in and out of
Parliament, that the tendency of this Bill
is dangerous ; that it is one which will
place much parliamentary power at the
disposal of the present Government, and
thus maintain them permanently in office,
and, I believe, there is danger of that ;
but I deduce another conclusion from it
different from that which some people do.
I draw conclusions rather favorable to the
advancement of reform principles. I believe, myself, that the Government and
their friends began to be aware of the certain advance of reform principles in the
country; that they began to get rather
fearful as to whether they would be able
to maintain their position, and hence this
Bill which has been kept hanging over
Parliament and the country for three
years, and now it is found that a crisis has
arrived, and that action must be taken if
they are to preserve their position. While
hon. gentlemen are reduced to that last
resource, I say go on and make your intentions known to the country, and you
will find that your expectations will be
disappointed ; that the people see through
and through your design and will defeat
this-I was going to say illegitimate object: I do not think the tern would be
altogether inappropriate-this illegitimate
object at the polis. I shall say a few
words before I conclude respecting the
farmer's son franchise. It seems to me
that that franchise is not altogether so
worthy of praise as some hon. gentlemen
have thought. It contrasts very unfavorably with the position of farmers' sons
in my own province, as regards their
obtaining votes. There they obtained
the vote without reference to the
farm at ail, and without reference
to the father ; but by this Bill as it stands,
the farmer must qualify the son or sons,
and if it is not of sufficient value, however
competent the sons may be, they can not
become qualified from that source. The
man has labored on his father's farm ail
his life ; he may become a very estimable
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

character in the community, but r1sY
have very little money, and if he bas to
look to the farm for qualifications he nay,
in many instances, look in vain. le nay
even be disappointed when he comles to
obtain this expected franchise froi the
It may turn out, on inquiry, that
farm.
the farm was not of the value anticipated.
It may be intrinsically of the value re
quired, but the owner may not be in fu
He may possibly have
possession of il.
never paid for it, or it is encumbered, and
although the sons be perfectly competent
under this law to become voters, they are
disappointed. This is a great objection to
it. You make the enfranchisement of the
farmer's sons depend on the value of the
farni, whereas the enfranchisement of the
5
sons should depend upon their own fitnes
for the position. So much has alreadY
been said upon the revising barrister
clauses that I do not think it is necessarY
to go into it any further. I have a decided
I always regret
objection to the system.
to see the direct actions of governments ii
affairswhich can be managed inanotherwaY.
It seems to me that if the Governient
had followed the English precedent, and
allowed their revising barristers-if theY
were determined that they would bave
revising barristers-to be appointed by the
judges of the Supreme Court in their
respective provinces, they would then
have carried with them the confidence of
the people, and I think no reflection could
then have been cast upon those gentlemen
on the score of their appointment.
Whether they are actually fit for the duty,
whether they are altogether candid and
fair or not, suspicion will always attach tO
them, and it is a very objectionable thing
that suspicion should attach to any judge.
An hon. gentleman on the other side of
thz House (Mr. Plumb), speaking upOnl
this point, told us that there was an
appeal against the judge, an appeal
to Parliament ; that a judge who misconducted himself could be removed on an
appeal to Parliament. This is a verY
good, a very safe, a very wholsole
regulation as regards a criminal or commOn
law judge ; but I venture to suggest that
it is a veiy improper and unsuitable arrangement when it relates to the appointment ot a political judge. Hon. gentlemen
know perfectly well, and no one knows
better than the Minister of Justice, that

The Franchi8e [JULY 10, 1885] Bill.
the action of Parliament both in Canada
and Great Britian for many years past bas
been to remove ail such cases out of
Parliament and to place them before the
courts. Why ? Because they recognized
the principle that men cannot act independently and fairly in cases where
they are themselves concerned ; and
hen an appeal comes before Parliament
in1 shape of a petition for the removal
the
Of such a judge, that is, in fact an election
ease-when such a case as that comes
before Parliament we say at once that
Parliament is incompetent to judge it
fairly. That principle has been recognized
Over and over again in Great Britain, and
't has been recognized in Canada as well,
Where we had for many years past removed
ail Such cases before the courts, and have
derived the greatest benefit and satisfac-

1261

and desirous of reaching truth. I am not
bold enough to stand up for the purpose
of answering the remarks that have been
made by the hon. gentleman from Queen's
county. I would not dare venture to
break a lance with him, knowing how expert he is in ail matters of debate, and

what a vast amount of knowledge he brings
to bear on every subject he touches ; but
there are one or two points that he referred

to upon which I would venture to say a
word. He referred with great admiration
to some recollections of his early life in
connection with the revising barrister system which prevails at home, and he referred with great admiration to Lord
Brougham a great and noble man, and
seemed to convey the idea that this measure was not exactly in accordance with
the principles that Lord Brougham advotion from doing so. I therefore attach cated and maintained throughout his
thttie importance to the liability of the whole public lite. I might venture to say,
revising barrister or judges to Parlia- with regard to myself, that I an also, and
lentary appeal. I am sorry to have have been ever since I could reason, an
etalmed the House as long as I have humble admirer of Lord Brougham, and in
done, knowing the anxiety of hon. gentle"ren to proceed with this business; I
therefore tender you my thanks for your
courtesy, and resume my seat.
'ION. MR. GOWAN-I feel that it is a
great pleasure to take part in this debate,
seeing that it has been conducted from the
first and throughout with a spirit of fairness
aid calmness that perhaps does not always
find a place even in this Assembly. I was
greatly gratified to hear the hon. gentleman
*rom Queen's county speak in the terms

in Which he did of the Minister of
Justice,
as I arn sure every hon. member in this
"ouse was also. The spirit of fairness
and of candor which seems to be a part,
the very essence of his nature on ail subJects the Minister of Justice deals with,
luite assures me that the remarks that
the hon. gentleman made were entirely
deserved, and find an echo in the heart of
every hon, gentleman in this House. If
the hon. gentleman from Queen's county
Will permit me to say as much, I think
he himself is conspicuous for much that he
attributed to the hon. Minister of Justice.
I have never heard him speak in a way
that did not commend itself to me as the
honest utterance of a man of strong convictions, willing to do justice to the arguments of those who are opposed
to him,

1843, at the time when I was appointed to a
new District, and when it became the duty

of the judge to appoint the seals for the
courts over which he presided, I ventured
to take a new departure, and the seal design I gave for my courts was the head of
Lord Brougham, and to this day that seal
is still in use in the courts over which I
formerly presided. As I feel as warmly
attached to the memory of that great man,
and às I as fully, perhaps, adopt the principles and views advocated by him as the
hon. gentleman from Queen's, I may venture to point out to him wherein I think
he has perhaps misconceived the cffect of
this measure. Lord Brougham was not in
favor of centralization-complete centralization ; neither was he in favor of decentral-

ization, and of the two he regarded more
evils were likely to arise from the system
of complete decentralization than from the
system of centralization. The hon. gentleman from Queen's wilil recollect that at

the time of that very important debate
connected with the tribunals which are
now ail over England and Ireland, under
the county court system, Lord Brougham
entered very fully into the question, and
spoke of the evils arising from the multi-

plicity of jurisdictions which prevailed ail
over the British Isles : numerous courts

with separate jurisdictions nanaged by

1262

Te Franchi8e [SENATE] Bill.

agents, not acting upon uniform princi- already have the franchise were deprived

ples, and inaugurated, many of them, upon of it, but it is certainly not an inconsistent
the vote of municipalities. The system thing to say that we will preserve the franthat he devised, the county court system, chise to the men of to-day, but wilIl not
was intended to remedy that evil, and at allow the principle of the Bill to be interthe same time it avoided the evils on the fered with. We will save existing rights,
other hand that arose from complete cen- and say in the language that the hontralization. Now, I shall presently show, gentleman has used, once a free man aland the main object of my speaking on ways a free man-they have preserved tO
this occasion is to point out from actual those free men the right and privileges
knowledge ot the practical working for they enjoy, but they have still retained the
many years where evils arise, under the principle of the Bill. I think it is in Virpresent system for the preparation of ginia that letters are attached to the naimes
voters' lists in Ontario, and I think that of distinguished families-F. F. V.the parallel between the courts that " first family in Virginia," I believe is the
existed at the time the county court meaning of it. It will be something if
system was devised in England, and the certain persons in Prince Edward Island,
various bodies or agencies that now exist, will be able to attach to their names LN•
for the purpose of preparing voters' lists P.E.I., that is "life voters of Prince Edin Ontario-perhaps the best systeni in ward Island." The hon. gentleman from1
any Province, is perfectly correct. Upon DeLanaudiere touched upon one or twO
that point, therefore, I do not think that points that greatly interested me, and I
the hon. gentleman from Queen's County was exceedingly gratified with his very
can invoke the opinion of Lord Brougham able dissertation on one branch of the
as being at all opposed to the measure subject
I entirely agree with him. Of
now before the House, for it has, I think, course the hon. gentleman had the right
the advantage of reasonable decentraliza- to enter upon the subject, but whether it
tion, without the disadvantage of the was necessary to do so at such length was
ramification and detail, which is a weak- another question, but I may say upon that
ness in itself, and under which last, the point as well as upon the question of manduties are scarcely ever efficiently and hood suffrage I entirely agree with hifl.
properly performed. There was another The main point he seemed to dwell upon
point upon which the hon. gentleman for was that this action was uncalied for except
Queen's dilated, and I thought perhaps a pressing reasons for it prevailed. Now it
little ungraciously. It was in respect to is the part of wise legislators and wise
Prince Edward Island and the concession Governments, not to wait until the evil
of the Government-not departing from arises but to anticipate the possibility of
the principle of the Bill, for they have not an evil arising and guard against it. I will
departed from the principle of it-but in suppose a case in which the evil might at
making that concession which will secure once arise, which I am sure would arouse
to the men of the day the privileges of the hon. gentleman from DeLanaudiere into
the franchise which they now enjoy. I ad- a perfect frenzy of feeling. We will suppose
mit that the Billwould have been more sym- in Ontario, for example, that the legislature
metrical if it had not been modified to forgetful of what is a right in my opinion,
that extent; but it does not affect enacted that no one should be allowed to
the principle of the Bill at all. It is vote except he could read intelligentlY
a measure which enlarges existing rights, in the English language certain clauses
and does not disfranchise anyone. The in the British North America Act.
concession I repeat does not touch In my part of the country there is a
the principle of the Bill. The whole basis very large settlement of French Canadians
of this measure was to enlarge the fran- and many of them are incapable of utterchise to give to those who had it not the ing a word in English, and certainly they
right to vote, to embrace every one who cannot read the English language. I can
could fairly be embraced, and therefore it imagine, if such a matter as that arose, the
would not be in accordance with the prin- hon. gentleman with all the vivacity of his
ciple of the Bill if these men in British race, and all the energy of his nature
Columbia and Prince Edward Island who getting into a perfect frenzy of indignation
HON. MR.

GOWAN.

The Franchiee [JULY 10, 1885] Bill.

1263

as I myself might do if in Lower Canada United States. It is true as he says that
it was enacted that no one should have a the United States have adopted the franright to vote except he could speak and chise in several states instead of making a
Write in the French language. I would uniform franchise for the election of all
Consider that exceedingly unfair towards federal officers, but he fails, I think, to perthe people who speak my own language, ceive the difference between this Dominan I would be perhaps quite as indignant ion and the United States. Canada does
as the hon. gentleman. That is a remote not stand in the same relation to the provcontingency, and I only mention it inci- inces as the federal government of the
dentally; it is not at all likely to occur; United States does to the several states.
but suppose female suffrage introduced in There the rights are delegated by the states
any province what would the hon. gentle- to the Central Government: under our
rnan with his strong feeling on the subject constitution the converse of the propothink ? Why of course he would feel sition is true-theCrown with us is supreme,
strongly and express himself strongly on and power not delegated remains with the
that point, and I rejoice with him that that Dominion. Therefore the argument he
clause was not persevered in as it appeared would draw from the United States, prac'n the original Bill, but I mention it to tice I think is not well-founded seeing
show that although strong reasons may not the condition of things is different.
exist at present the danger if not immedi- The subject of this Bill has now been for
ate may be pending.
a long time before the public. There has
My hon. friend from the city of Halifax been great divergence of opinion as to
sPoke upon the subject of the Bill, and as what the franchise should be, and for the
he always does spoke with a great deal of last eight weeks or more the measure has
acuteness and entered very fully into some occupied the time of the Commons.
Points. My hon. friend, is as I may say, There was" a sound of revelry by night,"
the analyst of the Opposition. His power and my hon. friend froim Ottawa would
of analysis is very great, and his observation be disposed to say, not that " music arose
is quick, and he has on various occasions with its voluptuous swell," but with its
rendered essential services not merely in " patriotic swell." He believes the whole
Governn-ent measures but in measures thing was a patriotic effort. Whatever
lIntroduced by private membersin analyzing was patriotic in it, I think, was shared by
bills that were submitted here and discover- those who supported, as well as those who
Ingdefectsthatexisted. ltisavery important opposed, the measure. A struggle, in
function of the Opposition, no doubt, to which physical endurance was the promicriticise every measure, and it is a very nent feature, has been played out to the
ImPortant thing to have men capable of close. It was not, I thought, a very
doing so. But when my hon. friend, if he edifying spectacle, but I suppose it niay
Will permit me to call him so, comes to have its uses as both parties have resorted
deal with Government measures he re- to the expedient at different times. There
rninds one very much of a naturalist who were intervals, however, in which the
bas a new creature-some new insect to voice of reason was heard, and much
examhine. He places it in a strong light light thrown upon the subject. I am, I
under a powerful microscope, and he dis- confess, unable to see that a perfectly
covers everything in connection with it just franchise, scientifically accurate, is
and is able to, and does, examine it with attainable ; the most that can be hoped
the most minute care. That being the for is an approximate estimate of social
case, my hon. friend possessing the power value on the basis of property, and posand the ability to deal with matters in that sibly educated intelligence. So far as I
ay, I think it is saying a great deal for am capable of judging I believe that the
this Bill that he was able to urge so little franchise provided for in the Bill before
aainst t. He had very little to say on
the subject. He left the bill almost un- us, if not theoretically perfect, will be
found suitable to the condition of things
tOuched except upon one point-I mean throughout the Dominion at large, and
any material point.-and on that point I embrace substantially all to whom the
Venture to say he was mistaken. His right should be entrusted.
But this
reference was to the government of the branch of
the Bill has been fully and

I1264A

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

somewhat exhaustively discussed both in
the House of Commons and by the public
press of the country, and I certainly do
not feel equal to cast any additional light
on the point. I purpose confining the
few remarks which I shall venture to
make to one branch of the subject with
which I have some acquaintance-the preparation of the voters' list-with this
I have been familiar from its inception till
the latter part of 1883. The revising barrister's clauses have been bitterly assailed
by opponents of the measure, and warmly
supported by the Government and its
supporters, so also by the Opposition
press and the papers that supported the
Government. I have not seen the subject
discussed by independent public writers,
and I do not recollect a single instance of
a lawyer, not a pronounced party man,
writing for or against these clauses. Much
said on both sides struck me as strongly
colored by party prejudice, and not overconspicuous, in all cases, for an earnest
seeking after truth. I wish to point out
some defects inherent in the present system of preparing the voters' lists in
Ontario, where more attention has been
given to legislation on the subject than in
any other Province in the Dominion, and
although the Hon. Mr. Mowat has labored
for years to make it as complete and as
perfect as possible, I think it is not what
it might be, not what I believe it will
become under the proposed change. I
think the honorable the Attorney-General
for Ontario is entitled to great credit for
his able and persistent efforts in this
direction, and though not agreeing with
him on several puhlic matters I entertain
a very warm respect for him. Of his earnestness and ability as a public man there
can be no doubt. I venture to say, however, that the system which prevails in
Upper Canada, intended for Dominion purposes to be replaced
by
the provision of this Bill, is detective,
and I say this after several years' experi
ence and using my best efforts to
secure the proper working of the voter's
The best that
list law in Ontario.
was possible with the machinery has
been accomplished, perhaps. Yet I cannot but think that if Mr. Mowat felt he
could operate on lines where science was
supreme, he would have probably placed
on the statute book clauses very similar to
HON. MR.

GOWAN.

those Revising Barristers' clauses so mUch
objected to. It probably occurred to Mr.
Mowat that the work of preparirg the
voters' list being of merely a ininisterlal
character and fot judicial, he could not
constitutionally require it to he done by the
local judges, they being unlr the constitution appointed by the general Goverfl
ment for the performance of duties of a
judicial character, and there certaiflY
being no undertaking or liability on their
part to perform business of a non-judicial
character. Or, if he concluded that the
judges might possibly make no objection
to do the work as commissioneis under
an act of the Legislature, he may have felt
that it would be an unreasonable thing to
impose such a large addition to their
work without paying them for it by an
addition to their salary. But this the
province could fot constitutionally do.
These considerations, especially the latter,
may have operated with him, for MrMowat has always been very considerate
towards the county judges, and did everything he could to benefit their condition
These
limits.
constitutional
within
difficulties do not prevail, at ail events to
the same extent, in legislation by the
Dominion; possibly there may be some
question about the first, requiring judges
to do the non-judicial work. But the first
minister has guarded against difficulty in
this connection by keeping the office of
Revising Barrister distinct. As to the
second, providing for payment of the extra
work there would be no dificulty,
and I fancy few of the judges
would hesitate to undurtake it if
The
a proper allowance was made.
present system of preparing voters' lists is
not a thing in itself originally a graft upon
the municipal assessment law, it so remains,
that is, information collected and designed
for one purpose is used for another and
different one, and the numerous officers
engaged in the work are not appointed by
or directly amenable to the Province. In
Ontario between 14oo and 1500 subordinate officers are so employed-assessors
and municipal clerks. It is obvious that
with a system requiring s0 niany agents
the want of consistency in administration
is an evil inseparable from it-the differences introduced by the various degrees
of knowledge, prejudice, intelligence, or
care of the agents must be infinite, and a

The Iranchi8e [J ULY 10, 1885] Bill.
very cursory acquaintance with the working will supply abundant proof of what I
Say-nor is much improvement to be
looked for. I have been familiar with it
from the commencement till some two
years ago, and spared no pains to instruct
and advise clerks and assessors in respect
to their duties. By preparing yearly and
Circulating printed suggestions and instructions to these officers, pointing out errors
Which came under my notice from time to
time, as well as by addresses, at the instance
of the County Council, to officers personally. Mine was a large jurisdiction, some
95 or 100 officers, and the work was as
well or better done than in other jurisdictions in the Province. But mistakes were
of constant occurrence. The same mistakes often repeated year aftter year, and
I am
With all the pains taken.
safe in saying there was no voters' list
entirely correct and complete.
Errors
The
crept in in an unaccountable way.
defects of the system, in addition to the
general objections I have referred to, were
due to the constant changes in officials
and their imperfect remuneration. And I
nay add, the selection, in some cases,
of agents whose chief recommendation
Was that they were active politicians.
Assessors and clerks are subjected to
Yearly appointments; they have no certainty of tenure, and are without the
stimulus which the permanent officer bas,
to acquire an accurate knowledge of all

the details of duty.

And they are insuffi

1265

the revision of the printed list, and
the distribution thereof when printed.
My views on the subject have not been
recently formed, and 1 may venture to read

some extracts from a published address to
assessors which shows what in 1877 I
thought on the subject.

" The Assessor holds one of the most re.
sponsible offices under our excellent Munici-

pal system; his duties are extensive and important, requiring not merely great care and

accuracy, ini detail, but varied knowledge and
sound judgment for their due discharge.
His functions are not merely corporate-he is

one of the many agencies employed by the

Legisiature of the country to perform certain
duties of a general and public character.
'' The importance of securing competent
men to fill the position must be o vious to all.
A complete and reliable Assessment is the
only fair basis for taxation, and the work of
the Assessor is also the material from which
the Voters' Lists are formed, and serves
various purposes in connection with our
educational and legal systems. As to what
more imnediatelv concerns a Municipalityif the work of Assessment is not correctly
and well done it may expose the municipality
to law suits and costs ; and inperfect Assessments have actually caused the loss of
thousands of dollars, in loss of taxes, to more
than one Muniicipality in the County, besides

generating difficulties requiiing years to overcomne.
'' With knowledge, therefore, of the importance of the duties and the serious consequences that result from careless or imperfect
work by an Assessor, Municipal Councillors,
custodians of the public interests, are bound
to bsecure good and suitable men for the work,
and the Council that fails to do this is not
acting in the true interests of the constituency.
"I ow is it to be done ? First-By holding out the inducement of fair and reasonable
wages. I he fact is, that Assessors, as a rule,
are poorly paid in proportion to the services
rendered, the amount and character of the
work, and the responsibility of the position.
In the language of the learned Chief Justice
of Ontario, who bas done so much to elucidate the Municipal Law,-' Poor pay, poor
' services, is the general rule ; good servants
' are deserving of good pay, and good pay to
<good servants will in the long run be found
'to be true economy.'
" Second-It is nost disastrous to a municipality to be constantly changing its officers
particularly the Assessor. It requires severai
years to gain the necessary acquaintance with,
the particular locality, and the value of property therein ; and proper training in the
work of this office, as in every department of
business, is essential to a safe and benefi.
cial discharge of the duties. Men do not
bring into their harvest fields, or into their

ciently paid; indeed the vicious method
Prevails in many municipalities of putting
Up the office for tender and giving it to the
Person undertaking to do it at the lowest
rate. Anyone familiar with an assessors duty
willknow that considerable time and travel,
especially in the townships, are required to
Secure the proper information, and great
care and attention needed in placing every
lecessary detail upon the assessment roll,
and for this work $20 is often the whole
allowance to the assessor, the average re.
inuneration probably not exceeding $75.
And so it is with municipal clerks who
are, except in a few cases, not paid more
than half what their services are worth :
and they, in addition to the general duties
of their office, have the preparation of the
Voters' lists from the assessment roll, inCluding the alphabetical arrangement of workshope, or their counting-houses, unthe whole, the causing it to be printed, trained men, if trained men can be had ; and
E3

1266

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

as skilled labor is always more valuable to
the employer, it should connand higher
wages. When a Municipality bas secured a
good officer, his services should be retained so
long as he is able and willing to do his work
properly. While I an glad to have an opportunity of a word in favor of better renuneration to Assessors, and saying it in the presence of the collective wsd on of the County,
it is proper that I should add that hiowever
poorly requited, a careless or imperfect discharge of duty cannot be excused-the
Assessor accepting office does so with his
eyes open, the obligation to perforni what the
law requires of im is incurred when he ac-

discovered, due to inattention or ignorance, or possibly in some cases to design.
Now the ssten
romosed by this Bill will,
, t
e
p
I think, cure many of the evils inseparable
from the present system and be a great
improvement upon it. You will have under it an educated professional man, one
above tbe reacb of improper or irregular
a
influences, to prepare the lists ; an officer
alike independent cf the Government and
the public, secure in his position so long
as he faithfully and efficiently performs the
duties of his office, and who will everY
year be acquiring a further mastery of the
Now it may be said that there is an subject : one who will be guided by prinappeal to a court of revision from the ciple and precedent in all he does. Inassessment. But this court is composed of stead of a perfect army of imperfectlY
the municipal officers elected annually, an trained, imperfectly educated agents withever changing body who are in many cases out fixity in office, with a feeling ever
without experience, and who have neither present that as a breath bas made
time nor in many cases inclination to devote tbem, so a breatb
can unmake,
the time necessary to understand their you wiil have, comparatively, a few
duties, and the work of revision is conse- men
acting
as revising barristers,
quently as a rule done in a most perfunctory so that uniform action on settled princl
manner. The Legislature of Ontario evi- pies may well be expected. Besides this
dentlysaw that assessments would be made the body of revising barristers in each
upon no general principles, and that perfect province will have an opportunity of conreliance could not be placed upon them. ferring together and discussing questions,
Several municipalities would be pulling in as was the practice under the Civil Bil
different ways, each dealing with the sub- system in Ireland, and wbich now prevailS
ject from its own standpoint, with preju- amongst the County Judges in Ontario.
dices and all sorts of irregular influences Moreover, the facilities for appeai and
in full play. To correct this evil so correction will be greatly facilitated. The
far as possible tbe legislature gave politica parties interested hi1l be better
re- tand more effectually represented before
an appeai to the local judge.
collect an appeal of this kind in the revising barrister than could probabsy
which tbe judge found it necessary to a be the case, with tbirty or forty courts of
just equasization to increase the valuation appeal at no definitely fixed date for
from. eleven millions and odd to fourteen holding court, and witb one instead of
millions and odd, adding almost one-third numerous agents to refer to for any inforto the aggregate equalization by the county mation tbat might be necessary. Yes, I
counicil. The duty of making out the confidently assert that under the syster
voters' hists, arrangingin aiphabetical order, proposed by this Bill, political parties May
prînting,
notices, etc. comes to the pssuing
be conveniently and inexpensively reclerk at a busy season of the year, wben presented,
more so than tqey pos,
he bas numerousother dutiescrowdedupop sibly could be under
the existing
assurance
with greater
hsm, and the time given himi to do the law, and
work is of the briefest. Lt cannot be a of a ful and onest list. 0f course,
matter of surprise, therefore, if the work is it is ail-important that the best men should
imperfectly done, especiacly in the case of have inducements held out to accept the
officers who have had littue experience. position of revising barristers. And with
lt is true that an appeal is given to the this end in view assurance as been given
County judge, but only in electoral that wbere circurstances admit, the
districts where party feeling runs high is county judge will be offered the appointrmuch attention paid to the voters' iists til ment. I take it that wil be the general
the day of election comes, and then rule acted on, thoug there may be cases
errors of the most palpable kind are where, from the age of the judge, the
HoN. MR. GOWAN.

The Franchise [JULY 10, 1885] Bill.
requirements of the judicial business
proper in the jurisdiction, or the condition of the district, it would be inexpedient
to take the county judge. In view of the
judge being offered the position, it was
important that the tenure should be during good behaviour, for I think it extremely
Probable that no judge would accept such
an office, to hold office at the pleasure of
the Crown. A good deal, however, has
been said in the way of objection to such
an appointment, and leaving it to the
Judges to name officers yearly finds favor
in some quarters, this being the practice
in England ; but though the revising barrister may be appointed yearly the actual
practice is to continue the incumbent in
office during good behaviour; so that, in
England, is practically the tenure. I think,
inyself, the mode proposed by the Bill is
the best, and I cannot understand those
who wish to act in harm-ony with the
wishes of the people, as expressed by
their representatives taking a different
ground in Ontario. From the first institution of division courts, and until recently,
lhe appointment of the officers, clerks and
bailiffs was vested in the judges, and
these officers held their appointments
during pleasure of the judge. For some
40 years I myself performed that duty,
and in that time appointed more than 100
officers, some of whom derived an income
frorm fees greater than the judge who
appointed him enjoyed from his salary.
Well, all that. as I mentioned, is altered by
an act of the Provincial Legislature, and
the appointment of the six to eight
hundred Division Court officers is now
vested in the Government of the province.
It was put perhaps not unreasonably in
this way, that as the Government were
responsible for the efficiency of the
tribunals, it was only right that they
should have control of the appointment of
Officers. If my memory serves me, the
Opposition in Ontario professed to be as
fearful as the Opposition in the Government
of the Dominion now professes to be, that
the power of appointment would be
abused for political ends. So far as my
observation extends I have seen no evidence of this in Ontario, and I feel quite
sure that the Government of the Dominion
will weil and faithfully discharge their
duties in the appointments to the more
important position of revising barrister.

1267

And the contrast is altogether in favor of
what is now proposed. For it is not proposed to reserve the power of removal at
will to the Government of the Doiimion,
as was in Ontario reserved to the Governof the province in respect to Division
Court officers. An incredible thing has
been broadly asserted with all the bitterness of party expression, that the object
of the Bill was to enable the Government
to appoint pliant partizans for corrupt
purposes, and wretched creatures would
be found in the several provinces of the
Dominion to act as willing tools for that
nefarious purpose. I do not think I state
too strongly the inference of what was
said-said, I must think, in frenzy of
political
prejudice.
But
I cannot
see how
a reasonable man,
not
hurried into absurd extremes, could
think so. If the Government aimed
at any such thing the office wouid be made
at pleasure, but the thing is too absurd to
dwell upon. I have entire confideuce that
the present Government will make the best
appointments possible, and with the object
of securing a just and honest administration of the law; and I will go further
and say that I believe if the present Opposition held the reins of Government
to-morrow their Government would be just
as incapable of acting on such vicious
principles. What hope would be for the
future of the country if our public men were
capable of such conduct ; inducing a judge
sworn to the faithful discharge of his duty
to violate his oath and, oblivious to every
principle of ianhood and Christian duty,
to favor a political friend ? Men summoned to the Senate are reasonably taken
from amongst these whose views are in
the main in accord with the Government of the day, and because of
some fitness for the position, will
the most
rabid politician contend
for a moment, that any one appointed to
this Hon. body in accepting the summons
forfeits the right to think for himself in any
measure that may come up, or surrender
his conscience to the sway of party however
much he may differ from his party on the
particular case-of course not, the Senate
could in such case have no attractions for
an honest man. Yet the case of a judge is
even still stronger, and yet the talk I have
referred to presupposes members of the
bar would be found willing to sacrifice all

1268

The Franchise [SE N ATE] Bill.

that a man holds dear at the beck and nod
of a Minister. I can scarcely bring my
mind to believe that anyone seriously entertains the idea. I indignantly repel it as a
gross slander upon the noble profession of
which I have the honor to be a member.
I do so emphatically in the case of the bar
of Ontario, and I speak on the knowledge
of nearly fifty years. At the close of the
last century the Law Society of Upper
Canada was established. In the language of
the Act of Incorporation it was declared
to be as well for the establishing of order
amongst themselves as for the purpose of
securing to the Province and to the profession a learned and hon. body to assist
their fellow subjects as occasion may require and to support and maintain the
constitution of the Province-and well and
nobly have these objects been carried out
as the records of the court, the
records of Parliament and the political
history of the country abundantly proves.
But I cannot think that a doubt of the
honor of the bar has permanent place
with any. 'Tis true very bitter things
are said in political discussions, and something of the prejudice that formed itself
into a maxim 1,900 years ago,

with a

favored race, still survives amongst politicians, and, can anything good come out
of Nazareth, is often the language of those
politically opposed. I have not fallen in
with anything from a calm, independent
writer, against this measure, nor have
members of the legal profession, who are
not strong politicians, said aught against
it. But I have read a good deal for and
against it by the latter class. I
have formed my own independent judgment-or rather, have adhered to the
opinion I formed years ago-that it was
desirable that the Parliament of Canada
should regulate the right of suffrage for
the Dominion, providing for the qualification of parliamentary electors the appr<priate machinery by which it is to be
evidenced in individual cases.
I very
willingly support this Bill believing it to
be a necessary provision, and one
that should have found a place on
I
years ago.
book
statute
the
am afraid I have encroached too long
on the patience of the House, but I was
desirous of placing deliberately on record
my views on the subject. With regard to
the power of the Dominion to deal with
HON. MR. GOWAN.

the subject, there can be of course no
doubt. No one has contended that the
Bill is unconstitutional, and with regard to
the language in which the British North
America Act is conceived, the hon. mermber from Amherst brought that out very
clearly. The plain intimation to the Parliament of the Dominion, was to legislate
on the subject, and I am sorry that it was
not done years ago, and before the bitter
feeling which has arisen of late years had
entered the minds of the people. The
expense, no doubt stood in the way. It
will be attended with considerabe cost, but
people must pay for their liberties and
work would not be efficiently performed
except the officers who performit are paid
fairly and liberrally for what they do. I
have no doubt the judges of the country
will accept the work and be satisfied with
reasonable remuneration, and I have no
doubt whatever that the work will be
better done than it is done to-day, and the
only difficulty will be the preparation of
the first lists ; after that everything will
work smoothly, and very little will have to
be done by the judges from year to year,
so that I feel in this measure very great
and necessary improvements will be made.
I again thank hon. gentlemen for having
listened to what must have wearied their
patience.
HON. MR. PAQUET (in French)-I
shall vote with great pleasure for the motion of my hon. friend from Ottawa, and
as I speak in a language which is not understood by the majority in this House, I
shall be as brief as possible. The position
which we, from the Province of Quebec,
occupy in this House on a subject of this
kind is a difficult one. We have also to
deal with a measure which concerns the
other Chamber only. The members of
this House are not required to present
themselves before the electorate, but on
the other hand we occupy the position of
moderators between the Crown and the
people. I hope that among the hon.
members of this House none will be found
in favor of universal suffrage on the one
side, or, on the other, of granting special
privileges to an aristocratic minority. I
regret that some members in this House,
as well as in the other Chamber, fail tO
find any justification for our opposition to
this Bill, and have gone so far as to accuse

The Franchise [JULY 10, 1885] Bill.
of disloyalty or want of patriotism. I
say, speaking at least for the members rePresenting the province from which I
corne, that such an assertion is a calumny.
While I admit that those who oppose us
are entitled to consideration, I hope that
they will respect equally the position
Which we are obliged to assume, and that
they will refrain from impugning our motives. We are told by those who support
the Bill that we have no good reason for
our opposition to the measure-at least,
in the debate yesterday one hon. gentlernan stated that he had heard up to that
time not one single reason to justify oppoSition to the measure. Will those hon.
gentlemen repeat that statement ? If
there is no ground for our opposition to
the Bill, why is it that several hon. members, who have been life-long and consistent Conservatives, find themselves
forced to range themselves with the Liberal party on this important question ?
It must, indeed, be an obnoxious measure
which leads to such a result. I therefore
feel bound to tell these hon. gentlemen
that we, on our side, have yet to learn of
any necessity for establishing a uniform
franchise for the Dominion, the tendency
of which would be to lead to a legislative
union. The Government are trying to
bring about legislative union, while we, on
the other hand, desire to maintain the
privileges which we enjoy under the conStitution. Under the Confederation Act,
the Governnient possess the right of legislating in this direction of a uniform franchise, but for eighteen years they have
hesitated to introduce the system. They
tell us that they wish to imitate the
nglish franchise, that this measure
is based on the English system. They
seem to forget that there is no analogy
between the circumstances of the two
countries. In England there is no federal pact as we have here. They possess
a legislative union ; ours is a federal union.
The two systems are different. The hon.
member from DeSalaberry argued with
great force yesterday that we have a great
many tribunals already, and that this
change will tend to increase the number,
to create confusion and give rise to
Public discontent. We are told that the
main reason for introducing this measure
is because of the hostile legislation of
Some of the local legislatures. The Bill
Us

1269

was conceived in a spirit of retaliation
and not with a view to doing justice. I
hope, however, that in this honorable
House the minority will not have to look
in vain for justice. One source of difficulty which is likely to arise under this
Bill is the possibility of partiality on the
part of the revising barrister. Another
great objection to this Bill is the cost
which it will entail, not only on the
country, but on those who may find it
necessary to appeal from the decision of
the revising barrister. The hon. gentleman from Niagara says that the expense
will be trifling, but he must bear in mind,
that under any circumstances the appellant, whether he succeeds or not, will have
to pay the costs of solicitors, witnessess,
bailiffs, clerks &c. The only man who
will have no such expense to bear will be
the revising barrister ; he will be free from
any such cost whether the appeal is successful or not. Is that just ? Is it desirable that this heavy expenditure should be
incurred when, under the present system,
the municipalities have always done the
work of preparing the lists gratuitously ?
Has any one ever heard of the electors in
any part of the country petitioning for a
measure like this? No, it is introduced
simply for the purpose of retaliation. It
will involve an expense to the country of
from $25o,ooo to $3oo,ooo a year. That
is a very considerable sum, and it would
be much better expended if applied to the
extension of our railways, the great civilizing agents of the age, the re-patriation of
our fellow countrymen who have gone
to other lands, or at least towards the
establishing of a permanent force in the
North-West in order to prevent a repetition
of such disasters as have occurred there,
and are still fresh in the public mind, and
for other purposes, such as fostering agriculture etc. We are told that uniformity
in the electoral franchise is necessary ; yet
an exception is made in favor of two of
the provinces. No exception, however, is
made in favor of the Province of Quebec,
against which this Bill is evidently directed.
It would be better to say at once that,
after eighteen years of hesitation, they are
now bent upon despoiling it little by little
of its privileges. The Premier has always
been in favor of a legislative union, and he
seems determined now to accomplish his
work. The Province of Quebec is, as you

1270

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

all know, differently situated from any of
the other provinces ; it occupies an exceptional position and enjoys special privileges,
which privileges I consider are endangered
by this Bill. Two members of this House,
from the Province of Quebec, gentlemen
who are known to be strong Conservatives,
have found it necessary to rise and oppose
this measure. The hon. member for
De Lanaudiere (Mr. Bellerose) and the hon.
member for DeSalaberry (Mr. Trudel,) and
several others have taken alarm, and have
separated themselves from their life-long
political friends. They have exclaimed
"Stop, here is a dangerous measure for
our province ! " In the other House the
same spectacle was presented, and the
reply which was made there, and which
has been echoed with greater emphasis
here by the hon. member from Niagara, is
" This is obstruction." We are told that
all the debating and criticism which took
place on the measure in the other House
was nothing but obstruction.
But are
those who raise that cry really sincere ? If
the delay was due only to a policy of
obstruction, why is it, that after the Bill
had been referred to a Committee of the
Whole in the House of Commons, the
Government did not proceed resolutely
with its measure ? What were the Government doing during nearly eight days after
the Bill was reported from Committee ?
Nothing. They should have pressed the
legislative work, but they did nothing or
next to nothing. Even if the Bill had not
been of a most objectionable character, it
would have been a strange spectacle indeed
to see the House in session for weeks with
little or no business before it. And why
was this ? Because, as rumor says, (and I
think well-founded rumor) it was necessary
to continue the Session to the present day
in order that the two Houses might be in
attendance here to ratify the transactions
which Sir Leonard Tilley has made in the
English money market, on his return. That
is why the Session has been prolonged, but it
suited the Government better to publicly
accuse the Opposition of prolonging the
session by pursuing an obstructive policy,
and to present them in an odious light to
the public for a delay which, I contend,
was inevitable, owing to the policy of the
Government.
Many members of both
Houses knew that, and, of course, the
Minister of Justice above all others, and
HON. MR. PAQUET.

knowing it, I think he should have used
his influence to prevent an unfounded
charge being made against the Opposition.
Do they call that fair play ? I leave it tO
the hon. member from Niagara to replY.
He is generally near the Minister and well
instructed. The fact of having succeeded
in eliminating from the Bill a considerable
number of objectionable features justified
the Opposition in their energetic action,
unless, as we are infornied by the hon.
member from Niagara, those objectionable
clauses were inserted in the Bill for the
sole purpose of giving the Government the
extreme pleasure of striking them out
afterwards. I leave the House to say
what they think of such an argument.
HON. MR. POIRIER (in French)Although the House is anxious to terminate the debate, I wish, before a vote is
taken, to offer a few words in explanation
of my position on this measure. In replying to the arguments of the hon. member from LaValliere (Mr. Paquet), I will
at the same time answer those of the hon.
member from DeSalaberry (Mr. Trudel).
They have contended that the effect of
this Bill will be to centralize power at
Ottawa. If I understand the Bill properly it deprives no elector of the
franchise ; everyone who has a vote to-day
will continue to have a vote under this
Bill, but the franchise will be extended, so
far as the election of members to the
Dominion Parliament is concerned.
In the several provinces the ' local
legislatures will continue to fix the franchise for local elections; this Bill does
not in any way interfere with the management of local affairs, but instead of municipal officers preparing the lists, as is the
case now, officers will be appointed by
the authorities here for that purpose.
The voters here will be the same, the
principle of election will be the same ; the
only difference that this Bill makes, that I
can see, is that instead of having the lists
prepared by municipal organizations, they
will be prepared by our own officers.
While we leave to the provinces all the
liberty they enjoy to-day, and while we do
not interfere in the slightest degree with
their rights, I cannot see any reasonable
ground of objection to the measure, and I
shall vote for it because I see no evidence
in it of any tendency to centralization.

The

rancAise [JULY 10, 1885.] Bill.

1271

Parliament has never conceded the right wilI prove adecided benefit to the Province
of the local authorities to say who shall of Quebec. We have the Bi condemned
be eligible for election to the Dominion on the one side because it is too liberal,
Parliament, and there can be no doubt whiie on the other it is claimed that it is
that it is equally their right to say how fot liberal enough.
Vell, I think we wil
members shall be elected to the House of ail concede that the House of Commons
Commons. The system which has been has a right to nake laws of this kind to
Pursued in this respect hitherto, has been suit itself, and we should hesitate before
exceptional. I do not know of one sol- interfering in the slightest degree with a
tary instance in which a legislative body, measure which is so exclusively one
Possessing a right such as this, has allowed pertaining to thenselves. I hold that
Other bodies to exercise it for them for a it would be indelicate for us to interfere
rurnober of years. It is an anomaly which with the decision which has been arrived
hasbeeenrecognizedand commented upon at in the other chamber, and to put our
by ieading men on both sides of politiws in veto upon it, especiahly when it is strictly
this country. There can be no doubt in accord with the right conferred upon
that the privilege exists under the consti- them by the constitution. Even Mr.
tution, and the House of Commons simply Blake and Mr. Laurier admitted in their
exercises the privilege now which it should speeches thiat the B3ill was strictly constihave enjoyed and exercised ahl along, tutional. It occuIied the ti e of the other
under the Confederation Act. That it House for two months, and every clause
has fiot been done sooner is due to the and ne of the Bih was fuly discussed.
fact that the necessity did fot arise unti Are we to conclude, under these circumlate years. The Province of Nova stances, that the representatives o the
Scotia, with a view to injuring the Govcrn- peophe in the other Chamber do
oot know
nent of the day here, disfranchised the what they require for thenselves? For my
eipoys on the Intercolonial Railway in pdu there is fot a clause of the Bil with
t,
their Province. Mr. Mowat gerryman- which I would care to interfre, and theredered the Province of Ontario and modi- fore I shaip vote for the
liyl
as it stands
fied the electoral aws repeatedly and in and oppose any and every amendment
Such a way as
create confusion. Under that may be offered. I have said before,
the laws of the Dominion the qualification that the Bi is fot unfavourable to the
for members is uniform through the Province of Quebec; it wil fot only reDominion, and the sa e reason exists why tain its present electors, but it will increase
the franchise should be uniform. If this their number, and I contend that Quebec
law had for its object the perpetration of wil derive a special advantage beyond any
ijustice upon any province-if for which the
riya
confers on the other proexarwple it refused to the people of the vinces. As we al know, in that province
Province of Quebec, or New Brunswick, there are very large families.
Under
the rights which are accorded to every the existng law only the father votes, while
Other province, it should meet with my his sons living with hih do ot exercise
Opposition. Though I represent New the franchise. Under this Bill, not onhy
Brunswick in this House, my sympathies the father but his sons wil exercisethe franextend also to the Province of Quebec, chise, and, owing to the fact that the famiand I shousd vote with the hon. gentlemen lies are so large, there wihh be a very great
who represent that Province here if I increase in the number of voters. The
could see that the measure in any sense sane appies to the French-Acadians ofthe
or degree injuriously affected the Province Lower Provinces. Under the circumOf Quebec. But the franchise proposed stances, I think it is the Province of Queby this Bil disturbs east of ail the systemr, ec that is most favored by this Bill, and
which prevails in that Province and can if any province shoud feel itself injured
have no injurious effect upon its people. by the change it is Ontario.
I find no
There is ess change in the Province of fauht with those who look for nanhood
Quebec than in any other part of the suffrage. I would even advocate it for
Dominion and there is less reason there rural districts and think of ail other pro
to feel any aharm because of this measure. vinces, the Province of Quebec should
To My mid this Bill, instead of injuring, have east l fear from such an extension

1272 Liquor License Act, 1883, [SENATE] Amendment Bill.
of the franchise. They are a wise and
The Senate divided on the amendment,
conservative population, amongst whom which was rejected on the following
there is no taint of socialism or nihilism, vote :and they would therefore be a safe popuCONTENTS:
lation to exercise such a privilege.
Bon. Messrs.
I do not believe in so frequently bringing Armand,
MeMaster,
up the questions of socialism or radicalism Baillargeon,
Pâquet,
in a land like ours. The tendency of Bellerose,
Power,
Reesor,
such a course would be, were our popula- Boucherville de,
Scott,
tion not so conservative in their social Chaflers,
Stevens,
principles to give rise to the very evils which Guévremont,
Trudel,
Haythorne,
we deprecate. The hon. gentleman from Leonard,
Wark.-17.
De Lanaudiere, says that this Bill takes McClelan,
the control of the family from the father.
NoN-CONTENTS:
I say it strengthens the influence of the
Hon. Messrs.
family instead of weakening it, because,
Macdonald,
for instance, a family consisting of a father Allan,
MacInnes,
and four grown-up sons will have five votes Bolduc,
under this Bill, whereas at present they Campbell, (Sir Alex.),Miller (Speaker),
Montgomery,
Carvell,
have only one. Children generally, with Chapais,
Nelson,
rare exceptions, obey their fathers, and Clemow,
Northwood,
O'Donohoe,
by this law you offer inducements to the DeBlois,
Ogilvie,
boys to stay at home with their parents. Dever,
Plum b,
The Bill does not give the sons a share in Dickey,
Poirier,
Girard,
the father's property except for political Gowan,
Read,
purposes, and therefore cannot place them Howlan,
Robitaille,
Ross,
in a more independent position as mem- Kaulbach,
Smith,
bers of the family. I say the Bill is a McDonald,
McKay,
Sutherland,
good one for the Province of Quebec, and McKindsey,
Vidal.-33.
even a liberal one. It extends the fran- McMillan,
chise, at the same time taking precaution
The Bill was then read the second
to extend it mainly amongst the agricultural population, who deserve to enjoy the time.
right of voting for candidates for the
Dominion Parliament. An agricultural
LIQUOR LICENSE ACT 1883,
population is one which can safely be
AMENDMENT BILL.
entrusted with the ballot ; it is not such a
people that abuses the privilege. These
THIRD READING.
are my principal reasons for supporting
the measure-because it relates especially
The House resolved itself into a comand exclusively to the House of Commons, mittee of the Whole on Bill (134), "An
and because it does not abridge any exist- Act respecting the Liquor License Act
ing right, but extends the franchise to 1883.
classes who ought to have a right to vote.
The only consideration which could
In the Committee,
properly justify the Senate in inter fering
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-This
with this Bill would be if the provinces
were in any way wronged by the majority is a Bill consisting of one clause to suspend,
in the House of Commons, or if in our while the discussion is going on in the
opinion the measure were in any way un- courts with reference to the legality of
constitutional.
Neither of these objec- the clauses referred to in the Bill, the
tions being alleged, and the Bill being one operation of certain clauses of the Act
peculiarly affecting the House of Commons which have, in the meantime at all events,
and the intimate relations of members been pronounced ultra vires by the court
with their constituents, there is no occasion
for us to interfere. Therefore, I repeat, I
DEBOUCHERVILLE,
HON. MR.
from the Committee, reported the Bill
shall vote for the.Bill as it stands.

HON. MR. POIRIER

Consolidated Militia Act, etc., [JULY 10, 18851 Amendment Bill.

1273

Without amendment, and it was then read
HON. MR. POWER-I think the course
he third time and passed.
suggested by the hon. member from
Ottawa when we were dealing with a bill
CONSOLIDATED MILITIA ACT, to provide for an increase of the Mounted
Police force was wise. I do not see why
1883, AMENDMENT BILL.
it is necessary to mantain so many military
SECOND READING.
schools but I think a portion of the force
-one at all events of the two batteries
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved kept down here-might be kept in the
the second reading of Bill (152) "An Act North-West, and I do not see the wisdom
to amend the Consolidated Militia Act of of the provision of this Bill which is that
1883." He said-This is a Bill to enable there shall be two more companies of inlier Majesty to raise, in addition to the fantry added. If it is necessary to have one
present service, an active militia force infantry company for the purpose of estabWhich may be any number of men not ex- lishing the military school, one at least of
ceeding 1,ooo, to be divided into such the two additional companies ought to be a
Corps as Her Majesty may from time to cavalry company. If the difficulties in
tirne direct. So far as I have been able to the North-West have taught us anything
Understand from the Minister of Militia, it it is that infantry are of comparatively
is not intended to increase the force beyond little value in that country. What is the
the establishment of additional military most needed now is a strong and effective
schools, one particularly in Winnipeg to be cavalry force, and I fail to see what
Composed of two branches of the necessity there is for two more companies
service, the cavalry branch, and the infan- of infantry or the wisdom of adding to
try branch. It is also contemplated to our infantry force and leaving the cavalry
-establish another school, possibly in the force as it stands.
Province of Quebec, but at all events it is
With reference to these schools that this
HoN. MR. OGILVIE-If there is one
force is intended to be provided. The thing I should speak upon it is certainly
Preservation of the peace in the North- this of the North-West Mounted Police.
West it is proposed to entrust to the
HON. MR. POWER-This is not the
Mounted Police and to the force which
may be established under this Act in con- Bill.
nection with the military school in WinniPeg. The Bill consists of only one clause,
HON. MR. OGILVIE-I know it is not
and I move that it be read the the Bill but it is partially connected with
second time at length at the table.
it, and I say this, the more powers we
can give to the officers of the North-West
HON. MR. SCOTT-Perhaps my hon. Mounted Police force the better you will
friend would explain-I have not the be serving your country. They have
statute at hand-the number of men been found specially qualified for that
authorised to be raised.
North-West service. There is no man
appointed there, that I know of, who has
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLnot served in, and knows all about the
Seven hundred and fifty.
country to which his duty calls him.
That being the case, they are the men that
HON. MR. SCOTT-This Bill provides we should promote as officers if we can
for an increase of 250 ?
possîbly do so. It may not be always
possible to appoint officers from the force
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes. that is out there ; but I know individually
that in a great many cases it is possible,
HON. MR. SCOTT-Is it proposed to and that it would be advantageous to
itcrease the force to 1,ooo ?
appoint the best men who have served for
years and years in that force, and know
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL the country and the difficulties of the
I understand that it is to be limited to position from beginning to end. I know
a,ooo men altogether.
all about them myself ; I know the men

1274A

The Rebellion in [SENATE] the North- West.

their fellow-subjects, such as the Common
Law of the British Empire affords to every
subject of Her Majesty ?
He said: When the law which is at
present in force in the North-West was
adopted, the reason as I understand why
the usual number of jurors was not provided for the trial of cases there, was that
the population in that part of the country
was very sparse. It is very well known
that there will be shortly several trials
there-if I understand rightly, not less
than forty persons charged with being imThe motion was agreed to, and the Bill plicated in the late rebellion are to be
was read the second time.
tried. It seems to me that it might be
possible to amend the law in such a way
as to give those citizens the advantage of
The Senate adjourned at 6 o'clock.
being tried by twelve of their own countrymen. It is for this reason I put the question. It is true that it is now very late in
the session, but such an amendment as I
THE SENATE.
suggest would require very little time, it
Monday,July 3th, r885.
could be passed in a very few hours.

connected with the force, and notwithstanding what may have been said against
them, they are our best men for the NorthWest. They are the men that we have to
depend upon ; and I say that 500 of
those North-West Mounted Police are
worth more to us to-day for immediate
service than 5,ooo raw volunteers. It
may seem very hard for me to say so, and
some of our volunteers may feel annoyed
at me for what I have said.
It is not a
flattering statement to make, but it is true.

THE SPEAKER took the chair at three
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-In
o'clock.
reply to my hon. friend's question, I beg
to say that the Government has not had
Prayers and routine proceedings.
under consideration the propriety of
changing the law upon the point in
VETERANS OF THE WAR OF 1812. question.
PETITIONS OFFERED.

HON. MR. BELLEROSE presented
the petition of Joseph Couseneau, a veteran of the war of 1812-15, and Henrietta
Guimond, widow of Jean Baptiste Coutu,
a veteran of the war of 1812-15, praying
to be allowed pensions. He said: I
have some doubt as to whether these
petitions can be received. However, I
present them and leave it to the Speaker
to say whether they can be received.

THE REBELLION IN THE NORTHWEST.
INQUIRY.

HON. MR. TRUDEL inquired:Whether the Governnent has taken into
consideration the question of protecting
against famine by imniediate aid t hose who
on account of the rebellion have been deprived
of all means of subsistence, and are exposed.
to perish from hunger and vant?

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
are not in Government have had that matter under
order.
consideration and treated it with the
greatest possible care. At this moment a
THE TRIALS AT REGINA.
good many of those who are suffering in
the way pointed out by the question areINQUIRY.
receiving food from Government agents,
and instructions have gone to the Lieut.HON. MR. TRUDEL inquired:Governor to provide, as far as possible, that
Whether the Governinent has taken into no suffering shall pass unconsidered, so
consideration the question whether it would far as we can consider it and relieve it.
not be better in the interests <f justice to Also special care is being used, and
modify the law in such a manner as to afford
to persons implicated in the rebellion in the persons have been appointed, for the purNorth-West a trial before a jury of twelve of of making further inquiry so that we may
THE SPEAKER-They

HON. MR. OGILVIE.

The Smith [JULY 13, 1885] Divorce Ca8e
Perhaps be able shortly to judge of what
additional assistance should be given. Of
Course the Government is obliged to go
very carefully ; we do not want to enCourage idleness, and we want as far as
Possible to so treat all cases of suffering as
t0 prevent those who are relieved dependIng entirely on the food supplied by
the Government; we want as far as
Possible to encourage them to work for a
living. In the meantime, instructions
have been given to the Lieut.-Governor,
having for their object the relieving of
any suffering as far as possible, with the
mleans at our command.
THE SMITH DIVORCE CASE,
MOTION.
HON.

MR. READ moved

That the fee paid on the Bill intituled "An
Act for the relief of Charles Smith" be
refunded to him less the expenses of printing
and translation.
He said :-In this case the petitioner
'was not successful and he wishes to be
refunded the deposit which he made, less
the expenses of printing and translation.
There are several authorities for making

auch a refund.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I think
m'Y hon. friend should add the expenses of
the stenographer.

HON. MR. READ-This is just one of
those motions for which we have precedents. There are instances on record
where the stenographer was not named,
although one was employed ; for example,
the case of Matthew Gardner, who
dropped his bill after a great deal of evi-

dence had been taken. Although a stenOgrapher was employed no deduction was
rade on that acccunt in refunding the
mnoney. I see here that the motion was
Made by Mr. Dickey, seconded by Mr.
Ferrier, that the fee be refunded him, less
the expense of printing and translation.

1275

HON. MR. READ-It is the practice
that has been followed since we have
employed stenographers.
The case to
which I refer occurred only two years ago.

Mr. Gardner went on with his bill until
such time, apparently, as he saw that it was
likely to be lost, and then he dropped it.
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL-In

that case I suppose attention was not
called to it.

HoN. MR. KAULBACH-It evidently
was an inadvertence. The object of this
money is to indemnify the House for all disbursements in connection with the case.
If we have been lax and negligent in
the past, it is for us to be careful now,
and, in this case particularly, there is
good reason why we should include the
stenographer's fee. I think the merits of
this case justify us in making a commence-

ment in this direction.

A deduction

should be made for every charge that the
Senate has been subject to in the way of

expenses.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
hope my hon. friend will alter his motion

to include the stenographer's fee. Why
should the public suffer because this
man chooses to come here and apply
for a Bill to which, as it turns out, he is
not entitled ? I cannot see any sense in
it.

HoN. MR. READ-I cannot see why
he should be made an example of, and a
different course pursued towards him from
that which has been followed in other
cases. I have given you an instance in
point where the only deductions made
were for printing and translation.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Attention was not drawn probably, in that
case to the matter; there is no difference
between the expenses of the stenographer
and the expenses of printing.

HON. MR. READ-There is no difference, I admit, but the precedents do not
show that such a reduction has ever been
made heretofore.

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
bas been the practice, I believe, but it is
HON. MR. PLUMB-If I remember
a practice that grew up before we employed the case, it was one in which the petitioner
stenographers.
had no ground whatever for making the

1276

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

HoN. MR. POWER-I should suggest,
application. He must have known his
position and he must accept the conse- as the Minister has a copy of the Bill with
quences of that position ; I see no reason marginal notes, it would be sufficient tO
why the public should be put to expense read the marginal notes to each clause.
for a suit upon a petition which proved to
be as groundless as that one was.
HON. SIR ALEX. CMPBELL-I will
do that. The first section with several
HON. MR. READ-Then I willamend subsections is with reference to the interit to add the word "stenographer."
pretation of terms.
The motion, as amended, was agreed to.
HoN. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEThis interpretation is very important. On
BILL INTRODUCED.
the second page, hne io, there is an interto the Chinese,
with
Bill (153), "An Act further to amend pretationthink isreference
very important. For my
which I
the Acts respecting the Canadian Pacific
against that
Railway and to provide for the completion part I should like to protest
definition.
and successful operation thereof." (Mr.
Smith.)
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is
not proposed to give votes to the Chinese
THE FRANCHISE BILL.
at present.
IN COMMITTEE.

HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLE-I
should like to have a vote upon that.

The House resolved itself into committee of the whole on Bill (103) "An Act
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My
respecting the Electoral Franchise."
hon. friend could move the amendment
at the third reading.
In the committee.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
not know whether hon. members will
desire to go through this Bill, clause by
clause, the provisions relating to the other
branch of Parliament. What seems to be
the more convenient way is if hon. gentlemen would draw attention to any particular clause we might discuss that clause
and it might not be necessary to go
through the Bill in detail. What does the
hon. member from Ottawa think of that ?

SCOTT-With reference to
making amendments to the Bill in committee I did not propose, myself, to offer
any at this stage, much preferring any
amendment which I have to submit should
be at the third reading of the Bill in order
that the yeas and nays may be taken.
However, other hon. gentlemen may entertain a different view ; but that is my
suggestion-to offer no amendments in
committee. Probably the shorter and
simpler way would be to call out the leading words of each clause and then if any
hon. gentlemen wish to say anything with
reference to it an opportunity will be afforded to do so.
HON. MR.

HON. MR. PLUMB.

HON. MR. VIDAL-I agree with my
hon. friend opposite, but I think it would
be better that we should have an explanation why the Chinese are to be
deprived of votes. I cannot myself see
the propriety of excluding the Mongolians,
who have shown themselves to be patient,
industrious and law-abiding, from privileges
which are given to every other member of
the human family in this country.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We
are not troubled here with the Chinese,
but perhaps if they were as numerous here
in proportion to the population as they
are in British Columbia we might share
the objection which is entertained to them
there.
HoN. MR. MACDONALD-The objection to the Chinese is that they are not
British subjects. No one desires to give
then a vote, and I think this a good provision. I remember at one time that the
Chinese were allowed to vote in British
Columbia, and the way it worked was this:
I used to go round in the mornings and
leave my card with the voters, and my

The Branchi8e [JULY 13, 1885] Bill.

1277

Opponent would come afterwards and
tear it up and leave his own. Then I
would go the next morning and tear his
Up. Then, on polling day the question
was which would succeed in carrying the
Chinese to the poll? I have seen my
opponent take them in waggon loads, like
sheep.

no way fulfil the duties of British subjects,
and when they are still an alien race,
without any feeling of interest or any permanent abode in the Dominion ? There
is no reason that they should, and, as we
would be obliged to go contrary to the
feelings of the whole province, to give the
Chinese a vote, it seems to me that it
would be a very inexpedient thing to do,
HON. MR. SCOTT-Does my hon. and that is the reason which influenced
friend think that the Indian vote would be the Government in excluding those perany better than that ?
sons from the franchise.
HON. MR. MACDONALD-Yes, I do.
HON. MR. NELSON-The people of
The Indians are residents of the soil, and British Columbia, in asking for legislation
a much better class of citizens.
against the Chinese, as they have this
session-as against their enjoying such
HON. MR. POWER-I think the privileges as this Bill intends to prevent
House is entitled to some explanation them from enjoying-have not stood
from the Government as to why they have alone. In California, the United States
decided to give a vote to the Indian and generally, and every part of the world
exclude the Chinese.
where we have had European nations, and
more particularly Anglo-Saxons, there has
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
been a strong feeling of antipathy to the
think I gave that the other day ; I cer- Chinese coming amongst them, and the
tainly gave an explanation the other day, same antipathy exists to-day in British
why the Indians are allowed to vote.
Columbia. It has been found in all parts
of the world where the Chinese have been
HON. MR. POWER-The hon. mem- aggressive, as they are aggressive in our
ber fron British Columbia gave a reason, province, that legislation of this kind is
which is not a reason, for excluding the necessary. In comparing the Chinese
Chinese ; he says they are not British with the Indians, we should bear in mind
subjects. If they are not British subjects, that the Indians were the owners of the
then they cannot vote in any case ; if they soil, and that we should not overlook their
are British subjects, I do not see, when rights. The Chinese are aliens.
We allow the Indians and Negroes to vote,
why we should deprive Chinamen of the
HON. MR. SCOTT-Why exclude the
franchise.
Indians in British Columbia from the franHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--We chise ?
certainly gave a reason the other day why
the Indian should be allowed to vote, and
HON. MR. NELSON-We are excludI think it was most eloquently given by ing the Indians in British Columbia from
my hon. friend from Niagara, a reason the franchise, and I will give the hon.
which ought to be perfectly satisfactory, gentleman a good reason for excluding
and I judge by the vote given that the them. One of the objections raised to
House was satisfied. We did not give any exclude Indians from voting by a great
reason for excluding the Chinese, or many gentlemen in the other House holdMongolian race, as that question did not ing the same views as the hon. gentleman
come up. It is not one that affects us in opposite, has been that the Indians are
this part of the Dominion, but it does not a sufficiently civilized people. In the
affect the people of British Columbia, and Province of Ontario, and in these other
why should we give those people a vote older Provinces, where the Indians occupy
when the general feeling in British a better position, and where they have a
Columbia is so strongly against it ? Why certain amount of wealth and a certain
should they participate in the rights and annual income, it shows that they are
privileges of British subjects when they in capable of exercising the franchise.

1278

Te Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

POWER-The same as a thing stronger than I have heard, I shall
continue to believe in them ; and I shall
continue to believe that this absolute reHON. MR. NELSON-In British Col- fusal to allow Chinese laborers to vote is
umbia the lowest savage is able to make an error.
the amount of money that the franchise
requires ; he can earn from $zoo to $4oo a
HON. MR. PLUMB-The Chinese
year.
question has been discussed at considerable length in the other House and elseHON. MR. HAYTHORNE-It seems where for some time past. It has been
to me that this is a question on which this discussed in the United Statcs, and it has
House ought to express its opinion freely, been decided in that country that the
because it is not only an important ques- Chinese should not be admitted to the
tion to-day, but it is likely to become more franchise, even on the broad basis that
so in the future. We are not bound by exists there of universal suffrage. My
what the feeling of British Columbia is on hon. friend says that we get a low class
that point, because political questions of the Chinese in this country. I do not
enter so largely into the matter there. The know any way in which we can get a
progress of that Province, and the progress different class than those who are brought
of the North-West generally, may be great- out under contract, which they make
ly retarded if the means of obtaining themselves with the companies who
cheap labor is kept out of the country. I furnish Chinese laborers. Each Chinawould myself willingly adopt any measure man has an agreement by which he is to
that might be thought necessary to keep a remain in the employ of the company a
disreputable Chinese out of the Province ; certain time. He is to be guaranteed a
but if I am rightly informed one of the certain payment by his employers, and
great complaints against Chinese laborers also his passage back to China-to Shangis, that a very low class of Chinese are hai, or to any place he wishes-and in
kidnapped and put on board ships and case of his death his body is sent back to
brought out to this country by persons China-he even grudges us his bones for
who have contracts to fill to supply labor manure. In his habits he is not for a
in British Columbia. If the Bill that has moment to be compared with the Negro
been brought down this session becomes or the Indian who live amongst us ; he
law, it seems to me that this objection comes as a member of an alien race, with
be superstitions, with ideas, and with habits
Chinese will
undesirable
to
overcome, because they will not Fe which are entirely distinct from our own ;
brought into the country; but it appears with sympathies which are distinct, and
to me that refusing the franchise to the he cannot mingle, and will not mingle
respectable Chinaman who fulfils all the with other races.
duties of a good citizen ; who supports
his family respectably, educates his childHON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEren, and pays his taxes, is committing an Supposing he was a Christian Chinaman ?
act which tends rather to the injury of
British Columbia than its advancement.
HON. MR. PLUMB-It is si wild a
If you wish to get respectable Chinese supposition that I will not make it. The
labor there, you ought to hold out every Jesuit missionaries have been laboring in
inducement to them to come; but if you China for over roo years, and they have
tell the Chinaman that no matter how made no appreciable impression on them.
reputable he may be in British Columbia
he will have no vote at all, it will deter
HON. MR. POWER-Yes, they have
them from coming to the country.
made some progress in some parts of
China.
HON. MR. NELSON-That is what we
HON. MR. PLUMB-If my hon. friend
want
will take up the history of China a work
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE - Until written by Hook, Crabbe and others who
those arguments are refuted by some- have devoted themselves to the work of
HON. MR.

Chinaman is.

The Franchise [JULY 13, 1885] Bill.
Chinese instruction, he will find that it is
not the case. I know from the statements
of merchants from two different cities in
China that Christianity has made no appreciable progress amongst the Chinese, and
even the class that come under the influence of the missionaries is not the class
that come out to this country ; they are
ernployed to a large extent by the merchants
In China. I do not agree at all with my
hon. friend from Prince Edward Island
that a better class of Chinamen would be
encouraged to come here if they were told
that by settling in Canada they would be
entitled to the franchise.

1279

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-This
would certainly exclude from the franchise
any person of Chinese blood.

HoN MR. McINNES-Then, if so, I
think it is a hardship. It is an undoubted
fact that some Chinamen marry white women. They have families, and they bring
up their children in a very respectable, intelligent way ; and when such children attain the years of manhood, and have the
necessary qualification, I think it would
be a great hardship to refuse them the franchise. I am not objecting to the clause,
but I am merely calling the attention of
the Government to this fact and to
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It suggest that it would be better to define
Would not tempt them.
how far the word " Mongolian " should
go.
HON. MR. PLUMB-It will not tempt
them, and those who are here have not
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL asked to be enfranchised ; they have not There may be some definition given to it
thought of being voters ; such a thing has hereafter, but it will hardly do to send this
flot entered into their heads.
Bill back to the Commons for the purpose
of defining the word " Mongolian. "
HON. MR. POWER-Have the Indians
asked to be made voters ?
HON. MR. NELSON-I have never
known a Chinaman to marry a white
HON. MR. PLUMB-We must remember that the influx of those people is upon woman in British Columbia.
the Pacific coast, and if the people of the
Pacific Province have made up their minds
HON. MR. McINNES-My attention
that they do not want the Chinese to vote, was called to this matter by the hon. memafter studying their habits, and having been ber from Peterborough who stated to me
in contact with them from day to day, I some time ago, when this Bill was introthink it would be very impolitic for us to duced into the House of Commons, that
force the Chinese upon the people of a most respectable citizen in Peterborough,
British Columbia.
was a Chinaman; that he was married
there and was well connected, and that
HON. MR. McINNES (B. C.)-I would his children were educated in the best
like to ask the Minister of Justice what is schools in the Province. He instanced
mneant by the term " Mongolian or Chinese this as a case of great hardship.
race? " Does it apply merely to a Chinaian fresh from China, or does it apply to
HON.
a half-breed, quarter breed, or octoroon i to send MR. PLUMB--It would be a pity
this Bill back to the Commons
for amendment for the sake of one instance
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLHON.
of this kind.
There are no half breed Chinamen that I
know of.
HON. MR. McINNES-It is one inHON. MR. McINNES-I beg the hon, stance now ; but I can assure the hon.
gentleman's pardon, there are half breed gentleman from Niagara that immediately
after the completion of the Pacific railway
Chinamen.
there will be a large influx of Chinese into
HON. MR. PLUMB-If there are hal f the eastern provinces, and this Bill may
breed Chinamen in British Columbia they perhaps inflict hardships on persons who
are not old enough to have a vote.
ought not to be treated in this way.

The Iranchie [SENATE] Bil.

1280

HON. MR. POWER-We

have not

yet heard any good reasons for excluding
the Chinese. It is true that, as a general
thing, the Chinese do not become naturalized ; but take the exceptional Chinamen who do become subjects of Her
Majesty, and have the qualification under
the election law; there is no reason
why they should not vote. It is said
that British Columbia does not wish the
Chinaman to vote. It is pretty hard to
say what British Columbia does desire in
that respect, as there seems to be a difference of opinion on it amongst the representatives of that province. If British
Columbia does not wish a certain class to
vote there, it is one reason for thinking
that we should not undertake to deal with
the franchise at all-that we should leave
it with the provinces. I venture to say
that if the opinion of the Province of
Ontario was taken on the Indian vote there
would be just as strong a condemnation of
the proposition to enfranchise the Indians
as there would be in the Province of
British Columbia against the Chinese.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Hear, hear.
I
want to emphasize the hon. gentleman>s
statements.

HON. MR. POWER-I do not think
the Parliament of Canada should make

any distinction of race at all ; that the
Chinese, Negroes, Indians and Whites
should be on the same footing ; that no

exceptions should be made in favor of one
or against another race.
This Bill
provides

that

an

Indian

shal

vote,

although he does not own property
and cannot make a bargain ; and
at the

same

time

it

provides

that

the Chinaman shall not vote although he
does own property and is in a position to
make contracts. I do not propose to take
up the time of the Committeee, but I feel
that it is my duty to enter a protest
against the injustice and inequality of the
proposition. I would like to ask the
Minister of Justice what reason there is,
considering that this Bill is proposed
chiefly for the purpose of creating uniformity, that the cities of Hull and St.
Hyacinthe in the province of Quebec are
made towns for the purposes of this
Bill?

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is
because those two places having a large
population, if a city qualification were required there it would make the electifg
body much smaller than if we make them
towns for the purpose of this Act.
HON. MR. SCOTT-My hon. friend
will recollect that there are several towns
in Ontario which are now cities, where
the population is about the same as that
of Hull. Take Belleville, St. Catherines
and Stratford, for instance, which have
recently been made cities, and have about
the same population as Hull: they should
be treated in the same way. I think also
that my hon. friend ought to consider
whether it is not possible to modify the
Chinese clause. It is very repugnant to
myself; but my principal reason is that
we are discriminating against Chinamen
in the face of the world. When we look
at the policy of the Empire, it seems to
me to be extremely incongruous on our
part to take this action. We all know
that for the last century every effort has
been made to get entrance into China.
We tried to induce thein to believe that
they ought to trade with the outside
world, and that they ought to become
more cosmopolitan, and after bombarding
their beautiful capital, Pekin, they did
see the propriety of fraternizing with civilized nations. They no sooner begin
to do so than they find we set up a
Chinese wall on our side ; we say it is all
right that our people should trade in China
and acquire property and civil rights there,
but Chinese should not be allowed similar
privileges in our country. To my view it
is entirely contrary to the principles of the
Empire. We should educate the Mongolians to mingle with the rest of the
world. I think it is a mistake to say they
will confine themselves to British Columbia. We are asked why do they go to
British Columbia; the reason is clear, it
is because they could not get any further,
but it is notorious that of late years they
are working east, and when the railroad is
finished they will come further east. I
think it is wholly inconsistent with our system of legislation that we should seek to
discriminate against the Chinese. Take
that instance referred to by the hon.
member for New Westminster, (Mr. McInnes) of the Chinaman who settled in

Tne Franchise [JULY 13, 1885] Bill.

1281

Belleville, and who has property there,
and has a family of children who are
native Canadians, and yet those children
have not the right to vote because their
tnother married a Chinaman.

HON. MR. TRUDEL-It seems to me
the moment the father dies the sons are
only proprietors of a part of the real estate
worth $50.
I think that is widening the
right too much.

HoN. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-I
certainly would think the case referred to
Would be a hard case, and that the sons
Should be allowed to vote ; but I do not
think that for one case of this kind we
should send the Bill back for the purpose
Of amending it.
The clause was agreed to.

HON. MR. POWER-As I understand
the clause, if a man owns a farm and
leaves by will all his property to his
daughters, and has also sons who continue
to live on the farm, these men who have
no interest in the property at all except
their residence there, under this clause
have a right to vote.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-They
have no interest in thé father's lifetime.
HON. MR. TRUDEL-Referring to It is a vote given to them in consideration
Sub-section B, it seems to me it discrimin- of residing on the farm and being concernates in favor of a party that is not quali- ed in the welfare of the country.
fied. If the father dies and the property
is not sufficient to qualify all the children
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I
give
one or two will qualify, according to the notice that I will move an amendment to
value of the property. It is quite clear that clause at the 3rd reading.
that the moment the father is dead the
The clause was adopted.
children are his heirs, and if he dies withOut a will they have an equal share in the
Property. Take for instance a property
On the 5 th clause,
Worth $5oo, and there are io children, and
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Is it not
each child shares to the amount of $5uthe eldest and the second and third have likely that disputes will ari:e on the quesno more property than the others, and I tion of occupation ? This clause may
do not <ee why those parties should be give rise to a good deal of wrong-doing.
qualifiei to vote when other parties, The Crown has at its disposal large tracts
Say ten persons, who have bought a pro- of land, and if they should be evil disposed,
Perty in partnership worth $500 could not. as members of the Ministry sometimes
Why in this case should not one, two or are, large grants might be made to persons
three of them be qualified to vote, as one, a year before an election, and a great deal
two or three sons of the farmers who are of wrong might be done in that way.
qualified on the same amount of property ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPB3ELL-We
have had that qualification in Ontario for
a long time, and I have never known any
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
think it is in furtherance of the franchise ; abuse to creep in. There are certain perIt increases the franchise. The provision sons having license of occupation-lock
seems to be that where a man dies his keepers, bridge keepers, &c They have
Sons living upon the place have a right to a license to occupy the property. Therevote at the following elections, provided are also persons who occupy land under lithere is sufficient property to qualify them cense from the Crown at fortified places
to vote. This supposes a case where the like Kingston.
registration is finished, and the man dies
before the election ; if the election takes
HON. MR. SCOTT-They would not
Place soon after his death, if there is have a vote in the past if they were not
Property enough to qualify, say three of the paying taxes.
sons to vote, they can do so, but if there is
Only enough property to qualify one, only
HON. SIR ALEX. C\MPBELLOne can vote.
I know a member of the other Chamber

On the 3rd clause.

F

3

1282

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Then I
who has quite a large house on land which
point to another difficulty. You bring the
he has leased from the Crown.
mortgagee into the question, and he nay
HON. MR. POWER-I do not think exercise an undue influence on the parties.
those people had votes under the Ontario
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-If he
Act.
is the man in possession he votes ; if he is
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes. not he does not vote. You cannot prevent a creditor exercising influence on a
HON. MR. SCOTT-Not where the debtor.
land is not taxed.
The clause was adopted.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-But
On the 9 th clause,
it would be taxed. I know there are ten
or twelve persons who have houses at
HON. MR. POWER-This is the clause
Kingston, near Fort Henry, on land which
which exempts British Columbia and
they hold in that way. They do not own
Prince Edward Island from the operation
the land but they are taxed.
of the law to a certain extent. I do not
know why those two provinces should be
The clause was adopted.
excepted more than the other provinces.
In New Brunswick a very large number of
On clause seven,
persons will be disfranchised by the
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I wish to operation of this Bill.
point out what I conceive to be a grave
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-There
objection to this clause in principle and in
practice. In principle, the land confers is to be an amendment offered to that, and
the franchise on the farmers' sons without had we not better defer the discussion until
reference to their fitness at all. Suppose the amendment is proposed ?
the land should not be of sufficient value,
HON MR. POWER-Do you propose
while the sons might be desirable voters,
the land may not be sufficient to qualify to amend it ?
them, or it may happen that there is some
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
encumbrance on it for which neither the
his sons is blameable; it may be but I understand the hon. member from
owner nor
an accident of the situation, but that en- Prince Edward Island to say, in his
cumbrance prevents two or three eligible speech the other day, that he would move
persons from voting. Has the Minister of an amendment.
Justice any proposition to offer to prevent
The clause was adopted.
such an anomaly ?
On the i oth clause,
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-I do
not understand the difficulty.
HON. MR. POWER-Sub-clause C excludes Indians in Manitoba, British
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Suppose Columbia, Keewatin, and the North-West
a farm worth say $2,ooo is encumbered to Territories, and any Indian on any
the extent of $r,400 or $r,5oo, and that reserve elsewhere in Canada, who is not
there is not value enough left unencum- in possession and occupation of a separbered to qualify the owner and his sons ate and distinct tract of land in such
reserve, and whose improvements on such
to vote ?
separate tract are not of the value of at
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It least one hundred and fifty dollars, and
does not depend on the encumbrance at who is not otherwise possessed of the
all ; it depends on the value of the qualifications entitling him to be regisproperty on the assessors roll-how much tered on the list of voters under this Act.
an acre it is worth, whether it is mortgaged I think, in the interest of uniformity, the
Indian ought to be allowed to vote everyor not.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

The FrancAe [J ULY 13, 1885] Bil.
where on the same qualification as the
white man. The fact is, the object of
this Bill is, as is quite well understood,
to retain the present Ministry in power.
lion. gentlemen may pretend to think it
is not, but there can be no doubt about it.
What is the object of allowing Indians to
vote in Ontario ? Is it not simply because
there are some half-dozen constituencies
where it is thought the Indian vote, when
Coached by the Indian agent, will be
Strong enough to defeat the Reform
candidate.
HON. SIR
no.

ALEX. CAMPBELL-Oh,

HON. MR.

SCOTT-To kill Paterson.

HON. MR. POWER-Ves, to kill
Paterson, and the hon. member from
Bothwell, and others.
HON.

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Not

at all.
HON. MR. POWER-I do not mean
to say that that is the object of the hon.
gentleman from Niagara, as I have no
doubt he is actuated solely by an enthusiastic love and admiration for our red
brethren. I cannot understand why that
love and admiration do not go furtherwhy they do not reach the red man in
Manitoba. Is he not as good a man, or
Pretty nearly as good, as the red
man in Ontario? Talking about British
Columbia, I do not venture to say that
the hon. gentleman opposite who has
referred to the Indians there is wrong, but
I have always understood that the Hyda
Indians were about as intelligent,ingenious
and industrious as any Indians in Canada.

1283

shown great aptitude in the way of being
jewellers and workers in metal to a certain extent, still they remain as they did
-perhaps not as great savages as they
were before the white man came there, but
almost as great.
HON. MR. MACDONALD (B. C.)The hon. gentleman from Halifax has
made a mistake as to the Hyda Indians.
The Indians he refers to are Tsimpsheans
at Metlakatlah, who might well be enfranchised. I saw those men 25 years ago
when they were cannibals and pagans living in wigwams partly under the ground.
To-day they are living in houses two
stories high, comfortably furnished, and
they have saw-mills, blacksmith shops, etc.
On Sunday you see an Indian mount the
pulpit and read a text trom the Bible in
English, and address a respectable, welldressed and orderly congregation. You
hear the Indians playing the harmonium,
and you see the women comfortably clad.
They are able to weave and spin and are
proficient in other civilized occupations.
You find amongst them blacksmiths, carpenters and other mechanics. Those are
the only Indians in British Columbia that
ought to be enfranchised.
HON. MR. POWER-Then why do
you not include them in this Bill ?
HON. MR. MACDONALD-There is
time enough foi that : the Bill can be
amended. The hon. gentleman from
Ottawa was not here and did not hear the
description which the hon. member from
Niagara gave of the Indians of Ontario.

HON, MR. SCOTT-The hon. gentleman from Ottawa was born in Ontario
and knows all about the Indians of
HON. MR. NELSON-They are known Ontario.
to a certain extent for their intelligence
and ingenuity, but nevertheless they are
HON. MR. MACDONALD-Then the
savages at the same time-strictly savages. hon. gentleman from Ottawa should not
We have had a visit from a gentleman speak of them as he has done. But with
who lives on that northern coast, who has regard to our Indians I say the tribe to
brought a couple of Indians with him but which I have referred are the only Indians
I may tell the hon. gentleman these are fit to vote.
not specimens of the Indians of British
Columbia. They have become civilized
HON. MR. POWER-It all goes to
and are under the care of the gentleman show that when we undertook to take the
who brought them here. Although the right of deciding who shall vote away
Indians of Queen Charlotte's Island have from the provinces, we immediately

1284A

The Franchi8e [SENATE]

plunged ourselves into all sorts of difficulties and inconsistencies. The only reason
given for introducing this measure in the
other House was that it was desirable
that we should have a uniform franchise,
but nature, and the circumstances, and the
prejudices of the people of the different
provinces are too strong, and it is impossible to have the desired uniform franchise. I think the better way to avoid
those absurdities, as we are going to have a
general franchise, would be to put the
Indian in the same position as the white
man.

Bill.

HoN. MR. POWER-I am calling attention to that. I think the proper way
would have been to let the municipal
officers make up the list in the first place,
and let the revising barrister do what the
revising barrister in England does-revise
the list made up by the local authorities.
As the clause is going through committee
I wish to call attention to it, and say that
that is one of the clauses to which I think
an amendnent should be moved at the
third reading. I think the Minister himself must feel that the proper way would
be to let the local officers make the lists.

HON. MR. PLUMB-That is what we
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
are tryng to do.
I do not agree with the hon. gentleman at
all, but I will reserve my explanation until
HoN. MR. POWER-I beg the hon. the third reading.
gentleman's pardon, it is not so.

HON. MR. HOWLAN-That is what
this clause was put in for.
HON. MR. POWER-The Consolidated
Indian Act which we passed last year provides that under certain circumstances
I
Indians can become enfranchised.
think that every facility ought to be
offered to intelligent and industrious
Indians to become enfranchised-to get
from under the control of the Indian
Office-and then every Indian who is
qualified in the same way as the white
man is qualified should have a right to
vote, and I think that is the only logical
and fair way to put it-make no distinction of race at all.

HoN. MR. POWER-It would not take

so long to discuss it now.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
will undertake not to be so long as the

hon. gentleman generally is.

HoN.
MR. POWER-The course
adopted in the other House was to discuss
these matters in committee and to put the
amendments and votes on record at the
third reading.

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
think a better suggestion is the one made
by the hon. member from Ottawa-that
the discussion should take place on the
third reading when the amendments are
HON. MR. PLUMB-I see there is a moved.

discrepancy between the hon. gentleman
and his leader.
The clause was adopted.

The clause was adopted.
On the 14th clause,

On the

1 3 th

clause,

HON. MR. POWER-I give notice that

I will move an amendment to that clause.
This officer should not prepare the list.
The same person should not prepare and
revise. The name that you give the officer is a misnomer. You call him a revising barrister when he is not a revising
barrister : he is a list maker
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
is only the first list.

HON. MR. POWER.

HON. MR. TRUDEL-I would suggest
that after the provision concerning the
Province of Quebec-that either a judge
of the Superior Court, an advocate or a
notary of the province shall act-the Minister should add the names of judges of the
sessions, of the peace, recorders and stipendiary magistrates. I have received a
letter from a gentleman well versed in
these matters, and he agrees with my
suggestion. I think it should be taken

into consideration.

Te 1rancmae [JULY 13, 1885.] Bil.

1285

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes, cer is not also a judge of any court." I
I will take it into consideration and men- have not noticed in any early part of the
tion it to my colleagues.
Bill a definition of the word judge, or any
definition of court.
HON. MR. TRUDEL-In some towns
of the province perhaps these might be the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,
Men best qualified for the work and the n the 14th clause it is defined what the
appointment would be optional, of course. judge is to be.
The clause was adopted.
HON. MR. POWER-It does not seem
On the 43rd clause,
to confine the judge to the officer described
HON. MR. POWER-This is a very in the 1 th clause.
4
important clause ; there is a general provision there that the revising officer shall
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
not be bound by strict rules of evidence
officer described in the 14th clause is the
or forms of procedure, but shall hear and only one who can be appointed.
determine all matters coming before him
in a summary manner, and so as in his
HON. MR. POWER-The revising
judgment to do justice to all parties.
officer might happen to be a justice of the
HON. MR. PLUMB-There is an peace and he would be a judge.
appeal from his decision.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
HON. MR. POWER-I think that the officer referred to here means the judge
revising officer being a lawyer should be referred to in any of the preceding sections.
governed by the rules of evidence.
HON. MR. POWER-It says "A judge
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-In of any court," then supposing the Governthis case where the party is settling the ment appoint a man who is simply a
list of voters, some allegation may be magistrate, as a revising barrister.
made, which if the rules of evidence were
to be followed would take a long time to
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
prove. The question of a man's title to cannot happen. A man who is simply a
his farm, for instance, would be very magistrate cannot be appointed as a revistedious and expensive to prove under the ing barrister. He must be a lawyer of five
rules of evidence ; but it might be estab- years' standing ; and when he is a barrister
lished under rules which might have the of five years' standing there would be an
force of having completely established it to appeal from him. If he is a judge there
the satisfaction of the revising officer, would be no appeal.
without legal evidence. It is to provide
for cases of this kind that the revising
HON. MR. POWER-That appeal
officer is not to be bound by strict rules might be defeated by appointing some one
of evidence or forms of procedure.
who is only an inferior judge.
HON. MR. TRUDEL-If the evidence
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
is not legal, then an appeal would be of
no use. Are we to understand that an kind of judges are pointed out and né
appeal will lie even on those proceedings ? other can be appointed.
HON. MR. POWER--In this clause it
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-So I
says " A judge of any court."
understand.
The clause was agreed to.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-There
are several courts mentioned in the Bill,
On the 49th clause,
and when you say a judge of any court, it
HON. MR. POWER-Thisclause begins means a judge of any of those courts menby saying, "In case where the revising offi- tioned.

1286

The Franchi8e [SENATE] Bill.

ment, and is not publicly fixed until after
the lists are made up, there is every inducement for the officers to make the lists
in such a way as to be most acceptable to
the Government. I think it is very much
to be regretted that the Premier has withdrawn that measure, because if that Bill
had been passed there would have been a
certain show of independence about the
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Is it pos- revising officers.
sible that the Minister of Justice intends
that this law should go into operation with
HON. MR. DICKEY-My hon. friend
a clause in it which anticipates that if the will see that this Act is not to take effect
revising officer is a judge he cannot make until next year.
a mistake, and that there shall be no appeal against his decision ? Is that really
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
the decision of the Minister of Justice ? expectation is that most of the work of
preparing the lists will be done by the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes. judges without any temuneration at all.
Where there is remuneration Parliament
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Then I will determine how muchthat remuneration
think it is a very bad provision.
shall be.
HON. MR. GOWAN-The 14 th section
of the Act provides that the revising officer
to be appointed in every Province except
Quebec and British Columbia, shall be
either a judge, or junior judge, of some
county or district court, and in reading this
4 9th clause, any lawyer would read it with
reference to the general provision.

HON SIRALEX.CAMPBELL-There
HON. MR. POWER-Parliament means
must be finality somewhere, and if you the Prime Minister.
cannot get it in the court where are you to
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
get it ?
cannot mean that ; the hon. gentleman is
The clause was agreed to.
very much out of order indeed. The
remuneration will be settled by the same
On the 5 7th clause,
power that passes this Bill. So long as a
HON. MR. POWER-I see by this judge does the duty of preparing the lists
clause that the first lists are to be filed there can be no suspicion, and I do not
before 1st of August, 1886. The Prime think it is fair to attach suspicion to people
Minister has given notice in the other who are to act as officers, that they are
Chamber that he has decided not to push going to discharge their duties erroneously
this session the measure which is to provide and make mistakes on purpose, because
for the payment of those officers. Does they are to be paid by the Government or
not the Minister of Justice think it is a very by anybody else. It seems to me to be a
objectionable thing to have those officers very unfair impression to create against
appointed to make up the lists under the officers who will perform this service.
this Bill without any definite salary ? The Premier is satisfied that he can have
Does it not leave those officers the work done in most places by the
still more under the control of the county court judges.
Government than they would be if their
HON. MR. POWER-It is all very well
salaries were fixed in advance ? Here are
hundreds of men making up electoral lists to be charitable, and it may strike the
all over the country, knowing that their Minister of Justice that I am a little un-

salaries depend upon the good will of the charitable but I do not think so.

Government of the day. Can the Opposition, and the people who are not going
to pay the money expect to get much fair
play under those circumstances ? Does it
not render the appointment of the county
judges less valuable ? If the remuneration
that they are to receive for these services
depends on the good will of the Govern-

It is

only by being suspicious and watchfulHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--That
we can preserve our liberties.
HON. MR. POWER-That we can be
free. I wish to call the attention of the
Committee to the fact that not long ago

Consolidated.MilitiaAct, etc., [JULY 13, 1885] Amendment Bill.
the hon. gentleman who now leads the
House, and the other hon. gentlemen who
are prepared to take so much on trust at
present were very suspicious of other
people, and with much less reason than we
have to be suspicious of the officers who
are to be created under this Bill. For
instance it will be remembered that a few
years ago this Chamber re-echoed with
denunciations of a certain transaction in
connection with steel rails, where the whole
thing was a most uncharitable and unreasonable suspicion and nothing else.

1287

in the integrity of those Courts, and to
make it impossible for the officers to commit in that case possibly a crime. I think
it is a great mistake to presuppose that a
revising barrister may be guilty of an error.
There is an appeal from the barrister,
and none from the judge, though all men
are liable to error.
The clause was agreed to.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
that the Committee rise and report the
Bill.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Do
HON. MR. TRUDEL called attention
not let us go back to that now, please.
to the fact that the qualification of a
tenant in the city, an annual rental of $2o,
HON. MR. POWER-Why not go back or a monthly rental of $2, was the same as
to it ?
the qualification of a tenant in the county.
thought the qualification of a tenant
ALEX. CAMPBELL-One He the county should be proportionately
HON. SIR
in
reason is that the hon. gentleman from lower than that of a tenant in the city.
Quinte is not now in his place, and he
knew all about it.
HON.

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-As

to the qualification of a rental of'$2 per
month, it is very low, and includes almost
everybody ; but there is a certainty that a
man who pays $2 a month has got what
is called a permanent interest in the
country.

HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentleman who leads the House was also one of
the suspicious ones, although he did not
express himselfso violently as some others.
In that instance, the House had to deal
with a man of the highest and well known
integrity ; still they were ready to suspect
The motion was agreed to.
all kinds of horrible things, and this House
appointed committees to find out if
HoN. MR. READ, from the Comthere was any corruption in cases when mittee, reported the Bill without any
there was less reason for suspicion than amendment.
there is here. In party politics the only
way to get along seems to be for one side
to suppose that the other side are pre- CONSOLIDATED MILITIA ACT
pared to commit any kind of rascality that
AMENDMENT BILL.
will help them along; and, as regards the
present Government, I think that rule is a
THIRD READING.
good and sound one, and I an afraid the
Liberal party have not acted upon it suffiHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
ciently in the past.
the third reading of Bill (152), " An Act
to amend the Consolidated Militia Act of
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I think 1883."
we ought to apply the same rigid rule upon
all occasions and at all times, and then
HON. MR. TRUDEL-I do not think
it imputes nothing to anybody in particu- it is a proper policy to increase the
lar. I think it ought to be the duty of Mounted Police. I think it would be far
every Legislature to anticipate all possible better to create a regular army, no matter
knavery and corruption, and so frame our how small it may be. In fact I do not
laws that such ends may be rendered im- thnk the general feeling of the country is
possible. I do not cast a special imputa- very favorable to the Mounted Police,
tion on the Government; I want to make and there are many doubts as to their
it so that the people will have confidence efficiency. I think it would be better to

1288 Consolidated Militia Act, [SENATE] etc., Amendment Bill.
have regular military, put under the rules,
and discipline, and control of the military
authority, than to have the Mounted
Police under control of the Department
of the Interior. I only mention this because the hon. Minister of Justice knows
that amongst the papers which have been
brought before Parliament, it has been
very properly said-I think by Bishop
McLean, of Saskatchewan-that the
Mounted Police were the cause of the
rebellion. I think it is said as clearly as it
can be said, and I admit frankly that it is
my opinion that if there had never been
mounted police in the North-West there
would have been no rebellion.
Hon.
gentlemen will remember that at the commencement of the trouble many people
believed that the mounted police would be
able to put a stop to it, but we all know
how inefficient they proved.
I am ready
to believe that they are men of great merit
and perfect character and so on-I do not
mean to reflect in any way upon them
personally, but I speak of the system, and
when trouble occurred we at once found
that the only force we had at our disposal
to deal with this difficulty were the forces
at the command of the Militia Department. I hope that the Government will
take this matter seriously into consideration.
I think it is the general feeling in the
country that the time has come when
Canada should have its army. It may be
a small army, but it would be a better way
of defending the country than enrolling
men in the mounted police.
HON. MR. READ-I cannot agree with
the hon. gentleman when he states that
had there been no Mounted Police in the
North-West there would have been no
rebellion. The police could not have
caused the rebellion. They certainly did
not cause the raiding of the stores, the
rifling of private property, and the taking
possession of Government property. Then
as to the efficiency of the police, it is truc
that a portion of thern were at Prince
Albert and remained there; but what
would have become of the people of
Prince Albert if they had left them ; and
what would have become of other places
if the police were not there to protect
them ? As far as I have been able to
judge, I think the police have shown
themselves to be most efficient. What

HON. MR. TRUDEL

could a handful of men in a vast country
like that do ? The force has been small;
but it has been efficient for its numbers.
There was a time when there was an
enquiry as to what the police were doing
at Prince Albert when they were required
elsewhere. No doubt they were acting
under orders, and there is no complaint of
a want of action on their part when their
services were required.
HON. MR. WARK-It appears that
some hon. gentlemen are mistaken about
this Bill; its object is to increase the
infantry force, instead of the Mounted
Police. I might remark that in reading
the general report, I consider that our
militia ought to be made much more
effective than it is. I was struck with the
general remarks at the close of the commander's report. He speaks of the short
time devoted by the militia to acquiring a
knowledge of drill, and says:" Under the present arrangement of oniy
calling out the rural regiments every second

year, the men composing them have only, at

most, two trainings durirg their service of
three years, that is, if they happen to enlist
during the year of the training and before it
takes place. If they enlist just after the
training, then they have only one during their
whole service, which means eight days' actual

drill ; because, though nominally they have

now twelve days, yet out of that, one day for
joining and one day for leaving and two Sundays must be allowed. The consequence is
that these men go back to civil life with such
a faint smattering of the duties of a soldier that
it fades away, and if an emergency should
arise and these men were called* back to
service, they would have to be treated as
recruits; whereas, if they had twelve days'
steady drill each year for three years, they
would be none the worse citizens and would
carry with them enoug h knowledge of a
soldier's lite to render then fit to join the

ranks at once, if the necessity of calling them
out again should arise."
It strikes me that it would be much
better when the Militia pass through their
three years' training that they should be

still enrolled as a reserve, but different
from the ordinary reserve. When enrolled
for three years longer they should be
occasionally called out for drill, left in
possession of their rifles, and furnished
with ammunition to keep up their practice,
and if called out once every couple of
years, there would be, instead of 45,000,
as at present, a force of 90,ooo men, who

knew something of the duties of soldiers,

Consolidated -tilitia Act, etc., [JULY 18, 1885] Amendment Bill.

1289

and could be called upon for active service,
if required. It is time that this Dominion should assert its position in the world,
and show that it is able to take care cf
itself. When there was a prospect of war
in the East recently, we were in a very
unprepared state if it had broken out.
There are two things we ought to be prepared for: that is, to protect our coal
deposits on the Atlantic, and our coal
deposits on the Pacific. Both our own
Commerce and the commerce of the Empire would greatly depend on those
deposits of coal, and they would have to
be protected so that Her Majesty's
steamers would be able to coal at any
time. This would give them a superiority over every other power, and we have
more at stake than any other country, in
Consequence of the immense fleet both of
Great Britain, and of the Dominion. I
would suggest, therefore, whether it would
flot be desirable that instead of allowing
the men to go back into civil life after
three years' training, it would not be better
to keep them enrolled, and to so change
the law as to continue their enrolment
for three years, which would increase the

proved how fortunate it was that we had
this nucleus of a regular army ready to
send to the North-West at the breaking
out of the rebellion. The question for
the country now, is whether our defences
will not have to be greatly increased.

have already passed through their regular
training. We are now a people of some
5,ooo,ooo population, and it is a question
whether we ought not to keep such a force,
and have it ready for any emergency. I
have no doubt, and there seems not to be
any doubt in any quarter, that a war with
Russia is imminent. She has been preparing for it for half a century. Within a
very short time she bas advanced i,ooo
miles nearer the Indian frontier, and there
is now only one territory, that of Afghanistan, between her and India.

HON. MR. POWER-One objection
that I have to this measure is that it is
calculated to very largely increase
the expenses connected with the protection of this country. The other day we
passed a bill which provides for an increase of the Mounted Police force to

force of active militia to 90,ooo men, who

HON.

MR.

KAULBACH-I

quite

agree with my hon. friend in what he has
said. I an not in harmony with any
Person who may wish to throw discredit
upon our police force in the North-West.
I believe they have been very efficient. I
know a number of therm from Nova Scotia
and they are good men, and from what I
have heard of those from the other provinces a better class of men could not be
selected in the country for such service.
When we proposed the establishment of
"'A" and "B" batteries, the Opposition
were opposed to it ; but events have

HON. MR. BELLEROSE-The occurrences in the North-West last spring have
demonstrated that the present system is
not equal to our necessities. Though our
volunteers have done their duty, and have
shown themselves equal to the emergency,
many of them are married men, and after
the war is all over we will be at great
expense to provide pensions to widows
and orphans. I would suggest that a better system would be to have certain
companies of unmarried men recruited
from the other companies of the force, to
be drilled so many days in the year, so
that in an emergency like that of last
spring, they would be always ready for
active service, and they would have no
families to be supported by private contribution, and in case of death they would
leave no one dependent upon public
assistance.

1,ooo men.

I understand from the Minister

that each of these men will cost about $8oo.
a year. Now we are providing for an increase of the standing army to 1,ooo men,
and I presume the cost of each man will
be about the same. Hon. gentlemen will
see then that we have at once for the
mere personnel of our standing army-because after all the Mounted Police force
are really part of the standing army-an
annual expenditure of $1,6oo,ooo. Now
this is very nearly double what the service
used to cost the country ten years ago.
When the Bill was at the second reading
I suggested that it was not desirable to
make the addition to the force all infantry.
The experience of the recent outbreak has
shown that the great want of the country
is cavalry. I think it is a pity that the
Government, when they were making provision to increase the army at all, did not

1290 ConsolidatedMilitia Act, [SEN ATE] etc., Amendment Bill.
provide for cavalry. The proper thing
for the Government to do, instead of
coming to us asking us to tax the country
so many hundreds of thousands of dollars
more in order to add to the standing
army, would be to see that a militia force
is organized in the North-West. There
were volunteer companies in the NorthWest which the Government allowed to
disband; and whose arms they called in
not very long ago. What I think the
Government should do is to place the
North-West country, where trouble is much
more likely to arise than in any other part of
the country, in the same position as the
older provinces, and to have a respectable
volunteer force there. Notwithstanding
what has been said by the hon. gentleman
from DeLanaudière I think that this recent
outbreak,instead of making us think less of
our volunteer forces, is calculated to make
us think a great deal more of them.
The volunteers with a few weeks' training
and experience were at least as efficient
soldiers as the Mounted Police; and I did
not notice that there was any distinction
made between the volunteers and the
regulars. I do not see that it was claimed
that the regulars were any better
in the field than the volunteers.
The eastern provinces of Canada have
paid immense sums of money since that
North-West country was acquired for the
purpose of building railroads through it,
having it surveyed and making it fit and
suitable for a population, and now that
population have got in there I think it is
unreasonable that we should be called
upon to do the work which these people
ought to do for themselves. There is a
sufficient white population in the NorthWest now to protect themselves against
the half-breeds and against the Indians
too, and I think by far the better plan
would be to allow those people to form
volunteer corps, and to protect themselves
and not tax us down here for the purpose
of protecting them. It is quite right that
we should do our share of it, but I think
it is unreasonable that our taxation should
be so very largely increased for the purpose of doing for those people what they
can do for themselves, and what they are,
as we learn, willing and anxious to do for
themselves. Whether the Government
are unduly suspicious of the loyalty of the
whites out there I cannot say, but they
HON. MR.

POWER

certainly, instead of encouraging these
people to form volunteer corps, have discouraged them and taken their arms away
from them ; and it would be much better
now while the warlike spirit is strong there
thatwe should form volunteer corps in that
country and let them bear the expense of
protecting themselves.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
do not think the hon. gentleman from De
Salaberry (Mr. Trudel) intended to reflect
on the Mounted Police in the way understood. I think he meant that they were
the first persons who got into actual
trouble, and if they had not fired there
would have been no disturbance at all at
Duck Lake.

HoN. MR. TRUDEL-No, I did not
specially allude to that point. I took care
to explain that the remarks which I was
making were meant to apply to the system
and not to persons forming part of the
Mounted Police. I added that I was
ready to admit that personally they had
done their duty, and I had nothing to say
against any of them, but I said I believed
that that kind of a force would be advantageously replaced by regular troops under
the control of the Militia Department and
under military discipline. I do not know
much about it, but it seems to me that
this Mounted Police force is something
between the civil and the military ; I suppose to a certain extent they are under
military discipline, but still they are not
under control of officers of a regular armyl
It is a body which does not present the
advantage of an army or of a defence which
might be afforded by a body of citizens
such as the volunteers. I learn from parties in the North-West, at least I understood it this way-that if there had been
no Mounted Police in that country there
would have been no disaffection, because
it was the presence of the police that
created disaffection amongst the halfbreeds, in the first instance. I do not mean
to say that the Mounted Police did not do
their duty-or that as a matter of
fact they did not in many instances
protect the citizens, and so on.
I admit that it was a great satisaction for the settlers to have somebody to rely upon, and I repeat again that
what I said was against.the system. I said,

Oonolidated lilitia

Act,

[JULY 13, 1885] etc., Arnendment Bill

instead of the Mounted Police the Government should create or augment a regular force under the rules and discipline of
a regular army and under the command of
regular officers. I have been informed by
Parties who are competent to judge of
Such matters that the Mounted Police
light be more efficient if it were under the
control of the Militia Department, and
1 can understand that readily, because
in the Militia Department we have regular
officers who belong to the military profesSion, whereas in the Department of the
Interior, under whose control the Mounted
Police are placed, we have only civilians:
SO that the highest authority being vested
in the Minister of the Interior and his
orders not going through superior officers,
as in the case of the Militia Department,
the proper control and action of a regular
Officer is not felt, which I think is a
disadvantage.
ION. MR. HAYTHORNE-I would
like the Minister to state expressly whether
the Mounted Police were immediately
Under command ofthe Major-General, when
he made his appearance on the field ?

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,
they were. The Mounted Police, at a
Certain stage in the operations

in the

North-West-I think after the engagement

at Fish Creek, and before that at Batochewere put under the control of the com-

Mander of

the

forces

there.

We

Passed a Bill
for that purpose
and gave the officers of the Mounted
Police the same comparative rank in the
arrny. The whole force was put under
the control of the Major-General, and he
had command of them as completely as
he had command of any other portion of
the troops : so that in that respect they

1295

the settlers-and I have seen it asserted
more than once in letters from the NorthWest that people could not live in that
country, were it not for the Mounted
Police. Then they have been of immense
value in preventing the sale of liquor.
They have done a great deal of duty in
that way and in enforcing law and order on
the line of the Canadian Pacific Railway.
They have been of great value as policemen proper in arresting prisoners, and
looking after marauders from the United
States, and after offenders, such as cattle

stealers, bringing them down to trial and
taking them atterwards great distances tojails to which they were confined for

punishment. In every way that policemen
could be useful, and in many ways that no
men but Mounted Police could have been
of use, they have been of service. So I
think the country is very much indebted
to that branch of the service for the security
which has so long obtained in the NorthWest. That they have in any degree
provoked the rebellion my hon. friend did
not assert, and I cannot helieve anything
of the kind took place. I suppose at that
time any troops appearing on the scene
would have precipitated the outbreak that
took place. With regard to the control of
the force it has all along been held by the
Premier; he had control of the Mounted
Police at the time he was Minister of
Justice, and also at the time he was head
oftheDepartmentof theInterior,andhehas
control of it now. It is not under the
control of the Department of the Interior,
but of the Premier. He having been
originally placed in that position has
carried it along ever since, and the administration, I believe, is very thorough. As
to their being soldiers, there is no distinction between their drill and the drill of the
soldiery-that is, the soldier learns all that
the mounted policeman learns, and the
mounted policeman learns all that the
soldier does. They have additional duty
as police inspectors and magistrates, some
of them, and those are duties in excess of
those of the soldiery, but the ordinary drill
of a mounted policeman is very much the
ordinary drill of a cavalry man.

Were soldiers. The Mounted Police had
done good service in the North-West, and
I was anxious that it should not go to the
Country that the hon. member for DeSilaberry thought differently. I have again
and again heard-and I am sure niembers
of this House have seen frequentlyencomiums on the Mounted Police for
their efficiency, not with reference to the
recent disturbances, but with reference to
HON. MR. TRUDEL-Justatthebreakthe protection of settlers during the last ing out of the rebellion the Government
three or four years-with reference to felt the necessity of makinga change in their
Indian troubles which were dreaded by characterand making them regular soldiers.

1292

The Printing [SE NATE] of Parliament.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,
HON. MR. POWER-When I spoke of
in order that the Major-General might the North-West Territories I did not mean
have complete command. Without that Manitoba.
change the Mounted Police would have
been under the control of their comHON. SIRALEX. CAMPBELL-There
mander, Major Irving, and it was abso- is no population in the North-West Terrilutely necessary that the Major-General tories proper. You could not depend on
should have control of all armed men in forces raised there-the population there
that country. That change only showed is chiefly Indians and half-breeds, and it
itself to be necessary after the disturbance would be impossible to get a regiment tohad occurred, when it was very desirable gether. You could not get men enough,
to place all executive power of the militia,
of every kind and description, completely
HON. MR. POWER-There were twO
in the hands of the Major-general, and companies at Prince Albert and one at
therefore that arrangement was made. Battleford, and they were disbanded.
Whether the Mounted Police and the
troops should be amalgamated or not is a
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes
question of the future. It does not seem I believe they were. So far as we were
to me that there is any great difficulty of able safely to encourage military combinaamalgamating the Mounted Police with nations there we did so.
the cavalry corps to be raised in the North
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
West, and I am disposed to think, as some
hon. gentlemen do, that the true soldier was read the third time and passed.
for that duty is the mounted infantry man
-that is, a soldier armed with rifle and THE PRINTING OF PARLIAMENT.
revolver and drilled as a foot and cavalry
man; but the House will perceive the THE REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ADOPTED.
thing is gradually coming about-that is,
there is a cavalry school to be created at
HON. MR. READ moved the adoption
Winnipeg, and the Mounted Police, hav- of the 9th report of the Joint Committee
ing a military position and military rank, of the Senate and the House of Commons
are more a military force now than they on the Printing of Parliament. ie said :
have been in the past, and will hereafter This report recommends that certain rerank more with the militia than has turns be printed and certain others be not
hitherto been the case : so I think the printed, and it also recommends that Mr.
time is coming when the country will be Romaine, whose title appears to be Proof
represented up there, so far as military Reader, be entitled Superintendent of the
protection is concerned, by one force. I Printing of the Sessional Papers of Parliaunderstand the Minister of Militia to favor ment. That has been his office and it is
having the Mounted Police and the Mili- merely giving him the proper title.
tia under his control, and that, it seems to
me, is desirable, and that we should have
HON. MR. POWER-I rise for the purone complete system of defence for the pose of asking the chairman of the
country. I believe we are gradually coin- committee whether some other officer was
ing to that in the way I have pointed out. not supposed to hold the position in which
As to our doing anything to prevent the they proposed to put Mr. Romaine. I
formation of military associations, or com- got the impression that he was taking the
panies, or regiments in the North-West, place of somebody else ?
the hon. gentleman from Halifax is mistaken I think.
HON. MR READ-No, it was merely
that he was called a proof reader, when,
HON. MR. POWER-No, not at all.
in reality, his duty was superintending the
printing of the sessional papers, and he
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We does not supersede anyone else.
have had two there which have been doing
duty during the recent disturbance-the
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It is simply
goth and the 91st.
a change of name ?

Inland Revenue Act [JULY 13, 1885] Amendment Bil.

1293«

HON. MR. READ-It is simply to give Act to amend the Consolidated Inland
him a standing, and his duties remain as Revenue Act 1883?"
before.
In the Committee,
THE SENATE DEBATES.
On the 9 th clause,
SECOND REPORT OF THE cOMMITTEE
ADOPTED.

Ho N. M R. DEBOUCHERVILLE
rnoved the adoption of the second report
of the Committee on Reporting and Publishing the Debates of the Senate. Hie
said : There are three recommendations
in the report. The first is that the Debates be bound in two volumes this year,
instead of one. It is expected that the
report will extend to fourteen or fifteen
hundred pages, and it would be too cumbrous if bound in one volume. The second
is that an additional appropriation be asked
for in order to meet the expense of printing,
the appropriation voted last session being
expended. The third is to grant the rePorters, in addition to their contract price,
a sum of $1,ooo, in consequence of the

unusual length of the session.
They
receive, in addition to the bulk sum of
their contract, for every page above a
certain number, the sum of $3.50.

This

has not given them any profit during the
past twelve weeks, owing to the character
of the session. The amount which is
here recommended is to recompense them
for the length of the session. It will place
them on the same footing as they will be
under the new contract.

HON. MR. TRUDEL- This clause is
less objectionable because of the amendments which have been added to it, but
still I think it does not give satisfaction.
The Minister of Justice has no doubt
seen a petition which was signed by the
whole trade of Montreal. I think there
was no exception. The Bill was considered to favor to a great extent those
who have large capital, and it is alleged
that even with the amendment which has
been made it does not put the new distilleries in a very favorable position. I was
told that this provision was imported
from Sweden : that a limitation was
put on the sale, and the Government advanced to the manufacturers a
certain percentage of the value of their
goods in order not to interfere with their
capital. Now, there is another consideration : this provision is made for the
reason that some deleterious articles which
are in the spirit disappear in the course
of one or two years. By a chemical process this end can be attained, and then
this amendment would have no reason to
exist at al]. I promised some of the parties interested to state the facts.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My
hon. friend, I think, either wrote or spoke
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Does to me about it before.
the hon. gentleman say that out of the
HON. MR. TRUDEL-Yes, I com$3.5o which they receive, they have no
municated to the hon. gentleman a petition
profit ?
signed by the whole trade in Montreal.
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLE-HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL In
They have no profit after paying for the
consequence of objections to the clause
printing, and expenses of their office.
as it originally stood the amendments
were made in the House of Commons,
The motion was agreed to.
and I understood the trade of Montreal
As to the same effect
INLAND REVENUE ACT AMEND- were satisfied. on the liquor by some
being produced
MENT BILL.
chemical process as is produced by keeping it two years, I am disposed to think
IN COMMITTEE.
that that is not correc'. I know there is
some process by which they can take away
The House resolved itself into a Com- the greater part of the fusil oil, but the
mTittee of the Whole on Bill (146), "An effect of age is not given and the liquor is
·

1294A

Culling Timber ISE NATE] Bill.

HON. MR. WARK-I do not know
how it is that this business has got into the
hands of the Dominion Government at all.
We ship a good deal of lumber from the
ports of New Brunswick, and the surveyors
of that lumber are appointed by the local
authorities. The corporation of St. John
appoints the necessary staff there, and the
local authorities at the several Gulf ports
appoint their own cullers. I should think
The clause was adopted.
this is a matter belonging to Quebec, and
Commit- the appointments up here ought to belong
HON. MR. VIDAL, from the
tee, reported the Bill without amendment. to the authorities of the city of Ottawa. I
cannot see how the Dominion Government
At six o'clock the Speaker left the chair. came to take this in hand more than the
culling of timber in the lower provinces.

much more deleterious by that process
than it is after having been kept for two
years, so I think it is a great advantage,
even from that point of view, to have the
liquor of the age that is spoken of, or a
still greater age, and that the same result,
as regards health, is not attained by eliminating the fusil oil by means of chemicals.

AFTER RECESS.

CULLING TIMBER BILL
SECOND READING.

HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL moved
thesecondreading ofBill (154), "AnActfurther to amend the Acts relating to the culling
and measuring of timber in the Provinces
of Ontario and Quebec." He said-The
object of this bill is to empower the Governor in Council to make regulations in
each department of the supervisor's offioe
Provision is made for granting annuities
not exceeding $200. per annum to such
persons as are incapacitated by reason of
age, infirmity or otherwise from pursuing
their business of culling, or whose services
are no longer required. In the ordinary
affairs of life the man who gets too old for
his business has not the advantage of $2oo
a year, but these men form part of a corporation, and there is no other way of
dealing with them. There are more
cullers than are necessary to measure the
timber at Quebec, and the only way to reduce their number is to weed them out
gradually. The old men fall first and it
seems hard to discharge them without
making this allowance. They are to be
reduced in this way : the whole number
shall not exceed 30, apportioned as
follows, cullers of square timber 15, cullers of deals 12, cullers of staves, masts,
spars, etc., 3. For the payment of the
annuity to be granted, in the first place
the fund of the corporation is to be charged,
but if that fails, then it is to be charged to
the consolidated revenue.
HON.

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
has been proposed to take over the culling
of timber in the lower provinces also. It
is done under the power which enables
this Parliament to deal with trade and
commerce, and the greatest commerce of
the country is in wood. There is this
difficulty in dealing with the subject:
when we were trying to consolidate the
Statutes, we found that there was law in
the Province of Ontario and Quebec in
one direction, and in New Brunswick
in another, and it became
impossible to consolidate the law without repealing one or the other, and
therefore the matter was put over for
further specific legislation for the Dominion Parliament, but I think undoubtedly
the subject lies within the province of the
Dominion Parliament. It may be that no
provision was made in New Brunswick by the legislature of the province,
before Confederation, similar to the provision which existed in Canada when it
was a province by itself, and this is only
carrying out the provision of Canada in
that respect. I think we might pursue
the same course with New Brunswick
when the time came to do so.

HON. MR. WARK-I do not think it
is considered desirable to do so.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is
desirable that there should be a uniform
system of culling. Good timber exported
from New Brunswick is not equal in quality to good timber exported from Quebec.
Many years ago this matter was taken over
by the Province of Canada as properly

Chinese Immigration [JULY 13, 1885] Râetriction Bill.
falling within its powers, and by the Confederation Act it certainly falls within the
province of this Parliament to deal with
it

1291

in the way of prevention, but the evil
which is thought to result from the immigration of these people into the Dominion
is very considerable, and it is the general
desire, I think, in that part of the DoHoN. MR. PELLETIER-Is it well minion at all events, that it should be
understood that the reduction of the num- checked, and that the check which we
contemplate should be the one to be
ber will be by mortality?
imposed.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Gradually, in that way I believe. I think
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
that is a provision which is made in sub- was read the second time.
section F; they are to be granted annuities when they are incapacitated by reason
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
Of age, infirmity or otherwise, for their that the Bill be referred to a Committee
duties.
of the Whole House to-morrow.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
HoN. MR. ALMON-I would not have
was read the second time.
spoken on this measure if its operation had
been confined to British Columbia. I
CHINESE IMMIGRATION REthink each province should be allowed to
regulate its own private concerns as it
STRICTION BILL.
thinks fit : but that British Columbia,
SECOND READING.
containing 20,000 of a white population,
and having but a small representation in'
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved Parliament, should compel Ontario, Quethe second reading of Bill (156) " An Act bec and the Maritime Provinces to pass a
to restrict and regulate Chinese Immigra- Bill which is contrary to the genius of the
tion into Canada." He said: The re- nineteenth century-which in the course of
striction which this Bill contemplates is 20 years would be cast up to everyone as
the imposing of a duty upon Chinese com- violating the laws of nature and of God--I
ing to this country ; it is proposed that no think is claiming too much. What does this
Chinese shall land in any part of Canada Bill do? You prevent the further immigration of Chinese into the Dominion. What
who has not paid the sum of $50.
is the objection to the Chinese ? I have
HON. eMR. ALMON-Is it any part of heard the objection stated that they take
Canada?
no part in our politics : but we have just
passed a Bill to prevent them voting. I
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes, have heard also that they eat rats. When
any part of Canada, and the number who I was a boy and read Gilray's caricatures
miay enter is limited to one for every 50 I used to think that the French ate nothing
tons of the vessel in which they come. It but frogs, but when I came to know them
is copied from legislation in Australia, I found that they, like myself, ate everywhere the evil resulting from Chinese im- thing that was good, and perhaps the
migration has produced the same feeling same may be the case with the Chinese.
that prevails now in British Columbia, To eat rats, I think,is no reason why these
and where the same step that is proposed people should be kept out of the country.
to be taken by this Bill has been taken There are, I think, now i8,ooo Chinamen
and approved by Her Majesty's Govern- in British Columbia, and you say to these
ment. It is thought by Her Majesty's people that no Chinese women shall be
Government that it is within the power of admitted into the country. You put a
the Legislature of Australia to take such a duty of $50 on every Chinese woman who
step-not to say that no Chinese shall comes into British Columbia and you keep
enter the country, but to say that these those 18,ooo men without their wives.
Chinese who do shall come in subject to What are you doing ? Are you not
a certain duty, which there, as here, is put encouraging vice ? You say they are
at $50. Now this is a very strong measure guilty of vices which cannot be nanied,

1296

Chinese immigration [SENATE] Reatriction Bilt

and yet you put a tax on Chinese
women: is that a Bill which should
be passed in the nineteenth century?
I say no. Certainly it is our duty to go
unto all nations and convert them to the
Christian religion. How much easier is
it to convert them when we can get them
here, where they will learn our language
and learn to read the Bible in English ?
You keep them out of this country: will
they not pass retaliatory measures ?
Have they not done so already against
the United States ? Hereafter we cannot blame them if they prevent our
missionaries going in and spreading the
Gospel among them, I think if the
British Columbians-and I am conceding
to them a great deal more than I ought to
do-were to restrict immigration into their
own country it is going far enough, because I feel in the course of a very few
years the public opinion of the civilized
world will repeal this Act; but I think
.they have no right to say that the immigration of the Chinese into Nova Scotia
will not take place. I wish we had a
number of them there. If this Bill were
restricted to British Columbia, and contained a statement that it is passed at the
request of the inhabitants of British Columbia I should withdraw my objection.
If is is not amended ir that way I shall
vote against it and be proud to have my
name recorded, because I feel that after I
am gone the civilized world will pronounce that I am right, and that the
rersons who voted for the measure did
wrong.
HON. MR. MACDONALD-The hon.
gentleman does an injustice to British
Columbia. They have not asked that
this measure apply to the whole Dominion.
They simply asked to have the restriction
apply to their own province.
HON. MR. ALMON-That takes the
sin of it from their shoulders.
HON. MR. MACDONALD - They
asked for a Bill applying to the Province
of British Columbia, but the House of
Commons have passed one for the whole
Dominion. British Columbia asked for
this legislation because it is a rnatter within the scope of the Dominion Parliament.
As to what the hon. gentleman said on

HON. MR. ALMON.

on the other hand I am in harmony with
him, but on this Bill I have to yield ny
own opinion to the popular feeling in
British Columbia.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It seems to
me the Chinese have been a necessity in
British Columbia for a long time. In the
undeveloped condition of their resources
they have found employment not only for
their own people but for all others coming
in. Without the Chinese I do not know
what British Columbia would have done
up to the present time. Now, they seem
very desirous to prevent them coming into the country. They are no
doubt an evil : they are not fit to enter
into our social or political life, and do not
seem desirous to do so, yet it is doubtful
if this law is not too restrictive in its character. It is a question whether admitting
only one person for every 50 tons is not
too great a restriction.
HON. MR. ALLAN-I entirely sympathize with the remarks made by the
junior member for Halifax upon the general question, but I presume if there was
to be any legislation at all it had to be for
the whole Dominion, and therefore there
is no help for it; if British Columbia calls
for legislation of this kind, it must be
legislation for the whole Dominion. The
experience of all of us who come from the
western part of this province, is that those
Chinese who live among us are a quiet,
inoffensive, law-abiding population; they
are industrious and thrifty, and make good
citizens. So far as we are concerned we
should be glad to have more instead of
less of them, but in British Columbia the
Chinese population have been made the
subject of a very great grievance, and
although I have taken pains to read the
elaborate report on the subject, I confess,
when I sat down, my mind was not clear
as to whether they were an evil or a
benefit.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Does

the hon. gentleman say he read it through ?
HON. MR. ALLAN--Well I read a
good deal of it, and my mind is not clear
whether the Chinese are a blessing or a
curse to British Columbia, but so far as;

Chinese Jiimigration [JULY 13, 1885] Re8triction Bil.

1297

we are concerned, any legislation must be be levelled against an inoffensive and infor the whole Dominion.
dustrious people.
I think it is a great
pity that it has been thought desirable to
ION. MR. VIDAL-I concur in the place such a law on the Statute book. I
sentiments expressed by the junior mem- am entirely opposed to such legislation,
ber from Halifax. I think it is entirely fruitless, as I presume, such opposition
inconsistent with the very fundamental will be in the present case.
principles of the British constitution that
HON. MR. POWER-I am sorry to say
legislation of this kind should find a place
on the statute book. I was surprised that on the present occasion I cannot
when I first learned that the Imperial agree with my learned colleague. As
Government had sanctioned the introduc- British Columbia is the only province into
tion of such legislation in Australia. I which the Chinese have, so far, emigrated
cannot understand on what principle it in any number, we are not in a position
has been approved of. It appears to me over here to judge as well as the people
a kind of confession on the part of there, as to whether or not the Chinese
the Anglo-Saxon race, that they are afraid are a desirable class of immigrants. Now,
Of the competition of the Mongolian race. there seems to be almost an entire
I do not share this fear. My belief is if unanimity of sentiment amongst the
they came among us, we, with our supe- people of British Columbia as to the
rior civilization and our earnest desire to undesirability of largely increasing the
teach them the truth of the gospel, would number of Chinese in that province.
have a powerful influence on those men. They have done good service in laying
We know they are capable of being in- the foundation of what I hope will be the
structed in our civilization. We know by future greatness of a province, where the
the actual result of religious missions es- feeling of the people at large seems to be
tablished in China,that in many places they that it is not desirable the Chinese should
have been very successful. The only one come there in any greater numbers. The
that I have any special acquaintance with hon. gentleman who has just sat down
is the mission under the charge of the Ca- said that he did not see any reason why
nadian Presbyterian Church, and I know the Chinese should be excluded. One of
that that mission has been and is in the the reasons-I do nt know whether it is
highest degree successful, that with very a very cogent one-is that the Chinese
little assistance, indeed, from the white when they come to British Columbia do
People the missionary there has, with the not come, as white immigrants do, to
Voluntary aid of his own converts, been make permanent homes there, and to
able to build a large number of chapels become assimilated with the remainder of
and a college, and the work has been so the population. As a rule, they come
successful that thousands have been there for the purpose of making money,
brought from their pagan superstitions to and after they have made a competence,
'embrace the gospel of the Lord Jesus returning to their own country. I do not
Christ. Now, why men who in the lan- think that that is a very serious drawback
guage of my hon. friend from Toronto are, to Chinese immigration; and as long as
as far as our own personal experience we do not turn the Chinese who are in
goes, quiet, law-abiding and peaceable ci- British Columbia out of the province, and
tizens, should be placed under an embargo do not impose any special penalties on
is what I cannot conceive. I do not at all them while they are there, but treat them
agree to the principle, that because one as other inhabitants of the province, I do
particular province has taken a prejudice not see that they have very much reason
against these people or supposes itself to to complain, if we restrict Chinese immibe injured by them, that all the other pro- gration. The hon. gentleman who has
vinces should be required to sanction a just sat down has spoken of the probalaw so utterly inconsistent with the well bility that large numbers of Chinese might
understood rights which every human be converted to Christianity in British
being has when he steps on British soil. Columbia. It is true, as that hon. gentleI cannot understand why such a distinc- man has said, that there are a great many
tion should be made, and why it should Christians in China. The Chinese mem
G 3

1298

Chinese Immigration [SENATE] Restriction Bill.

bers of the church to which I belong number somewhere between one and a half and
two millions ; but I am afraid that the
example which is shown the Chinese by the
whites in British Columbia is not calculated to lead therm into the true path, and
I do not think it is in the moral interest
of the Chinese that they should come into
that Province in large numbers. I think
the interests of the Province and the
interests of the Chinese are one in that
respect.

they should enforce such a law on the
Dominion is something I cannot understand.

HON. MR. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I
beg to inform the hon. gentleman that the
people of British Columbia are just as
moral in their living and as high-toned as
the people of Halifax, man for man. The
great danger from the Chinese is this, that
the country is so populous that there is
every probability, unless immigration is
checked, of overrunning our whole colony,
and instead of having British Columbia
an Anglo-Saxon colony we will have it
Mongolian. I do not think they are any
worse in running down the rates of labor,
or anything of that kind than Europeans.
They are as moral and industrious and
law-abiding as other people, but there
is a danger of their overrunning the
country.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
applies to all Chinamen.

HON. MR. DEVER-If I vote for this
Bill, I will certainly do so against my conscience ; but inasmuch as it is a Government measure I would like to support it.
If I did so, however, I would be acting
inconsistently with my feelings. We, who
pride ourselves on the freedom of our
institutions, and the abolition of slavery in
the United States, and who fancy we are
going over the world with our lamp in our
hand shedding light and lustre wherever
we go-that we should become slavedrivers, and prohibit strangers from coming to our hospitable shore because they
are of a different colour and have a different language and habits from ourselves, in
deference to the feelings of a few people
from British Columbia, is a thing I cannot understand. I do not see why we
should suffer in the other provinces because of that prejudice in British Columbia. If this Bill were confined to British
Columbia alone, I should be happy that
the people of that Province should have
their own way in the matter ; but why
HON.

MR. POWER.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I would
ask the Minister of Justice does this Bill
restrict the immigration of Chinese who
come from Hong Kong? I believe they
are British subjects there, and I would
like to know if this measure would depive
them of the right of coming over to this
country ?

HON. MR. KAULBACH-Then I say
that to deprive, in this country, a British
subject from coming to our shores is a
restriction we are not in a position tO
demand or enforce.
HON. MR. WARK-Before this question arose in Canada, it was discussed for
several years in the United States, and
there was a great difference of opinion
there between the people of California
and the people on this side of the mountains. The different Christian churches
had been sending out, at great expense,
missionaries to labor amongst the heathen
population of China, and many of themu
looked upon it as a wise dispensation of
Providence, the bringing of a number of
those people under the influence of Christianity in a Christian country. They were
desirous of sending, and seme of theni
did send, missionaries amongst therm
when they reached the American shore,
but there was a class of laborers on the
Pacific coast, who immediately made a
great stir because the Chinese lowered
the wages ; and it was with them chiefly,
and with the class of people who supported
them, that the difficulty arose at first.
But the Christian people who wished tO
do good to the Chinese were not at all
opposed to their landing on the Americai
continent, because they believed that if
they could bring them under Christian
influences here, a great many of therm
would return to their own country as
Christians, and would spread the doctrines
of Christianity amongst their own people
much more rapidly than by sending missionaries across the ocean. I do not know
what the people of British Columbia have

Chinese Immigration [JU LY 13, 1885] Restriction Bill.
done towards improving the character of
those people, and leading them to give up
their heathen practices, and inducing theni
to embrace the Christian religion, but
they should do something of that kind and
show the Chinese that they really desire
to benefit them, and if they did return to
their own country to send them back
under Christian influences, and in a
position to benefit their fellow countrymen.
I do not think that this is judicious legislation. I know that at the time we levied
an immigrant tax of $2 a head many years
ago it was done for a different object ; it
was to provide a fund out of which to
Support such of those who landed on our
Shores as were sick and unable to support
thernselves. It was not done with a view to
keeping them out of the country ; we were
desirous of seeing them come. Now that
the Canadian Pacific Railway is being
opened, my impression is that if the Chinese
were let alone they would come across the
Mountains and settle upon the lands of
the west, and coming within Christian
influences, would probably mix up with
Our own people and become valuable
Settlers. Fron what I understand of their
habits they are a very industrious people.
At any rate if a Chinaman, with his wife,
cornes to settle in the country he ought
not to be prohibited, whatever you may
do with that class that come merely as
worknen to make money and carry away
their wages.
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEThe greatest objection that I have heard
to the Chinese is that those who come to
British Columbia are bound by secret
societies, and are engaged to certain comPanies and are not at liberty ; they are, in
fact, practically slaves to those companies.
On the other side of the question there is
flo doubt that the Government, in this
country, as in other countries, have passed
laws to prevent paupers and convicts from
Coming to our shores. To that extent I
think it is perfectly right to prevent those
Chinese who are known to be of that
character from coming in amongst us;
but if a Chinaman is an honest, iidustrious
Man, and cornes to work here, I do not
think we are acting up to the principles of
Christianity in refusing to allow him to
settle amongst us, or putting such a heavy
tax upon him as we are imposing under

I1299

the provisions of this Bill. Would it not
be better to oblige those people to bring
with thern certificates from the British
Consuls in the Chinese ports as to their
character, and when we are assured by
such certificates that they do not belong
to any secret societies and are freemen,
why should we oblige thern to pay this
heavy tax? I agree entirely with the hon.
gentleman from Sarnia that it is not
according to the principles of Christianity
to treat any people as we are treating the
Chinese in this measure, and in the
measure respecting the electoral franchise
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My
hon. friend from Sarnia, and my hon.
friend who has just sat down, speak as
theorists and as philanthropists ; but take
those who have dealt with Chinese immigration practically in Australia and they
will flnd that the very law that we seek
to have passed here has been enacted in
that colony. There was a great deal of
difficulty about it, and for a time there
was a great deal of doubt as to whether
it would receive the assent of Her
Majesty's Government. It was pressed
again and again, and after repeated efforts
it finally did receive the assent of Her
Majesty's Governnent.
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEThat was a tax.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,
it was a tax. Then take the case of the
people of British Columbia. My hon.
friend opposite tells what the feeling of
the people of that province is. There is
the position of people who have to deal
practically with this subject.
We in
Ontario and Quebec and in the eastern
provinces, generally, have not to deal with
the subject practically ; with us it is a
question of theory. Hon. gentlemen say
why should not the Chinese be allowed to
come into the country ? One reason
given by the member for British Columbia
is that the population of China is so
great that if we open the door and allow them to cone in as they please, you
will have a Chinese instead of an AngloSaxon population in that province. We
do not feel that here ; we do not feel that
there is any danger from it ; but supposing there was not a danger from it, suppos-

1300

Ohinese Immigration [SENATE] Restriction Bill.

ing we were situated as they are in British
Columbia or in Australia, and we were
afraid the whole country was to be overrun with Chinese, we would feel that we
should put a stop to it, that we wanted the
country to be a British colony, and we
would not like to see the Chinese taking
possession of all the avenues of labor and
wealth. That is the practical aspect of
the question, and it is with that aspect of
the question we have to deal, and we are
dealing with it just as our fellow colonists
did in Australia, by imposing a reasonable
tax on all Chinese coming into the
country.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Can we restrict Chinese from Hong Kong coming
over ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
do not think we can ; they are British subjects.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-When the
Minister of Justice rose to explain the
nature and object of this Bill, it at once
struck me as being of un unusual character, and I was surprised that the Imperial
authorities had not stepped in to prevent
the introduction of such a measure, until
my hon. friend explained that it was favored by the Imperial authorities in Australia.
It seems to me that any country situated
as Canada is, with a province so near to
China on the Pacific coast, is clearly entitled to put in operation such regulations,
as regards immigration, as she finds necessary for her own security, in point of health,
rnorals, and balance of population. It is
rather a strong argument that we possess
a province on the Pacific coast so contiguous to China, and that China possesses a
vast population, with strong emigrating
tendencies ; but we do not want our Pacific province populated by Mongolians.
We want a European population, and I
think we are entitled to step in and prevent the western part of the Dominion
from becoming a Chinese province. I
think our measure should be based on
pretty much the same principles as that of
our American neighbors with regard to
European immigration. They do not
permit immigration from all parts of
On
Europe without recommendation.
the contrary they insist on the responsi-

HON.

SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL.

bility of the captains of vessels as to the
capacity of their passengers to support
themselves, and I think there are instances
on record wherein the immigrants have
been actually returned to Europe because
they could not make it appear that they
were able to support themselves in the
country to which they had come. These
are all practical and proper things, and if
it is a fact, as I believe it is, that some of the
worst classes of the Chinese have been
launched wholesale upon the western
coasts of America, it is reason enough why
we should legislate on this point, and
legislate with sufficient force to prevent
those contingencies which we deprecate
occurring in our western province. I
think we are fairly entitled to say that
before a Chinaman shall land upon our
shores he shall be bound to produce to
us a certificate of character, a guarantee
that he is a decent man ; and we are also
entitled to see to it that he imports no
disease of any kind amongst us. We may
find ourselves put to very great expense
in police matters, and expose perhaps,
more or less of our country to some
danger if the allegations laid against
the Chinese are true, which I do not at
all, myself, undertake to assert or deny.
At all events we should exercise caution
in these matters, and as to whether those
emigrants are in a healthy state, so as not to
inport any skin disease, or other disease,
amongst us. But I must say that I sympathize very stronglywith the remarks of other
speakers against throwing obstacles in the
way of importing Chinese women. I think
that the Chinaman who brings his wife
with him to this country should be encouraged to do so-of course he giving
sufficient security that he is married to her
and that she is a proper character.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentleman has not looked into the Chinese
marriage laws or he would not make that
statement.

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I have

not looked into them but I think at all
events there is a pretty good prima facie
case made out by the hon. gentleman
from Halifax on that point. There is no
necessity for throwing needless obstacles
in the way of the morality of the Chinese.
I have read the travels of some Europeans

.ManitobaCaim8 [JULY 13, 1885] Bill.
in different parts of the Chinese Empire
and their statements in regard to the
capability of Chinese men for labor
and industries, and how labor is encouraged. If we look at their course in
the United States, is it not a fact that the
railways and great improvements on the
Pacific coast would have been absolutely
impossible without Chinese labor ? It is
rlot so very long since a prejudice similar
to that against the Chinese existed in the
eastern states of America against the
Irish, just as baseless and just as groundless. For a time the Irish were a most
unpopular body in the United States, but
time has reconciled the Americans and
the Irish. I may say I do not altogether
like the principle upon which this Bill is
founded. Some of its clausei seem to
rne to be severe, but I think we have a
right to consider our British Columbian
province, and to prevent it from being
Overrun, in the manner that is apprehended there, by Chinese immigrants. I
Should look upon this as a temporary
measure. I wish, myself, that it were
specifically enacted for a limited time, and
I think some of those severe conditions
that are in it might be relaxed. Those
Chinamen, for instance, upon departure
from the country at a limited period
should receive their bonus which they
paid, provided they have not broken any
of our laws, or put our country to any
expense. It seems to me to be rather a
crude measure ; but at the same time the
general principle of it, that we are to prevent one of our provinces from becoming
entirely Mongolian, is a sound one.

1301

year in a way that the position
of other provinces does not change, and
therefore what is a reasonable provision
with reference to other provinces, regarding the sums which they are to draw
from the Dominion Treasury, is not reasonable as regards Manitoba. They have
no public lands of their own, and that is
another feature of the exceptional position
in which they stand. The other provinces brought more or less land and other
property into the Dominion, with the exception of Prince Edward Island, and to
that province a certain allowance was
made in lieu of land. Then following the
example shown to Prince Edward Island,
a certain amount was allowed to Manitoba
in lieu of land, and it was found insufficient. The expenditure of the province
has augmented very largely, owing to the
increase of population, and the increase of
the administration of justice, and it is
reasonable that provision should be made
to meet the exceptional position in which
they stand. The provision made hy this
Bill is, in the first place, that they should
receive a grant, completely free, of all the
swamp lands in the province. Those
swamp lands they will have to drain, and
once drained they will prove to be very
valuable. The objection has been raised
to the words "swamp lands " as not being
sufficiently precise. It was found in the
statutes of some of the States of the neighboring Republic, and it was found that
there was no difficulty in arriving at the
meaning of the term there, and I think
none will probably be found in this case.
Swamp lands will come to mean those
lands which have been drained by the
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill money of the Province of Manitoba, and
was read the second time.
in that way we will arrive at a clear meaning of the phrase. Then it is proposed to
MANITOBA CLAIMS BILL.
set aside a quantity of land, 150,000
acres, for the purpose of endowing a UniSECOND READING.
versity. That is a provision which every
one will agree with. It cannot be devoted
HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL moved to a better purpose. The sum now paythe second reading of Bill (155), "An able annually to the province as an inAct for the final settlement of the claims demnity for having no public lands shall
mnade by the Province of Manitoba on the be increased from $45,ooo to $1oo,ooo
Dominion." He said-The position of from the 1st of July last. That sum
Manitoba has been exceptional in the with their present income, and the
Dominion, and it is exceptional because other resources which this Bill gives
of the rapid increase of population there them will
be money enough to
as compared with any other province. provide for the ordinary wants of the comTheir position is changed from year to munity whic.h exists in Manitoba, and it is

1302,

32anitoba Claim8
[SENATE] Bill.

only increased because it was found by the
experience of two or three years that their
expenditure was so augmented by the
rapidly increasing population, by the
necessity of preserving order, and the expenditure connected with the administration of justice, that they could not go on
without some revision of the terms on
which they became part of the Dominion.
Then to enable us to give the $ioo,ooo,
the census of the country instead of being
taken every ten years, as it is in the rest of
the Dominion, is to be taken every five
years, and in the interim an arbitrary
opinion is to be arrived at as to what the
population is, and the sum to be allowed
is to be guided by the increasing population.
HON. MR. WARK-I am afraid that
this expression " swamp lands," will lead
to a great deal of difficulty and misunderstanding hereafter. I think it would have
been much better to have had those lands
examined and their position defined so
that there would be no misunderstanding
afterwards as to where they are, and what
the quantity is. When I brought the
question of a reserve of lands before the
House, for the purpose of clearing off the
debt, some hon. members misunderstood
my remarks-that the lands were to be
held in reserve. I should like to say that
my suggestion was that they should be
sold as rapidly as possible and the debt
paid off with the proceeds.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
is, we should raise out of the lands which
are situated in Manitoba, or out of lards
situated in the North West Territories, a
specific fund to be devoted to the paying
of the debt incurred for Manitoba or for
the North-West. The answer to that is
that the proceeds of all the lands sold in
that province or in the North-West Territories go into a common fund, and out of
that fund the expenses are paid. Whether
you pay them out of a speciffc appropriation of land or out of the general fund
makes no difference. The hon. gentleman
seems to suppose that we should take hold
of something which is not now the property
of the Dominion, and out of that pay those
expenses.
HON. MR. WARK-No, not at all.
HON. MR. POWER-I do not propose
to say anything against this Bill, but there
is one feature of it to which the Minister
of Justice has adverted, and also the hon.
gentleman who has just sat down. I think
it is to be regretted that the Government
have not made up their mind to put a definition of what are swamp lands, in the
Bill. It is always better to take a little
trouble in passing a bill, so as to prevent
any misunderstanding of its meaning in
the future, than to save the trouble now,
and have the difficulty afterwards in deciding what the law is. I understand that
opinions differ very widely as to what
swamp lands are, and the Government
ought to have inserted in the Bill such a
description of swamp lands as would prevent disputes and difficulties arising
hereafter.

HON. MR. CAMPBELL-The hon.
gentlemen proposed to set apart a certain
amount of public lands in the North West,
and that those public lands should form
the basis of a specific fund for the purpose
HON. MR. VIDAL-Can you suggest
of paying off the amounts which the
country has expended on them. Th2t one?
was the proposition?
HON. MR. POWER-No, I am not
familiar with the country out there ; but
HON. MR. WARK-My proposition the Department of the Interior who have
was to sell them as rapidly as possible to charge of the lands, and the members fron
pay off the debt
Manitoba ought to be able to describe
them in such a way that it could be easily
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-To understood what swamp lands are. There
pay off the debt incurred on behalf of that is one other feature about this Bill that
territory ?
deserves mention. Canada has heretofore
dealt pretty liberally with Manitoba The
HON. MR. WARK-On behalf of the Government now propose toadd$5 5 ,ooo to
expenditure out there.
the annual subsidy payableto that province.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

_Manitoba Claims [JULY 13, 1885] Bill.

I have no objection to that, because my impression is that as a general thing the
funds of the provincial governments are
administered more economically and more
directly for the good of the people than
the funds which are in the hands of the
Dominion Government ; and I am perfectly satisfied to see money going into
the hands of the Government in Manitoba,
by whom I presume it will be well exPended; but I am aware that the Governnent have had before them,for some time
past, claims on behalf of the province of
Nova Scotia. That province has less
rnoney to expend in proportion to her
Population than any other province in the
Dominion.
Having some little knowledge of the way in which the business
Of the local legislature and of the Government is transacted, I know that everything is done there in the very cheapest
and most economical way, and with all
that, important and necessary public works
have to be done without. I regret that,while
dealing so liberally-I do not say more
liberally than is fair-with this western
province, and with other western portions
of the Dominion, the Government have
lot seen their way to deal in the same
liberal spirit with the province from which
I come.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-There seems
to have been a great deal of money down
in Nova Scotia until such time as the

1303

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes.
HON. MR. POWER-My hon. friend
from Lunenburg reminds me of the saying
that if you put one Irishman on a spit you
can always get another Irishman to turn
it.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I think the

hon. gentleman from Halifax is just the
Irishman that can turn the spit.
HON. MR. DEVER-Have those two
hon. gentlemen turned Irishmen ?
HON.

been

MR. HAYTHORNE-I have

trying to find the

meaning

of

" swamp lands," and I have not been able
to do so, but I assume that it is the land

which at some time of the year is overflowed with water, stagnant or otherwise ?
HON.

SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL-

Yes.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-If that is
the definition for it, it is not quite so easy

a matter to describe it by metes and

bounds as some hon. gentlemen consider,
because the edges of those swamps will
be as irregular as the sea shore. For that
reason it would be an exceedingly tedious
and troublesome matter to describe metes
and bounds in a measure like this. What
I wish to call the attention of the House
to is the necessity of introducing a
clause into this Bill or some other Bill for
arterial drainage, because those swamps
cannot be approached at all. You must
approach them with arterial drains, and
unless you take power to go through

Liberal party got into power, and then it
Was wasted in extravagance, partly by
building railways and not completing theni,
and then handing them over to the Dofiinion for half what they cost. I think
the less money that is given to the Nova
Scotia Government to spend and waste the
other lands, and through private property
better.
if necessary, they cannot be drained.
HON. MR. POWER-That is a patriotic
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
sentiment for a Nova Scotian.
power will be given by the Local LegislaHON. MR KAULBACH-I think the ture.
Dominion Government can spend money
HON. Mr. TRUDEL-I think it would
in Nova Scotia more wisely than the local
Goveriment can. I presume this Bill is be very easy to have a provision to prevent
any difficulty in the matter. There must
in full of all demands ?
be some returns that will give an idea of
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-Yes. the quantity of those swamp lands. Then
supposing it should be put at

2,000,000

HON. MR. KAULBACH-And I see acres, with a provision that if there is not
the increase is to be limited to a population that quantity of swamp lands in the proOf 400,000.
vince the amount may be made up with

1304A

Manitoba Claims [SE NATE] Bill.

other lands, or something of that kind.
The quantity being established it would
prevent any difficulty in the future, and
the Dominion Government would only be
exposed to giving a few hundred or a few
thousand acres of other land, which would
not be a matter so much to be regretted,
as any difficulty or misunderstanding as
to what swamp lands are.
HON. MR. VIDAL-I do not think
that this anticipated difficulty is at all
likely to arise. As an old land surveyor I
know that it is not such a diflicult matter

to say what are swamp lands and what are
not.

Moreover, I think in the Bill we

have happily the final decision as to
them provided for. These swamp lands
are to be proved to be such to the satisfaction of the Dominion Government.
What more is wanted ? That constitutes
the final appeal, and the Government de-

cide what to accept or reject as swamp
lands. In the first place it is not at all
likely that the local government would
make a claim on the Dominion for any
other than recognized swamp land. Then
the provincial government and legislature
have shown their acceptance of this Bill
and their willingness to abide by the decision of the Government as to what are
swamp lands, and we have here in the

difficulty between the two governments in

determining and specifying the lands that
are to be included under the term "swamp
lands."
HoN. MR. GIRARD-The present Bill
should be, as we say in the preamble, a
final settlement of all difficulties between
the Province of Manitoba and the Dominion. But I do not know that it will be
so. It seems to me that such a Bill
should be well received by the Dominion
Government, and I expect that it
will give general satisfaction in the
Province of Manitoba. Transactions with
reference to land are not always satisfactory to every one. It is understood by a
portion of our population in Manitoba
that those public lands belong to the
Province and not to the Dominion, but
for my part I consider there has been such
a large expenditure incurred in the surveying and development of the country,
that there should be no dissatisfaction on
that point. The Government have, to a
certain extent, recognized the right of the

Local Legislature to the possession of
these lands, because on one occasion
$45,ooo was given to the Province in lieu
of their lands, and that sum was augmented on another occasion to $1oo,ooo, with

the same understanding that it was in lieu
For a time this Bill will give
plete surveys with field notes on which to satisfaction, I have no doubt, but I anticibase such decisions ; I believe that here pate there will be renewed applications to
in Ottawa without any other assistance the Dominion Government until all the
than those maps and field notes I could public lands in the Province belong to the
sit down and tell whether any lands that local authorities, and there will not be
have been surveyed are swamp lands or general satisfaction there until that is
not.
accomplished.
These swamp lands are
not a great source of wealth in a country
HON. MR. TRUDEL-Then why not where real estate has not a high value. I
fix them ?
understand swamp lands to be those which

Departmental offices very full and com- of lands.

are covered all the time by water.

To

HON. MR. VIDAL-Because it would render them fit for cultivation the local
be utterly impossible to designate every lot government will be obliged to make large
in detail in any statute. There are con- expenditures in constructing drains and

siderable quantities of such land which
without extensive drainage are unavailable
for cultivation. The Dominion Government say that these lands are to be handed
over to the Province of Manitoba, and

otherwise-certainly a larger amount than
the present value of the lands. I am sure
the grant which is made to the University
of Manitoba will receive the approval of
every hon. gentleman in this House. It

they at their own expense will drain them,
and derive a revenue from the sale of
them. I do not know anything more
simple or satisfactory than an arrange-

is an exceptional institution, at which

Catholics and Protestants can receive
degrees and where there is every indication of prosperity and progress. It occu-

ment of this kind, and I apprehend no pies quite an exceptional position in the
HON. MR. TRUDEL

Pacific Railway [JUILY 14, 1885] Aid Bill
Dominion, and I am sure it will go on
doing good work, and continue to be an
example for the rest of the Dominion.
Such an institution deserves aid. I am
Sure the lands which are granted by this
Bill will enable that institution to increase
the good work that it is now performing,
in affording a good, sound education to
the youth of the Province. I shall vote
for the Bill with great pleasure.
HON. MR. WARK-I was in hopes
before the hon. member for Sarnia sat
down that he would tell us what are called
swamp lands. I do not believe that lands
which are overflowed once in a year are
swamp lands, because some of the finest
land we have along the Bay of Fundy and
along the valleys of the rivers in the Lower
Provinces are overflowed at high water, but
when the water recedes it leaves them
something like an irrigated meadow.
What I call a swamp is land which is so
flat that when the snow and ice melt the
water remains upon it until it evaporates.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
The Senate adjourned at 9.15 p.rn.

THE SENATE.

1305

Act further to amend the Acts respecting
the Canadian Pacific Railway, and to
provide for the completion and successful
operation thereof." He said-This is a
Bill which provides for certain assistance
being given to the Canadian Pacific Railway to enable them to complete their
great enterprise. The House is no doubt
aware that the company now owe the public some $3o,ooo,ooo. The whole of the
money has not yet been paid to them, but
they have got most of it, and they will get
the rest of it as the work goes on, so that
the company may be said to owe
the country $30,ooo,ooo. For this sum
the Government hold a first security on
their property. It is proposed that the
company shall issue a new mortgage with
bonds, the bonds amounting to $35,000,ooo, out of which they shall pay the country$20,000,000, being a portion of this
$30,ooo,000 that I speak of ; that the

remaining $15,ooo,ooo shall be theirs to
be dealt with by them. The House will
see that if this is carried out the debt
which
is now
$30,000,000,
will
be reduced from $3o,ooo,ooo to $10O,00,000,,

for

that

$1o,ooo,ooo

security for the country
will consist in the first
the unsold lands of the
amounting to 21,ooo,ooo

the

hereafter
place of
company,

acres, which

are to be dealt with and exhausted if
necessary, and should any balance
Ottawa, Tuesday, July 1 4 th, 1885.
remain due to the Government by
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three the company after the lands have
been exhausted, that balance shall be
o'clock.
a second lien upon the railway itself.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
So that the debt due the Government,
which is now $30,ooo,ooo,

will be divided

INLAND REVENUE ACT AMEND- into two. For the $2o,ooo,ooo we shall
MENT BILL.
have the security which we have now,
coupled with this fact that the other $15,THIRD READING.
ooo,ooo will be allowed to come in and

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the third reading of Bill (146), " An Act
to amend the Consolidated Inland
Revenue Act, 1883."
The motion was agreed to, and the Bile
Was read the third time and passed.

rank pari passu with our

$20,000,OOo,.

leaving a balance of $1o,ooo,ooo,

for

which balance we shall have the security of
the land, a'nd if the lands fail we shall have
a second mortgage on the railway itself.
In speaking of this proposed change I desire, in the first place, to point out to the
House the position which the $20,000,ooo
PACIFIC RAILWAY AID BILL.
will occupy. That amount will still be,
as it is now, a first claim on the
SECOND READING.
railway: it will still be, as it is
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved now, a first mortgage on the prothe second reading of Bill (153), "An perty, but we shall have allowed $15,-

Pacifo Railway [SENATE] Aïd Bill.

1306
000,ooo

to come in and rank with it. It will be a temporary loan for which there

Those $15,ooo,ooo, however, will be expended on the railway itself, so that the
property will be increased in value by the
expenditure of $15,ooo,ooo and although
we admit the $15,000,000 to rank with our
$2o,ooo,ooo, we shall have thereafter a
better security for the $20,ooo,ooo than we
have now, although it now stands as a first
lien. That, I think, is the position which
the $2o,ooo,ooo will occupy. It has been
urged that we are weakening our security
to the extent of allowing the other $15,000,ooo to come in and rank with us. It
does not seem to be a just argument, inasmuch as the $15,ooo,ooo to be raised is to
be expended on the railway itself, increasing its value, and therefore augmenting
the value of the security to the extent of
the expenditure. Then, as to the $1o,000,000, we certainly are taking that out of
the position of a first lien and ranking it
solely upon the land, in the first instance,
with a provision that if the land should be
exhausted, then we shall have a second
mortgage on the railway itself; but the
land which is given as security amounts

is most ample reason to believe full
security will be put up. The only doubt
which anybody could possibly throw upon
that expectation would be drawn from the
fact that the issue of that portion of the
$35,ooo,ooo to the public which is to be
placed in the market-that is the
$15,ooo,ooo-miay possibly not be taken
up. I do not think that it is an
appreciable risk. I have no doubtand I have strong reason for expressing that opinion-that the $15,ooo,ooo of bonds which are to be offered

to the public will be taken up, and the
first appropriation of any part of the
$15,000,000 will be to reimburse the
Governnent the $5,ooo,ooo they are advancing. That will be done for a double
reason. In the first place, the company

will be naturally anxious to redeem their
undertaking to pay us by the time mentioned, the 1st of July, 1886, and, in
the second place, that they are depositing
with us $8,ooo,ooo of bonds to secure to
us the repayment of the five millions on
the ist of July next year. I do not,
to something like 21,000,ooo acres. therefore, feel any doubt that that
I take it there is no danger, or money will be repaid.
Should my
very little danger, that that land will be expectations be realized, then after the
exhausted without paying the $2o,ooo,ooo ist of July, 1886, the company will be in
but if, by any peradventure, that should full possession of its $15,ooo,ooo of bonds;
bethe case, we shall have a second nortgage they may have sold them, but in that
on the railway itself, and by the change we case the proceeds will have passed into the
shall have opened the door for the railway hands of the Government, to be exto provide for itself out of its own resour- pended for the purpose of strengthening
ces the $15,ooo,ooo for carrying on the the security, and the Government will be
works of the company. The Bill does in possession of its twenty million acres
not propose any assistance to the com- of land which is to be devoted to paypany in the way of a permanent loan, or ing the balance of the debt. That
giving an increased price in any way, but is the proposal which this Bill lays
it proposes to open the door so that they down. I hope that I have made it clear
may themselves borrow on their own to the House. One cannot be sure that
security this $15,ooo,ooo.
That is the he makes himself understood when speakfirst Érima facie view of the transac- ing of figures--at least I cannot, and I
tion which the House is now asked to feel a distrust whether I am making them
sanction.
as clear as I desire to make them. and
The second is this : that out of the whether I am succeeding in placing others
$35,000,000 of these bonds which are to in the position mentally which I feelmyself
be issued in pursuance of the mortgage in,with regard to the figures and the transacwhich this Bill is to make legal, and out of tions which I am trying to describe. I hope
the $15,000,000 which are given to them that the House sees that our present posiout of the $35,ooo,ooo, the company are tion, the $3o,ooo,ooo will be altered ; that
to lodge with the Government $8 000,000 we shall have security the same as we have
and upon lodging with us $8,ooo,ooo now-the first security, for $20,ooo,ooo,
bonds, we advance them temporarily, up to although other $15,ooo,ooo will rank
the 1st of July next, the sum of $5,ooo,ooo.i Paripassuwith it. For the remainder we
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Pacific Railway [JULY 14, 1885.] Aid Bill.
shall have the land, with the ultima't
power of resorting to the railway if thc
land fails, and I should add that $35,000,oo of stock is to be cancelled, reducing the capital upon which dividends
are to be paid to $65,000,000.
It does not seem to be a proposition very onerous to the country. It
does not to me seem one that should call
forth the very strong animadversion made
upon it because, as I view it, it is not a very
extraordinary help to give to a company
embarked in so gigantic a transaction as
this company is. But the objections
which have been taken are numerous, and
I think that perhaps it will be best that I
shall endeavor to reply to some of them,
even at this stage of the debate, because I
hope that it may not be necessary for me
to speak again, and because I think the explanation which I shall give now will perhaps
assist hon. gentlemen to understand fully
the position of the matter as it is presented to the House, and to consider the weight
which they may think is due to the objections which have been raised. I state those
objections on my own authority, having
read the debates elsewhere, and having
followed in a general way the newspaper
discussions on the subject. I may not
state them all, but I intend to state them
all, and believe that I shall do so. The
first objection taken is that the company
has not spent its money on the Pacific
Railway proper ; that is, that they have
misappropriated their money, not to speak
offensively-that they have not spent it on
the work which the country entrusted to
them to perform, and that, therefore, they
are not entitled to any further consideration on the part of Parliament.
Those taking that objection say " Show
us fully all the money that you have
spent from the Government on the
line of railway, and we will show you that
that money would have completed it,
equipped it, and started the running of it."
I think there are two modes of answering
that objection, either of which seems to be
complete. The first answer I propose to
give is this, that the whole of the
mToney which the railway company has
ever got from the Government, from the
beginning to now, has always been obtained upon an engineer's certificate.
HoN. MR. POWER-Hear, hear.

1307

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The

form of the engineer's certificate I have
with me, and it certifies that so much
work has been done ; that so much re,
mains to be done, and that the proportion
which has been done is so and so to the

proportion which remains to be done. I
think that the House would perhaps desire
to see the exact modus operandi, and

it may be satisfactory to hon. gentlemen to see the kind of certificate
which was required by the Government
before any money was paid ; and I have
taken from the copies of the minutes of
the Privy Council the last certificate or
last memorandum of Council upon which
the certificate was issued. This Order-inCouncil is on a memorandum dated 9 th
July, 1885, and is as follows:
Certified Copy of a Report of a Committee of'

the Honorable the Privy Council, approved
by His Excellency the Governor Gereral in
Council, on the 9th July, 1885.
On a Memorandum dated 9th July, 18851
from the Acting Minister of Railways and
Canals, submitting a certificate, No 47, dated
7th July, instant, from the Chief Engineer of
the Canadian Pacific Railway with respect to
the Eastern Station of the road, of which the
following are the details :
Total value of work done and
material delivered up to the 1st
of July, 185e.......................819,551,797
West of Callander 100 tuiles
East of Port Arthur 67
167@$1,584.631=$2,569,229
Proportion of value of work done
under the Act of 1884 to that
of work renaining to be done.... 16,982,568
That of this amount the books of
the Department show that
there lias already been paid
the sum o!..................................10,497,039
Leaving the balance now payable
$54,758
Of which balance the portions chargeable to the '"Loan"
and "Subsidy" accounts severally are as follows.
Loan......$31,700
Subsidy... 23,058
$54,758

The Minister recommends thatauthority be

given for the payment to the Canadian Pacific
Railway Company of the said balance of $54,758 accordingly.
The Committee advise that authority be
given as recommended.
Now, that has been the course pursued
by the Government uniformly throughout,
and the company has drawn no money
from the country except on a certificate of
that kind, with the single exception of the
seven and a half millions advanced them
under the loan of last session for the purpose of paying off their floating debt.

1308

Paegic Railway [SENATE] Aid Bill.

Parliament was pleased to authorize the
payment of that sum of money for the
purpose of paying off the floating debt, the
company satisfying the Government that
that floating debt had been incurred for
the purpose of the railway, and this was
the language used on that occasion by
Parliament "The Government may, ont of any unappropriated moneys forming part of the Consoliated Revenue Fund of Canada, make a loan
to the said company of any amount in money,
not exceeding $22,500,000 to be repaid to the
Governmenton or before the first day of May,
1891, with interest at the rate of five per

the line of the said Company's railway and
for other purposes of the Company in connection therewith.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and
by virtue of the Act passed in the thirtyseventh year of Her Majesty's reign intituled
" An Act for the Suppression of Voluntary
and extra Judicial Oaths."
(Signed.)
ISAAC G. OGDEN.
Solemnly declared before me at the city of
Montreal this 26th day of February, 1884,
in pursuance of the said Act.
(Signed,)
R. T. H ENEKER,
Commissioner for receiving affidavits
for the Province of Quebec.

centum, payable half yearly until full payThat we did not consider thoroughly
ment of the principal ; and out of the said satisfactory, and we asked for further
loan the Government may advance to the
company forthwith such amount, not exceed- information from the Accountant, and this
ing $7,500,000, as shall be required by the additional paper was sent in :company to extinguish its present floating

debt, the amount and character of the items
of such debt to be established to the satisfaction of the Government."
The Government asked for information
In accordance with the language I have
read. They asked for information as to
the amount and character of the items of
these seven and a half millions. The
company gave the character and items of
their floating debt, which amounted to

THE CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY.
I, ISAAc G. OGDEN, of the City of Montreal,
Auditor of the Canadian Paciec Railway
Company, do solemnly declare:-

That the statement of floating debt of the
the Canadian Pacific Railway Company,being
sum of $8,114,137.51 declared by nie on the
twenty-sixth day of February, 1884, to be a

correct statement cf indebtedness of said
Company is composed of indebtedness accrued
I leave out the hundreds for from the amount deposited with the Govern$8,144,000.
the sake of convenience, and it was thus ment on account of guarantee of dividend, towit. the sum of $3,781,797.49; and that the balcomposed :ance towit.the sumof $4,332,340.02 accruedon
account of expenditure on the main hue of the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Canadian Pacific Railway Company, west of
Overdraft at Bank of Montreal
Callander, and is still due.
(see certificate of Bank atAnd I make this solemn declaration, contached) Mainly for supplies
scientiously believing the saine to be true, and
and labor furnished north of
by virtue of the Act passed in the thirtyLake Superior ..... ........ $3,494,280 .5 seventh year of Her Majesty's reign, intituled
Loans for purposes of Company:
" An Act for the suppression of Voluntary
Deman loan, Bank of Mon.
and extra-Judicial Oaths."
treal, N.Y.,

interest added.
814,271 64
Denand loan, C. Unger &
Co., N. Y., interest added.. 2,521,666 66
Loan due March 13th, F. W.

Gilley & Co., N. Y., interest added ...............
Demand loan, G. S. Scott &
Co., interest added ........
Demand loan, J. Kennedy
Tod & Co., interest added..
1883 accounts unpaid,.........

Signed,
ISAAC G. OGDEN.
Solemnly declared before me at the City of
404,000 00 Montreal, this sixth day of March, 1884,

under and by virtue of the said Act.

402,000 00
402,000 00
75,918 76

$8,114,137 51
I, Isaac G. Ogden, of the city of Montreal,
auditor of the Canadian Pacifie Railway Company, do solemnly declare that the foregoing
is a correct statement of indebtedness of the
Canadian Pacific Railway Company, and that
the said Company have received a full cash
equivalent for the saine, which has been used
for material, supplies and labor furnished on
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Signed,

R. T. HENEKER,
Commissioner for taking afdavits for the Province of
Quebec.
There, hon gentlemen, is an account
which I think is satisfactory and complete,
as far as anything of that kind can be, of
the mode in which the se ren and a-half
million of dollars was expended. Now if
it be true that every dollar of the money
which the company ever got from the

Pacifc Railway [JULY 14, 1885] Aid Bill.
Government wascomposed either of money
paid under a certificate, such as I have
read, from the engineer, and an Order-inCouncil passed on that certificate--if it
be true that no money was paid to them
except under a certificate, save this seven
and a-half million of dollars, and if the
House is satisfied with the statement of
Mr, Odgen, the accountant, as to the mode
of the expenditure of that seven and a-half
million of dollars, then it is established as
clearly as anything can be established, that
the company has not diverted the money
from the purposes of the Canadian Pacific
Railway. It has not diverted the money
which the country gave it. The country
gave the company a large sum of money for
these purposes, and it is perfectly proper
that they should be called upon to establish
to the satisfaction of Parliament that they
have expended all themoney which they got
from the country for the purpose which
.the country had in view when they
I
appropriated it for the company.
think that is established clearly by the
proof which I have offered to the House
of the mode in which they obtained money
-the only mode in which they obtained
it. But there is another way to establish
it, and I have, with a view to make it
certain, taken that other plan also.
It is to show exactly what money they
have spent in works of construction, and
where it has gone. The question comes,
in the first place, what is the main line,
and what is its extent ? Are they to go
beyond the terminal points mentioned in
the original bill ? The only question
is upon the terminal point at Callander
station. The House will keep in mind
that they were to construct a railway from
Callander station to Port Moody, and
operate it-they were to maintain and run
it, and they were authorized by the Bill to
establish connections with Montreal and
Brockville. I take it-where you ask a
company to operate such a railway that
everyone, who thinks at all about it, will admit that it could not have been intended
that the road was to begin at Callanderthat there must be connection with Montreal. You cannot begin a road in the middie of the woods and ojerate it from there ;
although I separate the sections afterwards
into that West of Callander and that East
of Callander, so that the House may
see the separate view of it as well as the

1309

view which I myseif take, yet, I think, for
the purpose of my argument it is just and
proper to say that the road begins at Montreal, because the contract which they
made with the country, rendered it absolutely necessary that they should run down
to Montreal. It was impossible, and no
business man would dream of commencing to operate the road from Callander,
and it was a consequence which was
unavoidable, and foreseen and mentioned, and which may, therefore, be
fairly considered, and the eastern section is,
in fact, by the terms of the charter, made
part of the Canadian Pacific Railway. I
will give the figures. Hon. gentlemen
may desire to verify them. I have verified them myself by going over them with
Mr. Miall, who was the accountant
sent by the Government to Montreal for
the purpose of inspecting the company's
books and who had the most ample opportunity of examining the books. I will
read to the House his figures, the correctness of which I have no doubt of
whatever. They are as follows :
COST OF MAIN LINE.
WEST OF CALLANDER.

Construction of main Une .............. $43,776,912
Improvements on Government sections 1,241,780
Materials on hand there ..............
3,687,729
848,706,421

The House knows of course that the
company got the works which the Government had constructed between Port
Arthur and Red River and these works, at
the time they were handed over, had been
used for some time for contractors' purposes and were not in very good repair.
They put them in good order, and expended on those sections to do so $1,200,000.
Then, of course, there was the equipment.
That is a very expensive part of operating
the railway, and some doubt, I know, has
been felt by those who have taken a keen
interest in this niatter, whether the equipment which is charged in the accounts
was all for the Canadian Pacific Railway, oi
whether part of it was not for other railways in which the same persons are mixed
up; as for instance, the Ontario and Quebec, and the Credit Valley and others.
That was a point upon which the most
careful enquiry was made by Mr. Miall,
and by Mr. Schreiber, the Government

Paci Railway [SENATE] Aid Bill.

1310

engineer, and the figures which I have
given as the cost of equipment, are confined absolutely to the equipment of the
main line. I divide them in two, so that
the House may see how much of this
equipment is chargeable to the railway west
of Callander, and how much is properly
chargeable to the railway east of Callander.
The figures are as follows :
E uipment of entire main
ne.......
.......... 9,168,755
Proporti3n at a mileage
rate East of Callander,
350 to 2,950 miles, say
7'59, 52'59 for portion
West of Callander ...... 1,087,801
Interestand financialexpenses and on entire main
line 52-59th of total ..... 1,389,474
Proportion East of Callander ...... .............. . 164,853

8,080,954

... 58,011,996

East of Callander they did not build a
road ; they acquired existing roads ; they
acquired the Canada Central Railway
running from this city via Carleton Place to
Callander, and they acquired the Brockville & Ottawa.

--

Amount provided by Company from these sources:
Capital stock ............ 829,568,123
Bonuses..................
232,600
Earnings (nett)........... 1,456,318
Floating debt ...........
6,895,462

48,073,678

$38,152,503

People are disposed, and I have been too
apt myself in the past, to confound the
loan and the subsidy together. I do not
think we should in any way grudge this
company the subsidy. It is part of their
contract. We speak of it as though they
were indebted to the country for the subsidy as well as the loan. For the loan
they are indebted to the country. That
was a matter of grace and favor, but the subsidy is theirs: theyearned it and have given
value for it, and it is as much theirs as
the price of a house would be if they had
built it under contract. The following is
a resumé of the figures I have given:
The Company expended on the main
line west of Callander............ 848,706,421
It received subsidies ..................
29,447,078

EAST OF CALLANDER.

Acquisition of main line.. .84,213,758
Proportion of equipment 7/59 1,087,801
Proportion of expenses 7/59 164.853
-

Total aid from Govt......829,447,078
Government loan ........ 18,626,600

$38,152,503

1,224,621
Expended under contract..

Government subsidy.... .820,240,317
Proceeds of land..........
8,702,086
Town sites............... .504,675

5,466,412

Surplus above subsidies............ 819,259,343
It received as a loan from the Government, for which it has given security..............................8
18,626,600

Total cost of entire main line ..... 'S63,478,408
Expended on contract portion above
BRANCHESboth loan and subsidies...........$
632,748
Algoma branch; branches at WinniThe Company expended on the main
peg .............................
4,605,172
line proper, Montreal, to the PaciCONNECTIONSfic .............................. 858,011,996
It received froin the GovS. E. Ry., Manitoba S. W., St. L.
ernment subsidies .... $29,447,078
& O., Atlantic & N. W. &c...... 5.857,224
Dividends ..........................
5,378,000 Government loan secured.818,626,600 $48,073,678
Deposit as security for dividend.....
6,907,377
Surplus provided by the Co.
on entire main line....
$9,938,318
Total expenditure................. $86,226,181

In the face of the statements which I
have submitted it seems to me clear that
no one can justly or truly say that the
company have not expended on the main
line, between Montreal and Port Moody,
all the money which they received from
the Government. They have expended
all of that and more too, and it seems to
me that is the point with which we have to
deal. I do not think we have the same
right to criticize the course which they pur
sue with reference to their stock. It was
This total expenditure, $86,226,ooo, their own, and they raised money on it and
was provided in this way:
expended it partly on the main Une and
Gentlemen may quarrel with the items
for connections and dividends, and
with the item deposited as security,
but these are the absolute expenditures of the company, and it is necessary
that they should be recorded in order to
show where the company's money went,
and satisfy the House that as far as the
public money went it was expended upon
the main line from Montreal to Port
Moody.

HON.

SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL,

Pacifi Railway (JULY 14, 1885] Aid Bill.
partly for extending their line to the seaboard, but that is a transaction which
they had a right to enter into. All we
can properly ask of them is to
demonstrate that the money which we
gave them has been spent on the Canadian
Pacific Railway and to finish that
work, and that I submit to the
House, with great confidence, has been
shown by both the modes which I have
adopted, the one by showing that they got
no money from us, except by certificate,

1311

terms than it is stated by Mr. Van Horne.
He says:CANÂDIAN PÂciric RAILWAY COMPANY,
MONTREAL, 19th June, 1885.

f
The contract between the Government and
the Canadian Pacific Railway Company provides that the Union Pacifie Railway shall be
taken as an "approximate standard," whereby
the quality and character of the railway, and
of the materials used in construction thereof,

and of the equipnent thereof may be regu-

lated;" and this clause was interpreted by a
subsequent letter as meaning the Union
with the exception of $7,500,ooo, and Pacific Railway as it was when accepted by
shown that that sum was spent on the United States Government in 1873.

It is claimed by the parties to the contract
the main line, and the other by
showing exactly what the cost of con- on the part of the Company that in referring to
the Union Pacifie Railway, they, and the
struction has been, and that it has ex- Government as well, had in mind the entire
ceeded considerably the amount they got line between Omaha and San Francisco-the
from the country. So in both ways I entire line being commonly known in Canada
think it is established that the company and the east as the Union Pacific, and the
has kept faith with the country, and that technical difference between the sections east
and west of Ogden being little understood by
it has expended all the money it got from the public.
us by subsidy or loan on the road itself.
However this may have been, the clause in
Another argument which is made use of the contract fixing the standard lias always
is that the conpany have not kept faith been understood by the coinpany as referring
railway
with the country in the character of the to theofgeneral character of the track, in respect
gradients, curvature,
bridges,
work which they have done on the road, rolling stock and appurtenances, but not as
and particularly as regards curves and providing that the maximum grades or
gradients. Now, with reference to the curves should in no cases, and under no circharacter of the work, everyone who has cumstances exceed the maximum of theUnion
Pacifie, and the Company confidently assert
gone over it speaks in strong terms of its that in ail respects the Canadian Pacifie is
friends in superior to the standard named, and particucharacter. Some of my hon.
this House have gone over it-I know the larly in the matter of gradients.
W hile it is no doubt true that the maximum
hon. member from Amherst has-and I
have heard the Minister of Public Works gradients on the Union Pacifie Railway at
the present time do not exceed 90
the
and others, and I think I am right mile, it is also true that gradients offeet to feet
116
and justified in saying that the consensus to the mile were used in the original construcof opinion of those who have gone over tion of that railway, and that curves of 10
the road-those who are skilled and those degrees or more were also used.
To
who are not-is that the road has been 1873, what extent these had been reduced in
I have no data at
for
road, a bet- this comparison we arehand to show, but the
well built and is an excellent
willing to take
rer road than the one which was taken as Union Pacifie as it exists to-day.
That railway from Omaha to Cheyenne,
a pattern ; a road which in all respects
commends itself to engineers as a 515 miles, has light gradients, corresponding
for 957
of
better road than any which crosses the to those on our lineCheyenne miles west tl4e
Winnipeg. From
to Ogden,
continent, and a road which any engineer remainng 517 miles of the Union Pacifie, or
would pronounce as a first-class road. As 50 per cent. of its entire length, gradients of
regards the particular objection as to grades 90 feet per mile are scattered throughout.'
On that part of the Canadian Pacifie Railand curves, I will read to the House a
very admirable and clear statement made way constructed by the Company, the maximum permanent gradient from Callander to
by Mr.Van Horne, the vice-president of the Port Arthur, 653 miles, and for 957 miles
road, which establishes to my mind that west from Winnipeg, is 52?- feet to the mile.
the road which has been constructed by the Then comes a section of 120 miles, with
Canadian Pacific Railway Co. is a better line several permanent gradients of 116 feet to the
than the one which was taken as a pattern mile; beyond this a section of 113 miles, with
several gradients of 66 feet, and finally 65
for it-that is the Union Pacific. I can- miles, with the minimum gradients 52f- feet
not possibly put the argument in clearer to the mile.

1312

Pacifc Railway [SEN ATE] Aid Bill.

The maximum grade section on the Canadian Pacifie is therefore embraced within a
distance equal to only 6 per cent. of the main
line built by the company, while the maximum grade section ofthe Únion Pacifie covers
50 per cent. of its entire distance. And even
if the Canadian Pacific maximnm grade section is made to include the section embracing
the 66 feet grades, or all above 52#2 feet to the
mile, it wili amount to only 12 per cent. of
the main line built by the Company.
Assuming that double the poweris required
to move a given load over a grade of 116 feet
that is required over a grade of 90 feet (and
the difference is not nearly so great), it will
readily be seen that the advantage is largely
in favor of the Canadian Pacifie Railway, by
reason of its concentration of grades on a
short section, and that a given average expenditure of power per mile of railway will
move a much greater load over the entire
length of the Canadian Pacifie Railway than
over the Union Pacific ; and even if we take
for the purpose of comparison a section of the
Canadian Pacifie extending eastwards from
Savona's Ferry 1,032 miles (the Union Pacifie
distance) and including the heavy grade section, the comparison will still be largely in
favor of the Canadian Pacific, whose maximum grade section would be 12 per cent. of
the 1032 miles, and the section embracing
grades exceeding 52? feet to the mile less
than 24 per cent.; and although such a comparison would be decidedly unfair to the
Canadian Pacifie, it is clear that the
same average expenditure of power would
move more tons over this section than over
the entire length of the Union Pacifie.
Alreight train startingfrom Montreal for the
Pacific on the Canadian Pacifie Railway will
require assistance ascending but one grade,
namely, that of the east slope of the Selkirks,
and a freight train starting from the Pacifie
terminus for Montreal will require assistance
in only two places; namely, the ascent of the
west slopeof the Selkirks, and the west slope
of the Rocky Mountains; and the two grades
coming eastwards are in the direction of the
lightest trans-continental traffic.
The line over which the same expenditure
of power will inove the greatest tonnage is
surely the superior line in respect of gradients, and this is governed not so much by
the maximum gradients as by their distribution.
A line 100 miles in length with a single
gradient of say 150 feet to the mile for five
miles is far superior to a line of 100 miles
with gradients of fifty feet to the mile, aggregating five miles in length, but scat.tered
along at intervals. In the latter case an
average locomotive could haul but twenty
loadea cars over the entire line, while on the
line with the sin gle heavy grade an average
locomotive coulId baul fifty cars over
ninety-five miles of its length, but would require locomotive assistance up the heavy
grade of five miles,and even if this assistance
should be equivalent to the use of a locomoHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

tive for 100 miles on a level line, the advantage of the line with the single heavy grade is
obvious, notwithstanding its maximum gradient is three times as great, and no engineer
will deny that it is infinitely superior in the
matter ot gradients to the fine with light but
scattered grades. This is an extreme case,
but it will serve to illustrate the theory upon
which the company lias proceeded-theory
which is stated by an eminent engineer, Mr.
Hermann Haupt, in the following words " If the maximum resistances can be concentrated at one point, and overcome at once
with the aid of assistant engines, while lighter
gradients in favor of the direction of the tonnage prevail on ail the rest of the route, the
line will be operated cheaply ; but if the maximum resistances are scattered over the whole
line at intervals more or less remote, the
operation vill be expensive."
And this
theory is clearly demonstrated by Mr.
Arthur Wellington, C. E., in his treatise " On
the economical Theory of the Location of
Railways," and is sustained by everv modern
railway engineer of any standing.
There can be no question as te the practicability of grades of 116 feet to the mile.
Such grades may be found on the Baltimore
and Ohio and other important American
lines carrying a heavy traffic, and the Central
Pacific, the nost profitable of all the Pacific
railways, bas many such, combined with curvature up to 12 degrees ; and there is no line
between the Atlantic and the Pacific on which
grades of 116 feet and upwards and curves of
10 degrees and upwards do not occur.
With reference to curvature, I beg to say
curves of 10 degrees only occur on the Canadian Pacifie between the summit of the
Rocky Mountains and the foot of the west
slope of the Selkirks, all being embraced
within a distance of 115 miles, except fbr a
short distance at Kamloops Lake, and
wherever curves and grades occur together,
the latter are equated to the curvature. On
ail the rest of the hne built by the Company,
the curvature is very easy and it will compare
favorably in this respect with any long line on
this continent.
Curves of 10 degrees and upards are not
uncommon on sone of the very%
best American
Railways. They may be fowid on such lines
as the Pennsylvania, and the Baltimore and
Ohio lines running the very fastest trains and
carrying the heaviest tonnage of any on this
Continenît.
In considering the general character of the
Canadian Pacifie Railway as compared with
the Union Pacifie, it should be remember.ed
that the former is laid with steel rails
throughout, rails weighing 56, 60 and 70
pounds to the yard, while the Union Pacifie
was laid with 50 pound iron rails.
The embankments of the Canadian Pacifie
have not in any case been made less than 14
feet in width at formation level, and the earth
cuttings 22 feet, while on the Union Pacifie
thev were 12 and 20 feet respectively.
TÊhe rock cuttings of the Canadian Pacifie

Pacific Railway [JULY 14, 18S5] Aid Bill.
are 22 feet wide, while those on the Union
Pacifie in 1873 wEre, and are yet, to a large
extent, only 16 feet. The structures of all
kinds on the Canadian Pacific are far superior
to those on the Union Pacifie. Not one iron
bridge was used in the original construction
of the Union Pacific, and I can state from my
personal knowledge that not more than one
had been built on that line up to July, 1874.
In a letter froin the United States Commissioner of Railways, it is stated that more than
three-tourths of the whole length of truss
bridging on the Union Pacifie is constructed
Of iron of excellent design, &c. On the
Canadian Pacific every truss bridge between
Montreal and the summit of the Rocky Mountains is of iron or steel, except on the section
built by the Government between Thunder
Bay and Winnipeg, and the iron bridges built
by the Conipanv are at least 50 per cent.
heavier than are those of corresponding spans
On the Union Pacifie, and I do not hesitate to
assert frorn the knowledge I have of the Union
Pacifie, that there is more first class bridge
masonry on the two hundred miles of the
Canadidn Pacifie between Port Arthur and
the Pic River, than on the entire line of the
Union Pacifie.
(Sgd.)

W. C. VAN HORNE,
Vice-President.

Now, I think although that comes from
an officer of the Canadian Pacific Railway,
there is a tone of certainty and truthfulness about it that impress themselves
Upon the mind, and I have no doubt the
statements there are correct, and I say
and know that they corroborate the opinions of those who have traversed the line,
and I am confident I can say with great
accuracy and truthfulness that the road is
superior to the line which was taken as a
rnodel-the Union Pacific-that we have
got a better road than the Union Pacific
by many degrees, and where fault is
found with the grades and curves of the
Canadian Pacific Railway, those who find
fault do so without appreciating the argument I now produce to the House that
the difference between two roads where
the curves are scattered through the entire
length, or a considerable portion of the
length, and a road where the line runs
straight for the best part of the
whole
length,
with
easy grades,
and the curves
and the
heavy
grades are all concentrated within a small
Percentage of the road at one endthe second road is better for many reasons
than the first-better for the reasons given
by Mr. Van Horne, because it is capable
of being more economically worked and

H 3

1313

enables the company to earn more and
pay better dividends.
HON. MR. DICKEY-Has my hon.
friend's attention been directed to the
fact that Sir Henry Tyler, the President of
the rival Grand Trunk Railway Company,
has given his opinion as to the character
of the road, expressing it in the very highest terms ? I notice that that has been
the case since his return from the Rocky
Mountains.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
had not noticed it, and I am very much
obliged to my hon. friend for adding that
to the evidence that I have submitted to
the House as to the character of the
Canadian Pacific Railway. That was the
second objection-which I
gathered
from the discussions elsewlhere, and
froim the papers-taken to the proposal
which is now before the House. Another
objection which is taken is that the Syndicate has made enormous gain on the stock
transactions; that they have made such an
arrangement that they have got the money
deposited with the Government for
the purpose of paying dividends for years
to come; that
they
have
taken
large amounts of stock at a very small
price themselves, and that the dividends which they have thus secured
afford an enormous return for the money
inve-sted. I was sorry to see when that
was being dealt with in another place
the comparison, as it seems to me, was not
made in a fair spirit, the whole of the
facts were not brought out. The amount
of stock which the syndicate have acquired
in this road, we all know, has cost then
For the first $5,ooo,ooo
$1o,ooo,ooo.
they paid par'; the other $20,ooo,ooo stock
they bought at 25 per cent. The whole
cost of the

$25,000,000

stock is $10,000,-

000.

HON. MR. WARK--Amounting
40 ets. on the dollar.

to

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Forty
cts. on the dollar. That is what the stock
cost them altogether. Now, in the conparison elsewhere the second item only is
taken into consideration, and it has been
pointed out that they have been making
12 per cent on their money because they

1314

Pacifc Bailway [SEN ATE] A id Bill.

got $20,ooo,ooo at 25 cts. on the dollar.

Nothing has been obtained by the corn-

That is true, but nothing is said about the
other $5,ooo,ooo for which they paid par,
and it seems to me a very unfair mode of
presenting the question for consideration.
It is true that if you confine yourself simply to the stock for which they paid 25
ets. on the dollar the dividends will give
them 12 per cent., but if you add the
$5,ooo,ooo for which they paid par they
would not get 12, but 7y/ per cent. It
seems to me a spirit of fairness would
have induced one to have laid it before
the public in its full light, so that a fair
estimate might have been formed of the
result of the whole transaction, and not to
have chosen one particular portion of their
transactions, and then to have said that on
the money they had invested they got
twelve per cent. They have had seven
per cent. upon the money-7 per cent
because the whole $25,000,ooo cost them
$1o,ooo,ooo, and because the dividend
which they have received amounted to
only 7 per cent. and a fraction upon that.
Why should they not get 7 per cent. ?
Surely no person faiiliar with transactions
of a similar kind would grudge for a
moment that in an enterprise of this
enormous risk the company should get
7 per cent. on their money ?

pany which the whole world could not
have got, and why should there be that
jealousy of the company getting that which

HON. MR. TRUDEL-Could the hon.
gentleman say whether the latter part of
the stock that was taken at 25 cents on
the dollar was on the market, and how
long, and what amount has been offered,
and if there were any offers on the part of
the public to take it ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
not know that there were offers on
the part of the public to take that $20,oooooo, I have not heard anything of it;
but we all know this, that this stock taken
together cost them 40 cents. They have
bought some since, which the hon. gentleman from Niagara says has cost them 42
cents. We know this, however, that any
person who has desired to get stock in the
road up to within the last day or two
could have got it at 42 cents.

anybody else could have got if they had
chosen to go into the market for it ? Why
should they be abused for buying at 40
cents in the dollar that which you, or 1,
or anybody else could go into the market
and buy on the same terms? The effect
of such statements is to prejudice the
company in a way that they ought not tO
be exposed to. Then after pointing out
the enormous gains which the company
had made out of this contract, and as to
which, as I explained to the House,
the assertion is made "you have got a
large sum deposited at your credit for the
purpose of paying interest, why not take
that and finish the road without coming
to Parliament for more money ?" That
was the suggestion used, and which was
put in the shape of a resolution in the
other House as follows:" Canada, in the contract with the Canadian Pacifie Railway Company, gave the

conipany vast aids, which were declared to be
ample and final ; Canada, in 1884, gave the

company great additional aids, which were
again declared to be ample and final; the
shareholders of the conpany have already
divided among themselves about $7,000,000
in dividends, and have on deposit with the
Governnent about $14,000,000 more, to provide future dividends for thiemselves for over
eight years to corne, while thev affirm that
the railway will be profitable from the day of
its openimg; in the opinion of this House,
the shareholders, if they desire more noney
for their operations, should propose to utilize
their deposit for future dividends instead of
asking Canada to impair its existing securities to make large further advances, and toallow the enterprise to be charged with
$15,000,000 additional capital, the interest
upon which must be borne by the trade of
this country."

There is a proposition which I arn

amazed to see presented to parliament.
It is a proposition to break faith with the
persons to whom this $14,ooo,ooo is
pledged, not only by the faith of the
country but by a contract of the most
formal kind-a contract not only between
the parties concerned and the Government alone, but in which a third
HON. MR. PLUMB-And at one time party comes in-the Bank of Montreal.
they might have had it at 34 or 35 cents. Now whom are we dealing with? We are
not dealing with two or three people.
We are not dealing merely with the comHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLHON. SIt ALEX. CAMPBELL.

I1315

Pacifc Railway [JULY 14, 1885] Aid Bill.
pany in this respect; but we are dealing
with the immense body of shareholders
who hold the stock of the company-persons living in parts of this continent,
in parts of England and Scotland, and
in many parts of the continent-Germany
and France. I have not counted the
number of names, but I hold in my hand
a list of the stockholders showing their
names and amounts.

HON. MR. READ-Theynumber

1200

persons.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
have the list of shareholders here at
length.
Ho-. MR. POWER-Does the list
show how much each shareholder holds ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes.
The aggregate is that in England $40,0o0,-

ooo of this stock is held ; in the United
States $1o,ooo,ooo, and in Canada $15,00o,ooo.

Here is the faith of the country,

not only the moral faith of the country,
but the written obligation, signed and
Sealed, of the country and the Bank of
Montreal to those people living all over
the world to pay them their interest at the
rate mentioned, 3 per cent.-a solemn
Contract binding not only in honor but in
law, and yet this resolution which is proPosed elsewhere suggests that this money
which is deposited for the purpose of carrying out this obligation should be used
for the purpose of finishing the railway.
If that suggestion were carried out where
would the faith and honor of the
That is the second
Country be ?
objection.
Now the third objection
I alluded to for a moment in my
earlier remarks was that we were weakening our security ; that we now stand with
a security which is first and alone for the

are weakening our security ; but if those
$15,ooo,ooo are to be expended as this
Bill provides, on the railway, in improving the railway itself, then I say
we do not weaken our security, but
on the contrary we are strengthening our
security by making it more valuable than
it was before. We are not weakening it
but adding to it by the $15,ooo,ooo, although we are diminishing our claim upon it
by$io,ooo,ooo. Thenastothe$1o,ooo,ooo
we have the security of the land, and I do
not think we are weakening that security
in a way that could be objected to. The
House will bear in mind that it is necessary to give some relief to this company.
We do not want to stop now when we are
within a few months of the completion of
a gigantic enterprise of this kind, in which
Canada is so much interested, and which
promises a future of such grandeur to the
country ; and the question now is, how
are we to give this assistance ? Will anybody point out a better way of doing it ?
Can anybody point out any other mode of
giving security which is better than this,
or presents more advantageous features
than this one? I do not know of any.
Under this system we make no further advance of money except this loan of $5,000,ooo. There is no giving any additional
sum. We do not propose to pay them
anything more for the road than we
agreed originally, and for the loan
we take security. Can there be any
doubt as to the security for the $5,ooo,ooo, when we have $8,ooo,ooo of bonds,
$35,000,ooo

secured

on 3,300 miles of

the Bill proposes we are agreeing to stand
first with only part of our debt, that is,
With $20,ooo,ooo, and that therefore
We are weakening our security. I do

railway now doing very well, and holding
forth the strongest promise of doing better
in the futur e ? Even taking it at the mileage rate it is only $1o,ooo a mile, and
everbody knows that is not a large sum to
pledge a railway to pay, and looking at
the prospect of this railway, I think any
doubt on the subject will vanish.
The
prospects of the road, I think, are exceedingly good. If the House will hear with
me a moment I will point out what have
been the transactions of the company
during the past year. In 1883, the earn-

not

ings of the road were $5,423,ooo,

$30,ooo,ooo ; and by the change which

think

so.

If

the

$15,000,000

and

which we are admitting pari Passu their expenses were $4,862,o00, showing
to come in with us were not to be expend a net gain of $561,ooo.
In 1884, their
ed on the road ; if it were to be expended earnings were $5,75o,ooo, and their exelsewhere, and put into some other in- penses were $4,558,ooo, showing a net
vestment, then it would be true that we gain of $1,191,ooo in round numbers

1316

Pacifc Railway [SENATE] Aid Bill.

There was a step in one year of from half
a million to $1,191,ooo.
Now, we have
a return, as it happens, of the earnings of
the road for the first six months
of the present year. As I have said, the
gross earnings in 1884 were $5,750,000;
the gross earnings between the first of
January and the 3 oth June of the present
yearwere $3,317,965. The gross earnings
during the same period of last year were
$2,098,000, showing an increase for the
first six months of this year over the same
period of last year of $1,219,920, or say
about 6o per cent. of an increase.

of this year show that they are running the
road for 70 per cent of its earnings, the net
gain during this year will be $2,700,ooo.

If I am right there, and seeing the strides
that this road has made since 1883, if they
go on in the same ratio as they have done
up to now, the road is likely to be a very
profitable investment.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Do I understand my hon. friend to say that the traffic
receipts he has mentioned were for the
line and its branches, or merely for the
main line ?

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLHON.
MR. HAYTHORNE-Some
part of that was for the transport of mili- From the whole system. It is taken from
accounts published in the newspapers.
tary stores and men.
From this statement it will be seen that
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It there is no reasonable doubt that the
was ; and although that was a source of security for the $35,ooo,ooo is good and
profit, there is no reason to apprehend ample, and we run no risk whatever in
that there will not be other sources of advancing the company $5,ooo,ooo on
profit in the future as there will be $8,ooo,ooo of the bonds. It is certain
immigrants to carry, as numerous and that it will be repaid to us on the 1st
as profitable as the transport of the of July next, and we will have rensoldiers and military stores this year. I dered assistance to an enterprise which
do not know either whether the whole of deserves our assistance and with which
the traffic for even those purposes has the interests and future of the country
gone into these accounts, because a are deeply involved. We shall have
considerable portion of that earning is rendered that assistance in the best posheld over by the Government. How- sible way, with the least possible risk, and
ever, it may have all gone in, but with the smallest expenditure of money.
if all the earnings have gone in from Now, supposing everything goes to the
that source, I do not think we should worst-and there are prophets of evil who
lay too much stress upon it. I am always look at things in that light-supquite willing to attach a certain amount posing everything goes as they prophesy,
of importance to it, but not too much, and we are obliged to take the road, or it
because I think there is every reason to has to be dealt with for the purpose of
expect that business as profitable and of realizing upon it the amount of obligations
a more pleasant description, and more that has been incurred; where would we
useful to the country, will follow in other stand then ? We stand with a complete
years.
and perfect security on a road Of 3,300
miles at $io,ooo a mile only, and
HON. MR. McINNES (B. C.)-Does yielding such returns as I speak of,
that return show what portions of the and with the prospect of a future such as
one would anticipate from the figures I
road gave that revenue ?
have given. Supposing the whole cost of the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No road is $ 100,000,000, and that the revenue
it is over the whole road. This sixty pei rdoes flot advance even 50 rapidly as I have
cent. of an increase in the earnings during pointed out in that statement, but that we
the last six months over the previou! have a revenue fromn it of $2,400,o0o,
year if continued through the year there would then be an annual deficit of
added to the gross earnings of 1884 $i,6oo,ooo, and we should be obliged to
What should we have gained ?
would make the gross earnings for 1885 pay it.
should have gained for a deficit
$9,2oo,ooo. Taking the working expen -We
ses at seventy per cent., and the statement s of $i,6oo,ooo this great raîlway extendHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Pacific Railway [JULY 14, 18851 Aid Bill.
ing from ocean to ocean ; we should
have done a great deal towards settling up
the North-West ; we should have begun
building up the country in a way that I
do not think any other nation ever was
built up, and we should have a strong
probability of there flowing into our NorthWest Territories a very large population.
supposing that the population went in

1817

populous, and perhaps as powerful as
Russia.
Why, in the far future,
should we not have a country there as
powerful and as wealthy as Russia ? The
land is in the same latitude as Russia ; the
country produces about the same cereals
as Russia does. Russia has now a population of 8o,ooo,ooo, and exports $4o,ooo,ooo in cereals alone, and what is there to
there at the rate of 50,000 persons per make us believe that the North West may
annum-it is not a very large calculationnot be as populous and wealthy, and do
supposing there were 50,000 persons went as much for its inhabitants as Russia, and
in there every year for five years, we more ?
should have at the end of that time a
HON. MR. POWER-If it does no betpopulation of 25o,ooo in the NorthWest. Statistics show that every person in ter than Russia it is a pretty poor thing.
that country pays at the rate of $6 a head for
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am
taxation on customs and excise alone. At
the end of five years we should have astonished at the remark of the hon.
250,000 people in there paying $6 a head gentleman. Russia has 8o,ooo,ooo inhabifor taxation, so that if you take it in that tants. If we get 8o,ooo,ooo inhabitants
light you not only run no risk, but are into our North West shall we not then have
certain not to lose. Ultimately if that done a great work for this country ? Will
population goes in you will have a gain, not those who succeed us say that we were
even if you have a large deficit in the strong of purpose, resolute of heart, big
running of the railway, a deficit which I enough in our ideas to take the steps which
have, for the purpose of this argument, put are necessary to build up a new country ?
at $1,6ooooo per annum. But you will I think it is as true in this as in everything,
have 250,ooo of a population, and you that a nerveless, hopeless arm will never
will gain more by way of revenue than build up a country.
you have lost by having to make up that
HCN. MR. PLUMB-Or decrying it
deficit in the running of the railway.
However, the more likely result is that the either.
road will pay. Why should we doubt, if
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
it pays so well in its incipient stage, as
more grain is produced in the west, and requires a belief in the future of the
as more lumber is wanted, and all the country, and a vigor that has been shown
animation and business and life of a new by this Administration, to accomplish a
country increases-why should we doubt great national object such as this.
or mistrust that this road will pay ? I
HON. MR. POWER-The administrathink the probabilities are that the road
will pay handsomely, but if it does not pay tion has shown great energy in building up
the interest on its cost, what would be the a public debt anyway.
loss to the country then ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-And
HON. MR. POWER-How about the we have something to show for the debt,
loan ?
as I have endeavored to point out to the
There is one other statement
House.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The which I desire to submit to hon. gentleloan will be repaid if the enterprise is a suc- men, and it is with reference to the six
cess, which I hope and believe it will be. and a half million dollars which is now the
But I am supposing now that the road is not floating debt of the company. I desire
a success, if the loan is not repaid there will to satisfy the House how this six and
be this deficit ; but if it is repaid we shall a half millions of debt was incurred. A
have acquired the road for $55,000,000 in statement was prepared, which was used
cash, and we shall have built up a new in the first place by Hon. Mr. Pope in the
country which in the future may be as other branch of parliament, showing how

1318

Paci/ic Railway [SENATE] Aid Bill.

the six and a half millions is made up.
This latter amount, $6,895,ooo, is the
This statement, in order that all may ap- floating debt which is to be paid out of
pear together, I will read to the House.
the proceeds of these bonds. I have
now accomplished the task which I took
Statement showing the services which occasioned upon myself, and I hope I have made
the floating debt contracted by the coman
in 1884, as showni by their accounts, books &c. tolerably clear the view I have taken of
the position of this company and the
DETAILS.
TOTAL.
character of the change which the Bill
Expenditure not
covered by estimatesproposes to make; and I think I can
Callander to Port Arassure the House that that change will
thur, construction.. $ 918,917 26
not diminish or lessen our security in any
Red River to Savona's
Ferry construction.. 1,117,040 63
way, and it will accomplish great good
Rolling stock.........
717,737 77
$2,107,695 66 to this country, by enabling us to finish this
gigantic enterprise.
Port Arthur to Winnipeg construction.. ..

758,769 67

$2,866,465 33
Construction of
branches west of Callander...........
ImprovementsonPembina Branch........
Less bonus on SouthWestern Branch ....
Lake steamers..

705,772 28
130,435 80

$ 836,20808
200,000 00

.....

636,208 08
145,118 24

Expenditure west of
Callander ........
$3,647,791 65
Montreal to Callander
(main line)......... $ 736,368 83
Branch east of Callander..............
72,27626
808,645 09
Expenditure on works,
Montreal to Port
M oody.............
Administering
land
grant ..............
Expenses of London
office,
handling
stores, &c..........
Fire insurance premium 3 years in advance............
.

$4,456,436 74
109,43759
230,09663
122,763 62

462,297 84
Less receipts on land 8
sales.......... . ...
305,56900
156,728 84
$4,613,165 58
Interest and exchange
do on land grant
bonds..........
Deposit on guarantee
fund ........ ...
Expended out of company's funds on connections, &c... ....

443,76119
100,410 95
147,136 87
691,315 01
1,890,334 00
$7,194,815 49

Less receipts from
town sites, municipal bonuses, and
net earnings........

299,353 00
$6,895,462,49

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

HON. MR. POWER-As no other hon.
gentleman appears to be desirous to address
the House I shall venture to say a few
words on this question. I am in earnest
in speaking as I do, because this is a subject to which I have devoted comparatively little attention, and I have not made
any special preparation to deal with the
present measure. Under these circumstances it would be presumptuous for me
to undertake to follow the Minister of
Justice through the carefully prepared
argument which he has delivered to the
House, fortified as it has been with statements from the officers of the company.
I may say that I think the hon. Minister
has put the case for the Government and
for the company far better than that case
was put in the other Chamber. I venture
to say that, with all respect to the other
Chamber, and I regret to say that the case
for the other side is not going to be put in
this Chamber as it has been put elsewhere,
or as it ought to be put. The case
against the company, if one may so call it,
has been put in another place in such a
way that not even the hon. Minister who
has addressed the House is able to answer
it satisfactorily. I do not propose to go
into any labored argument with respect to
this Bill but I wish to lay before the
House some of the things which strike
me as being remarkable in this measure.
We have the annual report of the president of the railway. The Hon. Minister
of Justice has given us extracts from
that
report,
and he
has
given
us other information in the same direction.
The effect of the report of the president
and directors of ihe company, and the
teridency of the information which the
Minister has given us is to show that the

Pacifle Railway [JU LY 14, 1885] Aid Bill.
Pacific Railway Company are in a most
admirable condition. The President shows
that their liabilities altogether cannot
amount to more than $1o6,ooo,ooo, and
he shows that their assets amount to more
than double that.
HON. MR. PLUMB-What are they
made up of?
ION. MR. POWER-The hon. gentlemian has the report before him, and he can
satisfy himself as to the details. That is
the fact ; and the president calls the attention of the stockholders and of the public
to the fact that the affairs of the company
are in a most flourishing condition. He
says that the company's fixed liabilities
amount to only $3,ooo,ooo a year. Under

these circumstances it is singular that this
company, with this immense property,
with their magnificent prospects, should
be unable to pay the men who are doing
their work for them, and that they should
be obliged to come to the Government
and Parliament to ask for a further
advance in addition to the large advances
made last year to meet those pressing
demands.
HON. MR. CARVELL-It is not at all
strange to anyone who understands commercial transactions.
ION.

MR. POWER-My commercial

transactions have not been large.
HON.

MR,

CARVELL-If the hon.

1319

are to take the statement of the President
of the Company as being correct in one
part we have a right to take it
as being correct in the other part.
That is a thing that would surprise
any ordinary person, that the prospects of
this Company being so good, they should
be in want of funds. I know at the present time money is a drug in the market.
It is very abundant, and can be got at a
very low rate of interest. We know that
railway companies whose properties are
not very valuable can succeed in borrowing money, although just now railway
property, at least Canadian railway property and United States railway property,
is not a favorite investment. Under ordinary circumstances a company with a
property such as this should have no difficulty in raising at least five times the

amount of money which this company ask
the Government to lend them, and the
question naturally suggests itself, why is
this powerful company with its valuable
property, and with its magnificent prospects, coming again to us for help ?
I think that a little consideration of the
history of the Canadian Pacific Railway
will perhaps throw some light on that
point. In the first place the Canadian
Pacific Railway Co. were incorporated for
the purpose of building a road from Port
Moody, in British Columbia, to Callander
in Ontario. The western terminus of the
road was provided for in a general way in
the Canadian Pacific Railway Act of 1874.
It was provided in that Statute that the
western terminus should be fixed by
Order-in-Council. The Order-in-Council,
which has the force of law, fixed that terminus at Port Moody. Then the eastern
terminus was to be at Callander. That
was the portion of the line contracted for,
and that was the line that the company

gentleman's commercial training had been
at all in keeping with his other training lie
would know that a man might have two
dollars to one away up in the millions, and
Still might have to borrow money. It is
done every day. His assets may be in such
a position that they cannot be realized on undertook to build. 1 may say here just
at the moment.
by way of parenthesis, that when we were
discussing-if the House will excuse me
LION. MR. POWER-I am quite aware for referring to a previous debate-an inthat companies as well as individuals may quiry of the hon. gentleman from New
have very large properties on paper Westminster (Mr. McInnes) I said that
which are not available either at the the company were now about spending
present time or at any future time. $700,000 west of Port Moody. I find in
We are asked now to take the com- the report of the President for the last
Pany's statement as being reliable, and year that they estimate that they require
the Minister of Justice as well as those during the current year the sum of $76o,who supported this measure in the other ooo for Coal Harbor and English
Bay,
House, took the same ground, and if we building docks, tracks, and other facilities

13290

Pacific Railway [SENATE]

at the Pacific terminus. This sum is really
to be regarded as forming part of the
money that we are now advancing to the
company; and I think it altogether improper and indefensible to make that
advance for that purpose. I just make
that remark en tassant,as to the western
terminus. Ther we come to the eastern
end of the road, and the terminus was to
have been at Callander. The Minister
says, and I think fairly enough, that Callander was a point in the air, it was not a
fitting terminus for a trans-continental
railway. Then the Minister says that
Montreal was the natural terminus. Well,
I grant that ; I grant that Montreal was the
proper terminus. What this country
wanted was to get communication between
the business centres of the east and the
Pacific Ocean-the port chosen in the
Province of British Columbia. That
was what the country was interested
in getting. That was what the country
had a right to pay for, and what the
company-I submit with ail deference to
the greater business knowledge of gentlemen around me-ought to have devoted
their energy to in the first instance. That
was a task, as it was declared at the time
when the measure was before Parliament.
the construction of the road-that would
tax the energies of the company quite sufficiently without going into other undertakings. Now if the company had confined themselves to the work that they undertook to do for this country what would
the position have been ? They would
have been in a position to have gone into
the money markets of the world and to
have pointed to the liberal money subsidy
they were getting, the large land grant and
ail the other advantages that they had,
and, judging from the experience of railway companies, this company would have
had no difficulty in borrowing in the London money market any sum of money
which was necessary in order to enable
them to complete their work. What did
the company do? Instead of following
that busiiess-like course, almost the first
thing they did when they got organized
was to take a course which could have
only one result : they immediately began
to take such steps as to excite the hostility
of other companies in the East. They
began to acquire railways in the East,
which had no direct connection with the
HON. MR. POWER.

Aid Bill.

object for which their contract was made,
and the result of these operations-the
natural and necessary result-was that the
hostility of parties powerful in the London
money market was excited ; and when
the Company found it necessary to look
to that market for money they were unable
to raise it, as they could have raised it, if
they had not unnecessarily excited that
hostility.
HON. MR. PLUMB-They were attacked by every body else on the hon.
gentleman's side.
HON. MR. POWER-What was the
character of the attack from the hon. gentleman's side ? The character of the attack was this-it was stated in the other
Chamber and in this Chamberalso that the
Canadian Pacific Railway Company were
getting too good terms from the Government. Is that the sort of attack which
was calculated to damage their credit in
the money markets of the world ? On
the contrary. But with ail the advantages
that this company started with, one can
understand how it happened that they did
what they did. I have just indicated
that they did a very foolish thing by unnecessarily exciting the hostility of people
who are very powerful in the London
money market, with the result that when
this company wished to borrow money,
which they could have borrowed if it had
not been for that hostility, they were unable to borrow, and consequently they
were driven back to the Parliament of
Canada for more assistance, although they
had declared themselves, and the government of the day had declared, and it had
been proved conclusively that the first arrangement made with them was not only
fair but liberal. That, I believe to be in
truth the main secret of the want of success
of this company in carrying out its work.
The Minister undertook to say in a general way that this company has not spent
anything outside of the contracted linethat they had so spent none of the money
received from the Governîment. Looking
at the last balance sheet of the company I
find this :-and these sums are taken in
in ail the calculations with respect to the
company and have to be borne in mind.
It appears there from the report of the
president and directors of the company

Pacifie Railway [JULY 14, 1885] Aid Bil.

1321

that they have expended the following the country, his case would not yet be
amounts :
proved. Was it understood, when we
On the South Eastern Railway $1,595;- undertook to hand the building of this
railway over to a company, that we were
280.
St. Lawrence & Ottawa Railway $227,- to build the road, that we were to pay all
that the road cost ? Was not the great
155.
Two railways that were utterly un- argument for handing it over to a company,
necessary for the purposes of the com- and to the particular company to which it was
handed, that they were immensely wealthy
pany.
men and able to build the road without
On the Atlantic & North West Railway any help fror. the country, and that they
$202,837.
would put a large amount of their own
On the Manitoba & South Western capital into this contracted line, and that
Colonization line $1,254,678.
what we were giving them was something
Another raiway wnich was unnecessary. fair and right, but it was not what was neOn the Ontario leased lines $1,265,450. cessary ?
Making altogether $4,445,402.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Was
Hon. gentlemen will see that that is a
very considerable sum $4 ,5oo,ooo-which not $1o,ooo,ooo a large sum ?
has been directly expended in these
eastern speculations.
HON. MR. POWER-What $1o,000,000 ?

HON. MR. CARVELL-All Govern-

ment money ?

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
$io,ooo,ooo of their own money which
HON. MR. POWER-I have already they have put in.
said I was not prepared to go into those
calculations, for the simple reason that I
HoN. MR. POWER-The hon. genam not in the habit, as I regret to say some tleman is only jesting.
some hon. gentlemen are, of making stateHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
ments which I am not prepared to stand
by with respect to figures ; and, further, I consider it is a large sum.
these calculations have all been dealt with
in the most thorough way in another place,
HON. MR. POWER-What amount of
and no attempt has been made to answei dividends have they taken out? They
the argument with respect to these figures have taken out $5,ooo,ooo in dividends.
there-no attempt was made, although
HON. MR. PLUMB-Oh no! nothing
the speakers on the Government side were
supplied with information by the officers like it.
of the company. I have no hesitation at
HON. MR. POWER-The bulk of the
all in saying that those eastern speculations
are the principal cause why we have those stock was held by these people until very
people knocking at our doors again. They recently.
are the cause directly, because they have
taken $4,500,ooo out of the company,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Oh
which should have been spent on the con- no.
tracted line, and they are the cause
indirectly, because they have ruined the
HON. MR. POWER-There is some
credit of the company in the London stock held by the public but the bulk of it
money market. The hon. gentleman be. is held by them. I think the report of
hind me wanted to know whether this was the president says something about that.
the money of the country, or not. I have We know that these men held $25,ooo,already stated that I think it was, that it 000 stock and I think the whole stock
had been shown clearly in another place amounts to $65,oooooo, and I think I
that it was: but that is not the question, have seen somewhere in the annual re
and if the Minister showed as distinctly port that about $35,000,000 were held by
as possible that this was not the money of them altogether.

1322

Pacifc Railway [SENATE] Aid Bill.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Oh general way how it is that this undertaking,
no. Only $[5,ooo,ooo held in Canada which promised so well at first and which
we are told promises so well now, has
altogether.
called for such unexpected relief from the
HON. MR. McINNES-Take the country. We were told when they came
dividends and the amounts spent on the for the $3o,ooo,ooo or thereabouts that
that was the last time of asking. So far as
branch lines and how much is left ?
I remember the Minister did not say on
HON.
MR. PLUMB - What good this occasion that this was the last time of
would the main line be without the asking. I feel confident that before two
years are over we shall have these same peobranches ?
ple coming for further assistance in another
HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentle- guise : because, with that desire to grasp
nan from Niagara I have no doubt is everything around them, which I think
pretty familiar with this whole subject, and is ther bane and which will be still more
I have no doubt we shall hear from him the bane of the country, the Canadian
by and by; but in the meantime I should Pacific Railway Company are now enlike to get my small innings. The Minis- deavoring to make further acquisitions of
ter said they had subscribed $io,ooo,ooo. railroads throughout the country; and I
The shareholders of the company have have very little doubt that we shall be
subscribed that much money, and they called upon within two years from this to
have taken out already I think about $5,- assist in the construction of roads in the
000,ooo in the shape of dividends.
eastern part of the country, because the
Canadian Pacific Railway Company have
HON. MR. SMITH-How would they not money enough to build it themselves.
take out $5,000,000 ?
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Hear, hear:
HON. MR. POWER-These interrup- that is what we want.
tions are not arguments and hon. gentleHON. MR. POWER-I think enterprise
man know that the company have taken
out this money. Now there are several is a very good thing; and I understand
millions more as the Minister tells us which that the Canadian Pacific Railway Comare tied up, to pay dividends to the com- pany, led by the distinguished American
pany. The $io,ooo,ooo they put in has gentleman, VanHorne, who is the real
been more than swallowed up to pay and moving and guiding spirit in the company,
secure the dividends. The amount used propose, in addition to killing out all comto secure dividends comes I think alto- petition in the railway business-I undergether to $14,000,000, and no hon. stand some of their prominent officials
gentleman will find it easy to show that have made the statement-propose in a
they have put that much money into the little while to have control of the telegraph,
road. Then, as has been suggested, when the telephone, and the express business of
we come to add to that the amount of Canada. They already run the political
money that has been invested in those business. I do not remember what reason
outside undertakings, we shall find that no the Minister gave why the company which
money of the company has gone into the had such flattering prospects and so
main road. That was shown as clearly as valuable a property, and had been mananything can be shown in the other aged with such wonderful energy and
Chamber. I am aware of the fact that a skill were now so hard up for money. I
gentleman who stands as high in the have forgotten.
counsels of the company as the hon.
gentleman from Niagara, when the leader
HON. MR. ALMON-Hear, hear.
of the Opposition had closed his speech
on the subject, said that that speech was
HON. MR. POWER-Perhaps my hon.
unanswerable-a man who was quite as colleague would tell me.
able to judge as the hon. member from
Niagara: so the statement is not one which
HON. MR. ALMON-If I did not
is so laughable. I have tried to show in a

Iactßc

Railwau [JULY 14. 18S5] Aid Bill

1323

know anything about it I would not speak
HON. MR. POWER (continuing)-We
on the subject.
had a right to expect that they should expend a reasonable amount of their own
HCN. MR. POWER-I think it would money on their road. The effect of this
be a good rule to observe about other bill is that we advance the company $5,000,things too.
ooo and instead of a first mortgage for
$3o,ooo,ooo we take

a mortgage

for

HON. MR. ALMON-Example is better $20,000,ooo and we admit $15,000,000 in
than precept.
addition along with us. Speaking of the
cause of the failure of the company to
HON. MR. POWER-I do not remem- carry out their contract without coming to
ber now what the exact reason was why us for more assistance, I left out of sight
the company were so hard up. I have one matter to which the Minister of Justice
tried to give what I think is the true adverted, and it is a very serious itemreason.
the Algoma branch. We have had
the wisdom and. skill of the policy
HON. MR. DEVER-I suppose they of the company and its engineers held up
Want money.
to us many times; but I think the construction of that Algoma branch is a very
HON. MR. POWER-There is one fitting monument of the wisdom, skill and
thing which I do happen to know on very judgment of the people who have confair authority about the company. When trolled the Canadian Pacific Railway.
the company came last year asking for an The company put $2,25o,ooo of the
advance from the Government it might country's money into that branch, and
have been noticed that some of the officers then abandoned it and have let it lie idle
looked very much worried and were evi- and useless for a year. I think the line
dently in very serious trouble. I think has been finished to Algoma Mills about a
any one who has paid attention to their year, and it has been lying idle ever
movements and looks this year, has pro- since. The company showed great enterbably noticed that it is different now; and prise in having steamers built for them in
the reason I believe is that since last year the old country; but I think they showed
the company have not invested their own a lack of practical knowledge, inasmuch as
money, and there is not any of their own when the steamers came out they found
Inoney atrisk now.at all. They made uptheir them too large for the service; and
minds, after the experience of last year, because of that mistake we are told the
that in future all the money that was to be Algoma branch has to remain idle, and
spent on the road should be expended not that $2,25o,ooo has to remain invested
by the company but by the country; and there earning nothing. Add that $2,250,We have the fact that, while the share- ooo to the amount I mentioned before,
holders of the company-a great many of and you can understand why the company
them-are very wealthy people, and while are short of money. The Minister havthe stock of the company is so valuable, ing dealt directly with the provisions of
the men who have been doing the work the bill before us, undertook to deal with
for the road cannot get their money, and the charges which had been made against
the company is issuing its paper, some of the character of the road. Now I do not
which I am informed has sold at a discount propose to deal with that matter at any
im the market of Montreal. The Minister length, because I do not know enough
said that we had no right to ask more th in about it to do so, but I know this: it is
that the rnoney went on the contracted admitted by the Minister that there are
hne. We have reason to ask more than permanent .grades on that road in the
that. These people got the contract be- Province of British Columbia of i 16 feet
cause they were wealthy men capable of to the mile. The contract that the comirnplementing-I think that is the term the pany made was that their road was to be
Minister of Railways of that time liked to equal to the Union Pacific when it was
usecompleted, and the Minister entered into
an argument to show why that contract
HON. MR. PLUMB-That was Mr. was not to be strictly construed. He said :
Blake's word.

132A4

Pacific Railway [SENATE] Aid Bill.

what people generally understood by the
HON. MR. PLUMB-So it is.
Union Pacifie was the whole road from
HON. MR. POWER-The company
Omaha to the Pacific-the Union Pacifie
and the Central Pacifie taken together were not to be limited to this provision in
-and then the Minister read a com- the contract : that was put in the contract
munication from the American vice- more as a matter of form than otherwise.
president of the company instituting a It was not to be merely equal to the Union
comparison between the Union Pacifie Pacifie, but the intention was that it was tO
and the Canadian Pacifie railway, which I be superior; and it was pointed out that
thought was exceedingly unfair-I mean we had a great advantage over the United
the comparison was unfair. The company States lines because the summit in Canada
said and the Government said that it was much lower than any pass through the
was unfair to compare the road which is Rocky Mountains in the United States,
laid down in the statutory contract as and the summit indicated was the YelloW
being the standard for the Canadian Head Pass. Can it be supposed for a
Pacifie Railway with our line. They say moment that if the United States company
we should take the whole road-the had a pass like the Yellow Head which
Central Pacifie along with the Union they could go through without having a
Pacifie, that it is true the grades of grade exceeding 53 feet to the mile that
the Union Pacifie are not as steep as they would have adopted as a permanent
those on the Canadian Pacifie Railway, thing the more difficult passes with steeper
but if you take the two roads together grades ? Not at all. They were obliged
then the Canadian Pacifie Railway, taken to take the passes that they did take ; but
altogether, is better in the matter of we had a pass which had been carefully
grades. But what does the vice-president surveyed and on which there was no grade
of the company do ? When he comes to exceeding 53 feet to the mile-I mean a
institute a comparison between the road had been located there with gradients
American and the Canadian road, he does of that character.
not take the whole road, but takes the
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentleCentral Pacifie alone, the one on which
the most difficult work of the American man is mistaken ; the road was nct located
road was. Any one can see that it is there.
most unfair. He says, take the rooo
miles or whatever it is of that Central
HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentlePacifie and you get so many grades over man may be sheltermg himself behind a
50 feet per mile; and then, instead of technicality. The road bas been carefully
taking the section of the Canadian Pacifie surveyed there, the line laid down, and it
Railway corresponding with it-that is the was ascertained that no grade was over 53
section say between Calgary and the feet to the mile ; and it was stated in the
Pacific-he takes the whole, including contract with the company which I have
the prairie section. Any one can see before me now that the line should go
that is a most unfair comparison. If you through the cllow Head Pass. Now the
wish to compare the two roads through- company cho-e, and the Government
out then compare them throughout. If chose, as I think most improperly, in the
you want to compare the road from face of the statute and in the face of their
Winnipeg, take the American road from experience, to leave that admirable pass
New York, or St. Lous, or some point and select a pass where there are permalike that. There is this feature, I think, nent grades of i16 feet to the mile; and
in connection with the grades on the the conduct of the Government and of the
Kicking Horse Pass route which is a very Company are both indefensible. The
objectionable one. One of the argu- road across the prairies, I understand, is a
ments which we heard a great deal ol very good one, and I am not saying anywhen this road was about being con thing against the character of the road as
structed, and at the time the contract was to workmanship ; but I think it is a great
before Parliament, was that we would misfortune that this route should have
have a much better road than anyr been taken through the mountains, beAmerican road.
cause it handicaps the road forever as a
HON. MR.

POWER

Pacfic Railway [JULY 14, 18851 Aid Bill.

132,5

Commercial and passenger route. The undertaking from which the large returns
Minister of Justice animadverted in very that the Minister read of come do not
proposition form part of the contracted line, and they
strong terms upon the
which was moved by the leader of are not covered by the mortgage which
the Opposition in the other chamber the country holds; and it is not an imthat the company should take their own possible thing that by and by, just as Mr.
funds to pay their debts, instead of asking McIntyre has got out of the concern and
for more money from Parliament. I do taken his $2,ooo,ooo, and as Mr.
not see that that is such a shocking propo- Kennedy has got out and taken a very
sition. In the first place, if the prospects considerable sum with him, the old conof the company are as good as they are tractors will get out of the company, and
represented by the president in his report possibly the country may take over the
to be, I do not see why it is necessary to contracted line and find they have not a
ask an advance of money from us at all; particularly valuable property. If the
and certainly if it is a question whether the property is so valuable it is rather reCompany shall advance the money or markable that the stock of the company is
whether the country shall, I think it is so low in the market. The Minister
quite clear that the conpany should do it. seemed to misapprehend a remark which
I put this to the Minister : a number of I made about Russia. I thought that
the shareholders and directors of this com- Canada becoming such a country as
pany are very wealthy men-the wealthiest Russia would be a misfortune. Russia
men in Canada almost-that was one of is governed by an autocrat. The remark
the strongest arguments used in favor of of the Minister was calculated to suggest
Our giving them the contract. Now the the idea that we were about establishing a
Company want to raise $5,ooo,ooo to pay despotism for Canada to be controlled by
off the men who have been working for the Canadian Pacific Railway Company.
them. Why should not these wealthy I think that was an unfortunate suggesstockholders pay them? Why should tion. I have every confidence in the
they come to us for money ? If you con- future of the country. I think that our
tend that it is unfair to touch the fund North-West must, in the not remote
which is there to secure dividends to all future, have a very considerable populathe shareholders, why should not the tion, because there is now comparatively
wealthy directors advance the money ? I little land suited for settlement available
think it is natural to expectthat they should in the United States. The land there has
do it rather than that the country should. been nearly taken up; and our land is, as
If the shareholders of the company want a rule, better than theirs, and it will be the
money to pay their debts and to prevent only land available for settlement. I
their mortgage being foreclosed, they have no doubt that in the next 20 years
should be prepared to give up this guaran- -that is if the country gets a somewhat
tee that they shall get interest, and trust to better government than it has now, and we
the success of the undertaking for their get rid of the monopoly that is exercised
interest ; but if the shareholders did not by this railway, and give the people of the
wish to do that, then they should have North-West representative institutionsadvanced the money themselves, and not probably in less time, we shall have a
come to us. The Minister spoke as te considerable population there.
what would happen if we took over the
road. I think that when the company
HON. MR KAULBACH-How do
came to us 12 months ago for more you propose to get rid of the monopoly?
money, we would have done perhaps
wiser to have taken over the road. Lf HON. MR. POWER-As I stated at
they insist upon our taking over the roac the beginning, I regret that I was not as
nOw, I am disposed to think it would be well informed on this subject as I should
just as well that we should take it over be, and that I was not as well prepared to
but I do not think it would be a deal with the elaborate argument of the
very valuable property, because I think it Minister of Justice as I should be ; but I
Would be found that the company hav e think I have said enough to show at any
so arranged things that those parts of th e rate why the Company are in the position

1326

Chinese Immigration [SENATE] Restriction Bill.

in which they are, and that the character Act to restrict and regulate
of the road is not all that we might have Immigration into Canada."
expected as regards the pass through the
In the Committee,
mountains.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time.
TIMBER CULLING BILL.
IN THE COMMITTEE.

The House resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole on Bill (154), "An
Act to further amend the Acts relating to
the culling and measuring of timber in the
provinces of Ontario and Quebec.
In the Committee.
HON. MR. PELLETIER-I hope the
Minister will reconsider the clause which
provides for the reduction of the cullers of
staves and spars. While I was in Quebec
lately I met several of the cullers, and
they all complained that the proposed reduction in the number of cullers of staves
and masts was too great. The number
now is five, and one of them devotes his
attention exclusively to culling masts. In
reducing the number to three only two
would remain for the culling of staves and
laths. The one who culls masts knows
nothing about staves and laths. They all
contend, and the supervisor of cullers
there thinks, that the reduction from five
to three is too great, because only two
would remain for the culling of staves and
masts.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
will consider the suggestion of the hon.
gentleman and mention it to the Minister.
We can report the Bill now, and if any
amendment should be considered necessary it can be made at the third reading.
HON. MR. MACDONALD (B. C.)
from the Committee, reported the Bill
without amendment.

Chinese

On the 5th clause,
HON. MR. ALMON-I have an amendment to move in this case. There are
18,ooo Chinese already settled in British
Columbia and are allowed to remain inhabitants of that province. They came
out there to work on the railway and, of
course, having ne money to bring their
wives with them, they came alone, and
you are keeping i8,ooo men in the vigor
of manhood in that place without the
possibility of contracting any connubial
tie. What will be the result of it ? If
violence takes place on women, who will
be to blame for it ? Will it be those
i8,ooo men, or will it be this House who
compel them to live there without being
able to contract marriage ? It would be
well to amend the Bill so that a Chinaman
can send to his own country and bring out
his wife. In our country a man in contracting marriage does not buy a pig in a
poke, but in China it is different, where in
99 cases out of 100 the man does not see
the woman to whon he is to be married
until the day he is married, and there is
nothing inconsonant with their habits and
customs for a man to send home an order
to his parents to have a wife sent out to
him.

HON. MR. NELSON-At present there
is no restriction on Chinese females coming
into British Columbia ; yet they come in
exceedingly small numbers. In fact there
is no Chinese woman of good character at
all allowed to leave China, and those who
come to this country are of the very worst
class. None but Chinese prostitutes come
to the country, and if you were to give
them this privilege I do not think it would
be of any benefit.

HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-I an
very much struck with what the hon. gentleman from British Columbia has just
REPORTED FR)M COMMITTEE.
said. Before he spoke I had no objections to altering the clause in the way the
The House resolved itself into a Com- hon. gentleman from Halifax suggests,but,
mittee of the Whole on Bill (156) " An as pointed out by the hon. gentleman op-

CHINESE IMMIGRATION

HoN. MR. POWER.

BILL.

Chinese Immigration [JUTLY 14, 1885] Re8triction Bill.

132T'

HON. MR. MACDONALD-It must
Posite, the women that come would very
be borne in mind that Chinamen do not
likely be prostitutes.
come to remain in this country. They
HON. MR. ALMON-In the case of intend to go back to their own country
Australia, a number of female immigrants after they have made money. A few
went out from England that were prosti- women do come, and some are prostitutes
tues. Those women married there and and some are good women. Sone of the
became, the majority of them, very decent wives of merchants in British Columbia
women, and the singular thing mentioned are very good women. We do not wish
is that while in London on the streets they to make an abiding place in our country
had no children, out there they had chil- for those people at all. They do not bring
dren, and their descendants are some of their domestic comforts with them. They
the most respectable people in the place. only come to stay in the country a short
Therefore I do not believe what my hon. time, and they associate with the Indian
friend says that no one will come out to women a good deal.
British Columbia but prostitutes, and even
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Some Chiif it were so, it is better to have those men
marry those prostitutes than to be allowed nese come with their wives. Why not
to remain with all the passions and vigor encourage them and other Chinese who
come to bring their wives with thern ?
of manhood without any restraint.
HON. MR. NELSON-I have known
of no case where respectable wonen came
into the country from China. I know of
cases where Chinese merchants have
taken some of the women brought into
the country and married them and they
have afterwards become respectable, but
HON. MR. PLUME--I think we are no respectable wornen come into the
legislating with a great deal of ignorance country fron China in that way.
of the social life of the Chinese. Perhaps
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
the hon. gentleman does not understand,
or perhaps I do not understand thoroughly, hope my hon. friend will not press his
what the social habits and conditions of amendment.
those people are who are coming here. I
HON. MR. ALMON-As I am going
do not think the hon. gentleman understands the Chinese marriage arrangement to move the three months' hoist on the
I do not think the class of women third reading I will not press the amendat al.
who are wives are likely to come with the ment, and, with the permission of thelaborers who are i rought out and are the House, I will withdraw it.
kind of immigrants we are legislating against
The amendment was withdrawn and
now. They have no marriage tie, or mar- the clause was agreed to.
riage arrangement : and unless I am
much mistaken in regard to the condition
On the 17th clause,
of Chinese society, as far as it affects
I sbould object very
these people,
HON. MR. POWER-I would ask the
much to any arrangement by which Minister of Justice if he does not
an unlimited number of the other think this a rather sweeping provision.
sex should be brought out, as would be No doubt if the sentence of those
the case if my hon. friend's amendment tribunals involves death or any very serious.
were accepted. You might provide that bodily injury, one could see the necessity
a man for every 5o tons of shipping may for such a provision in the Bill, but if
come out, and that he may have a partner: those people who live by themselvesbut there really is no immigration of virtu- forming a sort of imperium in imperio-if
Ous women with Chinese laborers. That they are able to preserve order amongst
is well known to everybody who knows themselves and keep things working satisanything about the habits of the Chinese. factorily by these courts without troubling

HON. MR. KAULBACH-The Bill is
too restricted now, but certainly if females
do not come out under the present circumstances, they are not likely to be encouraged to corne by the amendment of
the hon. gentleman from Halifax.

1328

Chinese Immigration [SEN ATE] Restriction Bill.

their neighbors, I really do not see why
severe penalties should be imposed upon
them for doing so. Unless the lives and
limbs of the members of the community
are threatened, I think that Chinamen
should be allowed to settle their own
disputes.

suspicion, whether properly founded or
not, that they have been condemned to
death through some secret organizations.

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-It seemTs
to me that the provision at the end of the
clause is sufficient to meet any bona fide
right that the Chinese have aiongst themselves; but as we must be prepared by
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-1
do not understand the question myself. some means to control the bad class of
Perhaps some hon. gentlemen from Chinese, it would not be wise to alloW
them to deal with criminal matters with
British Columbia will explain it.
their own laws when they have the laws of
HON. MR. MACDONALD-I believe the country to appeal to.
they do have some secret tribunals, but
HoN. MR. PLUMB-Undoubtedly
the difficulty is about evidence. They
all look so much alike, and they do not they ought to be taught to respect our
tell the truth, that there should be a laws. As long as they have secret tribuclause that they shall have no trial among nals amongst themselves, they will not do
themselves; but that they should come to so, and, no doubt, this clause was placed
the courts of the country. It is supposed here with a better knowledge of the necessity
that they have some means of punishing of it than perhaps we have here. At any
offenders amongst themselves by a sum- rate it can do no harm, and if it should
be found that it is oppressive in any way,
mary way, perhaps by taking life.
the Act can be dealt with hereafter.
HoN.

MR.

KAULBACH-If there

is no manifest evil in connection with
their tribunal I do not see why we should
legislate in this way. We allow the
Indians to have their own social arrangements and civil rights, and why not allow
the Chinaman to have his ?
HON.

MR.

ALMON-I

think this

clause is contrary to the genius of the
i 9 th century and to the rules of the
Christian religion.

HON. MR. NELSON-It is generally
supposed, in fact it was a subject of
inquiry and brought to the attention of the
judges of the Supreme Court very latelv,

and I think it is in a report made by the

HON. MR. KAULBACH-Is it not
found in almost every community,
amongst all Christian bodies, that each
sect has a court in which to regulate the
duties and obligations of the persons
belonging to it ? We find it in all religious bodies, and we find it in other
bodies. We find that a man may be
expelled from a Church, and from certain
societies, because he does not conform to
the rules laid down for the guidance of
such society. I do not know how far
these secret organizations among the
Chinese go, but if they should
have courts of their own for deciding
petty offences and disputes, I cannot
see why they should be iiterfered with.

commissioners who went out from British

Columbia, that the Supreme Court judges
spoke very strongly of some secret
organizations of that kind by which
the Chinese take the punishment
of offenders into their own hands.
Large numbers of crimes are committed in British Columbia and throughout
the province by Chinese, and no trace of
the murderers in those cases could be discovered, and no parties could be found to
give evidence ; and crimes of that character go unpunished. The fact of people
being taken off in that way has led to the
HON. MR.

POWER.

HON. MR. POWER-We have the best
evidence we can get here before us, and I
suppose it is as good as any they had in
the other Chamber, and it does not show
that there is any serious objection to those
courts-that is, provided there is some
limitation to their power. The only thing
that is said against those courts is, that
sometimes their sentence is death. This
clause might be amended by inserting
after the word " tribunal " in the fourth
line, 5th page, words like these " which involve death or bodily injury to any per-

The Franchise [JULY 14, 1885] Bill.
son."

1329

The law will be violated ; they will should move an amendment on the third

go on and hold their secret tribunals, but
perhaps if the law was less sweeping in its
character they would be more likely to observe it.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I observe that in the report of the Chinese
Commission they quote the opinion of
judges and others on this subject.

HON. MR. KAULBACH - There
seems to have been a lot of unsubstantial
vague evidence brought before that ComMission. The effect of this law may be to
render their secret societies more secret.
If they violate the law now, they are liable
to be punished by the law of the country.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
that the Committee rise and report progress and ask leave to sit again.
The motion was agreed to.
It being six o'clock the Speaker left the
Chair.

AFTER RECESS.
MANITOBA CLAIMS BILL.
THIRD READING.

The House resolved itselt into a Committee of the Whole on Bill (155) " An
Act for the final settlement of the claims
made by the Province of Manitoba on the
Dominion."
HON. MR. BELLEROSE, from the
Committee, reported the Bill without
amendment.
The bill was then read the third time
and passed.
THE FRANCHISE BILL.
THIRD READING.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the third reading of Bill (103), " An Act
respecting the Electoral Franchise."

HON MR. HAYTHORNE-It is not
necessary that I should speak at any length
on the third reading of this Bill, as I had
the honor of addressing the House on
the second reading; but I said then that I

J3

reading, with a view to the perpetuation of
the Electoral Franchise in Prince Edward
Island, in the manner in which it is at
present.
Hon. gentlemen may readily
conceive that this is a task which to me
takes the form of a duty. The amendment
which I am about to move is one that I
can recommend to this House with the
greater confidence, because ten years ago
the Senate interfered to preserve the existing franchise of Prince Edward Island.
I referred to the circumstances of that occasion the other day, and perhaps it is
unnecessary for me to repeat them at
length now; but this I will say that the
action then taken by this House has been
most kindly remembered in our Province
from that day to this. It is generally the
case that when a number of the freemen
of that Province meet together for the discussion of public affairs, they are very apt
to remember the part the Senate of Canada took on that occasion. Although the
seats are not very full this evening, there
are not a few gentleman listening to me
now who took part in the debate, although
ten years make a sad inroad upon a body
constituted as this Senate is, and during
that period we have to regret the passing
away of a quite a number of gentlemen
who then took an active part in the proceedings of this body. Still, unless I am
greatly mistaken, there are more than a
few members present to-day who assisted
in preserving the franchise of Prince Edward Island on that occasion. I appeal to
those gentlemen, especially, to once more
preserve this franchise, and I appeal to
other gentlemen who occupy the seats of
those who have passed away from us to
take the same action this evening as their
predecessors did upon the former occasion. I think, myself, that this can be
done without any great breach of party
fealty. It seems to me an action worthy
of the Senate, that without any break, or
decided interference with a Government
measure, we can say to the people of that
province " We sympathize with your apprehensionýs, and we are willing to maintain for you, as much as in us lies, all the
rights and privileges which are part of
your inheritance." The Government having already conceded so far as to allow
existing voters in Prince Edward Island
to retain their suffrages during the term of

1330

The ]4'anchise [SENATE] Bill.

their natural lives, it is only a small further continue to be the qualification of voters for
concession to ask that they should be able the election of niembers of the House of Coinmons."
to tell their children that what they have
gained for themselves they are able to pass
HON. MR. DICKEY-My hon. friend
down to thern, and to express a hope that from Prince Edward Island has made an
they will be as faithful and careful to appeal to his co-members who were here
preserve it as their fathers had been. some ten years ago when a question arose
I would not by any means be ashamed to
with regard to the electoral franchise of
point to the political history of that pro- the voters in Prince Edward Island, which
vince. If I were to do so at any length I
was proposed to be taken away by the
should tell a story of a hard struggle for then existing government, and as I was
liberties and for rights which have been
one of those to whom he appeals permit
enjoyed by most other parts of Canada. me to say a few words. I entirely agree
I should tell of a manly, consistent struggle with the hon. member that it is a very
carried on for years ; I should tell of
difficult, and I may add in all consistency,
some unhappy infractions of the law, and an improper thing for any government or
I should tell, also, that in solving the great any parliament to take away the existing
question which agitated the people of franchise enjoyed by any particular body
Prince Edward Island, they accomplished of electors, without first submitting the
their object at last, and no proprietor of question to thern for their consideration,
land in any part of the country could say in order that they may have an opporthat he was wronged out of a shilling in tunity of voting upon it. Had this Bill
parting with his vested rights. I would
come up before us in the form in which
ask hon. gentlemen is it at all likely that it was presented first to the House in
men who would act in that way would
another place I should most certainly
easily part with so valuable a privilege as have gone with my hon. friend in any
they once enjoyed ? If so I have formed motion that he might make to preserve
a very inadequate appreciation of their the existing franchise to the electors of
pohitical principles and feelings, and when Prince Edward Island in the saine way
I speak in this way I speak not of one that they now enjoy it until they had a
party only, because I arn well aware that constitutional opportunity of expressing an
these sanie principles are held by the men opinion upon it, and I should have done
of both parties there. If it were necessary that in all consistency, because referring
to bring evidence of that before this for a moment, not with a view to reviving
House I should point to the fact that the
any difference of opinion, but to a precefour members from Prince Edward Island dent which existed in the Province of
who were in the House of Commons when Nova Scotia, I should be compelled to
the division was taken on the Franchise
take that course. On that occasion in
Bill, and when an amendment similar to
the year 1863--I arn sorry to say so long
this which I hold in my hand was moved,
ago as 22 years-a motion was made by
all voted for it. I think that having exexisting Premier, and a Bill was
plained the position of my province, and the then
in by him (I allude to the late
having spoken of the right which people brought
Hon. Joseph Howe) which proposed to
have to maintain and preserve perfectly
take away the franchise that had existed
inviolate their political rights, it will be
for some six or seven years or more in the
sufficient for me to read my resolution to
province of Nova Scotia, embracing what
this House, and to call upon its members
is called resident suffrage-that is to say
to give it their cordial support. I shall
that every person resident in the country,
therefore make this motion who was over 21 years of age, had a franThatthe Bill be not now read a third time chise. On that occasion 1 as one of the
but that it be amended by striking out in the
ninth clause the words ' and Prince Edward Conservative party acting in concert with
Island" in the 18th and 19th lines, and by the whole body of Conservatives voted
striking out the word " respectively " in th against that Bill as it stood then, unless
28th line, and by inserting as a sub-section to it was qualified by a provision that the
clause nine the following
existing electors should have an oppor" In the Province of P rince Edward Island
the provincial qualification of voters shal 1 tunity of passing upon that measure,
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

The Franchi8e [JULY 14, 1885] Bill.
because while we admitted at once the constitutional right of the House to change its
franchise either by lowering or by elevating it, we yet protested against the
doctrine that the rights of people should
be taken away without their consent and
without them having an opportunity of
expressing their opinion. Therefore, I
repeat that had this Bill come before us
in the form in which it was first presented
I should certainly have gone with my
hon. friend to protect the rights of those
people in some way or other, The mode
in which that was dealt with I have
already intimated. It was a bill to take
away the franchise, and when it came up
to the place in the legislature of Nova
Scotia, which corresponds to the position
that this House occupies in the Dominion
Parliament I, after feeling my way to
know exactly how I stood, took upon myself the responsibility to move that clause.
I moved a rider to the effect that the Act
should not go into operation until after
the next general election, and that was
carried ; and I may say, as a bit of provincial history, that that little rider, which
was only passed by a majority of one, had
a most material effect upon the future
fortunes of Nova Scotia and, I may add,
of this Canada of ours, because when the
election took place it led to a change of
Government. The Liberal or Reform
Government which pressed that bill to
distranchise those people, were turned out
of power and the Conservatives came in.
It was then that the present Sir Charles
Tupper-at that time Dr. Tupper-became provincial secretary, and he remained
in power three or four years. The election took place in 1863, and in the very
first session of the new Parliament the
hon. member, who had joined in opposing
that bill, moved a resolution for the appoihtment of commissioners to settle the
question of maritime union with Prince
Edward Island and New Brunswick which
led, as is now a part of our history, to the
larger union in which we now stand.
Therefore I shall refer no further to
the part I took in it myself, for which I
got littie credit afterwards from those who
benefited by it, although I got a very
considerable amount of credit and
sorne abuse at the time, as to
which I may say I care nothing,
because it is a matter of no con-

1331

sequence to me whether I get credit or
not. I did it as a matter of duty to protect the interests of people who were not
there to protect themselves, and I should
do the same with regard to the people of
Prince Edward Island, but this is a very
differert case. In this instance the rights
of existing electors are preserved by this
Bill. They are allowed the privilege
which they now enjoy, and my hon.
friend seeks to carry that protection down
to those who come after them on the
ground, as he puts it, that they should have
the right to transmit to those who come
after them the same powers that they have
themselves. Now the right of voting is
not a right that a man can will or transmit
to his sons. It is a personal right, a right
which he enjoys under the constitution
and which is given to him by law, and
there is no pretence that under this Bill
injury is done to anybody who now
enjoys the right of voting. That right
stillremains, and my hon. friend might have
simply effected his purpose by moving this
amendment and with a much greater degree
of clearness, I think, if he had struck out
in the 21st line " every person who at the
time of the passing of the same ;" that would
have left the words to read " every person
who is of the age of 21 years, etc." The
amendment would have effected what he
desires better than by asking the House
to commit thernselves to a principle
which, if adopted, I do not hesitate to say,
would lead to this Bill being wholly recast.
My hon. friend, not content with taking the
opinion of the House by striking out these
words applying the provision to everbody,
asks the House to commit themselves to
a separate sub-section by which they declare that the provincial franchise shall be
the Dominion franchise. Therefore my
hon. friend has put his case in a form most
unfavorable to himself and to the views for
which he contends. But as far as my
impression goes the Act at the present
time is entirely right and has gone as far as
it is possible, or as far as my hon. frienck
could have expected the House to go.
My hon. friend deserves all credit, not
alone for the action he has taken this
evening on behalf of his people, but for
his continual advocacy of their rights. I
sympathize with his efforts, and am disposed to accord to my hon. friend every
credit for them, but I take it for granted

1332

The Franchiee [SENATE] Bill.

he can hardly expect that this House will
stultify themselves, and incorporate a principle in that Bill, which will lead to its
being wholly recast, but that he wishes
simply to record his opinions upon it, and
the opinions of gentlemen who may be
disposed to vote with him ; but while I am
fully disposed to protect, and should have
stood by his side in protecting, the
interests of any persons who are proposed
to be disfranchised, I shall certainly not
follow him so far as prospectively to legislate for people who have no franchise
now, but who may hereafter be placed in
the same position as those who have,
because if that principle were admitted it
would be impossible for Parliament to
alter any franchise if it were once given.

him. I said that that was my first thought
until I heard further, and then I willingly
gave way.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I suppose
with one or two hours' work we could have
the Bill recast so as to put it in a shape
which would satisfy the whole of the
people throughout the Dominion, but as
it is now it will cause dissatisfaction. It
changes the franchise in every province of
the Dominion, and therefore the best way
would be to recast the Bill now. I will
support the amendment for the reason I
have given.

HON. MR. HOWLAN-I refrained
from saying anything on this Bill at the
second reading, because the Minister of
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I wish to Justice was anxious that the House should
explain the vote which I am about to give come to a vote at that particular sitting
on this amendment. If I am not mistaken and I supposed that an opportunity would
the franchise in Prince Edward Island is be afforded to discuss the measure at a
universal suffrage. To that franchise, as I later stage. We find ourselves face to face
said before, I am quite opposed, but in with a franchise Bill prepared by the
this instance it is proposed to give to that House of Commons, whom it more partiprovince the franchise which she enjoys cularly concerned, and anything which we
to-day. As I stated at a former stage of might say on the subject here has already
this Bill, we have in this Dominion many been stated very fully there. I was someprovinces, and the fairest way would have what surprised at the opposition that arose
been to have left to each province its own to this Bill. It was not for a moment prefranchise. Therefore, I am bound to give tended that the Government had no
my vote in support of the amendment, power to introduce a Bill of this kind ; on
and though the hon. gentleman from the contrary, it has been admitted by my
Amherst (Mr. Dickey) took exception to hon. triend from DeSalaberry in this
it on account of the difficulty in the way House that the Government have that
of going on with the Bill, I do not believe power. The Bill has been introduced,
that it could be called a valid objection, and I think I may say, without exaggerabecause this Bill only reached us two or tion, that it has been pretty freely disthree days ago, and we must take our time cussed, and the opinions of gentleto legislate in a proper way. If it requires men whom it more immediately conone day more to put the Bill in a proper cerns are well understood. I am surprised
shape, we should take that time and that the leader of the Opposition in this
mature the measure. Therefore, I do House, instead of allowing the bill to go to
not consider that it is a strong committee to be considered and modified,
argument against the amendment. If this moved the six months' hoist, and I am
House, which is supposed to be more con- surprised that my hon. friend from Prince
servative than the popular branch, would Edward Island should have assisted him,
consider a little the opinion expressed by because if that vote had been carried it
the Minister of Justice himself when he would have been impossible to amend the
stated the other day that his own idea was bill.
to leave to each province its own franHON. MR. PELLETIER-There would
chise, I suppose it would not be difficult
have been no necessity to amend it.
for this House to vote in that direction.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My
HON. MR. HOWLAN-My hon. friend
hon. friend must pardon me if I correct 1who proposes this amendment asks this
HON. MR.

DICKEY.

Te Franchise [JULY 14, 1885] Bill.
House to do as it did in 1874. I say,
without discussing the bill clause by clause
and point by point, that there is no analogy
between this bill and the measure to which
he refers. The bill which we had before
us in 1874 was one which allowed no man
to vote in Prince Edward Island unless he
had $333 worth of real estate.
HON. MR. PLUMB-By
that introduced ?

whom was

HON. MR. HOWLAN-By the Mackenzie Government.

HoN. MR. PLUMB-Hear, hear.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-That would
have taken away some 25 per cent. of the
voters of Prince Edward Island. The
hon. gentleman who has moved this
amendment and myself appealed to this
House to consider the position in which
it would place the people of Prince Edward Island, and asked as one of the
smaller provinces, the protection which we
had a right to expect from the Senate.
We received that consideration, and the
franchise was preserved to the people of
Prince Edward Island, and they have
been thankful for that preservation, and
with the exception ofone constituency the
whole province has returned supporters of
the party which protected them on that
occasion. The hon. gentleman who proposes this amendment contends that this
House should not go back on what was its
expressed opinion at that time, but as I
have said there is a wide difference between the two measures. There is no
question in my mind, or in the minds of
hon. gentlemen acquainted with the subject, that the people of Prince Edward
Island are in favor of manhood suffrage. I
am aware that a very respectable minority
indeed of the gentlemen composing the
other branch of Parliament are also in
favor of that suffrage. I am myself unreservedly in favor of it, and I have never
hesitated to say so. I do not agree with
the hon. member from DeLanaudiere
that it is a wretched franchise, and the
reason why I am in favor of the Bill before
us is that it tends towards manhoood
suffrage. A man must be a very poor
student of the every-day incidents of the

1333

Dominion if he cannot see that we are
fast moving towards manhood suffrage.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-Hear hear.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-I am surprised
at the hon. gentleman's "hear hear." Our
system of government is by a majority, and
when the majority pronounce on that particular question it is beyond the power of
the minority to alter it: but I wish to show
how different this Bill is to the one we had
under consideration in 1874. That was
absolute. We have in Prince Edward Island an elective upper House with one
franchise: we have our House of Assembly
with another franchise, this manhood
suffrage. Every man who comes to the age
of 21 years can vote if he pays one dollar
taxes and resides one year in the province.
If he cannot find the $i he can work four
days on the roads and be entitled to vote
The other franchise is $333 on real estate.
How different is this ! It allows the
father and sons to vote-the step-father's
and step-mother's sons also. If you add
the uncle and aunt you include everybody.
I know that this arrangement was made in
the interests of Prince Edward Island.
The first provision made is that the fran.
chise of those in Prince Edward Island
who had the right to vote in the last election shall be preserved. With regard to
the franchise, generally, there are several
alterations which meet the views of the
people of Prince Edward Island. For instance, fishermen's sons and farmers' sons
are entitled to vote, and the fisherman himself, who absolutely owns no land, but has
got a stand on the shore and a fishing net
and a boat, has a right to vote, and his son
also. The farmer has a vote, himself, and
as many votes for his sons as the farm will
give. The grandfather, the father-in-law,
the mother-in-law, the step-father, and
the step-mother all are included. This
Bill will not rob the people of Prince
Edward Island of their votes in the same
way as the Bill of 1874 would have done.
The grandson could not have voted, nor
any of the sons of the farmer under the
Bill of 1874, but they can vote now. The
fisherman's son, or even the fisherman,
could not have voted under the Bill of
1874. Therefore I say this measure is a
much more liberal Bill. There is no
comparison ; but in the appeal which my

1334

The Franchise [SEN ATE] Bill.

bon. friend has made to the Senate I think
he should have stated clearly the difference
between the two measures so that the
Senate might understand it and we would
be in a position to vote intelligently. I
have no hesitation in saying that I am
going to vote with my hon. friend on his
amendment.
HON. MR. POWER-Hear, hear.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-My hon. friend

says " hear, hear." I am not at all satisfied
that the amendment will carry, because it
has been already pronounced upon in the
other House. With regard to one thing,
my hon. friend has stated in his speech
that this Bill would not be acceptable to
the people of Prince Edward Island, or
they would be placed in a false position
because they would have to go before a
judge, and, as I took down a note of his
speech, the judge or barrister would be
sent down from here. I do not wish to
misquote my hon. friend. Did I understand him to say so ?
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-That is
not exactly what I said. I said something
to this effect-it might be a barrister from
Ottawa or elsewhere.

HON. MR. HOWLAN-Then I have
taken down my hon. friend's remark properly. Now, as I understand, it is not
the intention to take barristers from here
to serve in any other locality-the barrister
will be appointed in the locality where he
resides.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Of
course that is it.

HoN. MR. HOWLAN-Therefore the
objection that a barrister might be sent
from Ottawa to Prince Edward Island entirely falls to the ground. With reference
to the difficulty of any person going before
a judge I can only say this : I have run
eleven elections, myself, and in my experience I do not think a voter would be any
more displeased to go before a judge than
he would be to go before a bantering crowd
of his own neighbours with regard to his
qualification as a voter. The matter
struck me in that light. Again with regard
to the question of Indian voters, I confess
HON.

MR. HOWLAN.

I cannot see anything wrong about an
Indian having a vote if he is possessed of
property and is a permanent resident. I
really can see no reason why an Indian
who has a farm, on which he works, and
which is to all intents and purposes his
own, a man who can read and write and
who pays his taxes and conforms to the
laws of this country-I can see no reason
why he should be refused a vote.
HON. MR. DICKEY-There is nothing
in the Bill to prevent it
HON. MR. HOWLAN-I know there is
not ; that is what I say, and I can see no
ground for the objection to the Indian
vote. I am endeavoring to meet the objections which have been raised by some
hon. gentlemen on that point. This matter of the franchise is to me, who have
lived in a country where we have a free
franchise, perfectly clear; to my mind
manhood suffrage is the proper franchise,
and if this Bill did not lead in that direction I should be inclined to vote against it,
but I say it is a stepping stone to a free
franchise. We must not forget this, that
when we entered the Dominion of Canada
as a province we did so to take our proper
share of the burdens as well as the advantages of the union, and as the constitution
gives the Dominion a right to legislate on
this subject, and as this Bill has been
passed after a very thorough discussion,
and the public mind of the Dominion has
been pretty well settled with regard to it, I
do not see why we should seek to amend
the Bill to meet our particular views. I
have no hesitation in saying that if, under
the working of this Bill, it should be found
that any portion of our people are robbed
of their votes, if the Parliament of Canada
is appealed to it will remedy the wrong.
HON. MR. MONTGOMERY-If this
Bill had come down as it was originally introduced, I should certainly have voted
for the amendment. The hon. gentleman
from Marshfield (Mr. Haythorne) has
appealed to us to act on this occasion as
we did in 1874, when a bill was introduced affecting the franchise in Prince
Edward Island, but he seems to forget
that the concessions made in this Bill were
not made in that measure. I believe that
the representatives of the Island are gen-

The Franchise [JULY 14, 1885] Bill.
erally satisfied with the concessions made
in this Bill to their province, and I am
also. I think the House has acted in a
very liberal manner towards Prince Edward
Island.

1335

hon. friend is quite mistaken; it was
intended to affect the franchise of Prince
Edward Island and to prevent a large
portion of its population, who had up to
that time enjoyed the suffrage, from voting
in elections for the Dominion Parliament,
HON. MR. PLUMB-My hon. friend and my hon. friend from Marshfield is too
·opposite has moved an amendment to the candid to dispute for one moment the
Franchise Bill which provides that his pro- position I am taking.
vince shall be excepted from the operation
of the Bill. An amendment was made in
HON. MR. SCOTT-He will explain it.
the other House to the effect that all those
HON. MR. PLUMB-It will require a
who are enrolled upon the Prince Edward
Island voters' list should remain as such great deal of ingenuity to explain it away.
voters. That was departing really from the It is one thing to explain, and another
principle of uniformity in favor of the hon. thing to explain away. My hon. friend
gentleman's province. My hon. friend on will see that the most tender regard has
my right (Mr. Howlan) has well said that been paid to the voters of Prince Edward
when the hon. gentleman and his friends Island. Every man who is entitled to vote
,chose to cast in their lot with the Dominion will continue to possess the franchise.
they did so with a full knowledge that this Nobody is disfranchised, and not only
Parliament had power to establish a uni- that, but there are men absolutely adform franchise for the confederation. They mitted to the franchise-sons of fishernever could have supposed, until they men and farmers' sons. But my hon.
heard the hon. member from DeLanau- friend says he objects, on the other hand,
diere speak, that the province of Quebec to the Indians voting. Al his friends are
would solemnly advocate the principle of making the same objection ; they are obuniversal suffrage. They never could jecting to the enlargement of the franchise
have supposed, except under the strange on the one side, and they are representing
conditions which bring together those sin- it as being too restrictive on the other. It
gular bed fellows-my hon. friend from is impossible to please the hon. gentleman
DeLanaudiere and my hon. friend from and get at any common point upon which
Marshfield-that there could be any possi- we can agree. My hon. friend from DeLanbility that a Franchise Bill could be framed audiere, whom I know to be Conservative of
which would have recognized the principle Conservatives,has stated that there is univerof universal suffrage in Canada. I wish sal dissatisfaction against this franchise
to remind my hon. friend of what has been because it is too liberal and sweeping.
brought to our notice by my hon. friend Other gentlemen of his way of thinking
at my right (Mr. Howlan) that he was say the same thing, and yet he
compelled, for the protection of his advocates that there shall be a more
province, in 1874 to stand up against sweeping measure still-in fact that the
his own Liberal Government which principle of universal suffrage which, in a
proposed not only to disfranchise franchise Bill like this, once admitted as
his people utterly (Oh, Oh!) yes, utterly, a general principle, must affect the whole
on the principle of universal suffrage, but principle of the Bill and must be carried
to require that every man should own a through all the provinces-my hon. friend
.certain portion of real estate before he who is so logical usually, has actually
could be a voter at all-not admitting tax- committed himself to the principle of unipayers, or farmers' sons, or many of those versal suffrage. Well, he is quite welcome
who are entitled to vote under this to do so but I wish to have one thing
illiberal Tory measure.
understood, that is, that this conservative
Senate in 1874 saved the franchise of
HON. MR. SCOTT-It was only a Prince Edward Island. This conservative Senate proposes now to agree with
temporary bill.
the proposition of the House of Commons,
HON. MR. PLUMB-I do not care by which all the voters who are registered
whether it was temporary or not. My in Prince Edward Island shall still have

The .Franchi8e [SENATE] Bill.

1336

the privilege of recording their votes. I
say we may come, sorne time or other, to
the general principle ot universal suffrage,
but, in language which my hon. friend
opposite will understand, our principle
should be festina lente. The time may
come when he and all the rest of us will
have to agree to manhood suffrage, but
for the present we have a measure which
is largely in advance of any general suffrage
measure which has been adopted for the
provinces of this Dominion. I shall vote
for it and I trust that the amendment of
my hon. friend, well mneant as it is-for I
can well understand the delicate position
in which he and my hon. friend from
Alberton are placed-will be rejected. If
adopted, it would be fatal to a Bill which
has enlarged the privileges of the general
voting population of the Dominion, and I
know my hon. friend, when he comes to
think of it seriously, would not be the
means, in any way, of obstructing those
privileges, as he would do if an amendment of this kind were adopted.
McINNES (B.C.)-As I
have not taken any part in this debate on
the Franchise Bill, and as British Columbia
is as greatly affected probably as any
other part of the Dominion,I hope I may be
allowed to say a word or two on this subject. I am quite in accord with the amendment that my hon. friend from Prince
Edward Island has moved.
I believe
it is a step in the right direction. We
have had in the Province of British Columbia universal suffrage, for a great number of years, and our experience is that it
has worked admirably. To take this retrogressive step, is contrary to the spirit of
the age in which we live. I think a great
mistake was made that this subject of the
franchise was not submitted to the different provinces before a Bill was framed-I
think it was a great mistake, notwithstanding the difference of opinion held by many
hon. gentlemen in this House. If the
feelings of the different provinces had
becri tested, I am sure we would not have
been sitting here until this late period of
the summer. As I said before, I think
the tendency is to extend the franchise
instead of curtail it.
HON.

MR.

HON. MR. McINNES-Only in some
of the provinces. I do not see why those
provinces which are further advanced in
some things than the larger members of
the confederation should be deprived of
privileges which they have enjoyed for a
number of years. I believe if the Government had brought in a Bill, in the first
place, adopting universal suffrage such as
we have in British Columbia, it would
have been acceptable to the vast majority
of the people of Canada. I believe it will
be but a few years before this Bill, which
has cost the country so much valuable
time and will cost a great deal of
money in the operation of it, with its half
dozen or more different qualifications,
will be swept off the Statute book and universal suffrage adopted. We are drifting
in that direction, and I believe and hope
that all of us will see it in a few years.
For these reasons I will support the
amendment moved by my hon. friend
from Prince Edward Island ?
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLE-I
should like to know if the hon. gentleman
who has moved this amendment wishes us
to legislate to give universal suffrage to
Prince Edward Island ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes.
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLE-If
the amendment was t- leave to the Local
Legislature the right to regulate the franchise I would vote in favor of the amendment, although it might lead to universal
suffrage.
HON.

MR. SCOTT-That is what it

HON.

MR. PLUMB-Oh, no,

is.
it is

not.

HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLE-By
this amendment it is not asked that the
regulation of the suffrage should be left
to the local legislature, but that we should
legislate that universal suffrage continue in Prince Edward Island. Therefore there are two points involved. I am
certainly in favor of, and would vote for
an amendment giving to the local legislaHON. MR. PLU MB-It has been done ture the right to deal with the franchise in
by this Bill.
that province.
HON. MR. PLUMB.

The Franchise [JULY 14, 1885.] Bil.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I will read it:" In the Province of Prince Edward Island
-the provincial qualification of voters shall
continue to be the qualification of voters
for the election of members of the House
of Commons."

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We
are asked to enact that.
HoN. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEThat is the way I understood it. We do
not tell the Local Government that they
shall regulate the franchise, but we saywe, the Parliament of Canada, declare
that they shall continue to have universal
suffrage.
HON. MR. SCOTT-No, no.
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLE-I
may not understand the language well,
but that is the way it presents itself to
me.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-You
understand it correctly.
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLE-I
am in favor of leaving to the local legislatures the fixing of the franchise, but I object to the Dominion IParliament declaring
that we are in favor of universal suffrage.
I have opposed the bill, not because I
consider it is not liberal enough, but because I consider it is too liberal, and having voted against the Government measure
on that ground, I think I must, to be
consistent, vote against this amendment.
HON. MR. VIDAL-I must confess that
I am not a little surprised that my hon.
friend from Prince Edward Island whose
candor and clearness of statement and
fairness are so fully and constantly recog
nized, should to night try to put so many
of us in a false position by his reference to
the vote in this House in 1874 upon the
Prince Edward Island Bill. In my judgment there is no analogy whatever between
the two cases. In the one instance there
was an attempt to interfere with one single
province, and to deprive many of the
people of that province of the exercise of
a right which they had enjoyed-an interference which we in our wisdom and
exercising the duties rightly and properly

1337

devolving upon us, put a stop to. The
hon. gentleman alluded to the functions of
this House in relation to this matter. I
recognize those functions fully, and I think
if there is any one thing which should be
kept in view more than another in this
House it is that we are here to protect
the rights of the provinces. The raison
d'être of the Senate is to accomplish that
end, so that the preponderating vote in the
other House, of any large province, should
not bear unduly on any province having a
smaller representation. I think the hon.
gentleman, in the motion he has made,
entirely misapprehends the intention of
the Bill, and what the Bill would actually
accomplish if carried into force
I look
upon this measure as granting a very large
extension of the franchise-giving the privilege to many thousands of persons who
have hitherto not enjoyed the right of
voting for members of the House of
Commons. I believe in some few cases
it may prove to be a Bill disfranchising
some who have hitherto had a vote ; but
when we look at the fact that the qualification is placed so very low, I think that
no valid objections can possibly be urged
against it. I feel myself that it is a very
unfortunate thing that the concession has
been made which we find embodied in
this Bill. Strongly as I would like to
protect the rights of every man and to
disfranchise none, still the matter is
such an important one, the bringing
of the franchise into one uniform
system, that I think it is a pity that
in the case of Prince Edward Island and
British Columbia there has been a departure from this rule of uniformity. I fully
sympathize with the motive that led to that
departure, a desire to act with the greatest
liberalty, and allow a defect in the measure for the purpose of doing justice to
those people. When we look at the franchise in Prince Edward Island, in the first
place we see there will be a voters' list on
that very low basis which is to prevail
throughout the Dominion; then there is
a provision that those who are not qualified on that basis will have the same right
to vote that they enjoy to-day. Now if
that provision were not made, I believe
that before the next general election takes
place for the House of Commons we
would not find the name of a single one of
those who now enjoy the vote absent from

1838

The Franchise [SENATE] Bil.

the voters' list. The qualification is so
very low that every man could at once attain it if he was desirous of doing so.
Then the franchise is extended to fishermen and their sons, and every provision
seems to me to be made that the people
shall be well and fully represented in the
House of Commons. If it were a question
affecting the rights of the province-if for
instance it was going to deprive Prince
Edward Island of a representative in the
House of Commons it would be a totally
different question. But that province is
not deprived of any right; it will be represented by the same number under the
operation of this Bill as it is to-day, so that
the province is not injured in any way ; its
interests will be as fully guarded under
this Bill as under the existing law. I certainly think the framers of the Confederation Act contemplated that a bill of this
kind would be introduced at an early date
in the history of the Dominion. The very
language they used implies that such an
idea was in their mind at the time, and it
seems to me to be a natural and necessary
thing that the Dominion Parliament
should have the right of determining the
franchise upon which its members are to
be elected. For instance, if Ontario
thought fit under the impulse of excessive
liberality to give universal suffrage to its
people, would not the other provinces
have a right to complain of the
basis on which that province was represented in the Dominion Parliament ? I
think we ought not to be exposed to a
contingency of that kind. It might be
done on a mere whim one year, and the
next they might again change the franchise
so that there would be no stability or fairness in their representation. There was
another objection made by my hon. friend
-- I do not know whether it was under
misapprehension-but he referred to the
sending of a revising barrister from Ottawa
down to his province. Now the Act itself
clearly and distinctly provides that that
could never be, that the revising barrister
must be a person residing in the Province
in which he is to act. At this late hour of
the evening, although I would like to add
some further remarks on this bill I do not
think it is expedient to do so.

merits of the bill, but simply to call the
attention of the Minister of Justice to that
point which has just been adverted tothe sending of a barrister down to any province. Supposing a barrister who has had
five years' practice in Ontario goes to
reside in Nova Scotia or in any other province, should his five years' practice in the
province he left not be a qualification
to entitle him to act as a revising barrister
in the locality to which he has removed, or
does it disqualify him ? I know very well,
and I desire particularly to bring it to the
notice of the hon. leader of this House,
that in Manitoba, for instance, a very large
number of the barristers there have gone
up from this province. If they have had five
years of practice in their profession in this
province,shouldthey be disqualified frombeing revising barristers in Manitoba because
they have not had five years practice there ?
They are under this Act; but I do not
think that such a result was contemplated
by the framers of this Bill. Surely if a
barrister has practised five years in
any of the provinces he is qualified to be
a revising barrister in any province in
which he may choose to reside ; but if you
require in this bill that he must be five
years practising in the province in which
he is called upon to act as a revising
barrister, you disqualify a very large number of barristers in Manitoba, as most of
the barristers there are men who have
gone from other provinces to practise
their profession there. Very few of them
have spent five years in Manitoba and
under this Bill, unless a man has practised
five years in that province, he cannot be a
revising barrister.
HON. MR. POWER-Are they not admitted in Manitoba now ?
HON. MR. O'DONHOE-Yes, but
they must be five years practising at the
bar in the province in which they are
called upon to act as revising barristers,
under section 13 of the Bill. I do not
think it is very reasonable, and I do not
think it is proper.
HON. MR. SMITH-The resident
barrister ought to have the preference.

HoN. MR. O'DONOHOE-I do not
HON. MR. O'DONOHOE-It is not
rise for the purpose of speaking on the his residence, it is his five years' practice
HON. MR.

VIDAL.

The Franchi8e [JULY 14, 1885] Bill.
that qualifies him. However, I am not
going to make any ado about it any more
than to perform the duty of bringing
the matter under the notice of the leader
of the Government.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I think it is
a very desirable clause of the Bill. I think
we can find in every province barristers of
five years' standing qualified for the
duty.
HON. MR. DICKEY-I rise to a point
of order, we are not on that amendment
now; we are on another amendment.
THE SPEAKER-Very wide latitude
is allowed on a debate of this kind.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I think the
revising barrister should have some local
knowledge, and he should have a certain
term of residence before he acquires that
local knowledge and is qualified for the
office. The hon. gentleman from Prince
Edward Island opposed this clause of the
Bill on the ground that the revising
barrister might be taken from any other
province. The Bill provides that he cannot be taken from any other province. I
am surprised that those gentlemen who
are in favor of universal suffrage should
be opposed to this Bill. It is clear
to my mind that no man is disfranchised
by it. Even in Prince Edward Island it
is only a sentiment. The right of franchise does not descend from father to
son, and it should not descend in that
way in perpetuity. No man in any part
of the Dominion of Canada who ought to
have a vote is deprived of it under this
Bill.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-The hon.
gentleman from Amherst, made a statement which was re-echoed by several
other gentlemen, and in answering him I
shall also answer them. He spoke of the
Nova Scotia franchise as one which had existed only for six or seven years, whereas
the present franchise in Prince Edward
Island must have existed three or four times
that length of time. The hon. gentleman
spoke of the right of voting not being
transmissible from father to son. But is
that doctrine consistent with historical
facts ? Has not permanence been an im-

1339

portant factor in all great struggles for
freedom ? I say that the very essence of
our liberties is that it shall descend from
father to son, and that they transmitted
the liberties which they won for themselves
from father to son from the remotest
generation to our own time ; and that
when at any time they relaxed their vigilance, or allowed any power to encroach
upon their liberties, in that way they lost
them, and in that way the miserable state
in which the municipalities of England
existed up to the year 1835 or 1836 is accounted for. It was from this very remissness of the people, and remissness of their
representatives in not faithfully guarding
their rights and privileges that this loss of
liberty occurred. And how am I or how
is any gentlemen who represents Prince
Edward Island to meet the people of our
province face to face and admit to them
that we have allowed those liberties of
theirs to slip away from them without
making a protest against it and attempting to preserve them faithfully ?
I will not lay myself open to any such
imputation. I have before stood up
to
advocate the
in my place
liberties of my people, and although ten years have elapsed since
that occasion, and my hairs have grown
from gray to white, and my frame becomes
more feeble, still I thank God that I have
voice and strength enough yet to stand up
in my place and defend the liberties of the
people of my province. Have hon. gentlemen ever thought- has it occurred to
them, or have they forgotten what occurred
in the history of our cousins and neighbors in the United States? Did they not
struggle most manfully against the first
attempt of the British to impose taxes upon them ? Everybody knows the history
of those times, and some gentlemen will
here recollect the words of our great English statesman Lord Chatham. They are
noble words, and the people of whom
they were spoken fully deserved them. I
think also that my own people fully
deserve credit for their care and zeal, and
the manner in which they have guarded
the liberties they possess. What did Lord
Chatham say of the conduct of the
Americans in resisting the encroachment
of the British Parliament, or rather of the
British sovereign, on their liberties ? Because those enroachments made upon the

1840

The Franchi8e [SENATE] Bill.

liberties of the people of America were
encroachments made by a Parliament
subservient to the sovereign power-a
subserviency obtained by all sorts of illicit
means, and surely we cannot but protest
strongly against the introduction of the
thin end of the wedge in this country.
Lord Chatham says, "The spirit which
now resists taxation in America is the
same spirit which in England formerly
opposed the loans, benevolences, and ship
money." I hope and believe that that
same spirit exists among the people of
Prince Edward Island this day, and long
may it continue there. Some hon. gentlemen have spoken of how we would act if
this were a question of the liberties of the
provinces, and if it were a question affecting a province, depriving it of any rights.
In that I see the same identical disregard
for the liberties of the people which
lost to our British ancestors those
liberties which they inherited from their
Anglo-Saxon forefathers.
I say this
argument is altogether inconsistent with
the preservation of our municipal and provincial institutions. Some reference has
been made to the action of this House
some ten years ago-on an occasion in
some respects similar-and I think some
little misapprehension prevails in regard
to it. That was not an attempt at any
permanent enroachment upon the liberties
of the people of Prince Edward Island ;
it was a temporary arrangement proposed
until the Local Government, too, should
establish registration courts there which
up to that time had no existence. It need
not necessarily have occupied more than
a year at the outside. The Local Legislature was not in session, and nine or ten
months must necessarily have elapsed before it could have framed and passed a
measure to establish registration courts.
During that time the liberties of the people would have been in abeyance, and it is
for that very reason that I opposed the
bill, and used my very best influence to
prevent it from becoming law, and successfully. And I did so on this principle,
that if once you allow the abrogation of
your liberties or of any privileges you possess, by any power whatsoever, you abandon the tenure on which they are held.
It is that very carelessness that leads to
the loss of liberty. Any one who will take
the trouble to read up this question will
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

find that it is by that very means,
sovereigns,
tyrannical
by
adopted
in other countries besides our own, that
the rights of the people have been invaded.
When once our liberties are enroached on
it is difficult to re-establish them. Let
anyone take up the history of the Netherlands and read the struggle which the
people of that region went through in order to obtain their municipal privileges ;
let them study the history of that country
under Philip II., and observe how the
privileges of of the people were abrogated
by that sovereign. Let them read the
history of England and see how in the
days of the Stuarts our municipal liberties
were often infringed upon, abrogated and
forfeited to the Crown, and new franchises
granted, granted not to those who held
them before, but to others who were
known to be subservient to the
Royal interests. These are the dangers
which we have to contend against.
Of course, we here in Canada do
not anticipate such extreme dangers as
that; but are there no other dangers that
the dominant party in Canada should by
means of this bill, and through such bills
as have passed through Parliament, become a permanent majority, and thus an
oligarchy would become established in
this Dominion of ours ? Is there any
danger of that in this Dominion? If
hon. gentlemen think not, let them pass
this bill ; but I hope there is sufficient
independence in this House yet to save
the franchise for the people of Prince Edward Island. I will not detain the House
any further by any unnecessary remarks.
The House divided on the amendment,
which was lost on the following division •
CONTENTS:
Hon. Messrs.

Baillargeon,
Bellerose,
Guévremont,
Haythorne,
How lan,
Leonard,
McClelan,
McInnes,

O'Donohoe,
Paquet,

Pelletier,
Power,
Scott,
Stevens,
Wark.-I 5.
NON-CONTENTS:

Allan,
Bolduc,

Hion. Messrs.
McKindsey,
McMillan,

Boucherville de,
Macdonald,
Canpbell (Sir Alex.) MacInnes,

The Franci8e [JULY 14, 1885] Bill.
Carvell,
Clernow,
DeBlois,
Dever,
Dickev,
Girard,
Gowan,
Hamilton,
Kaulbach,
McDonald,
McKay,

Miller (Speaker),
Montgomery,
Nelson,
Northwood,
Plumb,
Poirier,
Read,
Smith,
Sutherland,
Vidal.-29

HON. MR. SCOTT moved in amendment :
That the said Bill be notnow read a third time,
but that it be amended by striking out the
words, "In the Provinces of British Columbia
and Prince Edward Island," in the 9th section,
and by inserting in lieu thereof the words,
"In all the Provinces of the Dominion."
He said-It has been conceded that it
is a sound principle that where free men
have had the right to vote it is unwise to
take away from thern that privilege. That
principle has been extended to British
Columbia and Prince Edward Island
where those who are now on the list will
have the right to vote. If it is a sound
principle in British Columbia and Prince
Edward Island where practically manhood
suffrage exists, how much sounder is the
principle when applied to parties who now
have the right to vote on a qualification,
and which right will be taken away from
them by this Bill? Now, I am asking the
same privilege for these that has been
conceded to the people of Prince Edward
Island and British Columbia. It does not
disturb the Bill in the slightest particular ;
but in case there are in the other provinces
of the Dominion some persons who will
not be entitled to vote under this Bill, and
who have at present a vote, that such
parties shall not be deprived of the franchise. In Ontario, it is conceded that
there are some who are now entitled to
vote who will be disfranchised under this
Bill.
The House divided on the amendment
which was lost on the following division

Baillargeon,
Chaffers,
Raythorne,
Leonard,
McClelan,

McInnes (B.C.),

CONTENTS.
Hon. Messrs.
Paquet,
Pel etier,
Power,

Scott,
Stevens,
Wark.-12.

1341

NON-CONTENTS:
Hon. Messrs.
Allan,
McKindsey,
Bolduc,
McMillan,
Boucherville, d
Macdonald (B.C.),
Campbell (Sir Alex.), Maclnnes(Burlington),
Carvell,
Miller (Speaker),
Clemow,
Montgomery,
DeBlois,
Nelson,
Dever,
Northwood,
Dickey,
O'Donohoe,
Girard,
Plumb,
Gowan,
Poirier,
Hamilton,
Read,
Howlan,
Smith,
Kaulbach,
Sutherland,
McDonald (C.B .),
Vidal.-31.
McKay,
HON. MR. BELLEROSE moved in
mendment :
That the said Bill be not now read a third
time, but that it be recommitted to a Committee of the Whole House for the purpose of
amending the same by inserting after the
fourth clause the following:." Notwithstanding the provisions contained in the third and im the fourth clauses
of this Act, which will have no effect in the
Province of Quebec, from and after the first
day of January, in the year of Our Lord, one
thousand eight bundred and eighty-six, in
this said Province of Quebec, every person
who at the time of the passing of this Act is
entitled to vote in this Province by the laws
at present existing in the same, shall have a
right to be registered as a voter and to vote so
long as he shall continue to be qualified to
vote under the provisions of the said last
mentioned laws and no longer."
He said-In moving this amendment I
hope the House will not forget that I have
asked for the Province of Quebec only
that it be put on the sane footing as,
under the Confederation Act, it has been
placed in its representation in the Senate.
If hon. gentlemen will refer to the 22nd
clause of the British North America Act
they will see that the Province of Quebec
is represented in the Senate in an exceptional way. While Senators from other
provinces are appointed for the province,
in Quebec Senators are appointed for
electoral divisions, and they are obliged to
own a property qualification in the electoral
divisions which they represent. As I said
the other day, although my argument was
misunderstood, it showed that it was the
intention of tde framers of the constitution
that Quebec should stand as an exception
in regard to representation, and I say so
now. I voted with pleasure a few moments

1342

The Franchise [SENATE] Bill.

ago to leave to another province the
privilege which she now enjoys, and I
hope the House will grant to Quebec
that to which she seems to be entitled
under the Confederation Act, and seems
to have been specially reserved to her
according to my interpretation of the
constitution.

That the said Bill be not now read a third
time, but that it be recommitted to a Committee of the Whole Bouse for the purpose of
strikingout the paragraphin the second clause
which defines the word " person " and inserting instead thereof the following:-" Person

means a male person including an Indian not
being an un -nfranchised tribal Indian."
And also of striking out sub-clause (C) of
clause 11.
The House divided on the amendment,
I may be allowed to explain the effect
which was lost on the following division
of that. The paragraph which defines
CONTENTs:
" person " is as follows :-" Person means
a male person, including an Indian and
Hon. Messrs.
Armand,
excluding a person of Mongolian or ChiMcClelan,
Baillargeon,
McInnes (B.C.),
nese race." The effect of the amendment
Bellerose,
Pâquet,
is to allow a Chinaman who has become
Pelletier,
Boucherville, de
a naturalized citizen to vote. None but
Power,
Chaffers,
native born or naturalized subjects are reScott,
Guévremont,
Stevens,
cognized in this Bill, and any Chinaman
Haythorne,
Trudel.-16.
Leonard,
who has become naturalized and possesses
the necessary property qualification would,
NoN CONTENTS:
under this amendment, possess the franHon. Messrs.
chise. I think that is a proposition
McMillan,
Allan,
which will meet with the approbation of
Campbell (Sir Alex.), McDonald (B.C.),
the majority of the Senate. The amendMeInnes (Burlington),
Carvell,
ment also puts the Indian in the same poMiller (Speaker),
Clemow,
sition as the white man, if he lives the
Montgomery,
DeBlois,
Nelson,
same as a white man, and pays taxes, and
Dever,
Northwood,
Dickey,
can make contracts like a white man.
O'Donohoe,
Girard,
Plumb,
Gowan,
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEPoirier,
Hamilton,
Read,
Would the hon. gentleman have any obHowlan,
Smith,
Kaulbach,
jection to dividing his motion into two ?
Sutherland,
Macdonald (C.B.),
Vidal.-29.
McKay,
HON. MR. POWER-Not the slightest.
McKindsey,
HON. MR. BELLEROSE moved in
amendment
That the said Bill be not now read a third
time but that it be recommitted to a Committee of the Whole House for the purpose of
amending the same so that the voters' list in
the different provinces shall be prepared by
an officer chosen by the Federal Government
for that purpose from amongst the residents
of such eiectoral division in the Dominion and
revised by a Commission of three competent
individuals also resident in the County or
electoral division and to be chosen by one of
the Judges of a Superior Court in each Province.
The motion was declared lost on a
division.

HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEThe hon. Member is willing to divide his
motion but he cannot do so without the
consent of the House. If the House will
nermit it to be divided I think that would
be the better way.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
would be better for my hon. friend to
move a second amendment defining his
own view.
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEThere is one portion of the amendment
for which I would vote; the other I have
not studied.

HON. MR. POWER--I have an
THE SPEAKER-The House does
amendment to propose to the Bill which I
hope will meet the approval of a majority not consent to a division of the amendment.
of the House. It is as follows HoN. MR. BELLEROSE.

Tle Franchie [JULY 14, 1885] Bil.

1343

HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEHOH. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLE
Then I beg to move in amendment to the moved
amendment that the words after " an
That the said Bill be not now read a third
Indian " in the 3rd and 4th lines, page 2, time, but that it be amended by inserting the
be stricken out.
words " unless he be a Christian " after the
word " race " in the fourth line, page 2.
The Senate divided on the amendment
He said-I do not think there is any
which was rejected by the following vote: nation of barbarians, as we call them, who
refuse the right of citizenship to those who
adopt their religion. We have sent missionaries to China, and although hon.
Armand,
Baillargeon,
Guévremont,
members say that very few of the Chinese
Bellerose,
Trudel,
have been converted to the Christian reBoucherville, de
Vidal.-8.
ligion, I think the hon. member from
Sarnia has shown that there are quite a
NoN-CONTENTS:
number of Christian Chinamen. I have
Hon Messrs.
certainly seen lately, on good authority,
McKindsey,
Allan,
that the Christian religion has made great
Campbell (Sir Alex), McMillan,
Macdotald (B.C.),
Carvell,
progress in China. Now supposing those
MacInnes (Burlington) men to whom we have said "Adore our
Clemow,
Miller (Speaker),
DeBlois,
God and be our brethren," should come
Montgomery,
Dever,
to this country are we to tell them
Nelson,
Dickey,
Girard,
Northwood,
" although you are Christians and profess
Gowan,
O'Donohoe,
the same faith as we do, you will be in a
Plumb,
H amilton,
lower position here than the slave occuPoirier,
Howlan,
pied some years ago in the United States
Kaulbach,
Read,
-lower than the slave occupies at this
McDonald (C.B.),
Smith,
Mclnnes (B.C.),
Sutlierland.-29.
day in some parts of the Western HemisMcKay,
phere ?" It is unnecessary to say any
more on this subject; a Christian who is
The Senate divided on the motion in a British subject and possesses the qualifiamendment to the main motion, which cations prescribed in this Bill ought to be
was rejected by the following vote an elector.
CONTENTS:

Hon. Messrs.
Chaffers,

CONTENTS:

Ion. Messrs.
McClelan,
Armand,
Pâquet,
Baillargeon,
Pelletier,
Bellerose,
Power,
Boucherville, de,
Scott,
Chaffers,
Stevens.-13.
Hay thorne,
Leonard,

The Senate divided on the amendment,
which was rejected on the following vote.
CONTENTS :

Hon. Messrs.
Armand,
O'Donohoe,
Baillargeon,
Pâq net,
Bellerose,
Pelletier,
Boucherville, de,
NON-CONTENTS:
Poirier,
Chaffers,
Power,
Hon. Messrs.
DeBlois,
Scott,
McMillan,
Allan,
Dickey,
Stevens,
Campbell (Sir Alex,), Macdonald (B.C.),
Trudel,
MacInnes (Burlington) Guévremont,
Carvell,
Haythorne,
Vidal,
Miller (Speaker),
Clemow,
Leonard,
Wark.-21.
Montgomery,
DeBlois,
McClelan,
Nelson,
Dever,
NON-CONTENTS:
Northwood,
Dickey,
Hon. Messrs.
O'Donohoe,
Girard,
Plumb,
Gowan,
McKindsey,
Allan,
Poirier,
Hamilton,
McMillan,
Campbell,
Read,
Howlan,
Macdonald (B.C.),
(Sir Alexander),
Smith,
Kaulbach,
og
MacInnes
Carvell,
McDonald (C.B.),
(Burlington),
Clemow,
Sutherland,
Trudel,
Mclnnes (B.C.),
Dever,
Miller (Speaker),
Vidal.-31.
McKay,
Girard,
Montgomery,
Nelson,
McKindsey,
Gowan,

1344 CanadianPacific Railway [SENATE] Completion Bill.
Hamilton,
Howlan,
Kaulbach,
McDonald (C.B.),
McInnes (B.C.),
McKay,

Northwood,
Plumb,
Read,
Smith,
Sutherland.-25.

ALEX CAMPBELL-I desire to say before the Bill is read the third
time that I have been
requested
by the hon. member for DeSalaberry to propose an amendment respecting Judges of the Session of the
Peace, Recorders and Stipendiary Magistrates, so that they may be revising officers.
I consulted the Premier and
another of my colleagues, and I have
mentioned the matter to my hon. friend
from DeSalaberry.
They think, with
reference to two of the officials mentioned,
that there is no necessity for an amendment, inasmuch as they are generally
barristers of five years standing, and therefore there is no occasion to alter the Bill
in the manner proposed. My hon. friend
also desires that the Bill should be
changed so as to admit barristers of three
years standing instead of five.
HON. SIR

CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPLETION BILL.
THIRD READING.

The House resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole on Bill (153), "An Act
further to amend the Act respecting the
Canadian Pacific Railway, and to provide
for the completion and successful operation thereof."
In the Committee on the

1oth

clause.

HON. MR. POWER-Betore this clause
is adopted 1 should like the Minister of
Justice to put in plain English the meaning of it, for it seems rather hard to follow
and to tell exactly what the meaning of it
is as it now stands.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
meaning of the clause, as it now stands,
is that this Algoma Branch runs only part
of the way to Sault St. Marie. There is
in contemplation the constructing of a
line from Minneapolis and St. Paul to
Sault St. Marie, and if that line is continued to the Sault, and if the Canadian
HON. MR. POWER-No, no.
Pacific Railway Company extend their
line up from Algoma to the Sault, the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
Algoma branch may be mortgaged, notthink, myself, that it would not be an im- withstanding this Bill, for the purpose of
provement. My hon. friend however, raising money to make the connection at
made the suggestion to me, and I thought the Sault.
I should mention it on the third reading
of the Bill.
HON. MR. POWER-I understand
that while the Algoma branch remains in
The main motion was agreed to on a its present condition, the nortgage is the
division, and the Bill was read the third first lien on it.
time and passed.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes.

The Senate adjourned at 10:15 p.m.

THE SENATE.

Ottawa, Wednesday, July 15th, 1885.

HON. MR. POWER-But if there is a
prospect of the road becoming valuable
then the Government will be prepared to
relinquish their lien upon it and allow the
company to mortgage the whole Algoma
branch to other parties to raise money,
and the Government lien will come in
merely as a second mortgage.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three not think my hon. friend should draw the
o'clock.
conclusion that the Government is to do
so ; the Government has power to do so
under this bill, and my hon. friend must
Prayers and routine proceedings.

Canadian Pacißc Railway [J ULY 15, 1885] (ompletion Bill.

134A5

bear in mind that the money so raised is with respect to the western terminus of
to be applied on the road.
the Canadian Pacific Railway.
HON. MR. POWER-But there is the
position; that while the Algorna branch
is of no great value, the Government hold
the first lien on it. If such circumstances as
the Minister of Justice indicates take place,
the road will then become of great value
because if the connection which is spoken
of is made, the branch from Sault St.
Marie to Sudbury will be the most valuable portion of the Pacific Railway, and
then the country will have only a second
mortgage on that road when it becomes
valuable.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-It is quite
reasonable, if this Algoma Branch is now,
in its incomplete state, comparatively
worthless, as my hon. friend admits it is,
that anyone advancing money upon it to
make it valuable should have a first lien
for money so advanced.
Those who
make it valuable should have some right
to get their money back.
HON. MR. POWER-An unfinished
road, as a rule, is not very valuable.

HON. MR. McINNES (B.C.)-Before
this Bill is reported, I desire to move that
HON. MR. McMILLAN-It is better

than a first mortgage on a road which is the following
Bill :good for nothing.
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-The
money that will be raised will be spent
upon the road.
HON. MR. POWER-I am not saying
this of the present more than of any other
administration, but a Government, dealing
with a corporation like the Pacific Railway Company, is always at a disadvantage.
The representations of the directors are
hard to resist, and there is generally no
one present who is interested in opposing
those representations and solicitations;
so I take it that saying that "the Governor
in Council may in his discretion," is practically equivalent to saying that "the Governor in Cuuncil shall," and I think it is an
-objectionable provision. As regards that
Algoma branch, rny impression is that it
would really be better for the Government
to advance a little money themselves than
to give up their lien on the road, because
there is no portion of the Pacific Railway which will be better security for
money advanced on it than that section.
There is nothing said in this Bill to prevent the company fron going outside of
the provisions of their charter, and there
is an amendment which I think is
.desirable should be moved as to the
western terminus of the road. I suppose
it is not necessary to give notice of the
amendment now, but if it is, I give notice
that I am prepared, when the Bill is at its
third reading, to move an amendment
K 3

clause be added to the
Clause A.

" In case the company, by any extension
of its main line, or by the construction of any
branch line or lines, or by any agreement for
acquiring or leasing the hne or fines of any
other rai lway company or companies, or by
any agreement for running powers over the
line or lines of any other railway company or
companies, or by traffic arrangements with
any other railway company or companies, or
by any other means or device, establish (or
purpose to establish) a Terminus on the
Pacific coast at any point other than Port
Moody, then the Governnment of Canada
shall not construct or establish any such
terminus, nor along the line or lines of railway (whereby the Canadian Pacifie Railway is connected or proposed to be connected with such terminus,) the engine house,
station buildings, and water service, which,
by contract and agreement with the Canadian
Pacifie Railway Company approved and
ratified by the Act passed in the Forty-Fourth
year of Her Majesty's Reign, Chapter One,
the Government is bound to construct, establish and convey to the conhpany, upon the
completion of the Eastern and Central Section
of the Canadian Pacifie Railway; but the
said engine house, station buildings and
water service shall be conatructed and
established at Port Moody, notwithstanding
the establishment, or proposed establish ment,
of any other terminus."
This is the amendment that I gave notice of some days ago when I was discuss.
ing the terminus question, but before entering upon the merits of it to-day I desire
to make a personal explanation which
slipped my memory upon that occasion. My
hon. friend from Lunenburg and myself.
have been accused of speculating in Port
Moody property, and in consequence of

1346 Canadian Pacific Railway [SENATE] Completion Bill.
that speculation that our minds were more
or less biased. It is quite true that my
hon. friend from Lunenburg and myself
have speculated there.

I regret to say

that we have, but I have only to acquaint
this House with the fact that we did not
do so until we had the most positive assurances-private as well as publicpublic announcements and declarations
from the Government, that Port Moody
was the terminus and would remain the
terminus of the Canadian Pacific Railway.

But if my hon. friend and myself have
speculated there we have done so with
our own moneys. We did not come to

the Government and ask them for a loan
of over three quarters of a million as the
Canadian Pacific Railway Co. are doing at
the present time, asking for $76o,ooo for
private speculation. I claim that the Canadian Pacific Railway Co. have no more
right to ask this Government for $76o,ooo
to further their own private interests that are wholly and solely
apart from the Canadian Pacific Railway than we have. It has not been
denied by the Minister of Justice, or by
the Premier, or by the acting Minister of
Railways, or by the late Ministzr of Railways, that Port Moody is all that can be
desired as a terminus for a great transcontinental railway.

It is not on any

longer ago than last session-yes, and even
this session, when I called the attention of
the acting Minister to the fact that there were
rumors that the company were prosecuting
the extension -rom Port Moody to Coal Harbor or English Bay, and pointed out that I
had indicated before that, for the China and
Japan trade, something of that kind would be
done-he said: If it is done, the Government considers Port Moody the pro r point,
by the
and if anythinog more is done it will
company iteelf, and we have no concern with
it whatever ; and at that moment he was
making a coitract for the additional expenditure of no less than $70,000 to put down iron
pies instead of the wooden piles in front of
Port Moody wharf, which, if this arrange.
ment is to be made, will be a structure little
required. I do not mean to say there will be
no traffic at Port Moody : but, if the terminus
is to be some thirteen miles off, at Coal Harbor or English Bay, we have made a permanent structure at Port Moody to repair the
ravages of the teredo, costing more than the
wharf cost altogether, and in addition to giving that to the Pacific Railway we are to find
means of borrowing, and perhaps are ourselves to give them, $760,000 for this extension. The Minister of Railways, early in the
session, said: This is a matter with which
we had no concern ; it is not our business ;
we believe the terminus at Port Moody is
adequate. I want to know whether the Government have any further information on this
subject, whether they have approved of this
as necessary and important to the company,
and whether they have verified at all the estimates and plans upon which the Canadian
Pacifie Railway terminus is to be transferred,
in fact, from Port Moody to Coal Harbor or
English Bay.
Now, I will read the reply of the
Premier :
Sir John A. Macdonald-As I understand,
these estimates are generally rough estimates,
but before the money can be expended full
details will be given. As to the connection
with Coal Harbor, my hon. friend the Minister of Railways was quite right in stating that
it was the affair of the coinpany itself. Under the contract and the Act of Parliament
the terminus was stated to be at Port Moody,
as far as the Government was concern:ed;
the contract ends there, and it is a fine harbor, no doubt, and will always have a considerable amount of trade, I fancy, which will
still remain and start from Port Moody, a]though it is the intention of the company to
extend the line to Coal Harbor and English
Bay. It appears, on fulier investigation, that
the interests of the company and the interests
of foreign trade will be promoted by going to
Coal Harbor and English Bay, but it forme
no portion of the contract, and they get no
portion of the ubsidy on this part of the line.

ground of inefficiency, or want of space, or
want of good anchorage, or any facilities
necessary for the terminus of a great transcontinental railway that another terminus
has been selected. At Port Moody there
are no less than ten miles of the finest
anchorage and dockage that could be
found in any harbor, I do not hesitate to
say, in the world. Vessels can lie along
the shore there without even casting
out an anchor, so secure is that place
and so well protected from any windsit is perfectly land-locked.
In confirmation of that, I will read a
short article that came under my notice
to-day. It is as follows :While the estimnates were passing through
the House the following discussion took
place, at the instance of Mr. Blake, on the
item of" For connection with Coal Harbor and
English Bay, shops, buildings, docks, tracks
and other facilities at Pacifie terminus,
$760,000."
I believe the extension of the road has been
The hon. gentleman said:-The Govern. made for the advantage of the general Asiatie
ment told the House very strongly, and no trade. You may depend upon it that the
HoN. MR. McINNES.

CanadianPaciflc Railway [JULY 15, 1885] Completion Bill.
company, with the evidence they have before Fordivisionalshops and machinery
at nine points, coal docks and
them, are acting in the beet interests of trade
and of their railway in going to the expense
machinery at two points on
Lake Superior section ; station
of extending it 13 miles further.
buildings, section houses and
miscellaneous
I would say, in reply to that statement
buildings at
of the right hon. gentleman, that it is various points; additional station
sidings and crossing tracks at
highly misleading, to say the least of it. variaus fointm ; extension of
In the first place, I would not attempt to divisional
yards ; additional
say anything against the Canadian Pacific
engine houses; improvement in
Railway, or any private company, extend- water supply; additional tanks;
permanent bridge work at the
ing that road beyond Port Moody if they
various crossings of Bow River
were doing so at their own cost, as we
and on other sections; additional
are led to believe they are, and I am
ballasting, filling trestles and
sorry to say that the Minister of Justice raising roadway...............
about a week ago gave this House to For completion of telegraph
system, main line and branches.
understand that it was out of their own
For connection with Coal Harbor
money.
and English Bay ; shops, buildings, docks, tracks and other
facilities at Pacific terminus...
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--It
Contingent expenditures.. ........
is so.
HON. MR. McINNES-The leader of
the House says that it is their own money.
You have already had the annual report
of the Canadian Pacific Railway Company
signed by Mr. Stephens the president.
After giving a general explanation of the
condition of the road, he winds up as
follows :-

134A7

600,000
275,000

760,000
910,000

$5,045,000
That is a portion of the $5,ooo,ooo that
we are asked to grant this company in the
Bill before the House. (No, no.)
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My

hon. friend is quite mistaken.

The

$5,ooo,ooo, are already spent. It is the
floating debt that we are going to meet
with the $5,ooo,ooo. This is a statement put in by the company to show what
the necessities of the road are, and to
explain to the country that the road is by

" Ail the various needs of a new railway in
a new and rapidly growing country, and
everything necessary to secure economical
and efficient operation, and the full development and permanent control of its traffic,
must be supplied.
no means finished, although the contract
For these purposes, the estimated ainount is nearly completed-that there are a great
required will be as follow:-

many things to be done needing an ex-

penditure of money, and they put that
For sleeping cars, passenger cars,
dining cars, baggage, mail and
before the country to show that a large
express cars, emigrant cars, box
amount of money will yet have to be exand cattle cars, conductors' cars,
pended, but they are not going to spend
derrick, tool and other auxiliary
the public money, but their own.
cars, locomotives, hand cars,
piish cars, track tools, semaphores and other equipment
HON. MR. McINNES-Although I am
requisite for operation of hne,
not a lawyer or versed in the law, I say by
also for restorng construction
common sense (and I hope I bave comlocomotives to good working
.... $1,000,000 mon sense and understand the English
condition .............
For elevators at Port Arthur, Fort
language sufficiently to see on the face of
William, Montreal, etc.; coalit what is meant by it)bunkers, Montreal; additional
real estate Montreal and elseHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My
where; revetment walls at Monthon. friend does not understand it then.
real ; additional deputs and
tracks and other facilities,
Montreal and other pointe; adHON. MR. McINNES-I beg the hon.
ditional yard room and tracks,
gentleman's pardon, I do. What is the
and other docks, and other
coal
title of the Bill before us: "An Act
terminal facilities at Fort
1,500,000 further to amend the Acts respecting the
William and Port Arthur....

1348 CanadianPacißl Railway [SENAT E] Complet on Bill.
Canadian Pacific Railway, and to provide
for the completion and successful operation thereof." What does the President
of the Company say? Does he not say
that it is necessary that those sums of
money shall be spent in order to provide
for the completion and successful operation of the road ? It is as clear to me as
possible, and I am really astonished that
any person can accept, or put, any con
struction upon it but that. I divest myself of everything in the shape of selfishness in the matter, and I believe that
three-fourths of the whole country will put
that construction upon it. If the Canadian
Pacific Railway Company have money of
their own to build that road, I ask .why
they are coming here for $5,ooo,ooo for
that purpose ?
HoN. MR. PLUMB-They are not
asking us to give it.
HON. MR. McINNES-They certainly

are. Why do they put in that Bill if they
do not ask for it ?

HON. MR. McINNES-I have read
that bill very carefully, and my hon. friend
may be looking through one pair of spectacles and I arn looking through another
pair, and those I am looking through suit
me remarkably well.
HON. MR. MACDONALD-They are
not green I hope.

HoN. MR. McINNES-In moving this
resolution I am asking for nothing but
fair play and common justice that ought
to be accorded to me and that ought to
be accorded to those who have been
misled: and I expect that this House will
give that measure of justice that is due to
them. Take this contract that was entered into, and as the right hon. gentleman,
the leader of the other House, stated in
that branch of the legislature, the Act and
the contract entered into with the Pacific
Railway Company make provision that
those terminal works that I ask for shall be
erected at Port Moody. What does it say
in the roth clause of the contract ?
"In further consideration of the premises
the Government shall also grant to the com-

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-They
borrow it and agree to return it next pany the lands required for the road-bed of
the railway, and for its stations, stationyear-in July.
grounds, workshops, dock ground, and water
frontage at the termini or navigable waters,
HON. MR. McINNES-Yes, it will be buildings, yards and other appurtenances rereturned in all probability as quickly as quired for the convenient and effectual conthe money granted to the Grand Trunk struction and working of the railway, in so
Railway. We have $3o,ooo,ooo there, far as such land shall be vested in the Goveraand it is likely to remain there for all time. ment."
I do not want to decry the company, or
The Government do not dispute that
have that charge laid to me, but I am as they selected Port Moody as the terminus,
confident as I am that I stand here that this years ago, and that they have gone on
country will never see one dollar of the leading the public to believe that it would
advance which has been made to the be equipped with the public buildings
Canadian Pacific Railway Company, in. necessary for a great railway terminus. I
cluding that $5,ooo,ooo, paid back. We have been accused of quarreling with the
are giving it to thern as a gift; they Government because the company were
are not a company, they are merely con. going to extend the line beyond Port
tractors for the Government, and 1 be Moody. I have no desire to quarrel with
lieve now is the time for the Government the Government, and much less with any
to take possession of the Canadian Pacific member of this House. I do not think I
Railway, complete, equip and run it in the can be fairly charged with being a quarrelinterests of the country. Now is the time, some person ; but while I take that posibecause it is only a few months, in my tion I consider that I would be unworthy
opinion, until it will be compelled to do i, of being a member of this House, or of
t
anyway.
being one of its three representatives from
the Province of British Columbia, unless
HON. MR. MACDONALD-Will thg I stood up in my place and raised my
hon. gentleman refer to section 7 of th voice in defence of those who have been
bill ?
misled-those who have been wronged,

HoN. MR. McINNES.

Canadian Paciße Railway [JUTLY 15, 1885] Completion Bill.

13A9

grossly wronged, if the vile scheme of millions stated by Sir Charles Tupper
this extension is carried out. The position that it would cost for that purpose.
that I stand in to-day is this : hundreds
have interviewed me, and I have received
HON. MR. CARVELL-If the hon.
letters from parties that I never saw ask- gentleman will allow me, perhapsIwill help
ing me " Is Port Moody the terminus of him in his argument. It has been said
the Pacific Railway ?" " Is it a safe place that the Pacific Railway Company had into invest our means in ?" I invariably re- tended to place their buildings there and
ferred them to the solemn announcement make the improvements, as suggested by
made by Sir Charles Tupper and the the words he has read, but that on going
Government, that Port Moody was the ter- there they found that speculators had preminus. I said, " I can give you that, and ceded them and bought the lands and
I think it is quite sufficient ; but in addi- asked exorbitant prices from the Comtion to that I am safe in saying that I pany for them. I would suggest that to
have the most positive private evidence the hon. gentleman in order, if it is not so,
that Port Moody is the terminus." On that he may contradict it.
the strength of that assurance they investHON. MR. McINNES-I am very glad
ed their money, some of them their all,
and hon. gentlemen can understand the the hon. gentleman from Prince Edward
position that I am in. They no doubt Island has mentioned that matter. I do
look to me as the person who misled them, not know whether he was in the House the
or to a certain extent misled them in in- other day when I was dealing with that porvesting their means there. That is the tion of the question. I stated that last Novfalse position that I am in. That is the ember, property owners at Port Moody had
false position that the Government of the offered the Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
country has placed me in, and all those 450 acres of land within a mile and a half
who have invested at Port Moody. We of the head of Port Moody-offered it as
are told that it was only when Mr. a gift. Not only that, but to show the
Van Horne came to this country that liberality and fairmindedness of that
they discovered that Port Moody was not people, they offered to give onequite as good a harbor as the Pacific rail- third of all their private property
way people would like it to be. Notwith- within one mile of Port Moody, if
standing the speech of Sir Charles Tupper the Canadian Pacific Railway Co. would
which I quoted here about a week ago- keep the terminus at Port Moody for 20
and that speech was not giving his own years, so that that statement is not correct.
views merely, but the views of the highest I have also heard it stated, in that connaval authorities that had visited those nection, that the company could not find
waters on the Pacific coast, extending over enough of level land there for their tera period of 25 years---notwithstanding minal works, and all that kind of nonall that, when Mr. Van Horne cornes over sense. There is a stretch of country
here he goes out to Burrard Inlet, to Port from the head of Port Moody up to Pitt
Moody and English Bay, for five orsixhours, River, a distance of five miles, of level
and he, with his would-be all-seeing eye, land.
could detect at a glance that these authorities are all wrong, that Port Moody is not
HON. MR. PLUMB-Up stream?
a good harbor, that Coal Harbor is a little
better, and that English Bay, exposed as
HON. MR. McINNES-Yes, up stream.
it is to the prevailing winds and tides, is the There is a fall of eight or ten feet in five
best. In connectionwith this I would draw miles, so that the grades are not very
the attentionof the House to the fact that the steep. I think they are a little steeper
Minister of Justice, in replying to my ob- than that in the Selkirk range.
servation the other day, forgot to mention
anything about the enormous amount of
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Is there
money required to build a breakwater to not a Government reservation there ?
make English Bay anything like fit for
vessels to anchor in safety there. He enHON. MR. McINNES-Yes, there are
tirely overlooked that-the two or three two military reservations a little west of

1350 Canadian Pacif'w Railway [SENATE]
Port Moody. What did the Government
do five or six years ago ? As I said
the other day, they reserved nearly a
mile and a quarter of the best water
frontage at Port Moody, and a considerable amount of land adjoining it. What
was that reserved for ? The ground was
levelled, the trees were felled, and stumps
grubbed out, and all was prepared for
the erection of those terminal works.
That work was going on until the middle
of May last. I think it is a poor state of
affairs, hon. gentlemen, if we cannot find
men enough in our own country to, at
least, acquire sufficient knowledge of the
country, and the requirements for the
terminus of a great road like that. It has
also been stated, I believe, by certain interested parties that Port Moody is a
small harbor. It is not a very large
harbor, but it is four miles in length, with
an average of one-half to three-quarters of
a mile in width. We have ten miles of
as good anchorage and dockage there
as can be found in the world.
I
think that is quite ample for the
Pacific Railway for the next 50 or
'oo

years.

They claim that they require

a large amount of dockage for the Asiatic
trade. What is the great Asiatic trade
that the Premier refers to here that it is
necessary to extend the road down to English Bay to accommodate ? In San Francisco, where they have the terminus of the
Central Pacific Railway as well as the
Southern Pacific, there is only one
Asiatic steamship coming in there every
two weeks, and if it is for the Asiatic
trade I would like to ask what difference
it would make for a ship after coming five
or six or eight thousand miles, to go twelve
miles along as fine a stretch of inland navigation as is to be found anywhere,at the end
of a journey of that length ? Of course they
would go to the perfect harbor of Port
Moody instead of anchoring in an open
roadstead like English Bay.
HON. MR. MACDONALD-Do you
count the sailing ships coming from China
to San Francisco?

HoN. MR. McINNES-I am not
counting sailing ships, but if you have
reference to all the shipping coming into
San Francisco I will leave it to the hon.
gentleman's own judgment to say if he
HON. MR.

McINNES.

Completion Bill.

has ever seen more than 50 ships in San
Francisco Harbor and Bay at one time ?
HoN. MR. MACDONALD-That is a
large number.
HON. MR. McINNES-It is a large
number, but San Francisco is an old
place with a large trade and population,
with four times the entire population of
British Columbia.
HON. MR. MACDONALD-I never
saw that number in Liverpool at one time.
HON. MR. McINNES-I do not say
that I have ever seen that number in San
Francisco myself at one time, but I am
asking the hon. gentleman if he has ever
seen that number there at one time.
HoN. MR. MACDONALD-I have not.
HON. MR. McINNES-Well, then, it
is not necessary that that road should be
extended in order to meet this great trade
that is going to spring up, on the completion of the Pacific Railway, between this
country and Asia. I am sorry to say
that I have no faith whatever in that
trade. It will scarcely amount to anything, and I will give you my
reason for thinking so. As I said before,
the Southern and the Central Pacific Railways run to San Francisco. They have
been in existence for a number of years,
and if they could not attract a greater
amount of trade than would warrant more
than one steamship in two weeks, are we
with our population of 5,000,000, going to
attract more trade than the 55,000,000 in

the country to the south of us ? I do not
think it is reasonable to suppose that we
will. Then, there is the Northern Pacific,
only 100 miles in a direct line south of
the terminus of the Canadian Pacific Railway. Is there any line of steamers running
in connection with that road to any distant
foreign country ? No. For these reasons
I am sorry to think that the Asiatic trade
is more imaginary than anything else.
Should the Canadian Pacific Railway obtain all the Asiatic trade, it would not
amount to two car loads a day. I had a
very delicate compliment paid me a day
or two ago in this House. The Minister
of Justice stated that there was no sense

Canadian Pacif Railway [JULY 15, 1885] Completion Bill.
in asking for the erection of the engine
house and other terminal buildings at
Port Moody. I do not claim to have any
more common sense, probably, than is
necessary, but I think if I were senseless
in asking that the Syndicate and the Government should carry out what they
solemnly agreed to in 1881, surely there
was no sense on the part of the Minister of
Justice and the acting Minister of Railways
going to work and calling for tenders for
the erection of those houses at Port Moody
up to the 24 th May last. I say that if I
were senseless in asking for that, I think
the Government were a great deal more
so, yes, dishonest, in calling for tenders
for a work that they did not intend to
build. There is another matter I wish to
refer to, but I will defer it until the Minister of Justice is in his place. I showed
most conclusively, when I was dealing
with this subject a week ago, that if the
road was extended to English Bay and
Coal Harbor-that is, if we gave them
the wherewithal to do it-the Dominion
property in and around Port Moody would
be depreciated to the extent of three or
four millions of dollars. I believe if the
terminus remains where it is, that the property which they own will be worth from
$3,000,000 to $4,ooo,ooo within the next

five years. I think I also showed, not on
my own statement, not on my own
estimate, but giving as my authority the ex-Minister of Railways, Sir
Charles Tupper, that it would cost from
one to two millions of dollars for the
erection of a breakwater or to make anything like a harbor of English Bay, so that
there is a direct loss, for all of the money
for the erection of a harbor must come
out of the Dominion Treasury. That
would be a direct loss to the Dominion of
$5,ooo,ooo,

a considerable sum, which

ought to be applied towarids recouping
the vast amount that that road has
already cost the country. The Minister
of Justice is now in his place, and I will
refer to the fact that he stated, a short
time ago, his impression of Port Moody
as a town site. I remember meeting that
hon. gentleman at Port Moody. If my
memory serves me right it was about two
years ago. He stated that his impression
of Port Moody was not a very favorable
one: that he thought it was not a very
suitable place for a large town. I will

1351

take the liberty of asking the hon. gentleman two or three questions, which I hope
he will condescend to answer. In the
first place I ask him how long did he
remain at Port Moody?
HON. SIR ALEX.
Perhaps half an hour.

CAMPBELL-

HON. MR. McINNES-How far did
the hon. gentleman walk around Port
Moody, or away from that wharf?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
did not walk at al. I was down at the
wharf, and at the place where the hotel was.
HON. MR.

McINNES-There was no

road there ?
HON SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-There
was no road from the wharf to where the
hotel was.
HoN. MR. McINNES-I would ask
again how far could the hon. gentleman
see in any direction from the wharf?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
not remember how far I could see from
the wharf. I remember that there was a
great deal of fire in the woods, and the
atmosphere was smoky. I could not see
so far on that day as I could on some
other days.

HON. MR. McINNES-I am very glad
that the hon. gentlemani has been so frank
in his reply. I remember that day very
well. The whole of the lower portion of
British Columbia was enveloped in dense
smoke, and I doubt very much, although
I know my hon. friend's eyesight was
pretty good, if he could on that day have
seen as far as from here to Wellington St.
It was impossible to see any distance owing
to the dense smoke. The hon. gentleman
acknowledges that he was only a few yards
around the wharf, and that he saw a bluff.
It is true that where the wharf is built it is
immediately under a bluff from 50 to 75
feet high, and there is considerable of a
hill beyond ; but I think that was
scarcely a sufficient amournt of experience
upon which to pronounce that Port Moody
was not a fit place for a harbor, or a place
fit for a large town.

1352 CanadianPacific Railway [SENATE]

Completion Bill.

HON. MR. McINNES-I do not wish
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
have not pronounced that in any way. I to detain the House any longer, but there
is one thing I wish to press upon the atsaid that was my impression.
tention of hon. gentlemen, and that is,
HON. MR. McINNES-I am very sorry that we are asked to give $760,ooo for the
that the hon. gentleman gave that impress- purpose of extending the Pacific Railway
ion to the House, that a large town could to Coal Harbor, and the incentive for the
not be built there. As my hon. colleague extension of that road is not to meet the
on my left here knows well, there is an Asiatic trade, that has been put forth as a
expanse at the head of Port Moody of plea ; but the incentive is to get 8,ooo
about a mile, and then it gradually widens acres of land, 6,ooo of which has been
out to a valley of two miles until you go given by at least two members of the corback five miles, and I do not think you rupt, land jobbing, local legislature of
could get a better place for a large city of British Columbia.
half a million of a population than is to
HON. MR. POWER--Hear, hear.
be found there. Immediately back of the
first little bluff, which stands about a
HON. MR. McINNES-Yes, I say it,
quarter of a mile from the water's edge,
you attain an altitude of roo or 200 feet. and I can prove it. I say that is the inThen there is a level plateau extending all centive; that is the reason why the vice Prethe way to the Fraser River a distance sident of the Pacific Railway thought it adof about two and a-half miles. As I visable to extend the road to English Bay.
pointed out the other day, in connection As i read a few days ago from the corwith Coal Harbour, you cannot get a drop respondence that passed between the
of pure water there. At Port Moody it is Vice President of the Canadian Pacific
plentiful. I know of no place so bounti- Railway Company and the Local Legisfully supplied with pure water, as fine water lature, when these negotiations were going
on for the acquisition of the 6,ooo acres
as ever quenched any parched throat.
of land, he requested the Local Governthat over, to transfer
HON. MR MACDONALD-A good ment in making
it to trustees to be appointed by
place for the Scott Act people.
company, and those trustees
the
are the Hon. D. A. Smith and
HON. MR. McINNES-Yes, but much
Angus. Why do they want them made
better for the anti-Scott Act people, for Mr. to trustees ? He goes on to
over
they can get pure sparkling water there explain-so that the lien attaching to the
that would purify them from the impuri- Canadian Pacific Railway would not
ties and abominations of alcohol.
apply to them. I say if we are to give
them $76o,ooo for the extension of that
HON. MR. POWER-I would suggest road, is it anything more than fair that
to my hon. friend that he is making a the road and lands should be included in
great mistake, if he wishes to interest the the security this country should have
sympathies of the majority of this House, on this road to save themselves ?
to say anything about alcohol. Alcohol is
king here.
HON. MR. MACDONALD - That
would not do.
HoN. MR. McINNES-I am asking
for no charity. I am pleading for nothing
HON. MR. McINNES-Not to serve
but simple justice, and I consider that I their purpose, I am aware of that.
ought to get justice in this House ; if I do
not get justice a great wrong will be
HON.
MR. MACDONALD-They
done.
want to sell town lots, and if they were
encumbered they could not dispose of
HON. MR. POWER-I am only sug- them.
gesting that you would prejudice the jury
a little if you say anything against alcohol
HON. MR. McINNES-Yes, as I said
the other day, they have six miles square
in this House.

Canadian Pacfi Railway [JULY 15, 1885] Completion Bill.
plotted out in beautiful maps, and that is
to be put on the English market and the
markets of the United States and Canada.
They call the place Vancouver, a euphonius name, and it is to be the terminus of
the Canadian Pacifie Railway. That is
the Asiatic trade for which they want to
extend that road down there. It is to
make millions out of that, and as I pointed out the other day, if anything should
occur to the Canadian Pacifie Railway
Company which would compel the Government to take over the line they would
draw the line at Port Moody and say,
" gentlemen, west of that you have nothing to do ; the extension is private property.
It is true you gave us the money to extend
the road and erect round houses andallthat
sort of thing, but it is our private property
and you have no mortgage on it. We have
got the money ; you can go that far, but
no farther." I consider that it is manifestly unfair if the road is to be extended, and if we grant the means for
that extension, that the lien should
not cover it.
It is certainly the
duty of Parliament to see that the Government take a mortgage on that portion of
the road and land, and place it in the same
position as the rest of the Canadian Pacifie
Railway line. But I claim that it is the
bounden duty of the Government here to
at least carry out their contract with the
company. The original contract entered
into with them included the terminal
buildings. I ask this House to endorse
the resolution I have moved. It does not
interfere with the Government granting
$5,ooo,ooo relief that the company ask for.

It merely asks the Government to erect
the terminal buildings they promised to
construct, and which are provided for in
the contract, where the public were led to
believe that they would be built-at the
place where the people, acting upon the
assurance that the terminus would be at
Port Moody, went and invested their
money. I ask that in all fairness.
If the syndicate see fit to extend
beyond that with their own means, or if
the Government give them the means to
do so, I claim it is the duty of the Government to erect the buildings at Port Moody,
and keep faith with the people of this
country. Yesterday I applauded the
Minister of Justice-1 could not help but
applaud him-in one of his statements in

1353

reply to an amendment moved in the
other House by Mr. Blake, to the effect
that the syndicate ought to draw on the
$14,000,ooo

now in the

hands of the

Government in order to complete the
road. What was his reply ? That it
would be manifestly unfair and absurd
(and a great many other hard expressions
he made use of) to expect the company to
break faith with those who had taken stock
in the Canadian Pacifie Railway. I could
not help but admire the spirit of justice and
fair play that he displayed, and his burning
desire to protect the honor and faith of his
country and keep faith with foreigners.
But if such is the case with foreigners, I
ask have not the people of Canada as great
a right, yea a greater right', to ask the
Government to protect them ? Why make
this discrimin.ation in favor of foreigners ?
L cannt see where the justice
comes in, and I therefore appeal
to this House to see that those
terminal buildings are erected at
Port Moody. If that is done the Canadian
Pacifie Railway Company or any other
company can extend the road to the moon
if they like, so far as I am concerned.
There are several other points on which
I should like to address the House sometime longer, but I know the spirit of the
HouseHON. MR.

no spirit.

POWER-The House has

HON. MR. MCINNES-It is not in a
mood to listen to a long speech, and L
have already occupied the time of the
House much longer than I expected I
would when I stood up; consequently I
will subside for the present.
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-As I said on
a former occasion, I rise with great hesitancy to speak on a matter in which I am
personally interested, but I feel more interested also as a public man in the completion, maintenance, perfection and
prosperity of the Canadian Pacifie Railway as one of the greatest institutions of
this country, in which all Her Majesty's
subjects in Canada, and many elsewhere,
are interested. I also feel that private
interests should give way to the public
good, and I am not one of those who feel
that we should restrain or hamper the

1354 CanadianPacife Railway [SENATE] Completion Bill.
Canadian Pacific Railway Company. If
they thought proper to build a branch or
extension of their line from Port Moody
to English Bay or Coal Harbor, I say let
them go there.
HON. MR. McINNES-With their own
money.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I never took
the position that the money given now and
last year is anything else than a loan, and
I will not take it now, but what I contend
for is that the amendment which has been
moved by my hon. friend is just and correct, and in accord with law and equity;
that the terminus of the Canadian Pacific
Railway has, by contract and by our
statute law, been fixed by the Government,
by the Canadian Pacific Railway and
parliament, at Port Moody, that the Government have no right and cannot put
up any terminal buildings at any point
beyond Port Moody. They have no
more right to put up the terminal buildings and water service at Coal Harbor or
English Bay than they have to erect them
at so e other inlet on that coast.
HON. MR. MACDONALD-They are
not putting them up.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-My hon.
friend interrupts me and says the Government are not putting them up ; we know
it ; but they have agreed to put up certain buildings at the terminus of the line,
which terminus was fixed at Port Moody.
All we ask is. that the Government fulfil
their obligations, complete their engagements and the work there commenced.
The terminus of the railway has been fixed
by Order-in-Council. not only by this
Goveinment but by the late administration. The Government, themselves, having determined that Port Moody should
be the terminus of the Canadian Pacific
Railway, their functions, so far as that was
concerned, ended, and without some act
of Parliament empowering them to change
the terminus they cannot put up their
terminal buildings and water service anywhere else except at Port Moody. The
Minister of Justice will not deny that
position. That is my contention, and I
am sorry I shall have to weary the House
by quoting statutes in support of it. The
HON. MR.

KAULBACH.

statement of the right hon. leader of the
Government has been referred to. It was
made in the other House only a few days
ago, and I presume he is correctly quoted
in saying: " Under the contract and
under the Act of Parliament the terminus
is at Port Moody," and that no other extension can be recognized or subsidized
by the Government-that English Bay
or Coal Harbor forms no portion of the
Canadian Pacific Railway contract. That
has been recognized also by the Opposition, who have declared over and over again,
and through their leaders, that the terminus
is adequate at Port Moody, and it is not
inconsistent with the Orders-in-Council
which were passed. We have the utterances, as I say, of no less a person than
the leader of the Government that Port
Moody is the terminus, and, therefore, I
think it is but right to declare in this
House that no buildings shall be erected
by the Government elsewhere than at the
terminus so fixed. The Government, I
contend, have the right and must put up
public buildings-and have no legal right
or authority to put them up anywhere except at Port Moody, and it is a violation
of public faith and duty if they are not put
up there. Mr. VanHorne visited Port
Moody, in the early part of last winter, and
I was interested in the remarks he made
while there. It cannot be said, it cannot
be contended, the idea cannot for a
moment be entertained that the Government in carrying out their agreement and
constructing these buildings at Port Moody
would be throwing away money, or that
these structures would be lost or useless,
because Mr. VanHorne remarked, and
over and over again publicly declared, that
the anticipations of the company were
such that Port Moody would have a large
trade, that it would be necessary to erect
buildings there, that it must be an important station, that it was destined to
command a large share of the
shipping and be a great port, and command
a trade equal to the extent of the harbor
itself. Therefore it cannot be said, no
one dare say or take that ground, that by
putting them there they would be useless. Therefore in no way, either by
reason, law or justice, or the public interest, can it be contended that they should
not be put up at Port Moody. That was
the terminus fixed by contract and by Act

Canadian Pacßce Railway [JULY 15, 1885 ] Completion Bill.
of Parliament, and I again repeat that it
is impossible for the Government to go beyond that and erect buildings elsewhere
without the direct sanction and authority
of Parliament. My hon. friend behind
me says that " we will not put them up at
all." I say Canada is bound, the Government are bound, by the Orders-in-Council
and Acts of Parliament, and by the fact
that many hundreds of persons have
thought it proper, on the faith of acts of
Parliament, to invest money in lands about
Port Moody, to fulfil their engagement
which they made and fixed by contract
which they entered into by Act of Parliament-a contract the honor and good
faith of which must be maintained between
the people of this country and the Canadian Pacific Railway Co. Having said
this much, and feeling as I do such a deep
interest in the Canadian Pacific Railway,
and wishing as far as possible its completion
and prosperity, I do not wish to take, and
I think that I am not now taking, a position
hostile to the company. My feeling on
the subject is quite the reverse, and as I
told my hon. friend who spoke to me on
this matter, I would rather forego everything I have invested at Port Moody than
attempt to restrict or retard the Canadian
Pacific Railway in their rights. If they
want to go to Coal Harbor, if they have
not a right to go there, we should give it to
them. Perhaps we have the power to prevent them, as Parliament is omnipotent,
yet I consider it would not be right that
the company should be restrained from
doing what they conceive to be in their
own interest, when they do not conflict
with public interests. I would like to refer hon. gentlemen to the law as to Government powers as it stands on this matter ;
I will try not to weary you. I refer the
House to chap. 1 of 44 Vic. The first
clause of the schedule in the contract
Pacific
is as follows: " Canadian
Railway means the entire railway described in 37 Vic., Cap. 14." Now
37 Vic. chap. 14, section i, says that

the Canadian Pacific Railway is to be
made " to some point in British Columbia
on the Pacific Ocean

*

*

*

to be

determined, and the course and line of
the said railway to be approved by the
Governor in Council." Then there is the
end of the following section 2, which I
believe should be read with the other, and

is controlled by section
read together.

i.

1855

They must be

HON. MR. PLUMB-That does not fix

the terminus.
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-Wait a
moment I will show it to you. We will
see directly where it is ; we will come to
that ; then we have section 15 of schedule
A to the Act 44 Vic. chap. i-the Act of
i88i. It is as follows (I want hon.
gentlemen to read it) :-" The Company

may lay out, construct, acquire, equip &c,"
and you will find it to extend the Canadian
Pacific Railway only to port Moody.
There the terminus was declared by Act
of Parliament ; but what have we more?
I say there was an Order in-Council passed
in this matter and I refer the House to
the Order-in-Council of the Mackenzie
Government dated May 1878 in which it
was declared to be the terminus of the
Canadian Pacific Railway. And also
the Order-in-Council, October 1879
by which the present Government
confirm that choice. This Order-in-Council would fix the terminus beyond change
except by express directions of Parliament.
Then I contend the Government having
performed their functions, having determined that Port Moody was the terminus
their functions ceased and they could in
no way alter the decision which had been
arrived at. The power to determine was
exhausted when the determination was
made. The Government do not contend
that they have altered it; the leader of
this House says that Port Moody is, by
contract and by Act of Parliament, the terminus of the Canadian Pacific Railway, as far as the
Government
is concerned.
I
say
not only
that, but by Act of Parliament and Ordersin-Council it has been fixed, and therefore
the Government have no right, and they
would be taking powers which they do not
possess, to place buildings anywhere but
at Port Moody. Therefore I contend it is
but riglit and proper to declare that the
Government do not recognize any other
terminus but Port Moody at which to
erect these buildings and that there the
terminal buildings should be erected. As
I said before section i of the Act 44 Vic.
Cap. i section i ratifies the contract in the
schedules. That is quite clear, and the

1356 CanadianPacii Railway [SENATE] Completion Bill.
Moody. Under 44 Vic. cap. 1, which I
have read, schedule A, section 15, the
Canadian Pacifie Railway shall extend
from Callander to Port Moody, and certain branches are named, and other
branches may be located as provided in
the contract. As to the main line, clause
13 of the contract, the terminal point is
the junction with the western section at
Kamloops, and this is preserved by 45
Vie. cap. 53, section 1, allowing some
other pass than the Yellow Head to be
followed. The intention to preserve
Port Moody as the western terminus
is thus made very clear. It is
beyond all doubt by section 13.
Now it is true in section A, of 44 Vie.
chap. i reference is made to " any extension of the said main line of railway, that
shall hereafter be constructed or acquired
by the Company," but as to acquiring
extension, section 25 of schedule A,
expressly defines what extensions and
amalgamations nay be made, and on what
conditions. And as to constructing extensions, no express power is given to construct any extension. If the only act
applying was this portion of 44 Vic. chap.
1, (which is the Company's charter) then
by implication there would be an unlimited power to extend the Canadian
Pacifie Railway. But the Consolidated
Railway Act 42 Vie. chap. 9 applies to this
Canadian Pacifie Railway, not only by its
own terms as in its second section, but also
by the express enactment in section 17 of
44 Vic. chap. i. Certain sections of the
HON.
MR. MACDONALD - The Consolidated Railway Act do not apply
Government were to build the first (see 44 Vie. chap. i, sections 17 to 23)
buildings ?
but they have no bearing on this point.
Therefore the onlyextensions the Canadian
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Yes, and at Pacifie Railway Co. can build are such as
Port Moody, and that is all we ask. The areauthorized by the Consolidated Railway
question is whether under clause 7 and 8 Act. Now I do not think it is necessary
the Government can build elevators, to go any further than to have cited, as I
wharves, docks, warehouses, etc., for the have done to the House, the acts of
terminus. It might possibly build ware- Parliament and to show, as I said
houses under power to build station build- before, (and I want to impress it again)
ings, but certainly not the others which that the Government were to build at Port
either come under " equipment " or are Moody-the terminus adopted and fixed
not authorized to De built and transferred by Act of Parliament, and in the contract
by the Government, inasmuch as there with the company-those buildings, and
being an express enumeration of what the the Government cannot construct them
Government may do, it is forbidden to do anywhere else but at Port Moody. Having
anything more. The Government were to determined that they should be there, the
build that portion of it complete, the Government have no right to go beyond
station buildings and water service at Port Port Moody and put up permanent build-

5th section of that Act shows that the
Government may convey to the company
with a suitable number of station buildings
and with water service (but without equipment) those portions of the Canadian Pacifie
Railway "constructed
or agreed by the said contract to
be constructed by the Government etc.,"
the whole subject to the contract. Now
I think I have shown that Port Moody
was the terminus by law and by contract
with the company, and that therefore the
buildings must be put there and nowhere
else. Clause i of the Construction Act
provides that the western section is "the
portion of said railway now in course of
c'onstruction extending from Kamloops to
Port Moody." Clause 6 requires the
Government to complete by the 1st of May
1891 the remaining portion "between Yale
and Port Moody", recognizing Port Moody
through the whole of it. Clause 7 is the
same as section 5 of the Act as to the
transfer of the railway to be built by the
Government, together with "a suitable
number of station buildings and with
water service." And clause 8 provides
that as each portion of the road is received
from the Government the company is to
equip it. The Government is only to
provide a suitable number of station
buildings and the water service, that is
tanks, etc. Under clause 7 and 8 the
Government can build elevators, warehouses and station buildings, etc., as provided under the Act.

HON. MR.

KAULBACH

Canadian Pacific Railway [JULY 15, 1885] Completion Bill.
ings elsewhere. Not only are they obliged
under that contract and under an Act of
Parliament to put up the buildings there,
but numerous persons having invested
large sums of money upon the faith of
Parliament, and expecting those buildings
would be constructed there, the Government and Parliament, although they ought
not,and I think cannot,under existing acts
prevent the extension of the road if the
company think proper, at the same time
cannot break faith with the people of the
country any more than they can with the
Canadian Pacific Railway Company,
having fixed the terminus at Port Moody,
people having gone in there under the
solemn pledge of the Government, and the
leader of the Government in this House
having declared that the terminus of the
railway, as far as the Government are concerned or can recognize it by Act of Parliament and contract, is at Port Moody.
I am contending for public rights, whilst
frankly admitting my interest in their
maintenance. We have a right to expect
nothing more than that this Government
will carry out what they agreed to do, what
they are pledged to do, what the people of
the country expect them to do-to put up
the buildings at Port Moody, and under
the law they cannot put them anywhere
else.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The

hon. gentleman who moved this amendment, and my hon. friend who has just
seconded it, have told us with the utmost
frankness that they have a personal interest in this matter, and that they are, in
fact, advocating their own interests in the
speeches which they have made to the
House and the amendment which they ask
the House to adopt. It has been my fortune to be some years in Parliament, and
I never before knew a case where a man
proposed a measure in his own interest.
The usual rule is where a subject is brought
before the House which concerns the interest of any of its members that that member takes no part in the discussion, and if
he is particularly sensitive he retires
below the bar, so that he may
not seem to take any part.
The
course which has been taken to-day.
although I suppose quite within the power
of the hon. gentleman, yet seems to me
so unusual, and one which I think ought

1357

not to creep into a precedent, that I feel
bound to make the observation I have
done with reference to its unusual character. In this particular matter, with this interest to serve, the hon. gentleman who
proposes the resolution I think mistakes
the position of matters, the position of the
Government and the position of the company. As regards the position of the
Government, they have not altered their
arrangement with this company in any
way. The arrangement which was made,
and which has been referred to by the
hon. member from Lunenburg, is an arrangement that still exists. Whatever the
Government said about Port Moody, and
whatever they stipulated in any contract
about that place, remains said and stipulated. No arrangement is proposed by
this Bill to alter that bargain in any
sort of way. There is no suggestion and
can be no suggestion-it is impossible for
ingenuity to establish that there is any
suggestion in this Bill in any way to absolve the Government from any part of
their contract with the Canadian Pacifiç
Railway Company, or to absolve the Company from any part of their contract with
the Government in regard to the line of
the Canadian Pacific Railway Company
or its terminus. The Company and the
Government are both bound to construct
the railway to Port Moody, and it is to
Port Moody only that the Government
have retained any of the grant ofland. It
is only for the purpose of running the line
to Port Moody that they have retained a
grant, and can anything show more
strongly than the fact that they have given
up their land between Port Moody and
Coal Harbour that they were only concerned in constructing the line to Port
Moody?
HON. MR. POWER-Will the Minister
allow me to interrupt him one moment
while dealing with that question ? Will
he be kind enough to deal with the ques
tion of the terminal buildings ?
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-I
will deal with that subject. The contract
is to construct a line to Port Moody, and
we have no concern with anything below
that point. We could not show more
conclusively than we have done that we
took no concern in the country lying west

1358 CanadianPacfié Railway [SENATE1 Conmpletion Bill.
of Port Moody, than by consenting that
the land which had been set apart for the
purpose of the railway by the Government of British Columbia between Port
Moody and Coal Harbor, should be given
back to the Government.
HoN. MR. McINNES (B. C.)-I do
not like to interrupt the hon. memberHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Then
why do you do it ?
HON. MR. McINNES-Because I
should like the leader of the House to say
when they gave up the lands west of Port
Moody, had they not had them in their
possession for five years after they declared
Port Moody to be the terminus, and
after the contract was made to build the
road? Why were they kept locked up to
the great detriment of the country, if the
Government did not own them? All
this difficulty has arisen from the inaction
and vacillating policy of the Government.

done. Now, the hon. gentleman says we
ought not to have done that.
HON. MR. McINNES-I will read the
Act. It is as explicit as it is possible to
be. It was passed in 1879, and it
specifies that any shortage-that is if there
was any land in the 20 mile belt line of
railway which was alienated by pre-emption,
homestead or otherwise-might be made
up out of contiguous lands, and it is mentioned here, in a dozen different places,
and I should like to know if the land west
of Port Moody is not contiguous? What did
the hon. gentleman do last year ? Did he

not take 3,5oo,ooo acres of land not con-

tiguous to the railway but in the Peace
River country-

HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-That
is another speech. The hon. gentleman
says if there was a "shortage alongside
of the railway "-that very expression
gives up the point and shows that I am
right in the argument I am using, that we
had no claim whatever to any land beyond
the line of railway. It is manifest, if the
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL- hon. gentleman will only consider what
Although the hon, gentleman is so keenly was done in the North-West and Maniinterested in the matter, he does not toba. A certain width of land, 20 miles
understand it. We never had any land on each side of the line, was given to the
in our hands for the purpose of construct- railway. The same thing was done with
ing this railway. We had a stipulation in the line in British Columbia. Of course
the Act of the Legislature of British when you get to the end ->f the line of
Columbia that they would retain and give railway there is no more land. Suppose
to us in trust, for the purposes of this instead of going to Port Moody at all, we
railway, a width of land extending twenty had gone to some other inlet, we would
miles each side of the railway along its have had no claim to land at Port Moody.
entire length; and wherever thelengthofthe It is quite clear if you have a strip of land
railway stops, there the grant ofland stops, which should run from the Speaker's
and there was no possibility of our refusing chair to the bar, and that was your line of
to give up land west of Port Moody. How railway, when you got to the bar you
could we? We had no right to the land could have no claim to anything beyond
except along the line ot railway. The it. So here you had a claim to a grant of
railway, so far as the contract is concerned, land all along the railway until you got to.
and so far as the Act of Parliament, Port Moody; there the railway stopped,
and any compact with the company are and the grant of land stopped, and the
concerned, stops at Port Moody, and we suggestion which the hon. gentleman
had no claim to land below that point, makes that there was was a provision for
and as soon as the Government of British the granting of contiguous lands, or lands
Columbia became satisfied that we were to meet the shortage, as he phrases it,
going to stop at Port Moody-that that applies to what we were entitled
was to be the terminus-they began a to, down to the terminus but not
On what basis
correspondence with us. They said-"If below the terminus.
you have no right to the land west of or pretence could we ask for land bePort Moody, you should abandon that,"- yond the terminus? Why should they do
and after some correspondence that was anything more than grant us 20 miles on
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Canadian Pacific Railway [JULY 15, 1885.] Complaion Bill.

1359

each side of the road for its entire length ? going to do with the money, but he canOn what basis could we ask them to do not say because they put that item in
that it shows any more conclusively that
anything more ?
this railway is going to be built by us or
HON. MR. MCINNES-Why use that at our expense than by putting an item in
for railway cars he could say that the
word contiguous ?
country is going to pay for the rolling stock.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That They are going to spend $i,ooo,ooo in new
is, contiguous lands. We could not have railway cars, for instance. Those cars are
the whole breadth of the land in British not to belong to the Government. The
Columbia, and it turned out there was a Government will not have anything to say
deficit because lands had been granted, or about them; neither will the Government
otherwise parted with to the extent of 5oo,- have anything to do with the building of
ooo acres. We were to get in lieu of that the road between Port Moody and Coal
5oo,ooo acres of land as near as possible Harbor, nor will they have anything tosay about it, nor will they own it. The
to that locality.
company, in their statement, show, in a
HON. MR. MACDONALD-That is a general way, why they are in want of money,
how much they want, and what they are
matter of agreement.
going to do with it when they get it.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-A Now, to say that they are going to build
matter of agreement, but there is no pro- this extension from Port Moody to Coal
vision that we should have land below the Harbor out of this $5,ooo,ooo, is interminus. It would be just as absurd as correct. In the next place, the money
that we should ask for land in some other will be theirs when we lend it to them,
part of the country altogether. Then the and they will be obliged to repay it, and
hon. gentleman says that they propose to they will repay it next July ; but to say, in
construct the line farther on and go down the first place, that it is their money, and
to Coal Harbor and that they are getting then to say that they must not lay it out
money from the country to do that. Now as they please, is exceedingly contrathey are not getting money from the coun- dictory. When it is loaned, it is not the
money of the Government at all. Our
try to do that.
whole duty will have been discharged
HON. MR. McINNES-My amend- when the road is completed to Port
ment does not state anything about going Moody. We do not propose to give this
beyond Port Moody, but my motion is that company any money whatever, and there
the Government carry out their contract is not a syllable in this Bill about expendto build the terminal buildings at Port ing the money we are loaning them west
Moody and then they can extend it if they of the terminus, and that is the suggestion
which the hon. gentleman makes-that
please, but with their own money.
this money is going to be expended west
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The of the terminus ; that it is public money,
hon. gentleman said this: the country is and that it is in the statement, which is a
going to lend them money to construct a statement of the company showing what
they propose to do, but it is not with our
Une from Port Moody westwards.
money, but with their own money, after
HON. MR. McINNES-So they are.
they raise it. They show the way that
they are going to spend the $15,000,000,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The when they get it, but it is not the Govhon. gentleman repeats i'. The country ernment's $15,ooo,ooo, it is the company's

is not doing anything of the kind. The
country will have completed their bargain
when they get the road finished to Port
Moody, and they are not lending this
company any money to go beyond Port
Moody. In the statement he has read, it
is true the company show what they are

$15,ooo,ooo, and if they make a mistake
in spending it, it is their, and not our,
mistake, and we have ample security for
it: He says that in this agreement we
ought, perhaps, to prevent the company
from building any water tank, or anything
of that kind, on the west side of Port

1360 CanadianPacec Railway [SENATE] Completion Bill.
Moody. It is very difficult to understand
the amendment, but with such understanding as I have, the Government do not
propose to do that; the Government
have no power, as far as I can see,
to erect buildings or to extend the road
beyond Port Moody or except upon the
Pacific Railway proper, and that extension
will not be part of it.

There is no diffi-

culty about that, and if this Bill proposed
anything of the kind I would say that the
hon. gentleman is right and let it be
amended; but it does not propose anything of the kind. Supposing one terminus of this road is at Montreal, at it is at
this moment, is there any power in the
Bill to go beyond Montreal ? None whatever and we could not build a mile of
railway, without additional legislative
power, on the other side of Montreal.
The power must be given by Parliament,
and no power has been given to extend
this line of railway beyond Port Moody,
and we have no land and no money to
extend it beyond Port Moody. The hon.
gentleman is led astray by the position he
is placed in, and I regret it. He is led
astray by the belief that there are powers
in the Bill which are not in the Bill, and
by the belief that the Government are
doing what they cannot do without legislative authority, and that the money to be
raised by the Company is the money of
the Government, and has to be expended
as government money. These are great
mistakes. The Bill is simply for the purpose of raising the money, and changing
the relative positions of the Company and
the Government in regard to money transactions ; and that we should incorporate
into it an unnecessary provision bearing
upon a different subject, bearing upon the
terminus at Port Moody and the expenditure of money at that terminus, is to me a
most unreasonable thing, and 1 cannot
but think that the House will reject it
without any difficulty whatever.

friend from New Westminster would
have done wisely if he had not introduced that so prominently into this
debate. At tÉe same time we must all
give him credit for candor in stating to the
House the relation in which he stood to
this matter. I think also, for the purpose
of getting a right conception of this
question, which the House perhaps has
not yet got, we ought to consider it entirely
apart from the question as to what is to be
done with this $5,ooo,ooo. It has been
stated to us just now that this $5,ooo,ooo
is a loan. It is not a gift or grant of
money to the Company for any purpose,
and therefore it is hardly worth while
embarrassing this question with any consideration as to that ; but there are one or
two points upon which I should hîke to
have some little information. I think we
have had some very clear and distinct
information given to us with regard to one
of the questions that I was about to ask,
and that was, what right or authority have
the Government to erect railway buildings
12 miles beyond Port Moody? That was
the suggestion which arose from the line
of argument pursued by the hdn. gentleman who has offered this amendment.
We have now a distinct answer from the
Minister of Justice that the Government
claim no power whatever to expend money
to make terminal buildings beyond Port
Moody.
HON. SIR ALEX.
None whatever.

CAMPBELL-

HON. MR. DICKEY-There was a question the other day that there was to be a
round house built beyond Port Moody, and
I confess that I was anxious to get some
information and some assurance on that
point, because I could not see how the
Government could undertake to expend
money 12 miles beyond the terminus of
the Pacific Railway for such a purpose as
HoN. MR. DICKEY-I sympathize that ; but I have got the assurance now
naturally with the two hon. members who that no money is to be expended for that
are concerned in this matter ; but I think purpose by the Government.
we ought to consider this matter entirely
apart from any feeling which might
HoN. MR. McINNES-The Governinfluence us in consequence of that con- ment called for tenders time and again for
sideration. We therefore had better the erection of this round house at Port
disembarrass the question entirely of Moody; if they carry out that work I am
that feature, and perhaps my hon. satisfied, but they have abandoned it.
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL

Canadian Pacifio Railway [JULY 15, 1885] Completion Bill.

1361

HON. MR. DICKEY-The fact that erable uncertainty. At all events it is
they called for tenders supports the not a grant ; it is certainly a loan ; at the
view which the Minister has laid same time I quite agree with my hon.
before the House, that the Government friend, that this large amount may or may
claim no right whatever to build that not be a part of that $5,ooo,ooo, but I do
round house or any other buildings be- not think it ought to enter into the quesyond Port Moody. Another matter that tion, because the great point, to which we
I wish to have some information about is should desire, as a legislative body, to dirwhy did the Government give up this ect our attention, is, do the Government
land ? We have got an answer upon that propose to go beyond the limits of the
point also. It occurred to me that there powers which have been given to them by
could only be one answer, and that is that Parliament, and I do not see at present,
the line, so far as the Government is con- as far as the matter has been presented to
cerned, proceeded no further than Port my mind, that they have ; and therefore
Moody, otherwise there would be no the amendment of the hon. member from
justification for their giving up the land New Westminster is unnecessary, after the
between English Bay and Port Moody. assurance that has been given that the
They took power, not knowing where the Government do not propose to take any
terminus was to be originally, to have the powers greater than those given to them
reservation extend further than was ab- by the Act of 1881 and the contract that
solutely necessary, because by their own was made in consequence of that Act.
order-in-council and by the act which has
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPB ELL-The
been read to us, the terminus was ultiniately fixed, not at English Bay but at power which the hôn. gentleman refers to
Port Moody ; and therefore the land is given in the Act itself, which enables
between those two points they claim to them to extend the main line if they see
have nothing to do with whatever, and fit. It is at the end of clause i5. I think
they tell us now that they have nothing to it is under that they are constructing this
do with that land, and how it has got into extension. I do not know that they have
the hands of the company, or by what sort got any power from the Local Legislaof process is a matter, though it may require ture.
some explanation if it were necessary for
HON. MR. MACDONALD (B.C.)us to inquire into it, we need not trouble
our heads about, because after all it has They have an agreement only so far.
really very little to do with this question.
HON. MR. DICKEY-Then, if that is
There is another matter that I would like
to have some information about ; that is, it done, will not this lien which the Governhas been stated to us that it is the inten- ment have by those preferential bonds extion of the company to extend this line to tend over the whole of that line ?
English Bay. I should like to know by
HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes
what authority they do that-what
authority there is for it in the Act, or in the it will, because the lien is over the
contract, or what other authority there is ? whole of the Pacific Railway, and this
Because there may be some local law or clause says it shall only construct such a
authority for that purpose. That is a portion of the Pacific Railway.
point upon which we have as yet no
HON. MR. NELSON-I think, Port
information ; but it is quite clear, as far as
the Government is concerned, they have Moody having been declared the terminus
given us a distinct assurance that no of the Pacific Railway, and it having been
terminal buildings are to be built by them stated publicly by the Minister of Railways
beyond the limits of the contract, which that it was to be the terminus, that not
stopped at Port Moody. . With regard to only should we look to the leader of the
the other point, as to giving money for House for an assurance that no buildings
this purpose, I think we must be satisfied would be constructed by the Government
that this is a loan which will be beyond the terminus of the Pacific Railcollected. Whether it will ever be paid way ; but we should also look to the leader
.or not is perhaps a matter of some consid- of the Government for the assurance that
L 3

1362 Canadian Pacife Railway [SENATE] Completion Bill.
the terminal buildings to be constructed
at the terminus will be constructed. It
has been publicly stated, first, I believe, in
British Columbia and then rumored here
that the Government had ceased the construction of the terminal buildings at
Port Moody. It has also been stated that
negotiations have been proceeding betweeen the C, P. R. Company and the
Government for the purpose of stopping
the construction of those buildings. If
such is the case, and it is the intention of
the Government that those buildings shall
not be constructed at Port Moody, I
think we can only look upon it as a breach
of faith on the part of the Government
with the people, and more particularly
with those who invested their money at
Port Moody. I think, therefore, it would
be very satisfactory to have the assurance
of the Government in this House that no
buildings will be constructed beyond the
terminus and that the buildings promised
to be constructed at Port Moody as a terminus will be constructed.

that the terminal buildings are to be constructed at Port Moody.
HON. MR. POWER-It is to be regretted, perhaps, that this matter has been
introduced to this House by a gentleman
who has a personal interest in it, but I do
not see that those gentlemen who are interested in it are open to any rebuke.
The hon. member from New Westminster
stated clearly and distinctly, when he first
spoke about the matter, that he was
personally interested in it, and the hon.
gentleman from Lunenburg made the
saine statement with regard to himself.

HON. MR. McINNES-I forgot to
mention to the House that while I am interested at Port Moody, I am interested
to an equal extent down near English Bay
and Coal Harbor, and was interested
there years before the selection of the
terminus ; but the explanation I make is
this, that I am not moving in this matter
purely on pecuniary grounds, but to save
my word, my honor, and that of the
Government of the country, which should
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLI can give no promise that would be more be considered above suspicion.
obligatory than the promise which the
HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentlehon. gentleman quotes. The Government
undertook to put up the buildings at man is safe as far as his personal interest
Port Moody. There is the undertaking. is concerned.
If the hon. gentleman desires to ask any
HON. MR. McINNES-I am, but no
question on that subject, if he will give
me notice, and an opportunity to consult thanks to the Government.
with the Minister of Railways, I will be
HON. MR. POWER-I do not think
very glad to reply to him. In the meantime, I can say nothing stronger than the there is any rule of Parliament which preGovernment has already said, that the vents a member from taking part in a discussion on a matter in which he is
buildings are to go up there.
interested. I think the general rule is
HON.
MR. NELSON-There is a that where a member is personally interrumor that negotiations have been going ested he makes his statement, and then
on for the stoppage of the work on those retires from the Chamber or declines to
buildings, and that the construction of the vote ; and I must say that that is a rule
buildings has been stopped in consequence which is not observed quite as carefully as
of those negotiations. My position is it should be either in this House or in the
totally different from that of my two other House. Gentlemen have interests
colleagues. I own not one dollar's worth that are not avowed, on matters before the
House, on which they vote. An hon.
of property at Port Moody.
gentleman has taken the ground that there
HON. MR. MACDONALD (B.C.)-- is a certain amount of impropriety in introducing this discussion in connection with
You can buy now easily.
this Bill. I fail to see that there is any
HON. MR. NELSON-I think that this impropriety in it. The Canadian Pacific
House, and the public, generally, would Railway Company come to us and ask us
be satisfied with having some assurance to advance them $5,ooo,ooo and to make

HON. MR. NELSON.

Canadian Pacific RailwaV [JULY 15, 1885] Completion Bill.
certain other concessions of considerable
value in connection with the existing loan.
It does not matter whether we are giving
them the money or lending it to them;
they come to us and ask us to lend them

1863

that he knows nothing of any such proposed alteration in the location of the
terminal buildings ; but the hon. gentleman
does not know everything that is going on
between the Canadian Pacific Railway
$5,000,ooo in cash, and alter the existing Company and the Railway Department ;
arrangement about some other millions. and the hon. member from New WestThen I think when the company come to minster has a right to use an extract from
the Government, who represent the a paper which is regarded as the organ of
country, and ask them to grant them the Canadian Pacific Railway. He told
favors, Parliament has a right to say " we us what had been done by the Viceshall do what you wish, but we shall do it President of the Canadian Pacific Railway
on certain conditions," and now the ques- in connection with the Local Government
tion is whether the condition proposed in of British Columbia; and in the face of
the amendment of the hon. gentleman from the express wording of the statute Yellow
New Westminster, is a reasonable one or Head Pass was abandoned and Kicking
not. Looking at all that has taken place, Horse Pass was chosen at the request of
I think it is a perfectly reasonable con- the Company. Unless we get things in a
dition. I quite concur in what the very clear and positive way there is
Minister of Justice said as to the propriety reason to believe that the Company will
of giving up the land grant west of Port succeed in having their own will ; and it
Moody, once the Government had decided appears that the will of the Company is
that the western terminus should be at that those terminal buildings shall be
Port Moody. But if the western terminus located at English Bay or Coal Harbor.
of the road is at Port Moody for the I think we have a right to protect the
purpose of the land grant, then it should good faith of the Government, just
be at Port Moody for the purpose of the as we have a right to protect it in
terminal buildings also. I cannot see how connection with the shareholders of
the Minister can very well get out of that the Canadian Pacific Railway. The
dilemma. If Port Moody is, as far as the Minister said that in one sense Port
Government are concerned, the western Moody was the western terminus, and then
terminus of the road, then those terminal said again that he thought the Company
buildings which the Government were had a right to extend the road under their
The hon. gentleman from
bound by the statute of 1881 and the charter.
agreement enibodied in the statute to Lunenburg has dealt with the legal aspect
erect at the western terminus should be of this matter already ; but there are one
erected at Port Moody and no other or two points which I may be pardoned if
I refer to. The statute of 1874 provides
place.
that the western terminus shall be at some
HON. MR. MACDONALD-That was point in British Columbia on the Pacific
coast to be determined by the Governor
not touched by the Minister of Justice.
in Council. There were two Orders-inHON. MR. POWER-It was touched Council passed, one by the Mackenzie
by the Minister of Justice, but he did not administration in May 1878, and one by
deal with it in a satisfactory way. The the present administration in October
Minister stated thatthere was no intention, 1879, locating the terminus of Port Moody.
as far as he knew, to place the buildings In the statute of 1881, and in the contract
anywhere except at Port Moody. If with the Government, and in the private
there is any doubt, and there appears to act-the act which is embodied in that
be doubt as to the exact position of this contract, Port Moody is spoken of as the
matter, and as to the relative powers of terminus; and I venture to say that a
the Government and the Company in con- court would hold that Port Moody was the
nection with the location ofthose terminal legal terminus of the road, and that the
buildings, that doubt should be removed ; Government have no right to locate the
and the proper way to remove it is by an terminal buildings anywhere else. The
amendment to this bill. It is true Minister of Justice seems tothink that there
that the Minister of Justice has stated is some doubt about that. Now, is there-

1364

anadian Pacm'ß Railway [SENATE] Oompletion Bil.

not a proper and common sense way to
remove that doubt by adopting the amendment of the hon. gentleman from New
Westminsteror an amendment in that direction? As t the wordingofthe amendment,
I am not altogether satisfied with it ; but
an amendment tó that effect will be right
and proper. It will remove the doubts of
the property owners there, and will satisfy
the country that the terminus, as far as the
Government is concerned, is fixed at Port
Moody. I do not see why the Minister
of Justice should object to confirming by
statute what he has confirmed here by his
statement. He has on two or three occasions confirmed the statement that the
western terminus was fixed at Port Moody,
and there is no reason why we should not
place that statement in this Bill. The hon.
Minister in one breath says that the Company have the right to extend the road,
and in another breath he says, as far as
the Government are concerned, the
terminus is at Port Moody. What objection is there to renoving all possible doubt
by saying in this Bill that the Government
shall erect the terminal buildings at Port
Moody?

pedantic plebeian and are unworthy of a
gentleman occupying a position in this
House.
HON. MR. MACDONALD-I expected
the hon. member from New Westminster
to bring forward a more business-like
proposition than the one he has submitted
to the House. If he had brought forward
a proposition that the terminus should be
confined to Port Moody there would be
something business-like about it; but he
says there is no objection to the terminus
going 12 miles beyond Port Moody, if the
terminal buildings are constructed at Port
Moody.
HON. MR. McINNES-Not if they
extend the road with their own money.
HON. MR. MACDONALD-You are
asking the Government to expend money
in erecting terminal buildings at a place
which will not be the terminus if the road
is extended. The hon. gentleman and
the hon. member for Lunenburg and the
hon. member from Halifax have brought
forward most untenable arguments in that
way.

HON. MR. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I
HON. MR. POWER-If the terminal
ask the hon. gentleman from New Westminster this question : Supposing the buildings are erected at Port Moody, the
terminal buildings were placed at Port road will not likely be extended any
Moody to-day and the terminus was at further.
Coal Harbor, what would be the benefit
HON. MR. MACDONALD-The conto Port Moody? None whatever.
tract to erect the terminal buildings is
HON. MR. McINNES-The Govern- with the Syndicate, and if the Government
ment would then be acting in good faith. and the Syndicate wish to vary the contract they can vary it.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon, gentleHON. MR. POWER-The Minister of
man is out of order ; he has spoken
several times already.
Justice says not.
HON. MR. McINNES-The
hon.
HON.
MR.
MACDONALD - The
gentleman from Niagara should not inter- terminus is to be the terminus fixed by
rupt me; he has been out of order and the Government by Order-in-Council, and
spoken several times, himself, this evening. it can be varied at any time by the
Government by Order-in-Council.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentleHON. MR. KAULBACH-lt is fixed
man from New Westminster has spoken
several times already and I call him to by Statute.
order.
HON. MR. MACDONALD-I was
HON. MR. McINNES-The hon. much surprised to hear the hon. gentlegentleman from Niagara should not inter- man from Westminster decry the future
rupt me; his remarks are those of a trade of this road, and say that the reason

HON. MR. POWER.

Canadian Paciftc Railway [JULY 15, 1885] Completion Bill.

1365

the company wished to extend the
road down to Coal Harbor was to get the
whole of that territory for town sites. I
thought the hon. gentleman from Halifax,
and those who think with him, had a
monopoly of this decrying of the country
and of the Canadian Pacifie Railway.
The earnings of this road have been
marvellous considering that it is yet in its
incipient condition. In 1884 the earnings

Moody but in other places; but if it were
a public question in which I was personally interested,I have put my own interests
aside. I have not solicited the vote or
support of any hon. gentleman but I
would be unworthy my position as a public man if I did not stand up in my place
and declare my views to the best of my
ability, claiming the independent judgnient of hon. gentlemen on the merits of

were over $5,000,000.

this case.

If those are not the duties of a

member of this House, then the functions
HON. MR. POWER-I rise to a point of hon. gentlemen in this House are
of order. The hon. gentleman is not limited, if not entirely gone. There is
confining himself to the question before scarcely a public question discussed in
this Chamber in which some of us are not
the House.
directly interested. We cannot deal with
HON. MR. MACDONALD-Did not questions affecting public lands, or timbier
the hon. gentleman go to Yellow Head limits, or bank stock, or railways, or telegraphs that some of us are not interested
Pass and Kicking Horse Pass ?
HON.

MR. POWER-Certainly.

HON. MR. MACDONLD-The hon.
gentleman seems to wish to stick to
Yellow Head Pass all his lifetime. The
earnings of the road are over five and a
half million of dollars this year already,
and if such is the case at this early period
in the history of the enterprise, the road
will have a great deal of trade, and the
argument of the hon gentleman is untenable, that while he does not restrict the
road to the Port Moody terminus he
wants to build the terminal buildings to
be erected there.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I am an old
parliamentarian, independent in action,
never seeking favors, and I have always
felt and acted on the principle that my
own private interests have to give way te
the public good. I do not think that in this
matter I am open to censure from the
Minister of Justice, who said it would be
more seemly if I had not expressed my
views on the subject.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-]
did not use the word " unseemly " at al
-I said unusual.

MR. KAULBACH-I say this is
a public question, not one in which I
alone am involved, but in which the pub.
lic, a large number of the people of this
country, are interested, not only at Pori
HON.

in, and not only that, but we all know that
Ministers of the Crown have personal interests in questions of the kind I have
named, and we find members of Parliament
taking fees and advocating interests as
counsel before Committees in this House
and in the other Branch of the Legislature,
and this is the first time in my life that I

have ever been told that such a position
as I have taken here to day is unusual, or
not consistent with the duties of a member of Pariiament-especially after the
calm, dispassionate manner in which I
have treated this question. I treated it
simply from a legal point of view, in the
public interest-not to restrict the Canadian Pacifie Railwav but to aid thern in
the objects of this Bil. I said if my private interests only were concerned, they
should give way to the public good. I did
not wish to restrict the company from extending their line from Port Moody to
Coal Harbor. If they have not the right
to go to English Bay, we should give it to
them and I felt from the first that the
company should not be embarrassed ; that
we ail, that Canada at large, have a deep
interest in it ; that we all consider that
the early completion of that road is dear
to us, and especially to our development,
and I should be sorry in any way to at-

tempt to embarrass the company in carrying out their mighty enterprise and what
the country expect from them,by intruding
upon this House my private interests. But
I say this, that the Canadian Pacifie Railway Co. and the Government have con-

1366 Canadian Pacic Railway [SENATE] Completion Bill.
tracted, and Parliament has given
them the authority to make Port
Moody the terminus. We have the
declaration of the Government that Port
Moody was, and remains established, the
terminus, and beyond that we have no
control, and we had a right to take their
statement as being correct, apart from
the fact that Port Moody is by law the
terminus; therefore, all we ask, and the
country have a right to expect and demand,
is that the Government will carry out their
pledges, and carry out the law, and construct those terminal buildings at Port
Moody, regardless of where the company
may make their own terminus of the railway. I do not wish to impute motives to
the hon. gentleman from Victoria, but it
is evident that he disregards the law, that
the prosperity of some of his friends is not
looked upon with any degree of pride
on his part, and if he could thwart the
interests of those gentlemen, and of those
who purchased lots frorn himself, he
seems inclined to do so, and asks what is
the necessity of constructing the terminal
buildings at Port Moody when the
Canadian Pacific Railway terminus is to
be at English Bay. He seems to have
but little regard now for Port Moody-his
interests are not there. Apart from the legal
rights and obligations of the Government
to crect buildings at Port Mondy, does
he not know-has it not been declared
that Port Moody was and would still
remain an important seaport on the
Pacific coast ? Does he mean to tell me
that if the Government carry out what
they are pledged and bound to carry out,
what the faith of the country and parliament are pledged to, that they will put
up the buildings there ? We have the
assurance and knowledge from the Government and the press that those buildings
were tendered for at Port Moody, that
tenders have been placed in the hands of
the Minister of Railways, and in consequence of the action or intents of the
Canadian Pacific Railway Company, these
tenders have not been determined on, or
an award has not been made. Therefore,
although the leader of the Government in
this House tells us that they cannot put
up the buildings at any terminus that the
Canadian Pacific Railway Company may
themselves agree upon, he admits that,
but the country will demand of them that
HON. MR. KAULBACH.

they erect, in the interests of the public,
the buildings which they agreed to put
up, and where they undertook to erect
them at the place selected and where the
law requires them as the terminus-Port
Moody-that they cannot, in consequence
of any individual interest or company's interest, whether it is a Minister of the Crown
or a rich syndicate, or both, or any other
persons possessinginterest at another point,
disregard the decision so solemnly arrived
at and do violence to acts of parliament
and contracts. I regret to have to speak
again on this matter. My whole deportment, my action, and the important manner in which I approached this question,
are within the judgment of hon. gentlemen, and they did not justify the Minister
of Justice in passing a stricture on my
conduct or my remarks.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
word I used was "unusual," and after the
remarks of the hon. gentleman and the
manner in which he seems to have been
wounded by what I said, I apologize for
having used the expression and beg to
withdraw it.

HON. MR. MACDONALD-I am in
the same boat as the hon. gentleman. I
own property there, but the amendment
is so illogical that I cannot support it.
HON. MR. DICKEY-As the point
has been raised by the hon. member for
Lunenburg I wish to state, as far as
my individual opinion is concerned,
that there is nothing to prevent the
hon. member from New Westminster
or the hon. member from Lunenburg
from speaking or voting upon this
question. It is nothing but fair to those
hon. gentlemen who are placed in such a
delicate position to make this statement.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
only reason I formed a different impression was that each gentleman as he
rose said, that although he had a personal
interest yet so and so.
HON. MR. DICKEY-An interest in
common with other persons as Her
Majesty's subjects, not a direct personal
interest.

Canadian Pacific Raitway [JULY 15, 1885.] Conpltion Bil.
HoN. MR.

PLUMB-The authority

will be found at page 395 of Bourinot.
He says:" Though the Senate has no rule like that
of the Commons in relation to this subject,

senators observe the sane practice. When
the bill is of a public nature, a inember of the
Senate may properly vote if he wishes to do
so. The Lords have never formally adopted
a resolution on the subject, because it is preeumed that the personal honor of a peer will
prevent him from forwarding hie pecuniary
interest in Parlianent; but they are exempted
by standing order from serving on any corn-

rnittee on a private bill in which they are
interested."

1367

HON. MR. PLUMB-It makes no
difference ; they say their interest leads
them to offer this resolution. The hon.
gentlemen have stated it as plainly as possible. The hon. gentleman said, in the
first place, that on the strength of the
promise that the Government should have
the station and other buildings at Port
Moody, and to make that the terminus
for the railway, he had, himself, made investments, and led other people to make
them. Then he proposes a resolution to
compel the Government to erect those
buildings there. Now, if that is not in
furtherance of his interests, I fail to understand anything about business.

Here is a resolution which certainly
these gentlemen have advocated upon the
ground that they have a private interest in
HoN. MR. BELLEROSE-I have a
restricting the company to Port Moody as very few words to say on this measure bethe terminus.
fore I give this vote. I cannot be accused of being adverse to anything calculated to benefit the Canadian Pacific RailHON. MR. KAULBACH-No.
way Company. I am one of those who
voted for the contract, and for the $30,HON. MR. PLUMB-1 beg the hon. 000,000 loan.
I said at the beginning of
gentleman's pardon. That is the ground the session, when it was stated that the
on which they advocate the amendment- loan this year
would
on the principle that at Port Moody they that I would vote for be for $i5,ooo,ooo,
it.
said further,
have made investments on the strength of that if the company would I,ask, not for a
the promise that the terminal buildings of loan but a gift, I would vote for it, so
the Canadian Pacific Railway shall be strongly am I in favor of that road and in
erected there. Now they propose by a favor of the development of the North
resolútion to compel the erection of those West and of the terms of Union with
buildings. If that is not in support of British Columbia being carried out. So I
their personal interest I fail to have any cannot be accused in this instance of
logical idea of anything. I certainly, my- being influenced by any hostility to the
self, should not suggest that they should Canadian Pacific Railway, but I have sat
not vote. The very courteous manner in here during the whole of this debate and
which my hon. friend on my right has heard the arguments on both sides, and I
treated me would prevent me making must say if I am bound,
as I believe I am,
such a suggestion. His manner being to stand up, as
I always endeavor to do,
that of a gentleman I should be glad to for what is right, I cannot help voting
facilitate him, and I should be very sorry for the amendment, and I say the
that the suggestion has arisen, but there reverse is not equitable or just. The
is the precise wording of the regulation at Government have made their choice: the
page 395.
choice was made years ago of Port Moody
as the terminus. To-day by some side
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-Does my wind an attempt is being made to evade
hon. friend say that this is a Bill of a pri- that decision, and I cannot give my support
vate nature ?
to anything of the kind. I am responsible,
not only here, but later i shall be answerHON. MR. PLUMB-No, it simply able for every vote I give in this Chamber.
says where members are interested in a That is my opinion, and when I vote I
private niatter.
must be convinced that I am right before
my vote is recorded. I believe that the
HON. MR. McINNES-" Private Bill" change of the terminus is a great wrong.
it says.
Hon. gentlemen in this House may take

1368 -Canadian Pacißc Railway [SENATE] Completion Bill.
their own course, but it must be surprising It is this : In case the Government of
to see me in this instance for the first time Canada will be compelled at some future
voting against that company and that great day to take back this road from the Comenterprise, but I am bound in honesty to pany will they have the power to also
do so. The Minister of Justice has said take the extension fron Port Moody to
to-day, and the fact of his stating it shows Coal Harbor?
that it must be true, that the intention of
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes.
the Government is to make Port Moody
the terminus, and that they have abandoned
their claims to lands west of Port Moody.
HON. MR. DEVER-Without any reThen the logical consequence of that is striction or legal quibble ?
that the buildings which the Government
hy their contract are bound to erect at the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes.
terminus ought to be constructed at Port
Moody, I believe that is sound and logical.
HON. MR DEVER-Then I am satisIf it is, then there is only one thing to do fied.
-it is to stand by it and Dut it in practice.
As to the interests of the hon. mover of
HON. MR. McINNES-I certainly felt
this amendment I wis astonished to hear very much hurt, as the hon. member from
such a discussion. If there was any kind Lunenburg did, when the Minister of.
of objection to their votes or to their right Justice referred to the fact that my hon.
to vote in this House on this question, then friend and I were interested in property
we would have probably to force Ministers at Port Moody, after the full and ample
to withdraw-to force members of both explanation which I made at the comHouses to withdraw, and from what I have mencement of my remarks, and after
seen in the past they have not withdrawn the hon. Minister of Justice himself referon such 3ccasions. The interest of the ring to it in reply to my address about a
mover of this resolution is not a direct one, week ago. I really thought my explanaany more than when the North Shore was tion was sufficiently plain and explicit,
built I should be told not to vote for the and that I would not need to make any
enterprise because that road passed my further reference to it. I stated distinctly
property. I every day seern to become that it was not on my own behalf, but on
more and more set in my own way. It is behalf of those that the Government and
because I find there is not enough respect myself had induced to invest at Port
for what is right or what is just. I cannot Moody that I was standing up here to
understand public matters being dealt with advocate their rights and claims. I stated
except in a just and straight-forward way, also that I had property, not quite as valuand I cannot refuse to support this able, probably, at the other place ; so that,
amendment. As I said the other day, to a certain extent, I was largely benefitted
when justice, equity and principle are by the building of the railway, no matter
not at stake, then I follow my leaders whether the terminus remained at Port
blindly, but when justice or equity are in Moody or went to English Bay. Just
question then I have to stand by those one word in reply to my hon. and considergrand principles, and if I have to vote ate colleague from British Columbia. I am
against my leaders I am sorry for it. I very sure this House must be often surhave been for forty-three years in public prised to find that scarcely a queslife, and have stood by Conservative prin- tion arises in this House but my hon.
ciples, and I should not like to desert friend is sure to take the opposite sidethem now ; but there are responsibilities he is sure to echo, never fails to echo, the
which must be respected by every conscien- sentiments of the Government of the day.
tious man. In my opinion the amend- I say I regret it, and it must appear
ment ought to be adopted, and I shall vote unseemly that when there are only three
for it.
of us from that distant province, we
are generally divided on every subject
HON. MR. DEVER-As I am about to that comes before this House affecting
vote on this motion I should like to put the interests of our province. He often
one question to the Minister of Justice. rises to advocate points which do not
HoN. MR. BELLEROSE.

Canadian Pacifio Railway [JULY 16, 1885] Completion Bill.
meet my approval-but do I oppose him ?
No. He on this occasion has gone so far
as to say that I decry the country. I
challenge him, or any man in this House
or out of it, to point to one word of mine
uttered publicly or privately that can be
justly construed into defaming or decrying
the country.

1369

ing that Hie Excellency will cause to be
laid before this House, copies ofail memorials,
letters or telegrams, addressed to the Department of the Interior or any member ot the
Privy Council, respecting the Land and

Timber Regulations affecting Dominion Lande
in British Columbia.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The

attention of the Government has been
HoN. MR. MACDONALD - The drawn to this subject again and
again by an hon. member of the
trade of the country, I said.
other House, who represents the
MR. McINNES-I say this, and electoral district of Westminster, Mr.
HON.
I do

not say it boastingly : I have Homer, who has exerted himself since the
beginning of the session to effect some

opinions of my own, and I have the
courage of my convictions, and will
express them whether it pleases the
Government or displeases them. Before
taking a seat in this Senate I took an oath,
but it was to my Queen and country and
not to a Government or party, and just so
long as I have the honor of occupying a
seat here, just so long shall I support the
right, no matter where or from whom it
emanates. As it is nearly six o'clock I
will refrain from making any further
remarks now but will reserve them until
the third reading of the Bill.

change respecting the land and timber
regulations relating to Dominion lands in

British Columbia, and the country will be
indebted to him for any change that may
be made. Of course there is no necessity
for saying anything further on it, as the
papers will be brought down and will
show the exertions he has made.
The motion was agreed to.
BILL INTRODUCED.

Bill (158), "An Act to authorize the
granting of further subsidies to and
The committee divided on the amendment, which was rejected. Contents, 12; making further provision for the construction and efficient operation of the railnon-contents, 28.
ways therein described."
(Sir Alex.
HON. MR. O'DONOHOE, from the Campbell.)

committee, reported
amendment.

the Bill without

The Senate adjourned at 6 o'clock.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Thursday,July i6th, 1885.
THE SPEAKER

took the chair at three

o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
TIMBER REGULATIONS IN
BRITISH COLUMBIA.
MOTION.

CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPLETION BILL.
THIRD READING.

The order of the day having been
called for thir d reading of Bill (153), " Further to amend the Acts respecting the
Canadian Pacific Railway, and to provide
for the completion and successful operation thereof."
ALEX. CAMPBELL
SIR
HON.
moved :That the said Bill be not now read a third
tine. but that it be amended as follows:Page 2, line 19.-After " council " insert
"and the provisions of the 35th section of the
Charter of the Company shall apply to the
Bonds to be issued, or to any mortgage deed
to be executed under this Act."

HON. MR. McINNES movedHON. MR. POWER-What
That an humble address be presented to
His Excellency the Governor-General; pray- effect of that amendment ?

is the

1370 GanadianPaciïc Railway [SENATE] Completion Bill.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The Sonething has been said about th2 curves

effect is to do away with any doubt as to
the registration of the mortgage. The
original charter of the company provided
that their mortgage need not be registered.
It would be very difficult to register the
mortgage in all the counties through
which it passes, and this Bill is to make
sure that it applies to this mortgage under
this Act.

and grades on that road. My hon. friend
made some remark in respect of that.
Now, comparing it with the grades of
other roads, the maximum grade of the
Union Pacific road, as stated by a gentleman in the other branch of the legislature,
who made a most exhaustive speech on
the subject a few days ago, and who, I
dare say, stated his side of the case with
as much precision as it could possibly be
The amendment was agreed to.
stated, said that the maximum grade of
the Union Pacific was 90 feet to the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved mile for 16 miles, and the maximum grade
the third reading of the Bill.
of the Canadian Pacific Railway was
between i 16 and

MR. PLUMB-After the very
able address with which the second reading of this Bill was introduced, I did not
nake any further extended remarks upon
it, but after the very unable address which
was made by my hon. friend opposite,
perhaps, a few words may be necessary.
HoN.

HON.

MR. POWER-Hear, hear !

HON. MR. PLUMB-My hon. friend
was evidently floundering with his subject,
and we all felt a certain amount of commiseration for him, but he made certain
statenents that may be referred to. A
good deal has been said about the way in
which the road has been constructed
through the mountain passes with regard
to the change of route from Yellow Head
Pass to Kicking Horse Pass. With reference to that I may say that the construction
of the road has been governed by the
contractors as any business man would
govern any great enterprise. They have
taken the best advice they could procure.
They have made the most thorough examination they could, and have finally
decided upon a route which I understand
has been laid out by one of the most expert mountain engineers in the world,
Major Rogers, a man who has been
employed in work of that kind and was
selected by the company for the purpose
of exploring, thoroughly examining, and
finally deciding upon the location of the
route through the mountains. I understand, also, that the engineers of the different railways in the United States, who
have had similar work to do,have examined
this road and they have expressed their
entire approval of it in every respect.

117

feet for 16 miles.

It is well understood that under certain
circumstances these heavy grades are not
particularly objectionable. In the early
days of railroading and light locomotive
power, it was considered desirable to keep
down the grades and in fact the first
roads that were built on this side of the
Atlantic were constructed on a dead level.
They overcame grades by stationary
power, which was the case of the Albany
& Schenectady road, which ran over the
sand plain by means of a stationary engine
and was let down on the other side, and
that continued for a long time after I was
in the habit of passing over that road.
Neither curves nor grades were supposed
to be possible. The old idea of engineering has been changed, and I can say to
hon. gentlemen that the most successful
road in the United States to-day-that is,
the Baltimore and Ohio-has far heavier
grades than the Canadian Pacific Railway.
Then a good deal has been said about the
failure of the Company to show that they
are going to have a large Pacific Ocean
traffic. I am not aware that any large
calculation has been made upon that. The
truth of it is the through traffic, as
compared to the way traffic, of all the
railways that have been successful and are
in operation now, of which we know anything, is in the ratio of at least four or five
to one, the way traffic being larger by far.
I fancy mostly all the successful railways
have had that experience. The Union
Pacific and Central Pacific are supported
not by the traffic from San Francisco,
although that is moderately large, but by
the traffic along the line. They do not
know how it springs up, but it is there.
The railways promote it; the whole rail-

Canadian Pacifiß Railway [JULY 16, 1885] Completion Bill.
way system of the west has been built up
in advance of settlement, the population
and traffic have followed them. All those
familiar with the railways west and east of
the Mississippi know that this statement is
-correct, and we have no reason to suppose
that the Canadian Pacific Railway will be
.any exception. They seem to have no
veason to suppose it themselves, for I can
tell hon. gentlemen that they have prepared
for a traffic of which they must in some
way have been assured, by putting down
.21 miles of side track in their Winnipeg
station alone. That does not look as if
they did not expect to have business. I
know that to be the fact ; I also know, for
I have seen the photographs of all their
great works, that their structures are of the
most substantial character. The road has
been built, as has been certified by the
late leader of the Opposition in the other
House, who went over the line, in the
most substantial manner, and it is very
-difficult to argue with gentlemen who,
on the one hand, insist upon it
that we are throwing away our money
and it will never be received back,
.and on the other hand insist upon
it that this road has got such valuable
franchises, such enormous privileges, that
it is to make all those parties interested in
it far too rich in the construction. Now,
one side or the other must be true. My
impression is that the gentlemen who
build it are entitled to a profit out of their
enterprise. I hope they will make it, and
My belief is the road will be successful.
My impression is that the security which
has been given to us now in the shape of
$20,000,000 of first mortgage bonds forming part of the $35,ooo,ooo lien upon the
whole road, is a good security. It is secured by property estimated by the leader
of the Opposition in the other House at
far over $ioo,ooo,ooo-in fact he makes
out that the property is worth more than
that-

1371

HoN. MR. PLUMB-The hon. mem-

ber will have his turn.
HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentleman has no right to misstate the figures.
HoN. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentleman will be kind enough not to interrupt
me. I merely repeat that with what is
estimated as the value of that property, if
a mortgage of $35,ooo,ooo is not secured
by it, I do not know anything about railways and railway property.
HON. MR. POWER-I do not think
the hon. gentleman does.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Well I have had
some experience of railways and I think I
know something about them. For the
Government loan $2o,ooo,ooo of those

bonds are put in the hands cf the Government and a further loan of about $5,ooo,ooo, about which there has been considerable discussion, is secured by $8,ooo,ooo bonds. I fancy that loan could have
been made elsewhere.
HON. MR. POWER-Hear, hear.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I know it could
have been if it had not been for the persistent misrepresentation of that great
enterprise by gentlemen on the opposite
side ; if it had not been for the fact that
they seem to have struck hands with every
element that has been in opposition to the
development of the North-West and
the construction of that great road. If the

Company have been crippled, whose fault
is it ? If they have been compelled to
come back to us-if their stock has fallen
to 31 or 32 in the market, as it did atone
time, whose fault is it ? Who has ever
spoken a good word for it of those who
ought to have felt that it was a great na-

tional enterprise, and therefore at least
entitled to the benefit of a doubt ? A
HoN. MR. HOWLAN-He says $116,- corporation in the United States has been
000,000.
opposed to it from the beginning; the
great land grant roads of the United
HON. MR. PLUMB-Yes $116,ooo,- States have been opposed to it because
oo and on another occasion he raised it they felt that the opening up of the great

to $14o,ooo,ooo.

wheat-growing districts of the North-West
was largely injuring their own property
HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentle- because of the land grants that had been
man is mistaken.
given in aid of their roads somewhat

1372 CanadianPacic Railway [SENATE] Completion Bill.
similarly situated to ours. They know Pacifie? That is one of the two great
perfectly well that in Dakota, Minnesota, roads running across the continent from
Nebraska and Iowa the culture of wheat San Francisco to the Mississippi River.
has been gradually falling off, that the pro- The Central Pacifie owns 235 locomotives,
duction per acre has been diminishing; 267 passenger cars, and 4,72 baggage
they know perfectly well that the time and freight cars.
must come when the wheat-growing disHON. MR. WARK-How about the
trict on this side of the AtlantiP will be in
the Canadian North-West, and they have mileage?
endeavored, as far as they could, to preHON. MR. PLUMB-The mileage of
vent the opening up of that country. We
have had only one who has had relations the Central Pacifie is 1,215 and they
with the country on the other side, whose operate 3,003 miles. The mileage owned
naie 1 can reca2l at this moment, who and to be operated by the Canadian
has stood by us from the beginning, and Pacifie Railway is ot so great now, but
that is Consul Taylor, of Winnipeg, who it will be larger with the branch lines;
has been from the first a great friend of but without having their lines entirely
the enterprise and the strongest advocate open, they have still got a far larger equipof the
daims of the North-West as a great ment than either the Central or the Union
field for the culture of wheat. The aver- Pacifie. 1 will give the other now. The
age crop in Minnesota last year was only Union Pacifie bas 342 locomotives, 282
13 bushels to the acre, and in Dakota only passenger cars and 6,737 freight and
14 bushels, and in spite of what we hear baggage cars. It has a few more locoabout the grinding monopoly of the Cana- motives than the Canadian Pacifie Railway.
dian Pacifie Railway, the farmers below The Union Pacifie operate 1,835 miles of
the border have core to Emerson and road. That is probably a little more than
sold their wheat there and paid the Cana- the Canadian Pacifie Railway were
dian duty, because it was cheaper for operating when they made this report.
themn to do that than to send their grain Now those roads, the Union Pacifie and
reeived froim the Governover the railways of the United States, Central Pacific,
and yet we are told that this grinding ment of the United States, one of them
inonopoly is killing the farmers in the on 1033 miles, $27,226,ooo in cash, and
to2,80 per mile. The Central Pacifi
acres
North-West. I was led to make some
comparisons between the position of the received in cash $2 7,885,000, and 12,000,Canadian Pacifie Railway and that ofother ooo acres of land. The Northern Pacifie
roads similarly situated, particularly as it bas received a very much larger subsidy,
now cones

to us to

ask

for additional

assistance and one of the notes-if a man
may use that word-of the condition of
the railway is the report of the material
which operates it--the plant, the rolling
stock, the cars, the depot grounds, aIl its
arrangements. These show whether it is
a live road, as one may say, or whether it
is not. I was perfectly astounded when
in
I made the calculation, and I wifm a
few words give hon. gentlemen some idea
of what has been done by that Company
in the way of preparing for the great
traffie which it must command. The
has a mileage of 1750.
Northern Pacifie
It owns 289 locomotives, 174 passenger
inding0.
baggage and freight cars.
cars, and 7,5
and,
The Canadian Pacifie Railway owns 304
1oCOmlOtiVeS, 282 passenger cars, and
7,550 freight and baggage cars. Now
how does it compare with the Union
HON. Mae. PLUMB.

some 35,000,but

or 40,000,000 of acres

altogether. The earnings of those roads,
and I do not suppose they are yet at their
maximum, are as follows
Central Pacifie, gross earnings, $24,744,
000

Net earnings, $8,C94,ana.
Cptlsok 5,2,0
Bonds, $59,67n5doo-that is $113,000,
very nearly, upon 1215 miles of road.
The Union Pacifie bas a capital of
$6o,685,8oo,. and its bonded debt is
$3,93ra13, and ithas 835 miles ofroad.
The gross earnings of that road are
The net earnings, $îo,846,$2
so that the traffi, which only extends
has
from the Missouri River westward,
developed since these roads were built
through a desert, through a wilderness, and
000

Canadian Pacifie Railway [JULY 16, 1885] Completion Bill.

1373

through a much more difficult country to been made by the previous Government,
work over, and through a much more un- and I dare say orders-in-council were passed
promising country to settle. These roads with regard to that which have been
have developed a traffic, since they com- changed since-in spite of the contentio
menced business, of $45,ooo,ooo a year of my hon. friend opposite-and a location
on about 3,000 miles of road ; their net was made by the nafrows of Lake Manitoba,
earnings to-day are nearly $2o,ooo,ooo. but it was found when it came to be
From that we ought to imagine that a examined, that some two or three hundred
road, having the unique advantage of the miles of that road ran through muskegs.
control of a line from seaboard to sea- We know at any rate that the Government
board, which no other road on this had so decided upon the location of the
continent has, ought at least to command road there that they actually built a
the confidence of the public as to its telegraph line as an adjunct to it before
ability to pay the interest on its debt if it the road was laid out. This is a specimen
does not do anything more. There is no of the railway building of the late Governother road in this country which crosses ment and of their care of the public
the Rocky Mountains that has not to pay interests and the public treasury. They
tribute to the owners of eastern roads, who built a line of telegraph contracted for by
are themselves powerful corporations, and Mr. J. W. Sifton, and by Mr. Glass, an
will give no traffic to either of these rival ex-member of the other House, and where
roads unless they get the lion's share. that telegraph line was located a gentleThe Canadian Pacific Railway is man who was present, who is my informin a position and will be in a ant, told me that he saw a man climb a
position to make a tariff from seaboard to telegraph pole to adjust the wires and as
seaboard without asking anybody's favor, he climbed,the pole sank down, and when
and I predict the result will be that they he got to the wire he was no higher than
will get large connections in the west seek- when he started, and when he got off the
ing an Atlantic port by roads running in pole it shot up like a cork from a bottle
from below the boundary from the south- of ginger beer. There was no bottorn
west to the northeast. I think that must there. I have no doubt the gentleman,
be apparent to anybody who looks at the who is now in the House, will corroborate
favorable position which this road holds : every word I have said about that, if
the road is under one control and belongs necessary. The present Government did
to one company, and yet we are constantly not take the road up there. They found
told by gentlemen in this House, gentle- a better line. Some people were disapmen whose business interests, I undertake pointed. Then this company put their
to say, have been promoted and whose money into the concern: they examined
political existence has been prolonged by the country and decided upon the line
the building of that road, that this is a line which has been followed, and I believe
in which we are not to have confidence. their decision will be justified by future
They undertake to oppose it. I have events. Another point in regard to this
heard gentlemen say that this company, road which has been dealt with, and
having their means in this road and having which may be considered a very importheir reputation at stake, were not com- tant one, with regard to its future destiny,
petent to select a terminus for their own is, that they have discovered in the mounroad,or to choose the best place to accom- tain passes where that road goes the finest
modate the enormous business that is to growth of timber in the world. The
come over 3000 miles of railway, but that Douglas pine grows there. My hon.
they must be confined to one particular friend opposite, Mr. Nelson, knows more
spot. I do not think it is at all a liberal about it than I do, and statements were
view of the question. I think they ought made not long ago that between the
to be left to judge for themselves, just as Rockies and the Cascade range there was
they are left to judge whether they will go a growth of timber which was absolutely
through one mountain pass or another, unparalleled on this continent. It grows
which is of no consequence to any human to an enormous size and the road will
being but themselves. There was no traffic have traffic in that line which will be of
there to be served. The location had incalculable value. We know that not-

1374 Canadian Pacifc Raihway [SENATE] Completion Bill.
withstanding all the disadvantages resulting from the troubles in the North-West,
the calling away of teams and farmers for
transport purposes, there has been so large
an acreage brought under cultivation that
the crop of this year, it is estimated, if
there is no further difficulty in the NorthWest, will be seven or eight millions of
bushels and will yield a surplus of at
least 5,ooo,ooo bushels.

I mention these

facts because it seems to be a habit of
hon. gentlemen on the other side to make
an attack on that road whenever they have
an opportunity, and couple it with
an attack on the North-West and its capabilities. It is unfortunate that hon. gentlemen are in that position. It is unfortunate that they have been compelled by
the exigencies of their position, by the fact
that they are opposed to the Government,
to stand in opposition to all the great enterprises which have distinguished the
Dominion of Canada since confederation.
They are compelled to do that or else they
are no longer in opposition. I feel great
sympathy with them. It is their misfortune,but thev do not seem to be able to
see or to understand the logical conclusion
of their policy. The hon. gentlemen have
been in the minority for the greater part
of the time since confederation, and I
think it may be very clearly inferred that
they will continue to remain a minority as
long as they continue their unwise course.
The people of Canada are progressive:
they are not pessimists as a rule. They
are a young people looking forward to a
future, and they will not believe that the
country is being depopulated. They do not
believe that a country, with an almost prohibitory tariff on the other side, is a place
of refuge because there is a moderate tariff on this side, and as long as the leaders
of the Reform party indulge in that kind
of argument just so long will they be unable to command the confidence of the
people of Canada. If the Opposition were
to be believed the whole credit of the
country would have been paralyzed this
year. Everybody knows the rabid attacks
that have been made upon it. It has not
been done to a great extent here, because
the Opposition in this House has not
taken that line. It has been left to one
or two gentlemen who have placed themselves in the front rank to take that position. But what has been the effect of the
HON. MR. PLUMB.

policy of the Opposition in another place ?
While the most venomous attack was
being made on the country there, the
people of Great Britain were rushing intothe money market of London to take
the 4 per cent stocks of Canada and
subscribe three and four times as
much as was asked for, and take it at a
better price than any loan that was ever
made by hou. gentlemen on the other
side, although the public debt has swollen
to a large amount. I went to the Treasury Department to get a statement of the
debt as it stood on the 3oth June last,
and I found that there was only $1oo,ooo,ooo difference between the calculation of
the hon. gentleman and the facts as they
stand on the books of the Dominion.
Ho..

MR.

HON.

trifle.

CARVELL-A mere trifle.

MR.

PLUMB-Yes, a mere

A sum of $1oo,ooo,ooo is of no

consequence if you can only paralyze the
business of the country and show the people on the other side that they should not
invest in the stocks of this country-that
the country is making rapid strides towards bankruptcy. To be sure some hon.
gentlemen on the other side have not
joined in that cry ; a large majority of
them have always sustained any increase
of the public debt for proper purposes, and
the Government can only be judged by
that.

If we owed $1oo,ooo,ooo and had

not anything to show for it we would be in
a worse position than we are now.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-The couitry

has supported the expenditure.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Yes, the country
has endorsed it and has given a verdict on
it already and will again.

HON. MR. POWER-Hear, hear.
HON. MR. PLUMB--The hon. gentleman opposite knows perfectly well the
kind of agitation that has been going on
through the country, that the people take
no stock in that kind of agitation, and
that it has not had the effect intended.
The hon. gentleman knows that the increase of the public debt has not equalled
the expenditure on capital account. It
has been the policy of the party to which

Canadian Pacifc Railway [JULY 16, 18851 Completion Bill.
I belong to place very considerable sums
in the permanent expenditure which might
have been, under other circumstances,
charged to capital account and represented by debt. Some fifteen or twenty
million dollars or more than that-I do not
give the sum in exact figures-have been expended on works properly chargeable to
capital account, and which do not appear
in the public debt, and the public debt is
so much better for that kind of expenditure.
Every dollar, I venture to say, that has
been legitimately expended on the Pacific
Railway, if we never get a shilling of it
back again, is of great value to this country,
and is worth all that it cost ; but I believe
that the whole of the advances made to the
Canadian Pacific Railway Company are
perfectly safe, as a business operation, and
I will tell the hon. gentleman why I believe it. It is because behind the debt of
the company we find there are $65,000,ooo of stock held by over 1200 or 1500
subscribers, and that stock, which is now
selling at 40 cents on the dollar, is not
worth one shilling if the mortgage which
stands behind it is not good for its face.
That is the reason why I say the security
is good here. The security has the backing of the $65,000,000 of stock which is
worth $25,ooo,ooo in the market to-day,
besides the mortgage being a first lien on
the road. The loan of $5,ooo,ooo which

has been objected to is a perfectly legitimate thing, and the company have been
forced to come here because their credit
has been paralyzed by exactly such statements as those made by the hon. gentleman yesterday, that they have not paid
their employees.
HON. MR.

POWER-It is true.

HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon, gentleman has no authority for it, and he has no
right to make such a statement.
HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentleman has no right to make such an assertion.
I rise to a question of order. The hon.
gentleman from Niagara said that I made
a statement which was not true.
HON. MR. PLUMB-No, I said no
such thing.
HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentleman said I had no authority for making

the statement,
of authority.

and

1376

I have the best

THE SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman
was perfectly in order in saying that the
hon. gentleman said it without authority.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentle-

man from Halifax also said-and I was
surprised after the arguments that had
been adduced upon that question that he
would have ventured to refer to it-that
the

$14,000,ooo

deposited

with

the

Government as a security, for the payment
of the dividends upon the Canadian Pacific
Railway stock, should be given up to the
Canadian Pacific Railway, or practically
the same thing, that the $5,000,0'00 which
they asked for should be taken out of that
money, a security deposit, a deposit held
by the Government by the most solemn
trust, held as a sub-trust by the Bank of
Montreal,

referring to 1,400 or

1,500

shareholders scattered all over Europe
and America. The hon. gentleman proposes that we should break faith with
those men. I have never known party
animosity and party stress to carry any
set of men so far as I have seen the Opposition carried in this case, when they
propose that we shall repudiate a contract
for the purpose of making a concession
out of the Canadian Pacific Railway Company. Not only that, but it was first suggested by the leader of the Opposition in
another place, then it was crystalized
into a resolution and brought forward as a
solemn motion, that $5,000,000 of that
money, which was held in trust, should be
diverted from its trust and paid back to
the company to do what they liked with
it, that company which they have no confidence in and cannot depend on, that
they should have that money handed over
to them to waste it in bad locations or
extravagant connections - money that
belongs to the shareholders or has been
pledged to them. The resolution did nto
carry, but it was not the fault of the hon.
gentleman's friends that it failed, because
it was voted for by a strict party vote
under the direction of the leader of the
Opposition. I have never known anything in the whole history of Parliament
more monstrous than that deliberate attempt to repudiate a contract, and I can
well understand how the public look upon

1376 CanadianPaciße Railway [SENATE] Completion Bil.
the hon. gentleman's friends when they offer to the hon. gentlemen who have so
see them disposed to do such a thing as strenuously opposed and misrepresented
that. I can well understand why there is it from the beginning.
a distrust of the leaders and advisers of
HON. MR. POWER-I have given
that party.
notice of an amendment which I propose
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Order, to move at the third reading of this Bill,
order. I call the hon. gentleman to order and before moving that amendment, I am
for criticizing the conduct of gentlemen in sure the House will pardon me if I venture to make a few observations on the
the House of Commons.
rather remarkable speech of the hon.
THE SPEAKER-I think the hon. gentleman who has just sat down. I have
gentleman from Niagara is in order in not made a practice of undertaking to
criticizing the conduct of any member or criticise the speeches of other hon. gentleany party in the House of Commons, but men in this House or to question their
he would not be in order in criticizing the taste or their policy ; but I may say it is
conduct of the whole body of the House a somewhat remarkable thing that on the
third reading of a Bill which was about
of Commons.
being read almost without any opposition,
HON. MR. PLUMB-I have not men- a supporter of the measure should make
tioned the other House by name; neither such a speech as that which we have just
have I mentioned the collective action of listened to-a speech which would have
the other House. I have a perfect right been very proper on the second reading
to speak of matters which bear upon the of the Bill, but is altogether out of place
general argument and which bear on any at this last stage of the measure. I hope
public work, or on the policy of a party. the House will excuse me for departing a
If it were not for that there could be very little from my usual practice. As I said,
little latitude in debate. I do not intend I have not been in the habit of remarking
to say anything further, but I trust that on the speeches of other members and
this Bill will receive the assent of a large their conduct, and I think the House
majority of this House, which has always will not deny that I have stood a good
been faithful to the trust reposed in it, in deal of very unpleasant language at various
assisting as far as possible the public credit times from the hon. gentleman who has
and great public enterprises like this. The just taken his seat.
arrangement strikes me as being one which
HON. MR. PLUMB-Hear, hear. You
is perfectly business-like, one which is
perfectly safe, one to which we may, with do not mean me ?
entire confidence,give our affirmative vote,
HON. MR. POWER-I think it is
and I fail to see that anything has been
said either in this House, or in another proper to call attention to that fact. The
place, that should for one moment affect hon. gentleman is in the habit, as every
the public confidence either in the con- hon. member in this House knows, of
struction or completion, or the future making most offensive interrupions while
prospects of the great transcontinental other hon. gentlemen are speaking, and
road upon which depends the future of the hon. member is not willing to allow
Canada, and as to which so much has reciprocity, even in the smallest degree;
been done to thwart it and injure its because he will not allow any other hon.
character by, I will not call it an un- gentleman to ask him a simple question
patriotic opposition (because they act only which may be germane to his remark,
as far as they know, but do not see beyond and may be intended for the purpose of
the point of the opposition of the present eliciting information. I think the hon.
moment), yet in spite of all that opposi. gentleman departs from the usual course
tion I predict that before we meet here in both ways. First in offensively interanother session we shall see that road in rupting other speakers, and next in declinfull operation. We shall see it fulfilling ing to answer fair and reasonable questions
largely the expectations that have been which are asked of himself when speaking.
formed of it, and have very little thanks to I have heretofore attributed it to the hon.
HoN. MR. PLUMB.

Canadian Pacifié Railway [JULY 16, 1885] Completion Bill.

1377

He is of engineers in the world, Major Rogers. I
gentleman's temperament.
a somewhat excitable temperament, if he do not take Major Rogers' character on
will allow me to say so, as he is in the tthe hon. gentleman's authority. People
habit of discussing my character and are to be judged by their acts, and we do
temper in the House. I think the hon. not know very much about Major Rogers
gentleman is of a somewhat excitable here in Canada. We know however that
temperament; and I have been charitable the pass which he professed to have disenough to assume that he has acted simply covered had been discovered years ago ;
on the impulse of the moment, and that that in the first place it had been partially
he has not realized how unpleasant his in- examined by Mr. Moberly, on behalf of
terruptions were, and how very disagree- British Columbia, as far back as 1865 :
able his remarks occasionally were to and that it had been examined in 1874
those to whom they were addressed. But by Mr. Moberly for the Government of
the hon. gentleman has not that excuse Canada, and was condemned at the time.
to-day. We have the fact of the hon. The Yellow Head Pass had been carefully
gentleman coming in here with a deliber- examined by the Canadian Government
ately prepared speech, and beginning that engineers and had been approved of.
speech with a deliberate insult to a mem- The Canadian Government--the Governber who had spoken on a previous occa- ment of the hon. gentleman's friends as
sion. The hon. gentleman began his well as the Government of the gentleman
speech by referring in language the taste whom I followed-had caused very careof which was as bad as its English, to my ful surveys to be made, and they had
" unable " effort on a previous occasion, deliberately, after years of consideration,
and to the fact that I had been " flounder- selected the route of the road, and that
ing." [ could understand the hon. gentle- selection had been embodied in a statute
man getting up immediately after I had -not an Order-in-Council, but a statute.
done and making that remark, but speak- Now, at the suggestion of this American
ing that way in cold blood after the lapse engineer, who was, probably, arxious to
of 24 hours is a thing that does very little figure as a discoverer, they select, without
credit to the hon. gentleman's heart, what- sufficient consideration, the Kicking
ever it may do to his head. Then the Horse Pass. I do not profess to know as
hon. gentleman said before he closed that much about railways as the hon. gentleI had made a statement without any man from Niagara, but I feel satisfied at
authority. I do not think that I am very this moment that if the Canadian Pacific
often convicted here or elsewhere of mak- Railway Company were back where they
ing unfounded statements, and I say with were before the Kicking Horse Pass was
regard to that statement as to the non- selected, they would not select that pass,
payment of contractors for work done on but would adhere to the pass which had
the Pacific Railway North of Lake Superi- been selected by the Canadian Governor, that I have the very best authoritv. ment engineers. I do not see why the
Those statements have been made in the hon. gentleman should be so anxious to
press, and have not been denied. I have decry our engineers, and to give the counthe authority of men who have been here try to understand that after years of
in Ottawa for weeks and months waiting patient investigation they knew nothing
for their money, and have been unable about the proper pass through the mounto get it, and that is the very best author- tains, but that this distinguished American,
ity. So far for the hon. gentleman and who came among us as the hon. gentlethe personal statements in which he has man has corne, I presume, for our good,
been kind enough to refer to me. The and actuated simply by a desire for the
hon. gentleman dealt at considerable good of Canada, was the only one who
length with the whole question of the could discover it. Then, the hon. memCanadian Pacific Railway. I do not pro- ber, in speaking about the wisdom and
pose to follow the hon. gentleman except skill which characterize the Canadian
as to two or three points. As to the Pacific Railway Company, forgot to refer
Kicking Horse Pass, he said the to their wonderful feat of paying two and
company had secured the services a quarter millions to build the Algoma
best mountain branch, and then allowing that branch to
of the
of one
M 3

1378 Canadiani Pacife Railway [SENATE]

Completion Bill.

remain idle for a whole year. That is a the misrepresentation of the Opposition.
kind of wisdom, shrewdness and capacity As I ventured to say yesterday, in that
which, I confess my humble inability to floundering speech which I made, inasadmire or appreciate. The hon. gentle- much as this misrepresentation had conman, in order to confirm what he said sisted in stating that the company had
about the discovery by this American too good a bargain, it is not easy to see
engineer of the route by the Kicking how that could injure their prospects in
Horse Pass, told us that several American the money markets of the world. That is
engineers approved of that pass. I can another inconsistency which the hon.
quite understand it ; they were patriotic gentleman and his leader may reconcile.
men, and did not wish to have a Canadian Then, the hon. member devoted a good
railway better located than their own, and deal of his time to discussing the grindthey naturally felt pleased that an Ameri- ing monopoly; there was very little said
can engineer had selected a pass which about the monopoly this year, in this
would seriously damage the Canadian House, at any rate. He also pointed out
Railway in com- clearly andwelltheuniqueadvantageswhich
Transcontinental
It is this Canadian Pacific Railway possesses
with their own.
parison
quite natural ; and, perhaps, if the in owning a road which extends from
hon. gentleman had been a United States ocean to ocean, it being the only railway
engineer he would have approved of it company owning such a line. Then
also on the same ground. Then the hon. again the inquiry naturally suggests itself,
member told us, in that way he has of why is it that this Company, with these
telling us, as if nobody had ever heard of unique advantages, is obliged tocome tous
anything before he announced it, that it is and ask for an advance of $5,000,000?
not the through traffic, but the way traffic That is a question which cannot be anwhich builds up a railway. I was rather swered and has not been answered. The
under the impression that that was a rudi- hon. gentleman intimated that it was an
mentary principle now in railway opera- outrageous thing to contend, as it was contions ; but I should like to ask the leader tended here yesterday by some members
of the hon. gentleman why it is, if the of this House, that the company should
through traffic is a matter of such small not be allowed to select their own termoment and the way traffic is of so great minus. I do not think it was contended
-consequence, that the Government laid yesterday by anyone that the company
such stress upon the completion of this should not be allowed to extend their road
road in a hurry-why the Government beyond Port Moody if they pleased.
made it a matter of such vast consequence The only contention was that the Govern
that the line should be open for traffic in ment should not be a party to that trans1886, instead of 1891 ? That is a ques- action, and that if they erected terminal
tion that would naturally suggest itself. buildings they should be at the place
The reason given in another place was to where the Government by Statute and hy
get the through Asiatic trade at once. I Orders-in-Council having the force of
allow the hon. gentleman to settle that Statutes, fixed the terminus. The hon.
with his leaders. The hon. gentleman gentleman, not dealing with what was bereferred to a very good thing-that the fore us, but going back, as the hon. gentlecompany had wonderfully brilliant pros- man is so fond of doing, to old times to
pects. The only comment I make on that is have a blow at men who are not responthis-that if the company's prospects are so sible for what is being done now, and who
good, and their property is so valuable, if they sinned or erred have paid the panit is a strange thing that they should have alty of their sin. or mistake, told us about
to come here to ask us to advance them the location of the Canadian Pacific Railmore money. That is a sort of thing way through the narrows of Lake Maniwhich, I venture to say, no one can quite toba. I am not denying that that locaunderstand. Then the hon. gentleman, tion was a mistake, and of course the
referring, I think, to the language of gen- Prime Minister of the day was responsible
tlemen in another place, spoke of the for the location in a sense, but that locainjury that had been done to the Canadian tion was not made by that hon. gentleman.
Pacific Railway from the beginning, by It was made by his chief engineer, and
HON. MR.

POWER.

Canadian Pacife Railway [JULY 16, 18S5] Completion Bill.

1879

the mistake that the Premier of that day
made was in placing too implicit confidence in the judgment ot his engineers.
But the hon gentleman when he was dealing with the mistakes in location might
have come a little further down in the
history of the road and taken something
that was done by his own friends. We
remember that after the change of Government took place, there was a great deal
said about the folly of this location through
the narrows of Lake Manitoba, and the
Minister of Railways of that day, who is
now High Commissioner in England, un-

poor

dertook to build,and didlay down

'oo

and I shall not dwell upon it again; but if
the hon. gentle-nan has such regard for
the sanctity of contracts, why is it that,
when a vote was taken yesterday on an
amendment to prevent the violation of a
solemn decision as to the location of the
western terminus, the hon. gentleman
voted to repudiate that contract and
damage people who are not shareholders
in the Canadian Pacific Railway Company, but who are good, law-abiding,
loyal and British subjects.

HON. MR. McINNES-Only

miles citizens.

of Government railway west of Winnipeg.
What was the character of that road ?
Was it much better than the road through
the Narrows would have been ? Not at
all ; because as soon as the frost went out
of the ground the rails and sleepers on
that portion of the road constructed by
the Government, of which the hon. gentleman is a supporter, sank into the soft
marshy soil, and the first thing that the
Canadian Pacific Company did when they
came in, or almost the first thing, was to
take up such rails as could be recovered
and build the road elsewhere. I do not
think in the matter of locating the Pacific
Railway in Manitoba the hon. gentleman's
friends have much more reason to congratulate themselves than my friends have.
The hon. member referred to attacks
made on the North-West and its
capabilities. I have listened with reasonable attention to the debates in this
House, and I do not remember that I

HON. MR. POWER-Then the hon.
gentleman, in that way which is so familiar
to us, talked about how the country had
approved of the conduct of the present
Government,and how the country wouldand he spoke quite positively on this
point-give a verdict in their favor when
an opportunity occurred. The hon.
gentleman may or may not be right as to
what the result of the next election may
be ; but he must remember that the country will not have an opportunity of giving
a free, open and untramelled verdict upon
the conduct of the present Government;
because the Government have taken care
so to alter the election law that the verdict will be not altogether the verdict of
the country, but to a large extent the
verdict of the officers appointed by the
Government.
I hope the House will
pardon me for having trespassed so long
on their time in replying to the hon.
have ever heard anyone say anything gentleman. I wish now to be allowed to
against the soil, climate or capabilities of say just a few words with reference to this
the North-West territory. A good deal amendment which I now propose:has been said about the way in which the That the said Bill be not now read a third
mal-administered the time, but that it be recommitted to a ComBut nothing has mittee of the Whole House, for the purpose
addirig the following clause:been said against the territory itself. of " Notwithstanding anything in the CanaThen the hon. gentleman, in a fit of dian Pacific Railway Act, 1884, or any amendvirtuous indignation, talked about the ment thereto, the lien of the Government on
atrocity (that is what one would gather the Canadian Pacifie Railway shall apply to
from his words) of attempting to violate a and include any extension of the said railway
contract made with the shareholders of to English Bay or Coal Harbor."
The fairness of that, I think, must be
the Canadian Pacific Railway Company.
Government had

affairs of that territory.

evident, for the reasons that were urged
yesterday in discussing the matter by other
hon. gentlemen more than by inyself; but
HON. MR. POWER-I discussed that there is this additional reason to which I
matter in what my hon. friend was pleased do not think attention was called. If the
to characterize as my floundering way; railway is extended to English Bay or
HON. MR. PLUMB-Hear, hear.

1380 Canadian Paclc Railway [SENATE] Completion Bill.
Coal Harbor, and the terminal buildings
are erected there, hon. gentlemen will see
that the terminus at Port Moody, upon
which the Government now have a lien,
will become of much less value than it is
at present, and that the value of the government lien on the roadwill be diminished
to the extent of the decrease in value of the
property at Port Moody. If the terminal
buildings which the Government propose
to erect at Port Moody shall be erected at
another point, and the value which the
works at Port Moody would have
given that place shall have been taken
away from it and added to the value of the
Company's works at another point, I
think it is only reasonable that the Government and the country should have a
lien on the works at the other point. I
think that is perfectly clear, and I trust
that the Government will have no objection to make this amendment to the Bill.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I have not
considered this motion carefully, but I understood the Minister of Justice to say
yesterday in reply to a question put by the
hon. gentleman from New Brunswick (Mr.
Dever) that the lien of the Government
would extend to that portion of the road
west of Port Moody.
ION. SIR ALEX. CAMBPELL-Yes,
as I will explain in a moment.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Therefore, if
that would be the case I do not see the
necessity for such an amendment.
I do not wish to take up the time of the
Senate now by any extended remarks. I
am a staunch and earnest supporter of the
Canadian Pacific Railway, as much so as
any member of this House, and I think
the prosperity of the country largely depends on the success of that enterprise. I
do not wish to remark on what the hon.
member from Niagara stated with regard
to the extension of the road to Coal Harbour. I think it would have been just as
well if he had omitted any remark in relation to that subject from the speech which
he made, considering all the circumstances
and the discussion we had the other day,
but I cannot help saying a few words in
reply to the speech of my hon. friend the
senior member from Halifax. If I understood him right, he said that as far as the

HoN. MR. POWER.

Yellow Head Pass was concerned it could
not be expected that any engineer from
the United States of such note would be
likely to report in favor of the best route,
considering that he would then be approving of a railway which would be a successful rival of the trans-continental lines in
the United States.
HoN. MR. POWER-I did not say
that at all.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It cannot
be that an engineer of any reputation
would be biased in that way and make a
wrong report, or one inconsistent with his
engineering skill and interest, and
report in favor of a route which was not
the best, simply because by doing so he
would make the Canadian road inferior to
competing lines in the United States. I
I think that is the line of argument that
my hon. friend used.
HON.

MR. POWER-No.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-Well, it
was tantamount to that. I do not think
that any engineer would do a thing of
that kind. My hon. friend talked about
completing this road in six years before
the appointed time, 1891. That, I think,
is something which will benefit this
country to a greater extent than my hon.
friend appreciates. To my mind it is six
years gained in the settlement and
development of the North-WestTerritories,
which is of incalculable value to the
Dominion. It is six years gained in the
immigration into this country instead of
allowing it to go to the United States and
other countries. It means six years of
profit on the investment we have made in
the North-West. These three reasons,
independent of any other are, to my mind,
in themselves conclusive that this railway
should be completed in the interests of
our country as rapidly as possible. My
hon. friend fails to see why the company
should come to Parliament for more
money. It is well known that this work
has been retarded not only by rival railway
companies, such as the Grand Trunk
Railway, but the route selected, the land
through which it passes, the character of
the work, the climate-all were decried,
not only abroad but even in this House,

Qanadian Pacifie Railway [JULY 16, 1885.] Comnpleion Bill.
and my hon. friend has gone very far in
that direction himself. He not only did
that, but while this company were on their
way to England to borrow money he told
us that they were bankrupt and could not
pay their workmen, and that their paper
is now floating at a discount in the money
markets of Canada. Do not statements
such as these, coming from an important
member of the Senate, made solemnly on
the floor of Parliament, affect the credit of
the Company?

1381

aware that any such length of track had to
be shifted, but if I have been correctly
informed on that point they were merely
shifted from where they were laid originally
to a track near by and running parallel to
it. They were laid on the open prairie
and no grading or ballasting had been
done, and probably the shifting of the
track did not cost $1oo altogether.
HON. MR. POWER-Oh no.

HON. MR.
KAULBACH-Well, I
POWER-Not the slightest. cannot say what it cost, but it could not
have been a large sum. My hon. friend
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I am sorry talks about this trunk line and the comif my hon. friend thinks that his statements pany having lost money by not confining
are of no importance, and that if they are itself to the construction of the main line
carried across the Atlantic by persons who itself. Had the Canadian Pacific Railare antagonistic to the Canadian Pacific way Company not been able to show in
Railway they will have no effect. They England that they had connections with
have had effect and they have tended to large centres they could not have borhamper the Canadian Pacific Railway rowed money. You might as well talk of
Company in the money market and prevent a tree without branches, as a railway withthem fulfilling their contract at an early out connections-it would be dead and
day. My hon. friend says that these men useless without them. The Directors of
spent no money on the Canadian Pacific the Canadian Pacific Railway, with farRailway proper. I believe they have seeing eye to the future traffic of the road,
spent $1o,ooo,ooo of their own money endeavored as quickly as possible to make
independent of the money they have spent connections and secure branch lines in
on the branches. I have from a member order that they might have independent
of the Syndicate, one of the directors, lines to reach the different provinces.
himself, a statement that he has put Will my hon. friend tell me that the Marimillions of his own money into the enter- time Provinces would have been content
prise. It has been proved clearly by the if the Canadian Pacific Railway Company
leader of the Government here that all the had been satisfied to stop at Callander
money advanced by the country has been and to permit the traffic to go anywhere
expended for work upon the main line. and everywhere and be absorbed by the
My hon. friend talked about the Algoma United States? No, the Maritime Provbranch and the money invested in it lying inces took up this matter as a great
idle. In answer to that I might talk about national question, and believed that the
the steel rails lying idle and rusting in Atlantic coast would receive equal beneBritish Columbia.
fits with the Pacific coast from the construction of the line. To tell me that
HON. MR. POWER-You did talk this Company should confine its operaenough about that at the time.
tions west of Callander seems to me to be
madness, and not in the interest of the
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-I might Maritime Provinces. We want all the
talk about the Fort Frances Lock and branches ; we believe this road should
Neebing Hotel lying worse than idle- run from Louisburg to the Pacific.
never to be used. The Algoma branch Without that you cannot get the sympawill probably be used before another year. thy of the Maritime Provinces in favor of
My hon. friend talked about 1oo miles of this road. You must convince them that
track west of Winnipeg having been laid is to be a purely Canadian enterprise,
on such marshy ground that it was found independent of any foreign connection.
necessary to transfer the rails to another That is the road we want for Canada, and
place at an enormous expense. I am not the only road that we care to aid ; it is
HON. MR.

1382 CanadianPacißeo Railway [SENATE] Completion Bill.
the one which will develop the resources
of this country, and the one which the
people are willing to assist, as far as possible, to create and maintain. Therefore
my hon. friend, when he denounces the
Canadian Pacific Railway for not having
confined all their means and energy to a
dead trunk line without branches, is not
advocating what is in the interest of the
Lower Provinces, because, as I said before-and I want to impress it upon this
House-if we found the Canadian Pacific
Railway Company stopping at Callander
and allewing other lines to tap it and
carry the trade to a foreign country,
diverting it from its natural course, the
Maritime Provinces would take a different position from that which they occupy
to-day. They sustain the Government in
their policy of completing the road, because the country is committed to it and
we cannot do anything else. We look upon
the Canadian Pacific Railway enterprise as
a source of great wealth and prosperity tothe
Dominion. Altogether in lands and money
it will have cost the country only $55,ooo,000, for which we are receiving full value.

Therefore I cannot agree with those who
say that the railway should not be extended east of Callander. It is important for
the people who raise the grain in the west
to know that we have an independent line
by which they can ship their products to
the sea-board and what it will cost them
for freight. I cannot sit here in silence
listening to hon. gentlemen decrying this
great Railway enterprise, retarding its
progress and prosperity, and lessening
its chances of becoming a great highway in the hands of one company, extending from the Atlantic to the Pacific.
HON. MR. CARVELL-While endorsing the remarks of my hon. friend from
Lunenburg in reference to the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway from
ocean to ocean, I must say I was struck
with the fact that though he, with many
other Nova Scotians, very properly wished
some time ago that Halifax should be the
winter terminus of the line, he is now willing that the road should be extended as
far as Louisburg. If that is desirable in
the east, why not in all fairness allow the
Canadian Pacific Railway to go to English Bay-a little further west as well as a
little further east ?
HoN. MR. KAULBACH

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I have no

objection to the Canadian Pacific Railway
going to English Bay, but I say, so far as
we are concerned, the terminus is fixed at
Port Moody, and we cannot properly
expend money in erecting buildings
anywhere else. The Government are
bound to construct buildings at the
point fixed by Act of Parliament and
by Orders-in-Council and, as the contract
requires, at Port Moody.
HON. MR. TRUDEL-I think it is the
duty of this, or any Government, to come
to the aid of any public undertaking when
it is neccessary, and I do not think the
fact that the Canadian Pacific Railway
Company comes to us for assistance is in
any way an evidence that the security
which it offers is not sufficient to guarantee
perfectly the present arrangement. The
argument which was used by my hon.
friend on the other side might be directed
against any wealthy corporation, and even
the wealthiest countries. It might even
be used against the Empire of England.
It might be asked, at sometime in the history of the empire how is it that the
Government of England cannot pay its
debts without borrowing money? The
same thing might happen capitalists and
the most powerful banks. It often happens that the strongest financial institutions
are obliged to come to the Government
for temporary aid. I repeat it is in the
public interest that under such circumstances as these the Government should
aid these national institutions as far as
possible. Now as to the present position
of the Canadian Pacific Railway, I do not
consider the fact of the shares not having
been sold at a reasonable price, or loans
not having been contracted in the European markets is any evidence that they had
not sufficient security to offer the Government for the assistance which they are asking. It is wellknownthat this isa newcountry, and our national enterprise is of such a
character, and is being built so speedily
that we had not sufficient time to have it
fully appreciated by the great capitalists
of the world. It is qute natural that
capitalists should say, if the Pacific Railway Company have sufficient to show and
sufficient to guarantee what they are
asking in the money markets, why do
they not go to their own Government, and

Canadian Pacife Railway [JULY 16, 1885] Completion Bill.

1383

why should not their Government very often said in this House that Ye are
guarantee then the money, because the giving very great advantages to ti e
Government is in a better position to ap- Pacific Railway Company. To a certain
preciate their financial conditiou than out- extent I believe it is the case, but in the
siders would be ? I consider that under meantime I do not think it is possible to
those circumstances the Government had do better, and what I am about to say is
better guarantee the loan which is asked not in reply to the arguments of political
for by the Canadian Pacific Railway, be- opponents, but from a consideration of
cause, if I understand the transaction, the the whole matter. In case it should be
Government will improve their own posi- true that we are dealing too liberally with
tion by the change of security. We have the Pacific Railway Company, the fault
no difficulty in concluding that there is no lies on those who seven or eight years ago
reasonable apprehension as to this transac- were continually announcing to the countion. I consider it in the same light as a try that it was an absurdity to undertake
loan which would be made to a farmer. such a vast enterprise as the building of a
A capitalist being asked for $1,ooo by a railway from ocean to ocean. We all
farmer to make improvements on his recollect that not long ago when the
farm which is valued at $2,ooo he would North-West Territories were purchased
at once loan $1,ooo on that security. for the trifling sun of $300,ooo it was
Then the farmer would give a mortgage denounced all over the country as a waste
on the whole property, and it would be of public money; that it was an extravaconsidered at the time that the loan gance that the country would never
would not be too much for the security. recover from. What was the consequence
But after this $1,ooo is spent on the farm, of those two assertions that it was absurd
if it is judiciously expended, then the to undertake such a great enterprise as
farn has an increased value of at least the Pacific Railway, and that the country
The creditor is then in this would never recover from the burden they
$1,ooo.
position, having as security for his loan of were assuming,coupled with the contention
$1,ooo not only the farm valued at $2,ooo that it was a mistake to have acquired the
but the improvements, in all a value of North-West? The consequence was that
Then supposing the farmer the people in the mother country were
$3,ooo.
would cone again and say, "Last year inclined to undervalue or depreciate
you gave me $i,ooo on the security of my those immense territories which we
farn. Now my property has been in- had acquired. But this was not the
creased in value by that $i,ooo ; I require worst consequence of it. It resulted
some more money, say $500. If you can- in a want of confidence not only amongst
not lend it to me, I want you to consent foreign capitalists, but even amongst our
to allow some other creditor to come in statesmen in the future of our country.
and take security for a loan of $500. I The hon. gentleman will recollect very
think the creditor would consent to well that in 1875, 1876, 1877, and even
advance another $5oo on that security, or in 1878 here, in this very House, when
allow the farmer to obtain it from some- the representatives of the Province of
one else on a second mortgage. I con- Quebec were pressing upon the Governsider the present transaction with the ment the necessity for building the branch
Pacific Railway Company of the same fron Thunder Bay to Callander, the
character. It is true that in one sense leader of the Government in this House
the whole transaction is remodelled, and used to say, and it was repeated a dozen
in such a manner as to leave the Govern- times, and it is on record in the official
ment all that security which is reasonably report of our debates, that it is such an
sufficient to put them in such a position absurd enterprise for this country to unas to have every possible assurance that dertake to build a railway across the conthey will not lose one cent by this loan to tinent at this period of its history that our
the Company. I may say that I have grandchildren would hardly see the realzation of the project.
some apprehension about these matters,
but it is not at all in relation to
HON. MR. POWER-Could the hon.
this transaction. I believe it has been gentleman point out the relevancy of the

1384 CanadianPacifw Railway [SENATE] Completion Bill.
remarks he is making now to the amend- looked at the 15th section of the articles
of incorporation on page i9 I find that
ment which I proposed?
the point is made apparently very clear.
HON. MR. TRUDEL-I was stating But to show that this question of the exthat the hon. member for Ottawa in 1876 tension of the railway was not embraced
and 1877 said that the country north of in that 14 th section it goes on to add
Lake Superior was such an inhospitable "And any extensions of the said line of railcountry that it was impossible to build a way that shall hereafter be constructed or
railway through there, and that it was ab- equipped
company shall
the
by
surd to undertake the building of a road constitute the line of railway hereingcross the continent.
after called the Canadian Pacific Railway."
That makes the point very clear that this
HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentle- extension, if made, will form naturally and
man misapprehends my remark. I have necessarily a part of the main line of the
moved an amendment which affects the company ; but, lest there should be any
extension of the line from Port Moody doubt on that, I observe, on referring to
west to English Bay, and I asked my hon. the Act of last year, cap. i, section 5,
friend what bearing his remarks have on which is the point in discussion, that prothe question which is before the House ? vision is made to meet a case of this kind.
As I understand by the amendment which
HON. MR. TRUDEL-Before I rose was suggested by the hon. leader of the
to make the few remarks I have made, it House, this afternoon, it is intended to
was my impression that the motion of the remove any doubt as to this preferential
hon. gentleman should be disposed of be- lien beingplaced in the same position as the
fore we got to the merits of the Bill, but lien under the Act of last year. I merely
the House knows very well the course call attention to the section to show that
followed. We discussed the whole matter by the Act of last year, the lien covered
in committee in detail, and afterwards the main line of railway, and any exwhen we came to a vote on the third tensions thereof.
reading we took up the discussion of the
main question. I followed the example
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My
of the hon. gentleman who had preceded hon. friend from Amherst has made part
me. He did not discuss the amendment of the explanation I intended to make,
of my hon. friend, and I thought it was and I have only to add one or two
understood that the whole question could sentences to it. In this very Bill that is
be discussed on the third reading.
now before us for a third reading, the
same thing is repeated as plainly as posHON. MR. DICKEY-I wish to say a sible, and I think, when I draw the hon.
word in regard to this amendment. It gentleman's attention to it, he will not
will be in the recollection of the House consider it necessary to proceed with his
that I called attention to the point yester- amendment.
This very Bill provides
day and expressed a doubt as to the se- that the $5,ooo,ooo loan shall
curity that the country was to have on
on
and be first
these explanations which are to be made. constitute, propertya of thelien and chargeand
country, real
the entire
that doubt in the form of an personal, now owned, or hereafter to be acI expressed
enquiry of the leader of the Government quired or owned, by it (save and except the
for information, and I received the answer lands granted, or to be granted, by the Govwhich referred me to the I4th section of errinment to the coinpany, under the contract
and
the agreement which is incorporated in between Her Majesty and the company,main
the Acts relating th'ereto), including its
the Act of Parliament in 1881. I had line of railway, with its tolls and revenues,
not had the opportunity to study the Act, the extension thereof, its branch lines of
but I have taken the trouble to look at it railway (except the Algoma branch), the
since, and as regards that particular section whole of its equipment, rolhng stock and
plant, and al] its steamers and vessels.
ofthe articles of incorporation which are
It is just as strong as the amendment
ratified by the Act, it does not seem to apply to this question at all because it is can be, and coming on top of the
merely applying to branches ; but when I language which the hon. gentleman from
HON. MR. POWER

Canadian Pacifie Railway [JULY 16, 1885] Completion Bill.

1385

Amherst has quoted from the Act, there expressed here by a great number of hon.
can be no possible doubt on the question. gentlemen will be realized. That is my
sincere hope. You will see by this amendHoN. MR. POWER-Under the cir- ment that I ask for nothing but what is percumstances I beg leave to withdraw the fectlyfairandlegitimate--whatwas promised
amendment.
by the Government, promised by Orderin-Council, promised by Act of Parliament,
By the consent of the House the and promised by and contained in the
amendment was withdrawn.
agreement with the Pacific Railway.
Nearly all the terminal facilities are at
THE SPEAKER-The motion is now Port Moody now with the water service.
on the third reading of the Bill.
We have had large storehouses built by
the Government there: we have a station
HoN. MR. McINNES moved that the house that will serve a very good purpose
Bill be not now read the third time, but that for a number of years, and I appeal to this
the said Bill be amended by adding to it House once more that the Government
shall go to work and build the ten-stall
the following clause:engine house for which they called for
CLUsE A.--" In case the company, by tenders on two or three different occaany extension of its main line, or by the con- sions-at least twice to my knowledge. I
struction of any branch line or lines, or by
any agreement for acquiring or leasing the ask for that, and in doing so I ask for
line or lines of any other railway company or nothing but what the Government are in
companies, or by any agreement for running duty bound to give to keep faith with the
powers over the line or -lines of any other people who invested on the strength of
railway company or companies, or by traffic
arrangements with any other railway com- the solemn promises and pledges made by
pany or companies, or by any other means or the government to the country.

device, establish (or purpose to establish) a
terminus on the Pacifie coast at any point
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
other than Port Moody, then the Government
of Canada shall not construct or establish hope that I may be able to persuade the
any such terminus, nor along the line or hon. gentleman from New Westminster to
lines of railway whereby the Canadian Pacifie withdraw this amendment. It is really
Railway is connected or proposed to be con suggesting that the Government is about
nected with such terminus, the engine house, to do or can do an illegal thing. It is
station buildings and water service, which, by
contract and agreement with the Canadian asking the House, if the House is of the
Pacifie Railway Company approved and same opinion as the hon. gentleman, to
ratified by the Act passed in the forty-fourth vote on the supposition that the Governyear of Her Majesty's reign, Chaptered One, ment can do and will do an illegal thing.
the Government is bound to construct, estab- The Government had a contract with the
lish and convey to the company, upon the
completion of the Eastern and Central Sec- Pacific Railway Company to build the
tions of the Canadian Pacifie Railway; but road to the Pacific coast. They ultithe said engine house, station buildings and mately selected Port Moody as the point
water service shall be constructed and estab- on the Pacific to which the railway was to
lished at Port Moody, notwithstanding the extend. They are bound by that. They
establishment or proposed establishment of
have no right to go beyond that. They
any other terminus."
have no right to spend a dollar of the
This is substantially the same motion public money beyond that point in termithat I moved in the Committee yesterday, nal buildings, and why it is assumed that
and as that motion was pretty fully dis- they are going to put up buildings illegally
cussed, I do not propose taking upany more without authority, and the House to be
of the time of the House. As far as the asked in advance of this illegal thing to
Bill itself is concerned, I thought of enter- say that they shall not do it, is a matter I
ing into a discussion and refuting what cannot understand. No Government with
appeared to my mind to be a great num- any self-respect would submit to be placed

ber of erroneous and wild statements that
have been made to-day; but perhaps
enough has been said on that subject, and
I only hope that the sanguine expectations

in such a position-that they intend to do
illegal things.

No government in Canada

will set to work to do such a thing.

The

Government has no legal right to do so.

1386 CanadianPaciñf Railway [SENATE] Completion Bill.
Supposing we asked for power to erect
those buildings west of Port Moody, then
would be the time to reject the Bill and to
say " no, we are not going to give you that
power; the terminus is at Port Moody
and you have no right to go beyond that
and we do not want you to spend any
money beyond Port Moody. The great
object of the country in giving those
millions is to establish a connection with
the Pacific Ocean, and that object once
accomplished the railway is finished."

buildings at Port Moody; but when we
see the tenders abandoned and members
are told that it is in consequence of the
Canadian Pacific Railway Company's influence it is sufficient to raise a doubt as
to what the result may be.
HoN. MR. McINNES-The Minister
of Justice says that it would be absurd for

me to ask the Government to do anything
illegal. I am not desirous to place the
Government in that position, but if it were
legal for them to call for tenders for the
HON. MR. POWER-Will the Minister erection of those buildings at Port Moody,
of Justice explain on what authority the I ask this House if it is illegal for them to
Government allowed the Pacific P1ailway erect the buildings there now?
Company to select Kicking Horse Pass
after the line was located through Yellow
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My
Head Pass.
hon. friend does not understand it. We
do not do anything below Port Moody
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-The we do it at Port Moody.
law was changed in that respect and the
Company were allowed to change the
HON. MR. McINNES-The meaning
location.
I attach to the amendment is, that the
terminal buildings shall be built at Port
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I quiteagree Moody-that is the engine house: as far
with what my hon. friend the leader of the as other buildings are concerned they are
Government has said that the Government not referred to in that amendment.
will not do an illegal thing, but they will
The House divided on the amendment
put the buildings up where the law directs.
What the people who have invested at which was lost on the following division :
Port Moody on the strength of the pledge
CONTENTS :
of the Government that the terminus would
Hon. Messrs.
be there say is, that tenders were out for
MeInnes,
the buildings at Port Moody, and they Armand,
Bellerose,
(New Westminster),.
were withdrawn. Tenders were received Guévremont,
Paq uet,
for the work, and we understand from high Haythorne,
Pelletier,
authority that those tenders were not Kaulbach,
Power,
accepted in consequence of the Pacific Leonard,
Stevens,-12.
Railway Company intending to extend the McClelan,
line down to English Bay, and it would
NON-CONTENTS:
be very much left to their disposal to say
Hon. Messrs.
where the terminal buildings would be.
Allan,
Macdonald, (Victoria),
Almon,
MacInnes,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No Bolduc,
(Burlington)
contract has been given out, and that is all Boucherville de,
Miller (Speaker),
Campbell, (Sir Alex.),Montmagny,
that can be said about it.
Carvell,
Nelson,
Clemow,
O'Donohoe,
HON.
MR. KAULBACH-Tenders DeBlois,
Plumb,
came in, and none of them was accepted Dickey,
Read,
in consequence of the Pacific Railway Girard,
Robitaille,
Schultz,
Company's interference. We know that Howlan,
Smith,
the Pacific Railway Company is a power- McKay,
Trudel,
McKindsey,
ful corporation, and we know the influence MeMillan,
Vidal.-27.
it has-a very proper influence I hope,
and for my part I do not believe that the
HON. MR. McINNES moved in amendt
Government will do anything but put the ment :HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Canadian Pacific Railway [JULY 16, 1885] Completion Bill.

1387

That the said Bill be not now read a third
THE SPEAKER-The motion is now
time, but that the said Bill be amended by on the third reading of the Bill.
adding thereto the following as Clause A
" Clause A.
"Notwithstandiug anything to the contrary in any Act relating to the Canadian
Pacifie Railway, the Company shall not by
any extension of its main hne, nor by the
construction of any branch line or lines, or
by the purchase, lease or other acquisition of
any line or lines of any other railway conpany, nor by any agreement for running arrangements over the line of any other railway
company,nor in any othernmanner whatsoever,
remove the terminus of the Canadian Pacifie
Railway Company from Port Moody to Coal
Harbor or to Enzlish Bay, or establish its
terminus at Coal H arbor or at English Bay,
within a period of ten years fron thte passing
of this Act."

HON. MR. TRUDEL-It has repeatedly been stated in this House that two

great advantages have been conferred upon
the country by the Canadian Pacific Railway Company. It is well known that the
condition on which the loan was granted
last year, was, that it should be final, and
that if the company failed to fulfil its obligations the Government might resume

possession of the railway. As I have already stated, what is proposed here considerably alters the position of the country.
I think we have as much security as be-

fore. It is my impression that the time
is not far distant when Canada, like a.
great many other countries of the world,
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-For my part will be obliged to buy up all the railways
I cannot accede to this amendment, be- within its borders. The time will come
cause, as the Minister of Justice said a when, if these roads are not taken posses-

moment ago, the law provides that the
terminus shall be at Port Moody, and as
long as that is in the law I believe the
amendment is not necessary ; but having
voted for it yesterday I voted for it to-day
on the same principle. Now the position
is changed. The law says that Port
Moody is the terminus, but it might happen later on that circumstances would
force the Government, in the interests of
the Company, to change the terminus,
and I do not want to prevent the Government from conuing before this House
and asking a change if it should be necessary.

sion of by the country, the two leading
corporations may unite and become more
powerful than the Government itself, and
the government of the country would become entirely impossible. It may be said
that there is a law on the Statute book
which prevents the Grand Trunk Railway
Company and the Canadian Pacific Railway Company from uniting. They cannot unite, it is true, while that law is in
existence, but if an agreement were made

lows:-

cost. The country will come to the conclusion that the advantages they derive

between the two companies it would be

very easy for them to use their influence
to have it repealed. There are public
reasons which have induced governments
in Europe to take possession of the railThe amendment was declared lost on ways. Supposing such a necessity should
the same division.
arise in Canada, then the Dominion would
find itself in this position : It would be
HoN. MR. POWER moved in amend- obliged to pay perhaps
$200,ooo,ooo to
ment :buy a railway towards the construction of
That the said Bill be not now read a third which the country has contributed nine
time, but that it be further amended as toi- tenths, or something more, of the original
" Any improvements which may be made
with a view of securing a barbor at Coal Harbor or English Bay, British Columbia, shall
be made at the expense of the Canadian Pacific Railway Company."

from the Canadian Pacific Railway have
not been as great as the cost, and at a
certain period-and this is the point to
which I wish to come-instead of giving
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It greater facilities to the company, the Govcannot be made at the expense of anybody ernment should seek simply to adhere to
the contract and say to the Canadian
else.
Pacific Railway Company, " Since you are
The amendment was declared lost on a unable to carry on your undertaking we
division.
will take possession of the work." I have

The late [SENATE] &nator Chapais.

1388

no doubt if the Government proposed to
take possession of the road as the property of the country now, very likely
the majority of the people might refuse
to sanction such a course It was that
reservation that I meant to make before
voting on the amendment. If it had not
been for the prejudices raised before 1878,
and even since then, against that great
national enterprise, the natural advantages
which the company had received would,
without doubt, have enabled them to
borrow in the money markets all that was
necessary to carry out their works, and
there would be no necessity for them to
make these applications to the country for
aid. The position in which the Government are placed is due to the feeling
which prevailed in the country and which
was aroused in the manner I have described, so that I cannot blame the Government or the Company for the course
which is being taken to-day. It is one of
the consequences of what took place in
the past. As the risk of the country is
not augmented by this Bill, I see no
reason why it should not pass.

A MORNING SITTING.
MOTION.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-In
pursuance of the notice which I gave
yesterday I beg to move that when this
House adjourns to-day it do stand adjourned until to-morrow at 11 a.m.
HON. MR. POWER-Is it not sometimes provided that each sitting of the
House shall count as a separate day ?
THE SPEAKER-That can be done
to-morrow with the consent of the House,
if necessary.

The motion was agreed to.
REPRESENTATION OF THE PROVINCES AND TERRITORIES
IN THE PRIVY COUNCIL.
MOTION WITHDRAWN.

HON. MR. McINNES-As these may
fairly be considered the dying hours of
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill the session, I think it advisable, with the
was read the third time and passed.
leave of the House, to withdraw this
motion :TIMBER CULLING BILL
That he will call the attention of this
House to the fact that out of the seven
THIRD READING.

HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL moved
the third reading of Bill (154) " An Act
further to amend the Acts relating to the
culling and measuring of timber in the
Provinces of Ontario and Quebec."

Provinces and four Territories comprising the

Dominion, only four Provinces are represented
in the Queen's Privy Council of Canada, and
the propriety of having each Province represented in our Privy Council.
I will bring it up on some future
occasion.

The motion was withdrawn.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
THE LATE SENATOR CHAPAIS.
was read the third time and passed.
The Senate adjourned at 5.40 p.m.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Friday,July 17th, 1885.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
HON. MR. TRUDEL

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
that the House adjourn during pleasure
in order to enable Senators to attend the
funeral of the late Hon. Mr. Chapais.

The motion was agreed to, and the
House adjourned during pleasure.
At 5 p.m. the House was resumed.
HON.
SIR ALEX CAMPBELLWe come from the solemn ceremony
which we have just witnessed, with our

The late [JULY 17, 1885] Senator Chapai8.

1389

minds reverting to the virtues and h e sire of any of us to lead the life our late
long service of our colleague, Mr. Chapais. colleague led for very many years. Since he
He was a man for whom I had the keen- withdrew from the Government we know
est respect, and, I think, everyone who that in this House every act of his, every
knew him must have participated in that word he spoke, sprang from his own confeeling. He was a thoroughly worthy and scientjous feeling of what was right to be
upright man, and, I think, one of the best said and done. He acted on the very
men I ever met. In saying that he was one highest principles that could guide the
of the best men, I mean he was one of the human mind, and therefore we may well
most pious men I ever met. I conceived desire, at our latter end, to feel that we are
from my first acquaintance with him the as ready to die as he was. I think no
strongest regard for him. I knew him more fitting tribute could be paid to his
first in 1858, I think ; I afterwards served memory than to say that none of us could
with him in the Government for some wish to be called away, and feel more preten or twelve years, and in that way I be- pared to meet his God than he was.
came closely acquainted with his characHON. MR. TRUDEL- Belonging to
ter, and to be closely acquainted with his
character was, certainly, to respect and the same nationality as the late Mr. Chalove him. I do not think anyone who pais, perhaps it will not be out of place
knew him as intimately as I did could for me to express my high sense of grati
express his feelings in any less strong tude for the honor paid to his memory by
language. That was my feeling for the both leaders of this House. In the meanlate Mr. Chapais. I heard, with great time, as you, hon. gentlemen, have known
emotion, this morning of his sudden the lamented Senator as one of those who
death ; it is a warning to me and to was most devoted to the nationality to
others who have served long in public which he belonged, allow me to say a few
life, entering into it, as I did, about the words in French. I think it is due to him
same time as he did, or a little later, that that the euology should be pronounced in
our days are passing away. From my the language which he spoke during his
intimate knowledge of his life and charac- lifetime. In his long public career he
ter I am quite sure that each of us mav was known throughout the Dominion
well exclaim, "May I die the death of as a representative French-Canadian.
the righteous, and may my latter end be He expressed the views and sentiments of those he represented : he
like his."
maintained their rights and he protected
HON. MR. SCOTT-I am sure that we the interests of the province from which
all share in the language expressed by the he came. He was recognized in all parts
leader of the House, in speaking as he of the country as the champion,par exceldoes of the late Mr. Chapais. I had also lence, of true conservative principles.
the pleasure of knowing him very inti- That he was infiuenced in all his acts
mately for a great number of years. My by a spirit of justice and fair play is
acquaintance with him dated from the manifest from the recognition of those
long session of 1858, in Toronto. He high qualities in his character by the
then, being a vigorous and active man, leaders on both sides of the House
spoke frequently and at length on all sub- to-day. The fact that the Senate, out
jects in which the province of Quebec of respect to his memory, adjourned
was interested. To know him was to feel to-day to attend his funeral and that the
that he was the possessor of just those leaders on both sides have expressed their
qualities that my hon. friend has described high appreciation of his sterling qualities
-a high appreciation of integrity, a high must be a matter of gratification to all
sense of honor, and allthose qualities which his old colleagues, and especially to those
mark the true gentleman. His death was of his own nationality from the Province
a shock to us all, because I think it was of Quebec. Permit me to express my
only Wednesday last that he was here par- gratitude for these tokens of respect for
ticipating in our proceedings and register- our departed friend and colleague, and the
ing his vote in the Senate. As the leader hearty concurrence manifested in the
of the House has said, it might be the de- sentiments which have been express-

1390

The Itebellion [SEN ATE] in the North- Wet.

ed by the leaders on both sides of the amply vindicating the motion which I now
House.
offer for the consideration of the House,
In the midst of profound peace the Min-

HON. MR. FLINT-I wish to bear my
humble testimony to the worth of rny late
friend and colleague. I have known him
about 20 years. We formed what I might
consider an almost intimate friendship at
the start of our acquaintance, and that
friendship continued down almost to the
day of his death. I saw him in the House
some three or four days ago.
HON. MR.

Wednesday.

ister of Militia was called upon, without a
day's warning to put into the field a

considerable force of active militia.

The

news of the necessity of this step reached
Ottawa on the 22nd of March. Under
the vigorous administration of my hon.
friend the Minister of Militia the Majorgeneral commanding left for the scene of

the disturbance on the following day. On
the 24th orders were issued to several

PLUMB-He was here on regiments to hold themselves in readiness
to proceed to the North-West; on the
27th, the first detachment of troops left

HQN. MR. FLINT-I spoke with him
then and he seemed to be cheerful and in
good health, and I little expected that he
would have gone from amongst us so
suddenly. Taking everything into con
sideration, his death is his gain, while it is
our loss. I believe he was a man of sterling worth, I knew him to be a man of
even temperament, always willing to do
what he believed to be right, and I think
we have lost a colleague whose place it
will be hard to fill. I make these remarks
because I feel deeply the loss of my old
lamented friend, and my hope is that I
shall meet him in a better world.
THE REBELLION IN THE NORTHWEST.
MOTION.

The order of the day having been
read,That the thanks of this House be tendered
to Major-General Middleton, C.B., commanding the field force of the militia of Canada,
and the officers, non-conimissioned officers
and ien of the militia and of the mounted

police force recently engaged in the suppres-

sion of the rebellion in the NorLh-Weet
Territories, for their eminent services whilst
engaged on that duty, and to express the
Senate's appreciation of ·the valour and conduct of those who have perished, and their
sympathy with their relatives and friends.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL said:
The duty which I rise to discharge is a
novel one. No one in this generation of
Canadians bas everhad occasion to propose
a vote of thanks to an army in the field,

for Winnipeg, and they were followed up
day by day by others until the force there
had reached 4637 men, 473 horses and 8
guns. On the 3rd of April, the first
detachment of troops reached Winnipeg,
they had passed over 1305 miles of
railway, and 8o or 90 miles of gaps,

over which
the

they had

to march

in

most inclement weather and over

the worst possible roads.

On the 24th of

April, after another railway journey and
nearly 200 miles of marching, they encountered the enemy at Fish Creek. The
engagement at Batoche followed in a few
days. The quickness with which this
force was put into the field, a distance of
15oo or 16oo miles from headquarters;
the thoroughness of its equipment ; the
quickness of its movements reflect the
greatest credit on all concerned. The
Major-General commanding had been
selected by my bon. friend from amongst
many in Her Majesty's army, well fitted
to command her militia in this country.
The wisdom of Mr. Caron's selection bas
been amply vindicated by the conduct of
General Middleton in the field; by his
wisdom in forming his plans, his skilfulness in conducting them to execution, and
the great care which he manifested regarding the lives of those citizen soldiers entrusted to his care. In the earliest
engagement at Fish Creek, the MajorGeneral felt, I do not doubt, that it was
necessary to set an example to the force

under his command, composed, as it was,

altogether of civilians who had never seen
a shot fired in anger. His two aides-decamp were wounded, and one had two
and, although ours bas not been a very horses shot under him, and the Major-

large one, it bas done effective service, General himself received a bullet through
HON. MR. TRUDEL

The Rebe2lion [JULY 17, 1885] in the North- We8t.
his cap; all showing that he had put him-.
self perhaps unduly forward, and for the
purpose, as I have no doubt, of stimulating bis men by bis own example. The
fact that our troops behaved so well in
the North-West and evinced such steady
courage in the presence of the enemy, I
dare say we owe much to General Middleton. From all that we know, it is
impossible that troops could have been
led with more judgment, or indeed with
more gallantry. That they were able to
take the field so quickly and so well
equipped in every way, that their movements were so prompt and so complete,
we owe chiefly, I beleive, to the vigorous
administration of my hon. friend, the
Minister of Militia, whose zeal and
thoroughness and assiduity in the discharge of the novel and arduous duties
which the circumstances threw upon him
deserve the highest praise. He is not
included in this vote of thanks, because it
would not be usual to do so, but the
country well knows, I think, that it is
greatly his debtor in the matters to
which I have referred, and I have every
reason to believe that he was effectively
seconded by Colonel Powell, Deputy Adjutant General, and Colonel Panet, Deputy
Minister of Militia, and by the
General of Stores, Lt.Director
Colonel Macpherson. The precautions
which were taken to keep up the stores
and ammunition by despatching large quantities from Ottawa through the United
States the moment the troops left this part
of the country showed great foresight and
good management, whilst the hospital arrangements were exceedingly complete and
effective. That service was placed under
the command of Surgeon-General Bergin,
and any one who has studied the details
will arrive at the conclusion that he discharged it with foresight, and thoroughness, and sound judgment. The courage
of our men was undoubted, and the expectations of the country in this respct
have been amply realized; but I don't
think that anyone expected from the young
recruits who formed the forces the powers
of endurance which they displayed. They
commenced the campaign at the worst
possible period of the year as regards exposure to wet and the most trying kind
of cold. In eight days they accomplished
the distance from Ottawa to Winnipeg,

1891

including marches amounting to between
8o and 90 miles over very rough country,
in snow and slush, one may safely say
without roads. When they left Winnipeg
early in April for the field the first detachment marched from Qu'Appelle were
engaged in the skirmish at Fish Creek,
where they were two days or three ; they
defeated the enemy with considerable loss
both there and in the affair at Batoche on
the 8th of May, and arrived at Prince
Albert in ten days, a distance of 196
miles, which was traversed by them, including the engagements I have spoken
of, at the rate of i miles a day. The
march of the column of Colonel Otter,
from Battleford to Poundmaker's Reserve,
a distance of 35 miles, and the return over
the same distance after having defeated
the enemy in a skirmish of five or six
hours' duration, was a wonderful achievement for young troops. I am confident
that the marching powers of the force
would have received the praise of the most
experienced officers. The gallantry and
spirit with which they made the rush at
Batoche on an enemy of unknown strength
entrenched in a strong position, was a
strong evidence of the high courage of the
men and of the spirit with which they
were led by Cols. Williams and Grasett.
Since that engagement the country bas to
mourn the loss of one of those who took
the foremost part in it-Col. Williams, of
the Midland Battalion-a soldier of high
courage and gallantry, whose name will
live as one of the bravest and best soldiers
who fought under General Middleton in
the campaign. The Major-General, upon
whom nothmg seems to have been thrown
away, relates in his dispatch a little anecdote which I will repeat to the House.
It is in the account of the battle of Fish
Creek. He says : " I cannot conclude
" without mentioning a little bugler of the
" 9oth Regiment, who made himself par" ticularly useful in carrying ammunition
" to the right flank when the fire was very
" hot. This he did with peculiar non" chalance, walking calmly about, crying
"'now boys, who's for cartridges ?' "
The little fellow's name is William
Buchanan, and it will also have a
place in the history of this campaign.
The hospital service, under the charge of
Dr. Roddick, Deputy Surgeon-General,
and our colleague, Dr. Sullivan, as pur-

1392

The Rebellion [SE NATE] in te North- Wet.

veyor-general, was admirably conducted,
and they were assisted in the most efficient
manner by a number of ladies, most or all
of whom were Sisters of Charity, or of the
order of St. John the Divine; and that
constant friend of Canada Her Royal
Highness Princess Louise, foremost as she
has ever been when any good work was to
be done for this country, sent out many
hospital stores, and a surgeon of her own
selection, for the purpose of dispensing
them. Nothing was wanting to the comfort of those who were wounded or ill and
in hospital from other causes, and it will
be a source of pleasure to the House to
learn that the recoveries were remarkable,
owing chiefly, no doubt, to skilful medical
attendance and good nursing, and partly
perhaps to the climate where the operations were being conducted. The commissariat service was placed chiefly with
the Hudson's Bay Company, and I observe
that ny hon. friend the Minister of Militia
speaks of the officer who had charge of it,
Mr. J. Wrigley, in the highest terms, and
says that his activity and zeal and
tact did him honour. While all behaved so well it would be invidious
to mention individuals, nor is it usual,
and therefore this vote of thanks is confined
by name to General Middleton; and all
the others deeply and justly entitled to the
thanks of the country are grouped under
the ordinary phrase of officers and men,
including the North-West Mounted Police
who did excellent service there, although
the main body was for a long time obliged
to remain inactive at Prince Albert, but a
detachment did excellent service at Battleford, and the advance upon Poundmaker
and elsewhere in that, and other sections
of the country. This House, however,
will, I am sure, grant me its pardon in so
far departing from the rule I have adverted
to as to do it as well as myself the pleasure
of referring to the gallant services of Lieut.
Pelletier, the son of our colleague, the hon.
member for Grandville (Mr. Pelletier,) who
was wounded in the advance under Col.
Otter upon Poundmaker. Happily he has
recovered, and is now, I believe, on his
way home with the Quebec Voltigeurs. I
congratulate my hon. friend upon having
a son who has so well discharged his duty,
and of whom he has such just reason to
be proud. I move with every confidence,
hon. gentlemen :-

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

1. ''hat the thanks of this House be given
to Major-General Frederick D. Middleton,
C.B., for the distinguished skill and ability
with which he conducted the military operations in the North-West Territories, which
resulted in the suppression of the rebellion
against the authority of Her Majesty.
2. That this House doth acknowledge and
highly approve the gallantry, discipline and
good conduct displayed by the officers, noncommissioned officers and men of the Militia
Force of Canada and of the North-West
Mounted Police in the suppression of the said
rebellion.
3. That this House doth acknowledge with
admiration the distinguished valor and con-

duct of those who perished during the
operations in the North-West in the service
of their country, and desires to express its
deep synipathy with their relatives and
friends.
4. That Mr. Speaker do communicate said
resolution to Major-General Frederick Middleton, and that he be requested by Mr. Speaker
to signify the same to the several officers and
men referred to therein.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I am sure, hon.
gentlemen, that there can be but one feeling in this chamber on the propriety of
this motion. The Canadian troops, under
Major-General Middleton, have promptly
and successfully quelled the insurrection
in the North-West, and it is a fitting tribute that the Parliament of Canada should
offer this vote of thanks. In the Imperial
Parliament we know that votes of thanks
of this kind are of frequent occurrence.
The leader of the Government, in introducing these resolutions to our notice, remarked the few occasions, if ahy, on
which a proposition of this kind has been
submitted to Parliament. I do not, myself, recollect any occasion on which we
have been asked to put on record a vote

of thanks to a Canadian army. When
the occasion did arise to call forth our
militia and test the courage of Canadian
troops it has been gratifying to see how
our citizen soldiers have established their
claim to the good opinion of us all.

(Cheers.)

When Parliament met in Jan-

uary, none of us had the most remote

conception that there was a domestic
warfare looming up in the distance, and

we were all shocked when the news
reached us of the occurrence at Duck
Lake. The public mind over the Dominion felt that prompt action was necessary in order to preserve the peace of the
Dominion The call for volunteers went

The Rebellion [JU LY 17, 1885] in the North- West.
forth, and we know how readily that was
responded to. (Applause.) From all
parts of the Dominion offers of troops
poured in, and the gentleman at the head
of the Militia Department, who was
charged more particularly with the selection of the troops, had a difficulty in discriminating amongst those who wished to
be sent forward. (Hear, hear.) It speaks
well for this country that we have such a
citizen soldiery-a body of men who, although unused to military life further than
reviews on grand occasions, and meetings
for their own amusement and the gratification of their countrymen, have been
found, when the occasion called for it, to
be not merely holiday soldiers, but that in
active service they had all the grit and
ability of regular, disciplined troops,
able to endure hardships of no ordinary character and, moreover, that they had,
what is often lacking in mere professional
soldiers, an ardent devotion to their
country and a determination to distinguish
themselves in arms. (Hear, hear.) The
hon. gentleman who introduced these
resolutions to our notice has gone so fully
into the subject that I do not intend to
follow him. I may however draw attention
to one or two points that struck me as
worthy of note. The first and most
important incident that had a bearing on
the whole question was the fact that when
the engagement took place at Fish Creek
we found Major-General Middleton was
not willing to send his' volunteer troops to
a point of danger that he would not himself
dare brave. At Fish Creek he led his
men and was found, one part of the day,
at so forward a point that he proved a
mark for skilled riflemen who were concealed in the pits. I need only call the
attention of the House to the fact that his
two aides were disabled and he, himself,
received a shot through his cap. One of
his aides had his horse shot under him
first, and then, not willing to retire, and
getting another horse, he was disabled by
a bullet which drove him from the field
and the other aide, Lieut. Doucet, was also
compelled to go to the rear in consequence
of a wound. The effect of the MajorGeneral showing himself in the front and
being willing to expose himself in the
manner he did so pluckily, had, I think
a sympathetic influence on the troops under
his command. It at once established a
N 3

1393

tie between the men and their general, and
that was evidenced throughout the whole
compaign. He found them willing soldiers,
determined to go where he commanded
them. There was no looking back-the
difficulty was to keep them from rushing
to the front and madlyexposing themselves.
It became necessary to adopt the style of
warfare pursued on the other side. It was
very much a battle of duellists-men
selected on each side for their skill as
marksmen, and the effort was to hit your
man and keep yourself under cover.
Unlike the battles of the past it
was a combat largely of skilled
marksmen, and therefore we know
that the smallest exposure led to men
being struck, and Major-General Middleton had difficulty preventing his men
being killed. I think it is a subject
matter worthy of notice here that knowing
the class of men he had under his command he was sparing of them. (Cheers.)
He did not desire to sacrifice them. He
did not send them to the front in large
bodies, by which means, possibly, the
battle might soon have been ended, but
which would have resulted in the loss of
life being very much larger. The whole
campaign has been most skilfully managed.
I am glad the Minister of Justice mentioned Colonel Otter's march through the
Cree reserve, because at the time the
propriety of it was somewhat criticised.
Very many thought he went without
orders-that it was unwise for him to do
so with the comparatively small force, and
knowing that Poundmaker had a very
large band of warriors, I think four times
at least the number of Colonel Otter's
force. The march from Battleford was
certainly worthy of notice, particularly as
the men marched through the greater part
of the night and commenced the fight
before the dawn of day, before they had
received any refreshment. They went
into the fight without waiting to rest, and
were only compelled to withdraw because
their two guns gave out, the woodwork of
the carriages being in bad order. The
commander very properly, I think, retired.
At the moment, it was thought he had
accomplished nothing, but those who
passed that judgment were rather premature, because the shock that Poundmaker got in that engagement stopped his
joining Big Bear and Riel at points further

1394A

The kebellion [SENATE] in the Nortk- We8t.

east.
(Cheers.)
Therefore it accomplished all that could be expected. I
need not refer to the subsequent fights at
Batoche which completed the quelling of
the insurrection. It was all promptly
done, and without any greater loss of life
than I suppose is necessarily incidental to
a campaign of that kind. It is worthy of
note in my judgment that the General
sought to save, as far as possible,
the lives of his men. (Hear, hear.)
Not like some other generals of modern
times, who boasted that they only thought
of the end to be accomplished, and the
time within which the victory was to be
achieved, and then the holocaust was to
be offered up to attain those two ends.
The victory was obtained in the NorthWest by the exercise of prudence and
judgment backed by firmness and decision.
Of course the hardships were very great.
Those young men, many of thern from
offices, were purely holiday soldiers, not
accustomed to fatigue of that kind, and it
is marvellous to think what they endured.
I do not desire to criticize the commissariat, because, as my hon. friend has
said, it was a new experience for any of
our departments, and, I am bound to say,
it was admirably provisioned ; at the same
time, in the novelty of the situation, some
mishaps must have occurred, and those
men were obliged to live upon food to
which they had not been accustomed.
Hard tack and salt pork, probably, are,
in the judgment of some, the best food
with which to go through a campaign,
but many of those men found it difficult
tokeep up their strength on such rations.
Then, it must be remembered it was a
season of the year which is, probably, the
most inclement in this climate, March
and April, with snow and slush on the
ground, the men sometimes overheated
by day and suffering from intense cold at
night. All this was endured without a
murmur. It is true that a good deal has
been written about it in the press, but so
far as the volunteers were concerned, and
so far as we can hear, they were quite
content to endure the sacrifices without
murmuring or flinching.
In a short,
sharp struggle like that, no doubt, we
have to lament some fallen brave. It was
incidental to a campaign that some lives
had to be sacrificed at the shrine of their
country, and we can but express our deep
HON. MR. SCOTT.

regret that those lives have been lost
under the circumstances. The names of
those who have fallen will be written in
the history of this country, and I have no
doubt their memories will be warmlycherished, not only by their comrades-in-arms
who fought with them, but by the whole
Canadian people.
(Cheers.)
To the
relatives, the families who have lost those
near and dear to them, we can but
offer up our tribute of sympathy.
Those families will feel that the brave
heroism that has resulted in the loss of
valuable life, is duly appreciated by a
grateful country, and it is therefore some
slight consolation to them to know that
we all deeply sympathise with them in
their loss, and to feel that the whole
people of Canada are grateful for the sacrifice they have made. I have much
pleasure in seconding the motion of my
hon. friend. (Cheers.)
HON. MR. ALLAN-It would seem aimost superflous to take up the time of the
House by saying anything more in support
of a resolution which, I am sure, commends
itself to the most hearty support of every
one of us; a resolution, moreover, which
has been spoken to so ably and eloquently
by the leader of the House and the leader
of the Opposition. At the same time I
feel that I can hardly sit silent when a
vote of this kind is being taken, without
venturing even for a few brief moments to
express the feelings of pride and satisfaction with which one's heart is full at the
gallant conduct of our volunteers, and the
satisfaction one feels at the proof which has
thus been given us that notwithstanding
all our party strife and bickering Canadian
patriotism is something more than a name;
that Canadians are willing to give up ease
and comfort and private interests, aye,and
sacrifice life itself, when the safety and
honor of our common country are concerned. In this spirit I see an element
of national strength at which we may well
rejoice. When we see our volunteer
militia from all parts of the Dominion-men from Ontario, men from the Maritime
Provinces and men from Quebec standing
shoulder to shoulder to put down insurrection and restore order, I think we may
well feel that in the service of our common
country Canadians know no distinction of
party or race, (applause,) that we are all

The Rebellion [JU LY 17, 1885] in theANorth-West.

1395

Canadians, loyal subjects of one Sovereign
native soil
to our
yet
attached
and glorying in the young, vigorous,
been so
has
national life which
freely accorded to us, while we are still
attached and loyal members of that great
and mighty empire to which it is our pride
to belong. (Applause.) I shall not attempt to detain the House by dwelling
upon the pluck and endurance displayed
by our volunteers, their cheerful and
patient endurance of hardships and privations, and their gallant conduct under fire,
which has called forth such high encomiums
from the Major-Generalcommanding them,
and I shall only briefly say how heartily I
concur with what has fallen from the leader
of the Government, and in what has fallen
from the leader of the Opposition in
reference to the brave and gallant MajorGeneral, himself, and especially to the considerate and judicious and, if I may use
the expression, " the fatherly way" in which
he commanded our citizen troops through-

the sea," and those who are descended
from them, and by our brave and loyal

whom we are so justly proud were drawn
from all classes of the community as well
as from all parts of the Dominion. They
come from the town and from the country,
from the counting house and the farm,
from the bank and from the workshops,
and the universities, and the legislature,
law and medicine, aye, and the Church, too,
were all represented-all were equally
ready and anxious to obey the summons
when it came, and all have equally borne
themselves throughout the whole campaign as brave and loyal soldiers. I
desire not to speak in any vainglorious or boastful spirit as if our
brief North-West campaign were a great
war, but I think I may surely go this
far and say that in the spirit which has
been evoked and which has been displayed
by men of all ranks, and from all parts of
the Dominion, we have a cheering proof
that Canadians, without distinction, believe that they have a country which is well
worth making sacrifices for, and I will only
add I feel assured that in this same
spirit of brave and manly patriotism, the
noble heritage which God has given us
on this North American Continent will
be guarded and preserved alike by those
who come from " the little isles beyond

that this rebellion should be stamped out
immediately, and we all agree in complimenting the gallant officers who commanded the Canadian troops; but at the
same time, for those who had sympathy
with a portion of the population out
there I may say it was to them most gratifying to find General Middleton displaying
such a moderate and charitable feeling
towards those deluded people. It is a
fact that, as far as we can judge, our
Major-General found means to reconcile
in a high degree his sense of duty as a
commanding officer with a spirit of
moderation and charity very seldom found
under such circumstances. Therefore I
thought it was my duty, in the name of
the province which we specially represent
here, to compliment him on this aspect of
the affair.

fellow subjects who trace back their lineage to that great country which first
brought Christianity and civilization to
our shores. (Applause.) All ionor, then,
gentlemen to our volunteers, and I only
hope that when the vote is taken it will be
taken all standing, and it will show that it
is not merely lip service we render them,
but we offer them the homage of our
hearts. (Cheers.)
HON. MR.

TRUDEL-Before the vote

is taken I wish to add a few words. I
think amongst the merits of the general
campaign in the North-West there is one
which should be pointed out, and which
has -not been referred to. It is no secret
that amongst those unfortunate rebels
there were many for whom the people of
one of our provinces had great sympathy.
There are two questions in this matter.
There is the question of the causes of the
out the whole campaign. I would desire rebellion and there is the rebellion itself.
however for a moment to call the attention I think there are not two opinions on that
of the House to the fact that the men of point. We were all united in the feeling

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I will not
occupy the time of the House with any
extended remarks. I merely rise to say a
word for those volunteers who were not
sent to the front. I know that the militia
of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, and
particularly those of my own county, the
battalion which I have the honor to command, were ready at the call of duty to go

1396 Administrationof Justce [SE NATE] Y. W. TerritoriesBill.
to the front, and chafed because they were
not allowed to do so. They showed as
loyal a zeal to serve their country as those
who were fortunate enough to have the
-opportunity of showing it, and I could not
help iising to say a few words in favor of
those who were chafng at not being
called out to assist in putting down the
rebellion. (Applause.)
HON. MR. POIRIER-Having before
my mind the fact that I was myself, until
a few months ago, a civil servant, I wish
to add to the expressions of gratitude
which have fallen from those who have
spoken upon those resolutions to General
Middleton and the troops in the field,
some recognition of the services rendered
by the officials in the Militia Department.
They have not risked their lives or spilled
their blood in the defence of their country, but they have devoted themselves in
.a manner beyond all praise to the duties
of their office. They gave all their leisure
hours, working day and night voluntarily
and cheerfully to aid the Minister of
Militia in accomplishing the great work
which he has brought to a conclusion in a
manner so creditable to himself and to his
country. I wish their names could be
added as servants deserving equally with
those who fought in the field, the thanks
of their country.

HON. MR. BELLEROSE-It was
hardly an omission because it was my intention, but for the fact that it is now six
o'clock and the House seems desirous to
have the discussion ended before recess,
to have referred to the services rendered by the Militia Department I
felt, while the leaders on both sides
were speaking in terms so well merited of the volunteers and their General,
that I could have added something to the
subject. I join in the tribute which
has been paid to the Minister of
Militia. (Hear, hear.) If the General in command has proved to be the best
-man for the position, he was selected by
the Minister of Militia, and the selection
must have met with the approval of the
Government. It was a great advantage
to have at the head of our forces such an
efficient commander as General Middleton, a man for whom the country will al-ways entertain a sentiment of gratitude;
HON. MR. KAULBACH.

nevertheless, I believe the Minister of
Militia is entitled to great praise for the
manner in which he managed his Department under such trying circumstances,
HON. MR. POWER-I wish to say that
I quite concur in the remark of the hon.
member from DeLanaudiere as to the
Minister of Militia. I was prevented from
speaking by the fact that the leaders of
both parties had spoken on the resolution,
and I thought that was sufficient at this
stage of the session ; and I felt it was the
less necessary for me to add anything,
because I had at an earlier stage of the
session expressed my own humble sentiments with regard to the efficiency of the
Minister of Militia and his officers.

The motion was agreed to, all the
members rising in their places and voting
unanimously.
It being six o'clock the Speaker left the
chair.
AFTER RECESS.

ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE IN
THE NORTH-WEST TERRITORIES BILL.
COMMONS AMENDMENTS

AGREED TO.

A message was received from the House
of Commons to return Bill (V), "An Act
respecting the administration of justice
and other matters in the North-West Territories," with the following amendments:
Page 1, line 17.-After "member" insert

"or he may, with the advice of his Council

or Assembly, as the case may be, from time
to time rearrange such electoral districts, or
any of them, so as to secure as far as possible
in the Council or Assembly of the North-

West, Territories the representation of each

district, not exceeding one thousand square
miles and containing one thousand inhabitants of adult age; and insert the following as
Clause A:-

" The seventy-fourth section of the said

Act is hereby amended by substituting the
word 'four' for the word 'three' in the fourth
line thereof."
Page 3, line 1.-After "law" insert the
following as Clause B:-

" The Minister of the Interior may, subject

to the approval of the Governor-in-Council,
make such arrangements with the LieutenantGovernor of Manitoba as seem reasonable as

The Printing [JULY 17, 1885] of Parliament.

1397

to the compensation to be made by Canada to
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I
that Province for the care and maintenance speaking of the amendment.
of persons detained in the said asylum or in
such temporary asylum as aforesaid."
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Wel,
we sent it down as soon as we could to
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
last of these amendments is to enable the the other Chamber, and they amended it
returned
it as
soon
as
Governor in Council and the Lieutenant- and
to
Governor of Manitoba to make such ar- they could. The amendment,
my mind, is not of a very serious
rangments as they may consider advisable
or necessary for keeping patients from the character. We permit them to change
North West Territories in the Manitoba the bounds, provided the population and
asylum. The second amendment is to in- area shall be so and so. I think there is
crease the number of stipendiary magistrates nothing dangerous in that ; I think it is a
from three to four. The other amend- very just provision. Then, as to the
ment is with reference to a provision which other provision about increasing the numthe bill originally contaned for the re-ad- ber of Stipendiary magistrates, there is
justment of constituencies. Under the nothing dangerous about that, or the
existing law their boundaries are fixed and other provision about the inmates of
cannot be changed. The bill, as it origi- lunatic asylums. I think there is nothing
nally stood, provided for changing the in the amendments to which objection
boundaries of constituencies, and this should be taken.
amendment is to give further power to
The motion was agreed to.
provide that no electoral district shall exceed î,ooo square miles in extent, and
BILLS INTRODUCED.
that a district containing a certain population shall be entitled to representation.
Bill (157), "An Act to amend the
I move that the House concur in the
several Acts relating to Duties of Customs
amendment.
and Excise." (Sir Alex. Campbell.)
Bill (161), "An Act to amend the Act,
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-It strikes
46 Vic., Chap. 9, intituled, " An Act to
me that this is a rather late period of the provide for the salaries, and superannuasession, and rather a hurried manner, for tion, and travelling allowances of certain
carrying such an important measure, one Judges of certain Provincial
Courts.
settling the limits of the electoral districts (Sir Alex. Campbell.)
and it rather too much, in my mind, resembles a certain measure with which we THE PRINTING OF PARLIAMENT.
were familiar a session or two ago in Canada. It seems to me that a bill going
TENTH REPORT OF THE cOMMITTER
down from the Senate and sent back to us
ADOPTED.
containing this amendment, dealing with
a very important matter in connection
HON. MR. READ
with the future ofthese Territories, should of the tenth report of moved the adoption
the Joint Commitnot be dealt with in this hasty and irregu- tee on the printing of Parliament. He
should said : This report recommends that the
lar way. A measure of that kind
be brought down betimes in the session, Clerk, during the recess, advertise for the
and an opportunity given for both printing of Parliament. It also recombranches of Parliament to consider ma- mends that Mr. Wiltshire, who is on the
turely such an important matter. Of sessional staff, be promoted to the
course we have no alternative but to let permanent staff. It was found necessary,
the bill pass, but I shall certainly not vote last year during the recess, to employ
for it.
labor to the amount of $120.
His sessional pay is $250, and it is proposed
HON. SIR ALEX.

CAMPBELL-I

that

it

be

increased

to

$5oo,

so

think my hon. friend is unjust. The Bill that it will be a very
small
was brought down long ago. It was be- increase, and the clerk says the service of
fore us three weeks ago.
someone is necessary. It also recommends

1398

Railuay [SENATE] Subsgidie8 Bill.

tion of the first report of the Joint Committee of both Houses on the Library of
Parliament. He said : The subject of
this report is a recommendation to Parliament to place upon the estimates again
$2,ooo for the publication of the work of
the late Librarian, Mr. Todd. I have
delayed moving the adoption of the report awaiting the action of the House of
I observe now that the
Commons.
House of Commons have put in the estimates the sum of $2,ooo, which is recommended by the Committee, and I would
therefore ask that the report be now conHON. MR. POIRIER-Before this motion is carried, I should like to say a few curred in.
words with reference to the efficiency of
The motion was agreed to.
one of the employees connected with this
report-I mean Mr. Romaine of the
RAILWAY SUBSIDIES BILL.
House of Commons the manager of the
printing of both Houses. This gentleman
SECOND READING.
has performed a very valuable work by
arranging in alphabetical order our indexes
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
and for this and other deserts he has been
the second reading of Bill (158), "An Act
paid in the other House a well merited
the grant of certain subsidies
tribute. As he is a good old friend of to authorize
in land for the construction of railways
mine, and as I know his efficiency well, I
therein mentioned." He said: This is a
desire to call the attention of the House
Bill for the purpose of granting aid to certo his services. With your permission I tain railways for that purpose, in the first
will reid this short extract from the Monplace, of extending the Canadian Pacific
treal Gazette:This afternoon the report of the Printing Railway to Quebec and, in the next place,
Committee was adopted on the motion of Mr. for making a short line between Montreal
Thomas White, chairman. Mr. Trow said: and the Ports of Halifax and St. John
" They, on thepart of the committee, desired New Brunswick. The grants that it is
to acknowledge the services of Mr. Romaine, proposed to give are mentioned in the
who has prepared the alphabetical index of
the sessional papers. Members will find the Bill, and as it is the exclusive right of the
index a great convenience in arranging their House of Commons to grant them, I
papers in order. In any business we have suppose no hon. gentleman will desire to
had with Mr. Romaine, i have alwavs found take the responsibility of resisting the Bill
him to be one of the most practical men in as a whole, and therefore I necd not enthe service of the Government. He has, by
bis energv and ability, been the means of large on the advantages of each particular
saving thousands of dollars to the country grant. I am quite ready to discuss the
through the standards and various contriv- merits of each particular grant if hon.
ances for saving time and labor, which he gentlemen desire to enter upon the subhas introduced into his department." The
mychairman of the committee endorsed tha re. ject : but in the meantime I content
marks of Mr Trow. He said : "I ainsure self with moving the second reading of
every honorable member of this House will the Bill.
alterations in the form of printing indexes, distributed here to-day, by which
means we will be able to find all the neçessary papers that are printed. You will
get these a very few days after the session,
and instead of being, as heretofore, in the
sessional papers in a less convenient form
they will be in a list by themselves, so that
you will be able to tell just where to find
the different subjects ; and there is to be a
full description of subjects. I may say
that the House of Commons have adopted
this 1oth report.

admit that if there is one officer in the public
service who has saved three or tour or half a
dozen times his salary, that gentleman is the

HoN. MR. POWER-I have had ochead of the stationery department in this casion to speak more than once on this
subject. It is one in which the people of
House."
Halifax particularly, and of the maritime
The motion was agreed to.
provinces generally, are very much interTHE PARLIAMENTARY LIBRARY. ested. I do not propose to say at the
about
the
present time anything
FIRST REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ADOPTED
merits of the line which I had the
HON. MR. PLUMB moved the adop- honor to advocate on a former ocHON. MR. READ.

Railway [JULY 17, 1885] Sub8idies Bill.
casion ; but I wish to say a few words as
to the desirability of passing this Bill in
its present form. As to some portions of
the Bill I have nothing to say. One -part
of it deals with a road between Montreal
and Quebec, north of the St. Lawrence.
About that I have nothing to say. The
only portion to which I wish to refer
relates to the so-called " short line," and
the point I wish to make is that the
Government, in inserting in this Bill a
provision for a certain line, have acted
prematurely in fixing the route. I do not
propose to argue that question at any
length, lest it might be supposed that I

1399

other; and therefore it is that I rise not to
discuss the merits of the Une; but I feel I
would be neglecting my duty, I would be false
to my friendship, if I were to fail to rise and
justify my friend who had not an opportunity
of defending himself. And air, because I
think there is not sufficient information
before us to enable us to judge as to the cornparative merits of these hnes I shall act
upon that opinion and support the amendment."
The amendment was asking for further

surveys.

He adds:

"<Ihave nothing further to say than this,
that the proper course is to make a complete
and thorough survey of the line before any
subsidy is voted."
Now I think, appealing to the members
on
was speaking without good authority
that point. I wish to quote an authority of this House, I should be quite safe in
that I look upon as being as good as any resting my case simply on that declaration

In the Dominion of Canada. I quote of a man who is probably the highest
from the speech of the hon. member authority in his profession in this country.
from Grenville in the other Chamber. Fortified by that declaration of opinion

That gentleman, I think, is recognized as I have no hesitation in saying that the

being at the head of his profession in this Government are not justified
country ; he is also recognized as being an the route which they have
independent, honorable man, and further, route by Moosehead Lake and
he is avery decided supporter ofthe Govern- keag. I do not propose to

in selecting
chosen, the
Mattawamenter upon

ment, having been elected only the other any debateable ground as to distance. I
day as their candidate. I shall quote from simply take the authority of the report
the official report of the Debates in the made by the chief engineer of railways

and the figures given by his subordinates.
Now, hon. gentlemen, I may first explain
what the Combination line is. The Combination line is a line which would run
from :alisbury, in New Brunswick, a sta'tion on the Intercolonial Railway some
thirteen miles frorn Moncton, to Frederie:ton, and from Fredericton via Canterbury
HON. MR. PLUMB-Hear, hear.
to the north end of Chesuncook Lake.
HON. MR. POWER-That is the hne When you get as far west as Chesuncook

House of Commons. There I find that
Mr. Shanly is reported to have said
amongst other things ."I am entirely unable to form any opinion
respecting what may be called the engineering
merits of the two lines."

selected by the Government, and another Lake, instead of going directly to Richline favored by a number of gentlemen, mond, or instead of simply going to Quemore especially from the Province of bec, or to the eastern end of the InterQuebec, called the Combination Line. national Railway, there are two branches

to this line. One runs up by the EtcheMr. Shanly continues:"I an on general principles in favor of a min to Chaudiere Junction near Quebec,
thorough and complete examination, for I and the other line runs north of Moose
know that vast sums of money have been Head Lake to the east end of the Interwasted in various public works of this national Railway. A great deal was said
eountry and elsewhere by not making com. in the other Chamber as to the comparaplete examination."
tive merits of the northern branch of this
Then he goes on to say that he had line-that is the line running up to Chauread the previous debate on the matter, diere Junction from Chesuncook-and
and he concluded his remarks in this the southern line generally known
way :~
as the Pope line. I shall not enter
"As regards the plans and surveys and into
because
controversy,
that
everything else, I say there is nothing before
hon. gentlemen here are probably
us which would enable any engineer decidedly
to state that one line is a better line than the quite as familiar with its merits as I

1400

Railway [SENATE] Subsidies Bill.

am. They are set out in Mr. Light's report and in other places as well ; but I
wish to call attention, more particularly
to the line from the east end of the International Railway, to the north end of
Chesuncook Lake. There is no need of
going to any point west of the eastern end
of the International, because that is a
common point. Mr. Duffy's survey started
from that point, and went north of Moose
Head Lake, and Mr. Spofford's survey
started from that point and went across
Moose Head Lake. In the report of the
Chief Engineer of Railways, the lines
running across Moose Head Lake are
Nos. 5 and 6, and the lines running north
of Moose Head Lake are numbered as 8
and 9. Hon. gentlemen will find, on referring to pages 8 and 9 of Mr. Schreiber's
report, that the length of the line from the
eastern end of the Irternational Railway
to St. John, New Brunswick, by the line
running across Moose Head Lake, is 472
miles. Hon. gentlemen will find that the
distance by the other line running north
of Moose Head Lake and north of Chesuncook Lake-the line surveyed by Mr.
Duffy and Mr. Vernon Smith-is exactly
the same. I wish to call attention to the
fact that Mr. Schreiber admits that to be
the case. It appears from the tables in
his report, and he admits it in his remarks
on those tables. Then Mr. Schreiber
makes it appear that while the lines are of
the same length to St. John, the Mattawamkeag is one mile shorter to Halifax. I am
not going to detain the House by an analysis of the figures, but I shall point out in
a few words that this is simply impossible.
The two lines-the line to Halifax and
the line to St. John-are common as far
as the station called Harvey, some twentyfour miles from Fredericton, on the existing railway running into St. John. Mr.
Schreiber's report points out that as far as
Harvey the two lines-the one running
north of Moose Head Lake and that running across the Lake-are of the same
length. It was suggested by Mr. Vernon
Smith, the engineer who made a survey of
the eastern end of the northern line, that
a point some five miles west of Harvey
should be selected as the point of divergence between the line running to St.
John and the line running to Halifax.
The reason Mr. Smith selected that point
is that by diverging there, you would
HON. MR. POWER.

reach Fredericton in a shorter time than by
going on to Harvey and thence to Fredericton ; and any hon. gentleman who looks
at the map will see that when you run
down to Harvey and up to Fredericton
you take two sides of a triangle, whereas
if you take the point of divergence five
miles west of Harvey and go direct thence
to Fredericton you have but one side of a
triangle, which must be shorter than the
other two, and Mr. Schreiber's statement
that this northern line is longer to
Halifax than the other is totally incorrect. The lines are the same length
to Harvey, and from Harvey to
Halifax as well as from Harvey to St.
John, while by Mr. Smith's direct line the
distance is less. If the question was between this line running north of Moose
Head and Chesuncook Lake, and the
line running across Moose Head Lake, I
think the reports of the engineers would
be enough to decide the case, because
the engineers who made the survey of the
line north found a very easy line throughout, with easy grades, and with a very
moderate degree of curvature; a line
very easy to build, and with very
few heavy bridges on it-almost
none at all-and one can see that from the
fact that Mr. Duffy who made a careful
estimate of the cost of his line froin the
International to Lake Chesuncook, estimated it a little over $15,ooo a mile. Mr.
Smith estimated the cost of his road, the
the eastern portion of the line, at something
over $16,ooo a mile; and anyone who
reads Mr. Spofford's report or Mr. Burpee's
report, will find it impossible to tell what
the cost of the road from Moose Head
Lake to Mattawamkeag would be. A
careful perusal of the reports of the surveys
they made will establish the fact that the
line is a very difficult one ; that the grades
are serious-a grade of 66 feet prevailing
for some considerable distance, and that
it will be quite impossible to get the grade
there down to the commercial standard of
53 feet. There is this feature in connection with the matter, that by taking the
road north of Moose Head and Chesuncook lakes the business going over that
road could not be tapped by any American
road or port. The line does not come in
close proximity to any American road or
harbor. That is a matter of very great
consequence ; and, further, the road would

Railway [JULY 17, 1885] 2ubsidie8 Bill.
not be under the control, in any way, of an
American corporation. There is this further feature to be considered, that while
Mr. Schreiber's report shows the northern
line to be no longer in mileage than the
other, that the northern road is so much
more favorable in the matter of grades and
curves, and that it would be for practical
purposes several miles shorter than the
other road. I think these facts were
sufficient, or ought to have been sufficient
to induce the Government if not to select
that route, to at least make further surveys
and I have no doubt that further surveys
would have been ordered, and a northern
route would have been selected, had it not
been from the fact that certain gentlemen
high in Government favor were interested
in the southern route. The combination
line would doeverything in accommodating
the eastern townships that would be done
by the southern line-at least it would
give those townships all the communication with the Lower Provinces that they
could desire. I may be allowed to say a
few words with respect to the northerri
branch of the combination line. In the
mere matier of length, the line running up
to Quebec, and then to Montreal, is,
practically, no longer than the line selected by the Government ; but look at
the advantages that the country would
gain by having that northern connection.
You would have at Point Levis connection by a ferry across the St. Lawrence
You
with the North Shore Railway.
would have connection at Point Levis, or
at Chaudiere Junction, with the Grand
Trunk Railway from Montreal, so that
the terminus of that road would be a
competing point. You would have the
business coming over those two lines
from the west to that point ; then you
would have all the business of the southern branch of the combination. You
would have all the business that might be
expected to go over the line selected by
the Government; and you would have on
this northern line the business that would
come over the North Shore and the
Grand Trunk Railway ; and this combination would give to the province of
Quebec advantages fron this short line
which the line selected by the Government
does not give at all. Looking at it from
a Maritime Province point of view, it
would give the lower provinces an admir.

1401

able connection, the shortest practicable,
with the city of Quebec and its vicinity ;
and if, at any future date, a road should
be built more direct than now exists, between Ottawa or any point west of Ottawa
and the city of Quebec, it would give the
lower provinces a chance to get in that way
a good share of the western business. These
reasons should have been enough in themselves to have induced the Government to
pause before selecting the line that they
did select. I do not propose here to go
into any further discussion as to the
heights of the summits of the roads. I
think it only right to say here, with regard
to the summit of the Etchemin branchbetween Etchemin and Chesuncook-that
a good deal has been said with respect to
the uncertainty that exists as to the correctness of the statements made by Mr.
Light with respect to the height of the
pass across the mountains. Mr. Light
stated it at

[,200

feet, while the pass on

the southern route is i,8oo feet, after
which there is a second elevation east of
Moosehead Lake of about i5oo feet. It
is said that the elevation of the pass on
the Etchernin line was ascertained only
barometrically; Mr. Light himself ascertained it by the barometer, and Mr.
Wickstead ascertained it independently
by the barometer; and Mr. Light, who
had made a careful survey for the Government last summer of a line east of the
Etchemin line, levelled up from the instrumental survey to this pass, and he made
it 1200 feet in that way ; so that there is

no doubt as to the correctness of the
statement made by Mr. Light. It may
be said, on the other hand that Mr. Shanly
and Mr. Light are mistaken, and that I
am mistaken also; and it may be asked
does anybody else take the saine view as
we do? There are many members of
parliament in the other House, more
especially gentlemen interested in the
District of Quebec, who take the same
view on this subject that Mr. Shanly did.
Several members from the Lower Provinces take the same view. The Chamber of Commerce at Halifax unanimously
took the same view, and the meeting of
the City Council and of the Chamber of
Commerce of that city almost unanimously
did the same. The city engineer of
Halifax-a man standing high in his profession, and who has no axe to grind and

1402

Railway [SENATE] Subsidies Bill.

no object but to speak the truth-has
spoken against the line selected by the
Government and in favor of the combination line; and I may say that the city
engineer mentioned in his final report to
the mayor that he is a supporter of the
present administration.

Government who had the power to give or

withhold that subsidy.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
rise to a point of order. I do not think

the hon. gentleman has a right to attack a
member of the other branch of the legisla-

ture and attribute personal motives for votHON. MR. PLUMB-What view did ing for a public measure-the furthering of
his own interests.
Mr. Stairs take ?
HON. MR. POWER-I am not imputHON. MR. POWER-Any hon. gentle- ing motives; I simply state what appears
man who has read Mr. Stairs' reasons for from the public papers.

the view he took will be satisfied that his
opinion is not of very much value on the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLsubject. Reasons more fhimsy could not
be given. I presume that the reason Mr. Yes, and the hon. gentleman is adding a
Stairs took that view is that the Govern- motive to it.
ment took it-the same reason that Mr.
HON. MR. POWER-I am simply givDaly had. I wish to say a word about
these Lower Province members. I was a
little surprised at the stand taken by certain members from the Lower Provinces
in connection with this matter. There

were certain gentlemen, for instance,
the member for Westmoreland, N. B. I
knew him to be a good business man. I
knew that his county was interested in
having the best line built from Montreal
to Moncton, because Moncton is in his
county. I was a little surprised, however,
to find that he was supporting the Government scheme; but when I expressed
my surprise I was told there were certain
reasons which would appear later on why
that gentleman supported the Government
scheme. The papers which have since

been laid on our table show why the hon.
gentleman

scheme.

supported

the Government

I find that there is a sum of

about $i i8,ooo in the last supplementary
estimate, voted to a railwaycompany which

that hon. gentleman is, I think, the president and principal shareholder ; and I
may say that the railway had already received a subsidy of $3,200 a mile from
the Government, and I understand it has
received a scbsidy of about $3,ooo a mile
from the local government; and I am informed by a gentleman who is in a position to know that the hon. gentleman from
Westmoreland with this subsidy can build
his road for nothing and own it ; and one
can readily understand why a gentleman
looking forward to receiving for his own
road $i 18,ooo would not quarrel with the
HON. MR.

POW ER.

ing the facts, and hon. gentlemen can draw
their own conclusions as to the motive.
I may say further that that hon. gentleman no doubt thinks that his county will
be more benefitted by having a road built
to Cape Tormentine than by having the
best road built from Montreal to Moncton. When I saw that item in the supplementary estimates I had no difficulty at
all in seeing why that hon. gentleman
had
supported
the
Government
scheme. Then I was somewhat surprised
to find that the representatives of the
County of Pictou supported the Government scheme; but when I saw in the supplementary estimate an item of $250,000
as aid for a railway in the County of Pictou,
I felt that it was not difficult to understand why they had voted in that way.
I give these two cases as instances of the
kind of influences that have been at work
in favor of the Government route.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-What right has
the hon. gentleman to impute motives to
members of the other House.
HON. MR. POWER-I do not impute
motives ; I say there are the facts, and if
my. hon. friend wishes to say that there
are improper motives at work, he is at
liberty to do so. I say there are the facts
-a

grant for $250,000 for a railway in

Pictou, and there is the fact of the mem-

bers for Pictou voting in a way that you
would not expect them to vote.

Railway [JULY 17, 1885]
HON. MR. PLUMB-I rise to a question of order. The hon. gentleman says
he bases his argument as to the consent
of those gentlemen to support a Government measure upon the fact that they
themselves received subsidies for railways
in which they are interested. If the hon.
member has a right to attack members of
the other House in that way, the principles
of debate which govern the two bodies
are entirely dissimilar. I appeal to the
Speaker to say if that is a proper line of
argument.
THE SPEAKER-I must say I am
not aware of any rule of this House which
prevents an hon. member from attributing
motives to any individual outside of the
House, whether he be a member of the
House of Commons or not. If there is
any authority on that point I would be
obliged to the hon. gentleman if he would
point it out to me.
HON. MR. POWER-I think it was
only yesterday that the same question of
order was raised in reference to the hon.
gentleman himself, on his allusion to
members of the other House. Those
members, I say, probably thought it was
more patriotic to get money for their own
counties than to get money for a line
from Montreal to Moncton.
HoN. MR. HOWLAN-Ioni soit qui

mal y pense.

HON. MR. POWER-I am merely
giving you the facts, and hon. gentlemen
can draw their own conclusions. Mr.
Light's name has been introduced here,
and he has been charged with assuming a
title that he had no right to, when he
claimed to be a member of the Association
of Civil Engineers. Several members of
this House have had an opportunity of
seeing Mr. Light's certificate signed by the
President and Secretary of the Association
of Engineers. It was dated in 1862, and
signed by Mr. Hawkshaw, at that time
President of the Association, and sealed
with the seal of the Association. It has
been said that since that time he had
ceased to be a member. That was not
the point. The point discussed was Mr.
Light's qualification as an engineer ; and
if Mr. Light was qualified in 1862, there

drubidie8 Bill.

1403

is every reason to believe he is qualified
now, as he has been practising engineering ever since ; and the attempt to injure
Mr. Light's character as a professional
man has singularly failed. Another argument used was that so many Maritime
Province members voted for this southern
route. That, I have dealt with already.
Another argument was that if we did not
get this road built at once, trade would
get set in its present channels, and it
could not be got out of them. I think
anything more childish than that could
hardly be imagined. From the time when
railways began to be built in this part of
Canada, trade has been running in its
present channels, and it will not go out of
them until better channels are provided
for it. It has been running to Portland
for the last forty years, and a year more or
less is not likely to settle it more firmly in
that channel. Then there is another consideration : The intention is to make a
connection between the International
Railway and the Bangor and Piscatoquis
Railway, an American road, before the
eastern end of this road is begun. Hon.
gentlemen will see that that will give trade
an opportunity for becoming set in channels in the State of Maine, before the
channels east of that are ready to receive
it, and that is more likely to do harm
than letting things rest as they are
for a year, and getting the best
line afterwards. It has been saidit was one of the arguments used, in fact
the principal argument used by the gentleman whose name has been mentioned,
a member for Halifax, why we should
adopt this southern route-that there was
danger in delay, and that it was necessary
to have something done. There is no
necessity for delaying the work. There is
one portion of this road, the link from
Fredericton to Salisbury, which is common
to all the lines ; it does not matter whether
you go north to Quebec or Riviere du
Loup or whether you go south by Moosehead Lake. In these lines, every one of
them, the link from Fredericton to Salisbury is an essential link; and I think the
proper and business-like and reascnable
course for the Government to have taken
would have been to have constructed the
link from Salisbury to Fredericton during
the present year, and made the necessary
surveys from Fredericton west o Montreal

14A04A

Railway [SENATE] Subidie8 Bill.

between this and the next session. Further, I say that I feel confident that even
if we did nothing now; if we passed no
measure this session, no time would be
lost, because having got so far ahead in
the season, it is not at all probable that
any company will do much work on any
of those lines during the present year;
and I have the best reason for knowing
that the President of the company that is
expected to build this road has stated that
he did not propose to do anything on it
until next spring. As we are about spending a great deal of money upon a work
which, if done in a proper way, nay be of
great commercial value to the whole
country, and the improper doing of which
would inflict a permanent injury on a large
portion of the Dominion, I think we had
better make haste slowly, and take from
now until next session to make further
surveys to find out which is the best line;
and if we cannot wait to do that, then
build the link between Fredericton and
Salisbury and make the surveys west of
that. I regret that 1 shall not be able to
vote for the bill in its present form. I
presume it is a bill that cannot be
amended in this Chamber.

and in the shortest time; and neither the
opinions of engineers nor of politicians
can influence that arrangement. We have
had a good deal of discussion about St.
John and Halifax as winter ports. I cannot conceive that goods will ever be carried from the North West in the winter
season round the north of Lake Superior
and thence to the Atlantic, unless there is
some remarkable rise in prices in the
markets of Europe. Montreal will still be
the principal port from which goods will
be shipped. There are other goods that
will want an outlet from Ontario in winter,
and then what must be considered will be
the question of the owner's own profit.
When the people of Halifax begin
to ship grain, and go and purchase it and
carry it down in ships that they build for
that purpose, they can have Halifax for a
winter port; and when the people of St.
John become the owners of the property
to be shipped, and carry it down to their
own ports for shipment, St. John will become a winter port ; but so long as the
goods are on this western end of the railway line the owners will always select the
route by which the cost of transportation
will be lowest.

HON. MR. ALMON-I rise with a great
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-We
cannot amend it.
deal of diffidence to make a few remarks
on this subject because it is so late in the
HON. MR. POWER-Then I, for one, session, and I think the least said, unless
shall feel constrained to vote against it ; it is from a practical point of view, on this
although I am in favor of several provi- question the better. I am not in favor of
sions of the bill.
eitherof theshortlines, whether proposed by
the Government or supported by the hon.
HON. MR. WARK-There has been a senior member from Halifax. I think our
great deal of discussion in this House geographical position is such that Portland
about railways, and I have not hitherto must always be the winter port of the
taken part in them; but one point for Great Nort!i-West. The only way in
consideration in connection with all these which it can be obviated is if we can have
questions is that the holder of the goods a line going through the British Provinces
to be shipped has been entirely over- and centring at Halifax and St. John, by
looked. We have heard of the opinions which goods can be carried as cheaply as
of engineers, and of the opinions of people to Portland or Boston. What I would
who live at the various ports which they suggest would be that the Government
favor, but when it comes to shipping should either buy the North Shore road
goods, the man who owns the goods will and connect it with the Intercolonial, or
inquire what it is going to cost him to else buy from the Grand Trunk Railway
transport them to a shipping port, and on that portion of their line to Richmond and
what conditions he can get his goods extend their own line to Montreal, and
shipped from that port to the market to let it be under the management of the
which he wishes to send them. He will Intercolonial Railway, and let it be known
send his goods just by the route by which that the freight over that is the same as
he can have thern transported cheapest, the freight from Montreal to Portland.
HON. MR. POWER.

Railway [JULY 17, 1885] &tb8idies Bill.
We would'then have merchants sending
their grain to England by way of Halifax.
To be sure the time occupied in forwarding
the freight to Portland would be 24 hours
shorter, but the price would be the sarne,
and as Halifax is 36 hours nearer to
England than Portland is, there would be
12 hours gained. Then I have great
objection to going through a foreign
country. If there happens to be any little
jealousy between the two countries, they
could easily, by not allowing goods to pass
through in bond, stop our traffic by the
short route altogether. We are talking
about the benefits of a short line. I think
we can lessen the distance as to time
between Montreal and Halifax by several
hours by making fewer stoppages. We
now stop at Amherst to take our breakfast,
and we likewise, in two hours, stop at Truro
and take another breakfast. Now one
breakfast is quite enough for any ordinary
man, and as you stay 20 minutes at Truro,
you could, by eating only one breakfast,
shorten the distance on the Intercolonial
Railway at least 12 rmiles.
HOH. MR. KAULBACH-But freight
does not take breakfast.
HON. MR. ALMON-I am talking of
the passengers. There is a stop of three
hours at Richmond, and that stoppage is
equivalent to 6o miles. I am of opinion
that if the Government instead of aiding
this short line would buy the North Shore
road and unite it with the Intercolonial
railway and charge the same freight from
Montreal to Halifax that is now charged
from Montreal to Portland, you would then
effectually, without exspending any more
money, make Halifax the winter port of the
Dominion. It may be said that this is
not the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce at Halifax. I am glad to be able
to say, in the presence of the Senior member from Halifax, that the Chamber of
Commerce does not represent the opinion
of the commercial community of Halifax.
There are parties there who use it more
as a vehicle to abuse confederation and
the Government than for any practical
purpose. I will appeal, not merely to
what has takan place in the past but what
will take place when this question comes
up before the chamber at Halifax. If any
gentleman doubts my statement he will

1405

only have to take the newspapers of that
city and he will find them filled with abuse
of confederation and the Government
rather than with discussions of practical
affairs. It is a political tool used by parties who intend to run the next election,
and in addition to abusing the confederation and the Government, to abuse the two
members who represent the city and the
county in the House of Commons.
HON. MR. TRUDEL-It is questionable whether it is an advantage to speak at all
at such a late period of the session, but I
cannot allow this Bill to pass without
making a few remaiks. There are in this
Bill two very important features, a provision to buy the North Shore Railway, and
one to encourage the construction of a
short line. I much regret to say that on
both those important subjects my decided
opinion is that this proposed legislation
should not be adopted. I will not enter
into the details of the arguments which
might be used against the measure. I
will only represent to the House that in
my opinion it is a departure from the fixed
principle which has been the foundation
of the general policy of the Government
for many years-that is to favor as much
as possible national lines on Canadian
territory. As to facilitating the purchase
of the North Shore Railway, I may say the
Bill does not go so far as to declare that
the roney shall be used to redeem the
North Shore absolutely. Unless it is
used for that purpose within a certain
space of time it will, no doubt, be devoted
to other purposes. Three years ago the
North Shore, Railway belonged to the
Province of Quebec; it had been built at
great expense by the province with a view
to making it a portion of our great transcontinental highway, the Canadian Pacific
Railway. In the spring of 1882 a great
contest took place in our province, the
local government deciding to sell the railway, contrary, I do not hesitate to say, to
the desire of a majority of the Conservative party in the province. It was sold,
against the wish of the party, and against
the public interest. It is well known now,
and it was known at the time of the sale,
that the transaction gave certain private
parties a clear profit of $1,250,000.
Strange to say, while at that time a
majority of the leading men of the Con-

1406

Railway [SENATE] Subsidies Bill.

great
centres
of
that
servative party were absolutely opposed to the
to the sale of the railway, three years province, and above all to the
afterward we are called upon to vote city of Quebec. I said at the outset that
$1,5oo,ooo of the public money to this portion of the measure was, in my
redeem that railroad. In other words opinion, a departure from the well known
we are called upon to vote a sum and well defined policy of the Governwhich is equal to the clear profit that has ment, or I might say the Conservative
been realized or is to be realized by private party, that-two positions being equalparties on the sale of that land, although it we should favor a line which is more adis pretended that the line should not be vantageous from a national point of view.
sold, that it should be retained because it It is often remarked that trade must find
is to the interests of the country to keep it. its level in spite of national interests, but
To-day we are called upon to pay $1,500, this is true only to a certain extent, as
000, to redeem it from a company which is daily experience demonstrates. For insupposed to possess the greater part of the stance, it is recognized by everyone that
shares, and the object of the expenditure is our Canadian waterways are the best and
to put us exactly in the same position as shortest routes for the produce of the
we were three years ago. I could not west, yet, notwithstanding the enormous
allow this bill to pass without calling the expenditure which we have made to enattention of the House to the point. It large and improve our canals, there have
is true, to a certain extent, this matter was been years when I think not more than five
aprovincialone, buthon. gentlemen will bear per cent. of the produce of the West, which
in mind that even after that sale it was con- should naturally come by Canadian waters,
sidered to be without effect, and probably has passed down the St. Lawrence ;
the railway should be returned to the pro- ninety-five yer cent. has gone to the seavince of Quebec had it not been for the board by American canals and railways.
action of this Parliament. The purchasers We are therefore forced to the conclusion
and those who sold the road wanted to have that this is due to the determination of
the right, in order to realize any money the Arnericans to favor their own railways
profit on their transactions, to issue deben- and cities at any sacrifice, and it proves
tures, and it was found that they could not that it is quite possible by the action of
do so without legislation from Parliament. the government and the country to modify
On that occasion my hon. friend the Hon. to a certain extent the course of trade. I
Mr. DeBoucherville opposed the bill, and have taken great pains to examine this
had his motion carried, the purchasers of matter of the choice of a short line
the road would very likely have been thoroughly. I consider that the Canadian
obliged to return it to the province. It is Pacific Railway being built, the only reaproposed by this bill that if, within a certain son which would justify us in giving public
number of weeks or months, the Canadian money to encourage a short line is that it
Pacific Railway Company do not make would be, without any doubt, the best line
arrangements to get possession of that rail- that could be selected. I regret to say
road, then the $1,5oo,ooo, shall be em- that the line which is mentioned in the
ployed in some other way to bring the Bill is not, in my opinion, the shortest
Canadian Pacifie Railway down to Quebec. line. I have read carefully the reports of
I express here my hope that the Govern- the rival engineers. There is the report
ment will do their best to devote that $1, of Mr. Schreiber, it is true, in favor of the
50',00, towards the construction of an- line mentioned in this Bill, and there are
other railway which would nearly double two different reports of Mr. Light, which,
the value of property on the north shore to my mind, establish beyond any doubt
of the St. Lawrence in the province of that the shortest line would be one which
Quebec and give to the city of Quebec what is indicated on a map which, I suppose,
they desire-the terminus of the Cana- every hon. member has seen, called the
dian Pacific Railway. I will not say any- short line railway, between the cities of
thing more on this question of the North Montreal and St. John and Halifax,
Shore Railway. Now, as to the proposed and which is known as the combination
short line, it is a matter of immense impor- line. My hon. friend from Halifax
tance to the province of Quebec, especially has alluded to it already. Mr.
HON. MR. TRUDEL.

Railway [JULY 17, 1885] 8tb8idies Bill.

1407

Schreiber has called in question some minds of the majority of the House, but I
points in the report of Mr. Light, but in understand the Bill is leaving to the
the subsequent report Mr. Light takes up Government a certain margin of disthese points and shows that not only by cretion, and I hope even after the Bill is
his own survey, but. by reports of other passed that they will reconsider this
engineers which are not questioned, Mr. matter and ask themselves whether this is
Schreiber's criticism of his report is not not a departure from their policy, and
well founded, and this reply, to my mind, whether this appropriation should not be
defies contradiction. As to the length of suspended until at least an instrumental
the several lines there is not much differ- survey shall be made.
ence. I think that the combination line,
which unites all the advantages of a
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I do not
through line, which favors the interests of wish to detain the House on this Bill, but
Quebec as well as the interests of Halifax I should like to make one or two observaand St. John, is 27 or 28 miles shorter tions. I regret that the Bill, as it stands,
than the one selected, while the grades is one which I cannot support. It conare much more favorable. Mr. Light tains some things which I consider are
shows that in the line which has been not in the interests of the country, and
selected by the Goiernment there are there is a part of it which is calculated to
grades which prevent it being a commer- retard the development of the Dominion
cial route, and it cannot be used advan- and to injure the prospects of the Lower
tageously for the carrying of heavy freight. Provinces Some two years ago I voted
I know that the accuracy or value of Mr. against a bill which proposed to grant a
Light's report has been questioned, but a company power to build a bridge over
this House should bear in mind that Mr. the St. Lawrence, west of Montreal. The
Light cannot be accused of favoring any reason which I gave for my vote on that
private interest. He has been employed occasion was that until our great highway
by the Province of Quebec to examine would pay, I considered it was our duty,
this line in his capacity as engineer for as the Parliament of Cana da, to see that
the province, and his report, based upon thetrade of the west shoul d not go to the
figures which are proved to be correct by United States but should be carried to
the reports of other engineers, forces us Canadian sea ports, and consequently
to the conclusion that he is right in his that we ought not to allow the St. Lawrence
view. Now what is proposed to us by to be bridged west of Montreal. My
this Bill ? It is to vote public money to opinions are the same to day. I believe
build a short line which is objected to by that we ought not to allow the Canadian
competent engineers as not being the Pacific Railway to cross at Montreal
shortest line, and, moreover, as being a and reach Halifax, St. John, or St.
route which passes so near American Andrews by passing as near to Portland
cities that it will carry our trade to foreign as the proposed road will do. If the line
shipping ports, giving them the profits mentioned in this Bill were the shortest
which we should derive from our enor- possible route, I would say that it was a
mous expenditures upon the Pacific Rail- strong argument in favor of it, and that
way. While we are pursuing a policy to we must give the commerce of the country
develop our trade and build up our own the shortest route to the sea-board. But
cities, we are about to aid a line I regret to say that my conviction is that
which will carry our trade to Ameri- that short line, improperly so-called, is not
can seaports, and they will gain the the shortest practicable route. My conprincipal benefit to be derived from viction is that a road to Montreal, to St
our large expenditures. Under these John and Halifax, by way of Quebec is
circumstances I regret to say I am ob- the shortest. That is the conclusion to
liged to protest against this Bill. I which I have corne from reading the
sincerely believe that the policy to the reports, and a letter of Mr Sullivan
Government is not in the interests of the and another letter which I have seen tocountry, and I trust that they will recon- day by a civil engineer of Halifax,
sider the matter. Of course I do not and a letter from Mr. Smith and
expect to create any conviction in the the opinions expressed by others.

1408

lRailway [SENATE] Subsidies Bill.

If I take the figures of all those engineers,
and if I take the figures of Mr. Schreiber,
I find the shortest route is not by the south
of the St. Lawrence, but is by Quebec.
No doubt if I took the very bad argument,
that we should follow as nearly as possible
an air line, that route would be only 20
miles from the air line, while Quebec would
be 8o miles. If I take that argument I
should say that the Loop Line is the
shorter of the two. But, hon. gentlemen,
that is not the way we have to look at it
when we are deciding upon a short line.
The short line, to my mind, means this;
it is a line by which an ordinary engine
with 20 cars will reach its destination
quicker than by any other. I say that two
engines of the same capacity, each having
20 cars equally loaded, one train taking
the so-called short line, and the other the
combination line, the latter will reach
Halifax via Quebec quicker than the other
would by way of Sherbrooke. That is what
I call the short American line, and any.
thing to the contrary is misleading to the
public. The line by Quebec is a little
longer; but it is admitted by Mr. Schreiber,
in his report, that the grades by the present
short line are higher than they are by the
Quebec line, while the curves are sharper
on the short line than they are on the
Quebec line. That is the reason why the
northern route is practically shorter,
though it has greater mileage. Such are
the arguments I take from Mr. Schreiber's
reports, although he recommends the short
line. Still, his report may not have been
based on engineering reasons ; he may
have had other reasons for reporting in
the way he did. I remember that when
the construction of the North Shore road
was commenced we had three or four
dozen of surveys, and I had, myself, the
good fortune to report against those reports
showing that they were misleading to the
Governmentof Quebec. Itis becauseIhave
had that experience that I state what I am
saying to-day. Itis because Ihave examined
those reports that I say the Sherbrooke
line is the longer line, practically, and that
the Quebec line is the shorter line for
business purposes, and, in the interests of
the country, ought to be adopted. I do
not mean to say that that road ought
necessarily to be located wholly on Canadian territory. We have the Intercolonial Railway, and if the line by Quebec,
H oN. MR. BELLEROSE.

passing through Maine to Moncton, were
adopted, we would have a combination
line which would be the shortest American line, and then, in case of war, the
Canadian Pacific Railway, in connection
with the Intercolonial Railway, would
form an all-rail route on Canadian territory from ocean to ocean. I believe that
those are questions worthy of consideration, and it must be because the Government consider that the position I take is
incontrovertible, that they will not allow
a proper survey to be made, because I say
that those surveys have not been conducted in such a way as to bc relied upon.
In reading the reports of the debates in
the other House, what have we seen? A
gentleman who was elected only a few
days ago as representing Conservative
principles, a supporter of the Government,
who is considered to be one of the ablest
engineers in Canada, said that those reports could not be relied upon, and that
the report of Mr. Light deserved the consideration of the Government, and that
before deciding this question, the Government ought to have another survey made.
Such a statement, made by Mr. Shanly,
ought to receive due consideration from
the Government, and a new survey should
be ordered before this line is adopted.
We know that when the Bill is passed
the money will have to be devoted to the
purpose for which it is appropriated, but
even then it can be managed in such a
way as to give us the best line. Having
such an opinion with respect to that part
of the Bill, I am bound to protest against
it ; but the other parts of the measure
being satisfactory, I cannot vote against it,
though I would be ready to vote for an
amendment which would suspend the
objectionable part of the Bill until a new
survey could be made.
HON. MR. DEVER-I do not think
there is anything that I can possibly say
will have the slightest influence on the
Government to induce them to alter this
matter. I believe the Government are
clear sighted and business-like, and are
strong minded enough to do what they
conceive to be best to construct a road to
the Maritime Provinces that will, this
time, be a commercial project. We can
look back to the fact that on a former occasion a road was constructed through the

-Railway [JULY 17, 1885] 8tb8idie8 Bill.

1409

Maratime Provinces, unfortunately, in a on a river that is frozen over as early as
way not to be a road such as is required the rivers north of it, hence it would be no
for commercial purposes. Hence our de- object to ship goods to Bangor during the
cision to-day is that we must construct winter, because they could no be shipped
another. I cannot cast any reflections from that port ; they would have to come
upon the representative of New Bruns- to St. John, and the great object is to get a
wick in the Cabinet of that day, for I direct route to the port of St. John where
must confess that I, myself, after finding it is open the year round. I feel great
that the road was to go by the north shore, regret on this occasion, that I have someencouraged him to hold his position, not- what to advocate a road that is not satiswithstanding the fact that it was forced factory to the city of Halifax. I regret
upon him that the Province of New Bruns- this the more, because since I have had
wick should take the road in that way. the honor of a seat in this House I have
When we were coming into Confederation always had the interests of Halifax equally
one of the conditions of the Union was at heart with those of the city of St. John.
that we were to have a road from New We have no envy or desire to injure HaliBiunswick to Canada. It was understood fax ; we would be most happy that Halifax
then that there were three routes, one of should have her fair share of the trade of
which would be selected. One was known Canada; but we cannot help our geograas the southern route, the other the cen- phical position on the sea coast. We are
tral, and the third the northern route. nearer Montreal and the west. We have
It was stated in New Brunswick, and an open port the year round, and we fear
especially in the commercial city of St. nothing, provided we have a direct comJohn, that the southern route, the one we mercial route from the west. That comare now converging towards by this pro- mercial route is a road that will have to
ject, should be the road selected by the pass through a portion of the United
Government of Canada to accomodate States ; it will have to be a company road ;
the commerce of St. John. Our represen- it will have to be operated as a company
tative in the Cabinet, I think, pretty road, and on commercial principles.
nearly promised that it should be the Hon. gentlemen will see that Halifax has
route; but the pressure brought to bear nothing to complain of Halifax to-day
by Halifax, the Province of Nova Sco- has the great Intercolonial Railway, so
tia generally, and, it was said, also by has the Province of Nova Scotia, and so
the British Government and the Govern- has the northern portion ofNew Brunswick;
ment of the Province of Quebec, carried and as for the city of Quebec, I do not
the balance in favor of the North Shore see how it can be jealous of a direct line.
road ; and the result has been that St. I do not see how they can suppose that
John from that time until now has never we are to submit a second time to
been satisfied with the North Shore road. have a road specially built-after building
For these reasons we are to-day anxious the Intercolonial Railway-for the useand
to have a commercial route, believing benefit of Quebec alone. They must not
that the city of St. John is so be too selfish. They must sce that, after
geographically situated as to become all, trade, like water, will find its level, and
a great shipping port for Canada and that the shortest route must prevail, and
the west during the winter season, pro- that route, by looking at the map, is not a
vided we had a commercial route to line touching at Quebec. Starting from
carry trade to that port. One hon. gen- Montreal, and taking the city of St. John
tlemanstatedhere thathisgreat fear was that as an objective point, it will be seen that
in carrying out a project of this kind, the no line can be projected touching at Quetrade would be intercepted by the city of bec that will be much shorter than the
Portland, or the city of Bangor, in the Intercolonial Railway. If you want a
State of Maine. We are not afraid of the short route that will not be superseded, a
city of Portland, because the Grand Trunk commercial route, you must select the
Railway at present terminates at that shortest; and while we are about it, let us
port. As for the city of Bangor, we are not finish it as speedily as possible, and give
afraid of that either, because it is closed the people of St. John something that
with ice in winter season. It is situated will satisfy them that they did not come
03

.The North-West [SENATE] jtebellion.

1A10

into Confederation to be deprived of their facts, to prosecute the perpetrators of these
commercial and geographical rights as a atrocities?
shipping port.
He said-This inquiry speaks for itself.
I think it is very important that the causes

. The motion was agreed to, and the Bill of the trouble should be investigated, and
was read the second time on a division.
the facts to which my question relates
should be ascertained. I have no doubt
that in a future session those facts will give
rise to some questions, andI think there is
THIRD READING.
no doubt that it is in the interests of the
public and of the Government that these
Bill (156), " An Act to restrict and inquiries should be made. I did not obregulate Chinese immigration into Canada," serve in the English papers any reference
was reported from Committee, read the to the subject of my enquiry, but they
third time and passed without debate.
have been mentioned and commented upon
very widely in the French papers, not only

CHINESE IMMIGRATION BILL

The Senate adjourned at

1o

p.m.

in the province of Quebec, but in the
United States, and I think it is in the public interest that the allegations should be

made the subject of an enquiry. Yesterday we voted with great pleasure thanks to
our volunteers, and I am happy to remind
Ottawa, Saturday,July 18th, z885.
the House that there was no dissenting
voice. As to the allegations to which I
The SPEAKER took the Chair at eleven refer I took great care not to state that the

THE SENATE.

o'clock.

Prayers and routine proceedings.
THE

NORTH-WEST

deeds referred to were perpetrated by our
volunteers, because I hope, if anything of
the kind has been done, it has not been

done by the soldiery. In case it should
REBELLION. happen that anyone was guilty of such
crimes, I do not think it could reflect in

any way on our volunteer force. It would
be an unfortunate circumstance if it were
HoN. MR. TRUDEL inquiredotherwise ; and as we say in French, "the
Whether the Government intends to cause to exception proves the rule," it would not
INQUIRY.

be made, by officers competent and affording
-every desirable guarantee of justice and of
impartiality as well in respect of their knowledg e and character as in respect of their
feelings towards the interested parties, strict
enquiries and thorough investigations to

damage the reputation of our volunteers.

If, as I hope, the statements are either untrue or exaggerated, then it is necessary
that no doubt should be left on the subject.

ascertain:-

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No
1. What are the true causes, whether direct
or indirect, of the rebellion in the North- one is more interested in ascertaining the
West?
true causes of the rebellion than the Gov2. What are the best means of repairing the ernment, since the Government have been
harm done and of preventing for the future accused very roundly of being themselves
any repetition of the same disasters?
3. Whether it is true that acts of barbarous the cause of it. We have, therefore, the
atrocity, such as the fact of massacring keenest interest in endeavoring to ascerwounded after the battle, of burning houses tain what the origin of the rebellion was.
after having chased women and children out But I cannot say now what course the
of them, of destroying provisions, furniture, Government will pursue in respect to
any
clothing, bedding and other property of these
unfortunates, so as to leave then without inquiry that they will make; we have not
any means of living, and other acts of the yet discussed that point. With regard
same nature, have been committed by any one, to the question relating to the alleged

acting under subjection to the Government, massacre of the wounded after battle, I
or acting not under subjection to the Gov- do not know whether my hon. friend
has
ernment?
4. Whether it is the intention of the Gov- seen the telegram which was read in
ernment, if it ascertains the truth of these another place in answer to a ,similar inHON. MR. DEVER.

Chine8e [JULY 18, 1885] Immigration.

1411

quiry which was made there. The telegram is from Major General Middleton,
and is as follows:" In answer to yours of the 10th, I have to
say that Donald Ross, after shooting Captain
French, as was su pposed, was shot dead a few
minutes after. I saw his body with his
daughter sitting beside it, and I have heard
eince that the priests afterwards baried it.
As regards Damase Carriere and Vandal, I
never heard their names. I was riding all
over the field until late, backwards and
forwards, and had any such disgraceful acts
been committed I must have seen them. I
found one wounded man myself, and sent for
a stretcher. which was brought in by some of
the men. The man was taken to our own
The whole statement is a foul
hospital.
calumny. I repeat again that the conduct of
the men has been wonderfully good. We had
five wounded men of the enemy brought into
our hospital, all carried in by the soldiers
themselves."
So that I am quite convinced that the
allegations will prove to be unfounded.
My hon. friend will see, as to the principal
portion of his inquiry, that it is impossible
for the Government now to indicate what
course they will pursue.

yesterday when the Chinese Immigration
Bill was before the House. I had given
notice that I would oppose it at the third
reading, and that I would move that it be
read the third time three months hence.
I believe I ought to have given that notice
in writing, but having given it verbally, and
as it is against a rule of the House that a

PONTIAC AND PACIFIC JUNCTION RAILWAY.

THE SPEAKER-The hon gentlemen
cannot reflect on the action of the House
in passing the bill.

MOTION.

HON. MR. TRUDEL movedThat an humble address be presented to
His Excellency the Governor-General; praying that His Excellency will be pleased to
cause to be laid before this House, a return
showing the estimated cost Pei' mile of that
part of the Pontiac and Pacific Junction
Bailway for which subsides have actually been
paid by the Federal Government.
He said-I have already moved for
some papers in this matter, and this
address will be only to complete the

documents which I require.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLThere is no objection to the address.
The motion was agreed to.
CHINESE IMMIGRATION.
AN EXPLANATION.

Bill should pass through committee and

be read the third time on the same day, I
went home, and did not know the Bill
would be read until to day. I am very
sorry that I was not here to oppose it, because I think such legislation is a disgrace

to humanity.

I think it is rolling back

civilization from the end to the beginning

of the i 9 th century.

The early part of

this century did away with the Slave trade,

with the Test Act, and gave Catholic
emancipation and abolished slavery in the
West Indies. We now enact a law which
is as vile as any of those to the repeal of

which I have just alluded, and I think it
will impress an indelible disgrace on this
House and on the Dominion. (Order
order).

HON. MR. ALMON-I beg to withdraw
the remark, but I an afraid outside of this
House that is what will be said of it. The
Bill applies not only to British Columbia,

but to the whole Dominion. When
merchants of Bristol objected to the slave
trade being done away with, their wishes
were not respected and England abolished
slavery, and who says that she did not do
right ? Those who favored the abolition
of slavery were told that the proper place
for the negro was in slavery. But the
people of Great Britain did not believe it
and the world has decided they were right,
all other nations having followed in their
wake. I feel this Bill to be particularly a
disgrace to Nova Scotia. A Chinese could
not land there now unless by the payment
of $5o-he could not land in Nova Scotia
whose chief boast is that we abolished
slavery within our colony long before even
Great Britain did. When cases concerning

slaves came before the courts of Nova
HON. MR. ALMON-Before proceed- Scotia the judges refused to charge the
ing to the orders of the day I wish to, jury in favor of the owner of the slave, and
explain a circumstance which occurred the jury refused to give a verdict in favor

14A12

Administration of [SE NATE] CrininalJustice, etc.

of the owner. Catholic emancipation was
granted in Nova Scotia and in Cape Breton
long before it was taken up in the Mother
Country, and Roman Catholics were
admitted to the House without taking the
oath, and yet, after all that, you say that
no Mongolian can enter the harbor of
Halifax. I say that this House has done
an injury to Nova Scotia, and I am only
sorry that I was not here to vote against
the Bill even if my vote were the only one

afterwards anything

could

be

done

?

Nothing could be done. If any person
had taken the point of order and it had
been referred to the Speaker, then the
Speaker would have said "The bill cannot
take two readings on the same day", and
whoever had charge of the bill might posibly have moved to suspend the rule.
Objection might then be taken to that on
the ground that you cannot suspend the
rule without notice.

recorded in opposition to it.
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEALEX. CAMPBELL-No But if it had been passed over ?
doubt if the hon. member had been here
and had an opportunity of making his
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Nospeech it would have relieved his own feel- thing could have been done if the House
ings and he would have felt that he had chose to pass over the rule.
done his duty, but it would not have alHON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEtered the result.
Suppose a Bill passes its second reading
HON. MR. ALMON-I do not know and the promoter proposes the third
about that.
reading, and some member rises and says
that the rule ought to be followed, and
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Then two readings cannot take place on the
the hon. gentleman is quite mistaken in same day, and notwithstanding that, the
supposing that there was any irregularity majority say it must be done-is not that
in reporting the bill from committee and contrary to the rule ?
reading it the third time on the same day.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes.
It was reported from the committee without amendment, and it was quite in order
to read the bill the third time. The rule
THE SPEAKER-The action of the
of the House is that a bill cannot take two House would be final. This is the highstages in the one day : that is, have two est court in the land and there can be no
readings, but there is no reason why the appeal from it in consequence of any
House should not receive the report of a technicality.
committee and, if there is no amendment,
read the bill the third time at the same
HoN. MR. POWER-The House can
sitting-in fact it is the usual practice.
suspend its own rules whenever it likes.
HON. SIR

HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEADMINISTRATION OF CRIMINAL
Supposing it had been done against the
JUSTICE IN DISPUTED TERrules, what would have been the result?
RITORY BILL.

FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL There would have been no result. It
A message was received from the House
would have gone back to the other House.
The objection should have been taken at of Commor.s to acquaint the Senate that
they had passed Bill (165), "An Act to
the time.
continue for a limited time the Act therein
mentioned."
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLE-I
The Bill was read the first time.
am not referring to this case particularly.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
hon. gentleman asks whether if the real that rule 41 be suspended so far as relates
point was a bill being read twice the same to this Bill.
day and any objection were taken to it
The motion was agreed to.
HON. MR ALMON.

The Contingent Accountg (JULY 18, 1885] of the Senate.
HON SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-This
Bill is for the purpose of continuing the
criminal laws in force in what is called
"the disputed territory," between Ontario
and Manitoba, for another year. The
decision of the Judicial Committee of the
Privy Council, although substantially determining the boundary, has not yet
received the force of law by legislation in
Great Britain. Until it has received the
force of law it is necessary for the public
safety to keep the criminal law in force as
it stands now for the remainder of the
year. I move that the Bill be read the
second time at length at the table.

14A13

tell us how many millions the Bill comes
to.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do

not know.
HON. MR. POWER-That I think is a
regrettable confession.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is

not my province, you know.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second and third times and
passed.

The motion was agreed to, and the Bill THE CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS OF
was read the second and third times and
THE SENATE.
passed.
THE SUPPLY BILL.
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.

A message was received from the House
of Commons to acquaint the Senate that
they had passed Bill (163), "An Act for
granting to Her Majesty certain sums of
money for defraying certain expenses of
the public service for the financial years
ending respectively the 3oth June 1885,
and the 3oth June 1886, and for other
purposes relating to the public service.
The Bill was read the first time.

SECOND REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE.

HON. MR. HOWLAN moved the
adoption of the second report of the
Select Committee on the Contingent
Accounts of the Senate. He said : I
may say that the report of the Contingent
Committee deals with the expenditures for
the past year and also the purchase of
stationery for the present year, and allows
the Assistant Accountant $1oo extra this
year for extra work he performed. With
the exception of those changes there is
nothing different from the previous years.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I wish to say a

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved word or two in regard to the contingent
that rule 41 be suspended so far as it accounts, and that is with reference to the

relates to this Bill.
The motion was agreed to.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My

hon. friend opposite (Mr. DeBoucherville)
desired me to explain the whole Bill, and I
shook my head because the task is impossible. It strikes me, however, that I
may explain it in a very few words. I
may say these are the supplies voted by
Her Majesty's Conmons. I move the
second reading of the Bill.
HON. MR. POWER-I was going to

say that the hon. gentleman might make
the same motion for the second reading
of the Bill which has just been passed,
that it be read at length at the table.
The Minister might be kind enough to

stationery. I have often complained about
the supply of stationery which is given to
members in the boxes which are distributed in the beginning of the session.
This year the ingenuity of the purveyor,
or whoever supplied the stationery, seems
to have been taxed to the utmost to give
us exactly the kind of stationery that nobody cares about using-paper of various
colors and patterns which, I think, at our
time of life, we can dispense with. It
may, perhaps, answer for the amatory
members of the House of Commons, or
for valentines, or for purposes of that
kind ; but for honest, sober, business correspondence, I think it is objectionable,
and, undoubtedly, it is more expensive than
plain white paper. I am content with
white paper, and I trust that in making
up the supply next year attention will be

1414

Superannuation,etc., [SENATE] of Certain Judges Bill.

paid to the fact that the very heavy paper
which is used, and a good deal of that
which is used for ordinary distribution, is
very much more expensive than the lighter
paper which would answer a better purpose. That heavy paper subjects us,
when we have to pay postage, to double
postage for two sheets, and it increases the
expense for paper in a very large proportion as the weight is increased. Some attention to matters of that kind, as well as
to the fact that a great many of those
things that are put in our boxes are of no
use to anybody, might bring about a better state of affairs. I bring my box back
after receiving it, and tumble out threefourths of the stuff that is in it and ask
them to give me plain paper in its place.
Certainly our stationery supplies are very
far inferior, for the convenience of members, to those given to members of the
House of Commons.
HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentleman from Niagara will be glad to know
that the paper of various hues which does
not meet his views does not cost as much
as that of former years. A further change
that he has suggested in the character of
the paper has been recommended by the
Committee of the present year, and paper
of a more useful character willl be distributed in future. I do not, however, rise
for the purpose of dealing with what has
fallen from the hon. gentleman, but I wish
to make a remark on one paragraph in
the report, which is as follows :Your Committee recommend that Frederick
Merritt, Robert Graburn and Alphonse
Duhamel, pages employed by your Honorable
Bouse, be notified that their services will not
be required at the next Session of Parliament,
on account of their having outgrown the
position.
I simply wish to emphasize the fact
that the Committee do not wish at all that
their report should be understood as
reflecting in any way on the pages named ;
on the contrary, I think that every member of the Committee was perfectly
satisfied with the conduct of those boys,
and that it is the feeling of the Committee,
as it will be of the House, that any recommendation that can be given on
behalf of the House that will be of any
service to these boys going into other
walks of life, the clerk shall be authorized

HON. MR. PLUMB.

to give, in the shape of a certificate of
character to those lads. The Committee
felt that those pages had outgrown their
position, and that it would be unfair to
themselves to keep them any longer in the
service of the Senate.

The motion was agreed to.
CUSTOMS AND EXCISE BILL.
SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the second reading of Bill (157), "An
Act to amend the several Acts relating to

duties of customs and excise." He saidThis is a Bill altering the tariff to someextent. It looks more formidable than it
really is. The alterations are not so
serious as the Bill of four or five pages,.

which this measure contains, would
indicate. The principal one, I think, is
increasing the duty on whiskey, and that
will be satisfactory to many hon. gentlemen in this House. There is a corresponding increase on excise. There is
also an increase on tobacco. The principal increase is on those two luxuries, if I
may be allowed to call them so. With
some little experience in this House I
have never thought it wise on the part of
a Minister charged with the duty I am
now performing, to enter into a discussion
on the tariff.
The motion was agreed to, and the
Bill was read the second and third time
under the suspension of the 41st rule.
SUPERANNUATION AND TRAVELLING ALLOWANCE OF CERTAIN JUDGES BILL.
SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the second reading of Bill (161), " An Act
to amend the Act forty-sixth Victoria,

chapter nine, intituled 'An Act to provide

for the salaries and superannuation and
travelling allowances of certain Judges of
certain Provincial Courts."'

He said-This is a Bill to give an additional thousand dollars to a judge ofthe
Superior Court of Quebec who may be
sitting in Montreal and presiding over the

Railway [JULY )8, 1885] Subsidiea Bill.
Court there, as the Chief Justice resides
in Quebec, or vice versa. Hon. gentlemen
who come from Ontario will remember
that we had in this Province several Chief
Justices presiding over different courtsthree or four of them, I think. In Lower
Canada at this moment they have two,
and by their practice there the business
of the court, where the Chief Justice does
not resideinthetown,ispresidedover bythe
Senior Puisne judge, and, in fact, in
Montreal where the Chief Justice has not
resided in the time of Mr. Meredith, the
late Chief Justice or the present Chief
Justice, the business is presided over by
Mr. Justice Johnston. It entails a large
additional amount of labor upon him. He
has to discharge the duties of the Chief
Justice when the Chief is not present, and
therefore I think the increase is fairly due
to the gentleman who discharges those
duties.

1A15

" The above second sub-section shall be

suspended until after a thorough survey of
the road mientioned therein shall have been
made and submitted to Parliament."
HoN. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLE-It
seems to me by this amendment we are to

give subsidies for other railways. We
have not the right to propose in this
House that money shall be granted to
railways; such grant must be initiated in
the other House.

The amendment was declared lost on a
division.
HoN. MR. POWER moved, in amendment,-

To strike out the words from "via" in the
36th line, to "Salisbury" in the 38th line and
insert instead the following: " Salisbury,
Fredericton and such points between Fredericton and Montreal as mny be determined
to
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill by Parlianent, after surveys sufficient best
indicate with certainty the shortest and
was read the second and third times under practicable route for the said line of railway."

suspension of the 41st rule.

RAILWAY SUBSIDIES BILL.
THIRD READING.

The House resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole on Bill (158), "An
Act to authorize the granting of further
subsidies to and making further provision
for the construction and efficient operation of the railways therein described."

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We
have not the power to make any amendment to this Bill.
HON. MR. POWER-I think we have,
because we very frequently make amendments in bills that relate to the expenditure of public money as long as the amendment does not affect the sum of money

expended, or alter the work that has to be
done. The Minister of Justice will see
that the amendment does not affect the

to be
In the Committee, on the 2nd sub- amount of moneydone. expended or the
work that is to be
section of the first clause,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
HON. MR. TRUDEL moved that the
amendment is out of order. It changes
sub-section be struck out.
the character of the expenditure and
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The limits it, and says how it is to be done;

Bill is a money bill and I think we must
take or reject it as a whole. That is the
ordinary rule, and a rule on which the
House of Commons will insist, as on a
previous occasion.

and these are prerogatives of the House
of Commons.
HON. MR. POWER-It is simply protecting a certain section of the country,

and I think it is straining the rule a good

The motion was declared lost on a deal to make it apply to that amendment.
division.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE moved to
The amendment was declared lost on a
amend the 1st clause by adding, as a 3rd division.
sub-section :

1A16

Railway [SENATE] SubsidieB Bi1l

On the 3rd clause,
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLE-I
wish to call the attention of the Government to a point that seems to me to be
very important. By this 3 rd clause the
act of last year is changed. Last year an
alternative was provided that the Pacific
Railway Company might either buy the
North Shore road from the Grand Trunk
Railway Company or build a new line.
By this clause of the bill there is added a
provision that the Government may buy
the road, and rent it to the Pacific Railway Company. Is that not correct ?

celled, and the Local Government would
have the right to any surplus if the road
was sold again. I call the attention of
the Government to this fact to put them
on their guard, that if they should buy the
road they may be obliged to pay twice
for it, as the Local Government may have
a claim on it afterwards.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am
obliged to my hon. friend for the information he has given us. Of course it is
necessary in a large and important transaction like this to proceed very carefully,
and the Government will be more on the
alert because of the information the hon.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes, gentleman has given. I believe we are in
that is correct.
a safer position since we have the liberty
of acquiring those debentures at their preHON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEsent market value.
The hon. gentleman must not forget that
when the Syndicate obtained, by some
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEmeans, the control of the road which be- But the moral effect will be this: The
longed to the Government of Quebec, they Federal Government, having bought the
also got the right to issue debentures to road, the debentures will undoubtedly inthe amount of $25,ooo a mile on the road. crease in value.
They then made an arrangement with the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-But
Grand Trunk Railway by which that
company guaranteed the interest on if the Government have made arrangthose debentures, which amounted to ments by which they may acquire those
Those debentures have debentures at their present value there
$1,225,ooo.
not reached par, but they have will be no danger.
been taken as security, and money has
been loaned upon them. Now if the
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLE-As
Government buy this road, the holders of I am informed the debentures have been
those debentures will be in this position : pledged as security, and money has been
they will have the right to say that the borrowed on them.
Federal Government is bound to pay
them the interest, and those debentures
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
will immediately have a par value. If it cannot explain myself as frankly as I would
is shown, however, that the sale of this like to do; but I will suppose a case.
road was made under-I do not like to Supposing the debentures are in the hands
use too strong an expression-but was of a monetary institution which holds a
made under circumstances which may claim against them, and the Government
bring about a cancellation of the contract, acquire the right to get hold of those dethe Federal Government will be obliged bentures by paying the amount for which
to buy those debentures ; I therefore call they are held as security ?
the attention of the Government to the
fact that they may be in great danger, beHON. MR. TRUDEL-The road was
cause the Local Government has appoin- acquired by a syndicate ; then it was reted Judge Routhier of Quebec as com- sold by the syndicate to certain persons
missioner to inquire into all the circum- who are supposed to represent the Grand
stances connected with the sale of this Trunk Railway, and they got for it one
road. Supposing Judge Routhier should and a quarter millions of dollars more
report that fraudulent means have been than they paid for it, or undertook to pay
used in connection with the purchase and for it, to the province of Quebec. In the
sale of the road, this contract may be can- case suggested by the hon. gentleman from

Railway [JULY 18, 1885]
Montarville, that by reason of fraud the
contract of sale should be set aside, then
the position of the Federal Government
would be this, they would have paid one
and a quarter million for the debentures
and by the judgment of the court it would
be adjudged the railway should go back to
the province of Quebec, so that the Government would lose any right of property
in the railway, and would have no means
of recovering the money paid for those debentures which would represent the profit of
the syndicate who had acquired the railway from the province of Quebec and
re-sold it to the Grand Trunk Railway
Companyat one million and a quarterprofit.

1417

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We
guard against that; there are none of
them in England.

HON. MR. SCOTT-Perhaps my hon.
friend would give, in general terms, the
amount which those debentures are
pledged for; it would simplify the matter.
Are they pledged to the extent of 50
cents on the dollar?

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
would not like to state. The Government will have, or may have, the opportunity of acquiring those debentures at
what they are worth in the market, and not
at their face value. I cannot go any
closer than that. I said with reference to
the rest of it that we have to proceed
carefully and get a good title, and with
the knowledge that there is a commission
inquiring into the legality of its present
position, we will have to go very carefully. As to the second part of the
objection raised, the Government have
secured the right to acquire those
debentures at their actual value.
HON.

ubsidies Bill.

MR. DEBOUCHERVILLE-

The Grand Trunk Railway Company
would not lose anything if the resuit of
the inquiry that is being made by the
Quebec Government was to annul the
same ; because the Grand Trunk
Railway has merely promised to guarantee the interest on those debentures.
It has not taken the debentures ; it has
been guaranteed by the law. Then, if
that sale was declared null and void, the
Grand Trunk Railway would not be obliged to pay the interest. The danger
would be for the Government to put itself
in this position : that people acting in
England would take those debentures.

The clause was adopted.
HON. MR. READ, from the committee,
reported the Bill without amendment.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELI moved
the third reading of the Bill.
HON.

ML POWER moved, in amend-

mentThat the said Bill be not now read a third
time, but that it be amended as follows :To strike out the words from ' via," in the
36th line, to "<Salisbury," in the 38th line.
and insert instead the following: " Salisbury,
Fredericton and such points between Fredericton and Montreal as may be determined
by Parliament after surveys sufficient to indicate with certainty the shortest and best
practicable route for the said line of railway."
le said: The effect of that would be

simply to allow the Governnent an opportunity, if, upon making surveys, they find
the route indicated in this Bill is not the
best one, to select a better one.

HoN. MR. KAULBACH-It seerms to
me that it is voting money for a new

object. It is asking that the money be
devoted to a different purpose from that
contemplated in the Bill. Otherwise, I
I did
am in favor of the amendment.
not speak on the second reading of this
Bill, because I thought some of my
remarks on a Bill which had come up
previous to that were still fresh in the
Therefore, I
minds of hon. gentlemen.
abstained from speaking on the Bill, and
even now I shall not dwell upon it to any
extent. I am opposed to that line of
railway, because when you go southwards
30 miles to Sherbrooke, you actually go
south for 30 miles, as far as Nova Scotia
is concerned, you have to go nearly 50
miles north again-that is, 8o miles at
least added to that line. Then, the
line is zigzag. Some one said this line
must be shorter than any other because it
is the base of a triangle, and any two
sides of a triangle are greater than the
third side. Although such a proposition
is an axiom which is never disputed, it is
incorrect in this instance, because the base

1418

Railway [SENATE] Subsidia Bill.

is a curve and full of zigzags, and therefore not the base of a triangle as described.
I regret that this line has been adopted,
especially from the surveys we have had.
I cannot, myself, form an opinion as to
the shortest line, but when you find such
an eminent engineer as Mr. Shanly saying
that he cannot decide which is the shortest fine on the information before the
country, certainly there must be some
doubt as to where the best practical line
is to be had.

HON. MR. POWER-No.
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-It
provides that if after a survey it should be

found the shortest line. There is another
objection: it is not proposed to give it to
any company ; it is proposed to be held
in air until a survey is made by an engineer so that in every respect it is out of
order, and I ask if the House will sanction
it, that His Honor the Speaker decide the
point.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
THE SPEAKER-I have no doubt
submit that this proposed amendment is that the amendrent is out of order for
out of order. It is out of order in two the reasons stated by the Minister of
respects : it not only proposes to alter a Justice, and which I need not repeat.

provision which has come from the House The amendment strikes at the vital prinof Commons with reference to the ex- ciple of the Bill. I shall just read, in
penditure of money, but it proposes to addition to the authority cited by the
make a new grant to another road, be- Minister, a paragraph from the latest work
cause it is substantially another road. we have on Parliamentary practiceEven if that were proposed in the House Bourinot:of Commons, it could not have originated
" The constitutional privileges of the Comexcept by resolution, and if it would have
to go back to the beginning of the pro
ceedings in order to be introduced in that
House, much less can it be introduced in
this House. The case I am about to cite
to the House is much in point, and it
seems to me to dispose of this completely,
even if it were much nearer to the rule
than it really is. The case which I mention is described in May in these words:" So strictly is the principle observed in all
matters affecting the public revenues, that
where certain payments have been directed
by a Bill to be inade into and out of the Consolidated Fund, the Comirions have refused
to permit the Lords to insert a clause providing that such payments should be made under
the same regulations as were applicable by
law to other similar pay ments."
Showing that the House of Commons
assert the exclusive jurisdiction to deal
with money and how it shall be expended.
They say in this Bill that the money shall
be expended between such and such a
place, and the amendment says that that
shall not be done.
HON. MR. POWER-Oh, no.

mons in this particu ar are now tacitly
acknowledged by the Senate never attempting
to amend the Supply Bill. If any alteration
is now made in a money or taxation Bill in
the House of Lords, it is only of a verbal and

unimportant character; but even such an
alteration is of very unusual occurrence, and
so jealous are the Commons of even an appearance of an infringement of their piivileges, that they will make a special entry of
their reasons for accepting such anendments."
I think the motion is out of order.
HON. MR. TRUDEL-I shall now
move the amendment of which I gave
notice-to strike out subsection 2 of section 1. I may observe that the amerdment which I propose differs essentially
in its character from the one which has
been disposed of by his honor the Speaker.
It is true that this is a clause which at first
sight might be considered one of the clauses of a money bill. It is in fact a clause
which is entirely independent of the other
sections and it is accidental-this is the
point to which I wish to call the attention
of the House, and especially of the
Speaker -it is only accidental and refers
to a matter which might form in itself a

separate bill.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--It
does, because it says the payment shall
not be made on the line between such and
such a point.
HON. MR. KAULBACH

If I understand the doc-

trine it is this: the Senate has no right to
amend a money bill; it has a right to reject a money bill. Supposing instead
of having put three, four, five and six

Railway [JULY 18, 1885] Subsidies Bill.
money grants on the same sheet of paper
the Government had presented them sepa
rately, then it would be evident that the
Senate would have the right to reject any
of those bills. Would the Senate-lose its
right by the accident of coupling them
together or by the action of the Government in putting the subjects of those different bills into one-that is, on a single
piece of paper which might deprive the
Senate of its right ? I do not think it.
What I propose is to strike out the whole
money grant of that railway and then it
amounts to the rejection of the whole bill
which would be proposed to give a money
grant to this company. That is not contrary to the doctrine which has been mentioned by the Speaker. I respectfully
suggest that my amendment is in order.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
think that this motion is also out of order.
The provision is one that is covered by
the language of the first clause. The first
clause is the language of the grant :-that
the Governor-in-Council may grant the
subsidies hereinafter granted. To strike
out one limb of the grant is as much an
alteration of the bill as the amendment
from
member
hon.
the
which
Halifax proposed a moment ago.
He proposed, not to strike out the whole
limb of the grant, but a portion of a
limb and to change the application of the
money if the engineer should so report.
This amendment proposes, not to take
out a part of a limb, but to take out the
whole limb and, therefore, to alter to a
still larger extent the provision of the bill
itself. The proposition is that ail the
provisions of this grant contained in the
first section for the purpose of making a
short line railway be stricken out. Of
course that is an alteration in the bill and
defeats the object of the House of Commons in giving their sanction to this
measure and in making the grant-one
grant for ail the purposes mentioned in
the first and second sub-section-and if
you strike out that sub-section you strike
out one of the material objects the House
of Commons had in view in making the
grant.

14A19

good and logical, but the facts are against
him. In the Australian Assembly they
tacked to the Subsidy Bill a clause to pay
certain employés. The Legislative Council had no option but to reject the whole
bill. If my hon. friend's reasoning were
sound, the action of the Legislative Council would have been sustained in that instance, but when the case was carried to
England it was decided otherwise. It
was the subject of a long correspondence,
and the result was to show that the Upper
House had no power to amend; it could
only accept or reject the Bill as a
whole.
THE SPEAKER-I must say that the
same process of reasoning which the hon.
member for DeSalaberry has just now presented to the House has been revolving
in my Ôwn mind, and that I entertained
some doubt as to whether the House
might not have the power of striking out
an independent section of a bill which, of
itself, might have constituted a separate
and independent bill, and which would
leave the bill, after it was struck out, a
perfect bill with regard to the subjects
which it controls ; and a further reason why my mind
was
somewhat in doubt on that point was
that the Government by a system of
tacking on, which has been alluded to,.
might introduce and pass an obnoxious
grant through Parliament in connection
with one that had the general support of
Parliament. But on mature reflection I
have come to the conclusion arrived at
by the hon. member from Montarville. I
consider this is a money bill which you
cannot alter, and if it contains any
obnoxious feature the only means by
which this House can assert its right todeal with such a feature is by rejecting
the Bill as a whole.
HON. MR.

BELLEROSE-I move iti

amendment:That the Bill be recommitted to a Committee of the Whole House for the purpose of
amending the sanie by adding at the end of

the second sub-section of the first section :-

" The above second sub-section shall be

suspended until after a thorough survey of
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLE-It the road mentioned in the second eub-section
seems to me that the reasons given by the shall have been made and put before
hon. gentleman from DeSalaberry are Parliament."

1A20

Bailway [SENATE]

Bil.
&bidies

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That mation of the authorities of the House of

Commons it did not stand in the saine
position as the other amendments. This
THE SPEAKER-Yes, I consider it amendment was moved at the third readalso open to the same objection, and is ing of the Bill in the House of Commons.
It was moved originally as an amendment
not in order.
to the resolution, and then afterwards at
HON. MR. POWER moved in amend- the third reading of the Bill; and no
objection whatever was taken to it on the
ment:ground that it was out of order.
"That the said Bill be not now read a third
tine, but that it be recommitted to a Committee of the Whole House for the purpose of HON. MR. PLUMB-The House of
adding the following sub-clause to the first Commons was dealing with its own Bill.
clause:" (3.) The work on the sections of the line
HON. MR. POWER--The ground that
between Harvey, Fredericton and Salisbury the leader of the Government took with
shall be begun and prosecuted simultaneously
with the work on the portions of the line west respeçt to the other amendment which I
of the boundary between New Brunswick and moved was that it could not be made in
Maine."
the House of Commons without a resoluThe reason I think it desirable to move tion, but this one was moved in amend
that sub-clause is that that particular link ment to the Bill.
in the proposed line of railway is the one
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL - It
which is most essential to the lower provinces-I mean to Prince Edward Island, had previously been moved in amendment
Nova Scotia, and a portion of New Bruns- of the resolution.
wick. Without that link the short line is
of no value whatever to that part of the HON. MR. POWER-It does not alter
conntry, and there is another reason why the essence of the Bill before us in any
it is most desirable that work should be way. It does not affect the amount of
prosecuted on that link at once. This Bill money to be spent, and it can stand with
contains a provision for a subsidy for a the Bill as it is now; and I think it is a
railway from Riviere DuLoup or Riviere case, at any rate, where the rule should be
Ouelle to Edmonston-that is the short construed liberally. We have been in the
line fron Quebec to the lower provinces. habit heretofore of making amendments
That road is of no value to the provinces in bills which provided for the expendiof Prince Edward Island and Nova Scotia ture of money. We have made amendunless the link to which reference is made ments to Bills relating to the Canadian
in my amendment forms part of the road. Pacific Railway and other measures of
It does not matter what line is chosen for that sort where money grants were
the short line, that particular link from involved.
Fredericton to Salisbury will form part of
it, and work should be gone on with upon
HON. MR. TRUDEL-I am afraid we
it at once. Now, I do not think that this
amendment stands in exactly the same are going too far in the sense of abdicating
position as those which have been ruled the rights and powers of this House, and
out of order. In the first place, there is especially in the direction, perhaps, in
nothing in it inconsistent with the Bill; it which the whole world is going. It has
can stand with the Bill: it does not pro- been remarked very often by what I might
call leading men-the superior minds in
pose to alter its provisions.
England-that British institutions were
HON. MR. HOWLAN-It stands in the being so rapidly disfigured that England
is not far from the time when the British
same position as the others.
constitution will exist no more. The
HON. MR. POWER-I may mention principle of the constitution is perfect
a circumstance in connection with it equality of power between the three
which shows that at any rate in the esti- branches of parliament, and we are every
is open to the saine objection.

Railway [JULY 18, 1885] Subsidie8 Bill.
day diminishing the power of one or
two branches and augmenting the power
of the third. It will be in a short
time quite a new system, and the
British constitution will be destroyed. Of
course I would not venture tc say that, if
it had not been repeated perhaps twenty
times by Lord Beaconsfield, and even, long
ago, by Lord Grey. I make that remark to
direct the attention of the House to this
point, and I think it is a very remarkable'
one. I think this Bill is essentially bad,
and we are exerting ourselves here to save
the Gvernment from an immense responsibility. I hope even after the passing of
the measure they will re-consider the
matter and see whether those grants should
be made.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
hardly think that any further argument is
necessary in order to show that this
amendment is equally out of order with
the others. My hon. friend says it might
stand with the Bill as it now stands and is
therefore not out of order. In the case I
quoted it was only an amendment that
the payments should be made under the
provisions applicable to other payments.
It was to make similar provisions to those
which existed relating to the other payments, and with reference to such a point
as that the House of Commons objected to.

HON. MR. POWER-This does not
affect the payments ; it affects the work.

1421

House of Commons will naturally and
properly resist. It seems to me the
remarks made by the hon. member from
DeSalaberry, if at all just, relate to
matters which can only be dealt with by
legislation or some change in the practice
or usage of Parliament. As it is now, the
law of Parliament provides what shall be
done, and I do not agree with him in
thinking that the practice of the last 50
years has diminished or increased the
powers of the House of Lords to deal with
those bills. The cases which we are still
citing and which govern the action of the
House of Lords and the action of the
Senate are not cases of yesterday, but have
grown up during 1oo years and are uniform
in tenor, and I do not think the House of
Commons asserts for itself now so strongly
and exclusively the rights we are speaking
of as they did 6o or 70 years ago. This
tendency to relax is shown by the fact that
they allow the House of Lords to insert
penalties and small provisions with reference to such matters as they formerly
objected altogether to the Upper House
dealing with, and with a little research I
think I can show that the tendency of the
House of Commons is rather to relax, so
far as is consistent with common sense.
They were much more jealous of their
powers in former years than they are now,
but still they have always adhered to
the rules which direct the expenditure
of money and which are based on a well
known principle in the relations of the two
Houses. This present amendment proposes to change the disposition which the
House of Commons have made of this
money and to divert it in a different direction and under different rules, and I
think therefore it is out of order.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am
pointing out that even a smaller change
was objected to. This proposes to change
the direction in which the money is to be
expended ; that instead of being expended
as the engineer or the Governor-in-Council
may think convenient, it shall be expendTHE SPEAKER-I do not think it is
ed paripassuon two roads.
necessary for me to repeat what I have
said with regard to the want of power of
HON. MR. POWER-It does not say this House to alter a money Bill. I
the money shall be expended ; it says the consider this would be a vital alteration
work shall be done.
in the Bill, and I may say if I had any
doubt in the matter I should have given
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-How the hon. member for Halifax the benefit
can the work be done without expending of the doubt, but I have none.
the money ? There is a direct interferThe main motion was agreed to, and
ence on the part of this House with the the Bill was read the third time and passed.
expenditure of money which the House
of Commons says shall be expended otherAt 12.30 p.m. the Senate adjourned
wise. It is a direct interference which the during pleasure.

Bailway [SENATE] Sub8idies Bil.

1A22

AFTERNOON SITTING.

Mr. Tuttle, from Bridgewater, who was
one of the deputation, came to nie and

The House resumed at

2.30

p.m.

RAILWAY SUBSIDIES BILL

told me what was going on.

He said that

he had had a conversation with the Minister of Railways, who assured me that

FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.

nothing would be done to the injury of
Bridgewater in consequence of the money
being granted before ; but now I find that

Bill (164), "An Act to authorize the
granting of the subsidies therein mentioned
in aid of the construction of certain railways," was introduced and read the first
and second time under suspension of the
rule.

the sum of $3,2oo a mile is increased to
$7o,ooo and Bridgewater is cut off, the
road going to Bogart, some four miles
short of where it was intended to go. I
do not say anything as far as the Government are concerned ; but the parties who

induced me to interest myself in the
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-This
Bill proposes to grant certain aid to
several railways that are mentioned
.therein.

matter have treated me very unfairly. As
soon as I saw the bill, not being able to

I do not think I have been fairly treated
in reference to this matter. When the
Napanee and Tamworth Railway Bill
came up for amendment to allow the company to extend the road via Bogart to
Bridgewater, it vas placed in my hands to
do all in my power to have it pass
through the Senate. I did so, and the Bill
was passed. Then I was to do all I could
to get a grant towards the building of that
railway. As a matter of course I saw the
Minister of Railways, Sir Charles Tupper,
and had a conversation with him, and he
assured me that we should have a grant of
$3,200 a mile for the road from Tamworth
to Bridgewater. That sum was voted two

derstand the thing-whether he did or
not I cannot say. It showed that they

HoN.

go and see Mr. Pope, the Minister of

Railways, I wrote to Mr. Bowell, who was
interested, as part of the money is to be
HON. MR. FLINT-My reason for expended in his constituency, and afterrising to make the remarks which I am wards I got a letter from the Minister of
now about to address to the House is that Railways in which he seemed not to un-

sessions ago, but last year nothing was

done with it. The company did not move
in the matter, because they thought that
they had not means enough to go on with
construction, and the consequence was

the project was allowed to stand for a
while.

During that session the promoters

came to me and consulted with me about

it. The principal men stopped at the
same place that I did,'and we conferred

together with reference to what was to be
done. They asked for my assistance and
got it. At the conclusion of this year
when they came down, instead of coming to see me, they never came near
me, and I knew nothing of what
was going on until after they had
seen the Minister of Railways; and then

could not grant any more money this year
but theygranted $6,ooo more than they did

before, which makes the grant in aid of
the road considerably over $4,ooo a mile.
I also received a letter from Mr. Bowell
stating that he had spoken to the Minister
of Railways on the subject and that they
could not give any further grant this year.
This is the position in which the matter

stands. I think I have been very unfairly
treated by parties who got me to take charge
of the Bill, and who got me to induce the
Government to make a grant to the road
two years ago, and now I find that Bridgewater is left out in the cold. I have
inade these remarks in order that they
may go into the official report so that the
parties interested may have an opportunity of seeing them. I dare say the parties
require all the money they have got, and
more, to construct the road where it has
to go.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
only explanation I have to offer is this,that the desire of the railway company and
their interests lead very strongly in the
interest of the public to their making a
connection with the Pacific Railway, and
by the extension which they are now as.
sisted in making as far as Bogart, they
will there make that connection. That

Bill.
Railway [JULY 18, 1885] &Sb8idies
was the great object which the company
had in view, and which is an important
object in the interest of that part of the
country. I am sorry that my hon. friend
should have been treated in a way which
he thinks is wrong in this matter. I do
not know anything about it, and I am unable to offer any remark but to express
my regret.
HON. MR. FLINT-It was not intended at the time to connect with the
Pacific Railway at all ; it was the intention
of the company to go to Bridgewater for
the purpose of connecting there with the
Belleville & North Hastings Road, in
order to get out to the back country.
That was the object which they had in
view, and they were more interested in
endeavoring to draw the trade of that
back country to their road and to,
Napanee, and the Pacific Railway was not
thought of àt that time.

1423

whereas, all the rest of the road we travel
on belongs to the Government. It must
be easy to see that if any mismanagement,
or inadequacy of means, or anything
else, should cause any deficiency in that
road, the traffic of the Island will be
seriously compromised thereby. It is,
therefore, I believe, the general wish of
the Islanders that the Government should
acquire that road, and if the Minister of
Justice could in his place give us any hope
that in the near future the Government
will take steps to acquire that road, the
statement would be received with general
satisfaction by the people of my province.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
think it is an inconvenience that this link
should belong to a private company; but
I am not able to give any assurance with
respect to it further than this-that I will
bring the remarks made by the hon. gentleman under the notice of the Government, and will take care that every
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I wish to considerationis given to the inconvenience
say a few words with reference to the that he has pointed out, and which, I consecond road on the list which the hon. fess, also, is one requiring consideration.
Minister has read to the House from this
HON. MR. KAULBACH-The inconBill. It is there spoken of as a New
Brunswick and Prince Edward Island venience to the Island of that short road
road, but not one yard of that road is on being in the hands of a company must be
Prince Edward 1sland. Notwithstanding very great, and I do not think the Govthat, the people of that province are very ernment would suffer financially by the
much interested in this line, because it is operation of that road, if they acquired it.
a railway which connects the Cape in
HON. MR. POWER-There is the
New Brunswick, where they land in the
winter time, with the Intercolonial Rail- more force in the remarks of the hon genway. It is therefore their interest that tleman from Marshfield for this reason,
either by some company or by the Govern- that, although it does not appear from
ment, that road should be completed as the present Bill, the fact is that this road
soon as possible; and although the sum has already a subsidy of $3,200 a mile
is small that we are voting per mile for from the Dominion Parliament, and it
this Bill, stili it will be of some service. has, I think, a subsidy of $3,ooo, from
I only wish that the Government, acting the local legislature. I have been inon some suggestions made by members formed by a gentleman in a position to
from the island, had thought proper te know that the subsidies which that comnow be
entitled
to
acquire the Tormentine and Sackville pany will
Railway, because if they had done so, il receive from the two Governments
would have made all the roads, including are sufficient to build the road,
the Prince Edward Island Railway, and and, I think, there is the strongfrom the straits of Northumberland te b est objection to the Government giving
Should so large a subsidy. It would be much
Montreal, Government lines.
this road be completed by the company better for the Dominion Government to
who are now at work upon it, there wil 1 have built the road instead of voting it
be some 45 miles of railway betweer $6,4oo a mile, and taken, as I presume
Prince Edward Island and the Intercolon they could have taken, the local subsidy.
!al Railway belonging to the company, The road then would have cost the Gov-

1A2A4

Railway [SENATE] Subsidies Bill.

ernment nothing more than now. Now,
the public are paying for the road, and it
is to be owned by private individuals, who
will be in a position, if they choose, to
dispose of it and make money out of it.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
move the third reading of the Bill. I
desire merely to say in reply to what has
fallen from the hon. gentleman from
Halifax that I put that question to the
Minister of Railways a few days since,
and he told me that all the subsidies to
which the company are entitlied would
not nearly build the road.

be made; I simply say that in the present
condition of things there are other places
where the expenditure is more called for.
In addition to the existing railway connections which Pictou has, the Short Line
Railway from Oxford to Louisburg runs
through the county, and it was part of the
undertaking of that company to make a
connection with the town of Pictou on the
same side of the river on which the town
stands. That railway has yet to be constructed. There is a large subsidy given
to the company, and there is no doubt
that it will be constructed. Pictou thus
having connections on both sides of the
harbor, why should a quarter of a million
be voted to give it a third connection ?
There is in the western part of the province a line of railway some 8o miles in
length, which is separated from the railway
leading from Halifax and the east by a
missing link of some 19 or 20 miles of
road rather difficult to construct. If the
Government had money to vote for railway purposes in Nova Scotia that link had
a claim prior to the road which they have
undertaken to construct; but I think in
addition to that we have the fact that the
Island of Cape Breton with a population

HON. MR. POWER-My informant is
a gentleman who lives in the neighborhood, and who is much more familiar
with the matter than the Minister of Railways, and his authority, I think, was the
President of the Company. I am always
glad to see, when so many millions of
dollars are being spent in different parts
of the Dominion, some money going to
Nova Scotia. lt is a sentiment that is
shared by all the other representatives
from the province; and I am naturally
pleased to see that in this Bill there is a
rovision for the payment of the sum of of nearly oo,ooo has not a single mile of
250,000 for the construction of a railway Government railway on it ; and I cannot
in Nova Scotia. While that is true, if the understand why the Government should
Government had proposed to spend so have selected the county of Pictou to be
large a sum of money as that for railway the recipient of such extraordinary favors
purposes in Nova Scotia, there were when Cape Breton has received nothing
other localities which had stronger claims whatever.
to it than the town of Pictou. Pictou is
now connected by rail with Truro, and by
HoN. MR. HOWLAN-Hear, hear.
the Intercolonial Railway with the whole
country; and at New Glasgow, which is
HON. MR. POWER-I should like my
only some ten miles from Pictou there is hon. friend from Alberton to explain that.
a road running down to the Strait of I think the Government in asking us to vote
Canso.
this money has a right to make some explanation. The Minister of Justice
HON. MR. CARVELL-I would re- perhaps would not care to tell the secrets
mind the hon. gentleman that the town of of his prison house to the extent of inPictou is not connected by rail with any forming us on this point.
place in the world. You can connect
with the Intercolonial Railway by the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My
steamer that crosses twice a day, or by prison house ?
skiff if you like.
HON. MR. POWER-It has been said
HON, MR. POWER-The harbor has that it is in contemplation to call one of
to be crossed ; but the harbor of Pictou the present members from Pictou to the
is connected by rail with the Intercolonial Cabinet. If that he the case, of course I
Railway. I am not saying that it is not a can conceive it is desirable that this
desirable thing that this connection should $250,ooo should be proposed at this time,
HON. MR. POWER.

JIilikta Land [JULY 18, 1885] Grants Bill.

1425

as it might be difficult to get the County that it deserves. It has received subsidies
of Pictou to elect a Conservative without for one road, although that road has not
yet been commenced. It is not so much
some such inducement.
the fault of the Government as it is of
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-If the people. We hope our turn will come
my hon. friend will allow me to tell him shortly, however; we commenced a railway
in strict confidence, there is nothing in sometime ago and we are strugghng to
complete it, and I hope that our turn will
that.
come, and that the road will be completed
HON. MR. PLUMB-It seems that we by the Government in the course of a year
are only onlookers in this sort of discus- or two
sion. The Province of Ontario, the largThe motion was agreed to, and the Bill
est province in the Dominion, does not
seem to be favored with those grants of was read the third time and passed.
money. My hon. friend who has just
MILITIA LAND GRANTS BILL.
spoken gets for his province $25o,ooo,
while the great Province of Ontario, which
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
is nearly four times as large in population
and contributes four or five times as much
Bill (16o), " An Act to authorize grants
to the revenue, does not get anything.
We are willing to allow the hon. gentle- of land to members of the Militia force
men to get their $25o,ooo, and seule it lately on active service in the Northamongst themselves, but they ought to be West " was introduced and read the first
satisfied with it, and it comes with rather and second time under a suspension of
bad grace from the hon. gentleman from the rule.
Halifax to be constantly objecting to ail
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
grants that have been made not only to
Nova Scotia, but for Nova Scotia; for he think this is a Bill on which we will be
has addressed the House three or four unanimous, and it will notreceive the
times on matters which, if he had his way, criticism, or at least the adverse criticisrn,
would have prevented Nova Scotia from even of my hon. friend from Halifax. It
retaining its shipping business, for it works is a grant, to those volunteers who have
both ways. The direct line enables Nova served in the North-West, of 320 acres of
Scotia to send its imports west, and it is land if they choose to remain in that
as important to have its imports from the country. It will have the double effect of
sea as to partake of the inland traffic, and not only rewarding those who fought our
that my hon. friend does not seera to see battles there but will have a good influence
on the settlement of the country, and in
at ail.
that respect will be useful in both ways.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-You will It is proposed, in reference to those who
always find objections to railway grants do not want to remain in the North-West,
unless the railways are brought right to that they shall receive a certain amount of
our doors. This railway to Pictou must land scrip. Of course there are many
be a benefit to Prince Edward Island, be- volunteers who do not want to remain
cause a large portion of the trade of Pic- there, and the temptation we put in their
tou is with the island in the summer, and way to persuade then to rermain is very
this railway, crossing and connecting with considerable. The reward is one that
the Intercolonial Railway, must be an they are justly entitled to, and I am sure
immense advantage to Prince Edward the House will sanction it with great
Island. I know that several times I ple.isure.
have had occasion to go to Pictou,
HON. MR. SCOTT-I am glad to
and have experienced the inconvenience
of crossing that ferry. I do not think notice that it is proposed to give the volunthat this grant is too large, or that teers sections of land in the North-West,
that portion of the province is not deserv- in the country where they have been largely
ing of it. Cape Breton, for some reason, instrumental in restoring peace. I regret,
has not hitherto received the attention however, to find that the Government
P3

1426

Militia Land [SENATE]

Grants Bill.

limit the time within which it will be com- will represent, in the hands of a needy
petent for parties who propose to accept person who does not feel inclined to take
the gift of the Government to the 1st of the land, from $30 to $50. I have known
August 1886. I can quite understand that amount of scrip to be sold for onethat those who desire to seule in the tenth of its face value. In tact it is well
country may be entirely precluded from known that when scrip was issued in the
making selections in the short time given. North West it was bought for five or ten
This year is practically gone. They are dollars, and sometimes even for a bottle of
returning now, and their avocation in the whiskey. In that way the policy of the
eastern portion of the Dominion will pre- Government is defeated. It is a question
clude their going there this year again. which I take a great interest in, having
The time is too short, and I think it is a myself been familiar with its working and
mistake on the part of the Government. having watched its operation. I do feel that
Our ancestors understoodthis much better. it is important to protect people against
My hon. friend knows very well that when their own weaknesses. Our object is to
the U. E. Loyalists came to this country give each volunteer a section of land in
and got their grants of land they were not that country. If they sell it afterwards we
restricted as to time. They and their chil- cannot help it, but I think it is most de
dren had time to make selections. The sirable that they should really get the
result of the limitation proposed in this patents for their lands. We can say that
bill is that very considerable numbers of whether the volunteers part with their
the volunteers will be induced to take scrip scrip or not, the patents shall be issued in
and dispose of it, and the country will be the names of the parties entitled to the
deluged with scrip and of course it will run scrip, just as the patents were issued in
very much below its face value when there the name of the U. E. Loyalists, although
is a great deal of it in the market, and our some of them had parted with their
bounty will be restricted very considerably. rights. When a patent was issued it was
Eighty dollars of scrip will be equivalent known that it was the right of Brown,
to $40 cash. I have long felt that this Macdonald, or whatever the name hapissuing of scrip is subject to great abuse. pened to be, and there was no limitation
When I was in office I endeavored to make as to time ; they were not cut off by being
the scrip, which was issued to the half- forced to take scrip, and I think my hon.
breeds, non-transferrable and it should friend would render a most important seronly be of value in the hands of the person vice to the volunteers if he would call the
to whom it is issued, and the land should attention of the Government to this point.
be taken up only in his name. It is always I have no doubt that the mistake has been
desirable in cases of this kind to protect made most inadvertently,at the suggestion
people from their own weaknesses. I will of some clerk in the department, that the
not go over this scrip question. I have grant ought to be converted into scrip
been familiar with it half a century. We and taken up at once. We have millions
of and millions of acres in the North-West,
issued scrip after the rebellion
friend and why should we say to these people
hon.
my
and
1837-38,
will recollect when that scrip was issued you must take up this land before August
how it depreciated in value and the peo- of next year ? It seems an unreasonable
ple for whom it was intended really got thing that a man having a right to land,
no advantage from it. I think we are cannot say, " I will not take it up now,
making a mistake now, and I call the hon. but I have a boy growing up, and he can
gentleman's attention to the desirability of take it up after he is educated." I say
legislating so that this will be really a val- we ought to give the right to take up that
uable gift to the volunteers. There is no land for at least a period of five years, and
necessity for all this scrip coming back I have no doubt if attention is called to
immediately. Why not allow the volun- it at the end of five years, and it should
teers a longer time to select and take up be found necessary to renew the grant,
lands ? We are giving them a substantial Parliament would readily do so. In
area of property. If they do not take it adopting that course we should really be
take it up within the time specified we conferring substantial benefit upon the
give them scrip for only $8o. That $8o country. Otherwise you will find that
HoN. MR SCOTT.

JiilitiaLand [JULY 18, 1885] Grantà Bill.
three-fourths of the men to whom we give
this bounty will reap nothing more than
$20 or $25 by selling their scrip to speculators, and the speculator will be the only
It will give rise to
one benefitted by it.
a number of local offices for the purpose
I know all
of acquiring volunteer scrip.
about it, because half a century ago I
bought up scrip issued to the volunteers
It is a species of payment
of 1837-38.
only valuable to a man who wants to buy
land ; it cannot be taken for customs or
any other government liability, but only
to pay for land, and therefore to give it
any practical value the man to whom it is
issued has got to find a man who wants to
buy the land. We know how that is
accomplished. It is by the speculator,
who comes between the parties, accumulating a large amount of scrip; he advertises that he has some scrip for
sale, and it will be sold in that
way. I hope the Government, adopting
as they do a really wise policy in giving
the volunteers an area of land where we
have abundance of it, wi'll seek to secure
for the volunteers and their families the
benefit and value of that land. and
not issue scrip.
It is too contemptible to talk of offering the volunteers,
who nc doubt have made large sacrifices, a money value of $40 or $50,
because that is the amount of it, if
boiled down in that way. I trust that the
month of August will mean fiveyearshence.
There is no necessity why the time should
not be extended. No argument whatever
can be advanced against it. To reach the
volunteer you nust make this provision,
that the patent goes to him. If he chooses
to resign it he can do so after the patent
is issued for the land.

have done so much for our country. Of
course in every way we must appreciate
the object and intention of this bill. The
grant is not too large, but I think when
we come down to scrip, which my hon.
friend says would be equal to only $40
for 320 acres, it is really very little for our
public lands, and not accomplishing the
object we have in view-rewarding the
men and promoting the settlement of the
country. I do not think the men will
squander their scrip in the way the halfbreeds and Indians have done.
I
think they are too sensible to do that.
Those from Nova Scotia would be disposed, I think, to settle on the !and or find
substitutes to settle upon it. At the same
time I approve of the sentiments of the
hon. member fron Ottawa.
HON. MR. READ-I think ny hon.
friend is mistaken about the volunteers of
I was a
1837-38 ever receiving scrip.
volunteer myself in that rebellion. The
scrip that was issued after that time was to
those who had served in the war of 1812
and to their families.

HON. MR. SCOTT-It was issued
about 1839 or 1840-just after the rebellion.
HON. MR. READ-Yes, about then,
but not to the volinnteers of 1837-38.
I
think it should not go abroad that the
volunteers of 1837-38 received scrip.
They did not, so far as I know, but the
claims of the veterans of 1812-15

were

recognized after that time.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
agree in the recollection which my hon.
friend from Quinte has on that subject.
Like him, I was a volunteer myself and
like him I got no land: so it must have
been anterior to that. I think the issue
was to veterans of the war of 1812,
although it took place about 1840. I
think the hon. gentleman is also mistaken
in supposing that the issue of patents to
the U. E. Loyalists took place to themselves or their children. I do not think
that was done generally, though it was
done in some cases.

think
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I
there is a great deal in what the leader of
the Opposition says. By this means we are
rather depreciating the value of ourlands in
the North-West. If the scrip will realize
only the amount stated by the leader of
the Opposition it will be a small amount
to pay for 32o acres of land. I think it is
not conducive to settlement. The object
of this bill is in some tangible way to
mark our appreciation of the services of
our volunteers and to encourage settleHON. MR. SCOTT-What I mean is
ment, and in the encouragement of settlement to give rewards to those men who the rights inured to the parties.

iilitiaLand [SENATE]

14A28

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-They
were transferred in various ways ; so that
if Mr. Scott was a U. E. Loyalist and he
or his chiidren assigned the right to me I
got the patent.

HON. MR. SCOTT-There was no substitution of scrip.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-As to
the period during which the holders of
this scrip are to bring it in and get land
for it, the Bill limits it to August, 1886.
The period was prolonged for six months
in the other House, at the instance of
sorne one who takes the same view as
my hon. friend. At all events there is
this to be said : there will be another
sitting of Parliament before August, 1886,
so that if any wrong is done it can be
remedied.
The object is to prevent
frauds, and that can be done by making
persons bring in their scrip. I agree with
my hon. friend that those volunteers
should get the land and every advantage.
HoN. MR. SCOTT-My desire was to
call the attention of the Government to
this matter. I am quite sure they recognize the valuable services which the volunteers have rendered.
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEThe scrip issued after 1837-38 was not to
the volunteers ; it was to indemnify those
who had lost property in the rebellion.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
is another matter.
HON.

MR.

DEBOUCHERVILLE-

That scrip was speculated in, I know, in
a very shameful manner.
HON. MR. FLINT-I happened to
have something to do with the troubles of
1837-38. I was called upon by the
magistrates of Hastings to supply some
8oo volunteers brought into Belleville. I
did so, I think, to their perfect satisfaction.
After the troubles were over I was elected
in 1848 to Parliament, and I know that
many parties who had volunteered and
who were out on duty for a long time
applied to me by letter to try and see if it
were possible to get them some land for
their services. I know that the Govern-

Grants Bill.

ment refused entirely to give anything in
connection with it. They said that they
could not do so; that if anything was to be
done it must be by the Home Government.
I know that the scrip which was issued
was for lands to the veterans of the war of
1812-15.
My hon. friend from Ottawa
says he bought scrip ; so did I, though
not much. I bought two £40 scrip for
ioo acres of land each, and I paid £2 1OS.
for them. I know that no volunteer who
served in the rebellion of 1837-38 got any
land whatever, or any scrip. The hon.
gentleman is in error.
With reference to the rebellion losses,
there were many parties paid under the
Bill of 1849, and I had a long political
battle on that subject.
It was shown
plainly by the report which was got up and
adopted by Conservative members, not
those connected with the BaldwinLafontaine Government, that no one had
received anything-that is, none but those
who deserved to receive anything-those
who had lost their property in consequence
of acts which ought not to have been
committed. That is the position in which
matters stand as far as the volunteers are
concerned-they got nothing. As far as
this Bill is concerned we are not doing
anything too much for the volunteers.
I should like to see more done for
them.
I think they are deserving of
great praise for the course they pursued
in turning out, as they did, at an inclement
season, going, not through fire and water,
but through snow and water-not through
whiskey, because they had none, it was
not allowed up there.
They endured
great hardships, much more than people
would suppose it possible for young men,
brought up as they were, to stand, and I
think they have done the country a vast
amount of good, not only in quelling the
disturbance, but in placing us in a better
position towards the United States. It
has shown that country that we have
some of the backbone in Canada that we
had in the war of 1812-15. Therefore, I
think it has done us good in many ways.
It will show foreign nations that the
immigrating masses need have no fear to
come and seule in this country. It has,
opened the eyes of leading men of Great
Britain to see that Canada is a valuable
adjunct to the British Crown, and they
will not be so much set against us here-

A dditional County Court [JULY 18, 1885.] Judge in -Manitoba. 1429
after as they have been in the past. We
stand in the proud position that even
should the Mother Country require help,
we will have some men here who will be able
and willing tovolunteer togo and help them
HON.

MR.

POWER -

they had passed Bill (159) " An Act for
facilitating the navigation of the River St.
Lawrence in and near the harbor of Quebed."
The bill was read the first time.

I hope the

House will allow me to make one observation not on the Bill itself. I quite concur
in what has been said by the hon. gentlemen who have preceded me as to the
desirability of this measure. I was not
in the Chamber when there was an opportunity, at an earlier period of the day, to
state what I wish to say with respect to
losses in the North-West. The Supply
Bill contains a large item for the purpose of meeting claims for losses in the
recent rebellion. I hope that on that
point the Government will exercise a great
deal of care. It will be remembered that
at the time of the last disturbance in the
North West, the Red River trouble, very
large sums of money were paid to certain
persons for losses which had occurred
there, and which everybody who knew anything about it was aware were altogether
too great for the losses that had been sustained. it must be remembered that the
settlers in the North-West have, some of
them, suffered considerable loss, and some
of them losses that were inconsiderable,
and on the other hand a great many of
them have been able to earn large sums of
money which they would not have had an
opportunity of earning if the outbreak had
not taken place; and I hope that the
Government in considering the claims for
losses will consider also, on behalf of the
public, the benefits which many of these
people have gained on the other sidethat if a man has been placed in a position
to earn $5oo or $6oo and has lost $oo
he shall not be paid anything. I have
ventured to make this suggestion because
I know the Government have been imposed upon heretofore, and the disposition
is always to give way to those claims.
The motion was agreed to, and the bill
was read the third time and passed.
NAVIGATION OF QUEBEC HAR.
BOR BILL.
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.

A message was received from the House
of Commons to inform the Senate that

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved

that the 41st rule be suspended so far as
relates to this Bill.
The motion was agreed to.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved

the second reading of the Bill. He said :
This is a Bill to improve the navigation of
the harbor of Quebec by allowing the
Trinity House Board to blow up the ice
if they see fit at the opening of spring
navigation.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second and third times and
passed.
ADDITIONAL COUNTY COURT
JUDGE IN MANITOBA BILL
FIRST SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.

A Message was received from the House
of Commons to inform the Senate that
they had passed bill (162), "An Act to
provide a salary for an additional county
court Judge in the province of Manitoba."
The Bill was read the first time.
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL moved
the suspension of the 41st rule as far as
relates to this Bill.

The motion was agreed to.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the second reading of the Bill. He said:
This Bill is for the purpose of providing a
salary for an additional county court Judge
in the eastern district of Manitoba. The
salary mentioned in the Bill is $2,ooo,
which is the ordinary salary given to judges
at the commencement of their career.

The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second and third times and
passed.
The Senate adjourned at 3:30 p.m.

The [SENATE] Prorogation

1430
THE SENATE.

Otawa, Mnday, July 20th, 1885.
The
p.m.

SPEAKER

took the Chair at

1:30

Prayers and routine proceedings.
The House adjourned during pleasure.
THE PROROGATION.
This day at Two o'clock p.m., His
EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR GENERAL
proceeded in state to the Chamber of the
Senate, in the Parliament Buildings, and
The
took his seat upon the Throne.
Members of the Senate being assembled,
His Excellency was pleased to command
the attendance of the House of Commons,
and that House being present, the follow
ing Bills were assented to,in Her Majesty's
name, by His Excellency the Governor
General, viz An Act to incorporate the Alberta and
Athabasca Railvay Com pany.
An Act respecting the Manitoba and North.
Western Railway Company of Canada.
An Act further to amend the Acts incorporating the Richelieu Navigation Company,
and the Richelieu and Ontario Navigation

Company.
An Act to amend the sections of Acts therein
mentioned, relating to the constitution of the
Treasury Board.
An Act for granting certain powers to the

Dominion Grange Mutual Fire Insurance

Association.
An Act to incorporate the West Ontario

Pacific Railway Company.

An Act to incorporate the Winnipeg and
Prince Albert Railway Company.
An Act to incorporate the Rush Lake and

Saskatchewan Railway and Navigation Company.
An Act for the relief of George Branford
Cox.
An Act to amend the Act intituled " An
Act to provide for the employment without
the walls of common gaols, of prisoners sentenced to imprisonment therein."
An Act to amend the Act respecting the
London Life Insurance Company.
An Act further to amend the'Acts relating
to Weights and Measures.

An Act respecting Infectious or Contagious
Diseases affecting Animals.
An Act to incorporate the Fort McLeod
Ranche Telegraph Company.
An Act to amend an Act respecting " The
Central Prison for the Province of Ontario."

An Act to amend and consolidate the Civil
Service Acts of 1882, 1883, and 1884.
An Act respecting proof of entries in Books
of Account kept by Officers of the Crown.
An Act to authorize the raising, by way of
loan, of certain sunis of money for the Public
Service.
An Act respecting the Commercial Bank
of Windsor.
An Act to provide for the fitting representation of Canada at the Colonial and Indian
Exhibition, to be held in London in the year
1886.
An Act respecting "The Bank of British
Columbia."
An Act further to amend "The Steamboat
Inspection Act, 1882."
An Act further to amend the Act respecting the Inspection of Gas and Gas Meters.
An Act respecting Agricultural Fertilizers.
An Act further to anend "An Act for the
better Preservation of the Peace in the vicinity of Public Works," and the Acts in amendment thereof.
An Act further to anend an Act intituled,
'An Actrespe.ctingoffences against the person.'
An Act respecting the North-West Mounted
Police Force.
An Act respecting Canned Goods.
An Act further to amend "The General
Inspection Act, 1874," and the Acts amending the saine.
An Act to authorize the augmentation of
the North-West Mounted Police.
An Act to amend the Acts respecting the
appointnent of a Harbor Master at the Port
of' Halifax.
An Act respecting the Adulteration of
Food, Drugs and Agricu'tural Fertilizers.
An Act to amenid the Act in relation to the
Librarv of Parliament.
An Àct to authorize the grant of certain
subsidies in land for the construction of the
railwavs therein mentioned.
An Act respecting " The Liquor License
Act, 1883."
An Act to incorporate the Dominion
Drainage Company.
An Act to amend " The Consolidated
Militia Act of 1883."
An Act respecting the Electoral Franchise.
An Act for the final settlement of the Claitms
made by the Province of Manitoba on the
Dominion.
An Act to modify the application of " The
Consolidated Insurance Act, 1877."
An Act to authorize the advance of a
certain sum to the Harbor Commissioners of
Three Rivers.
An Act further to amend the Act relating
to the Culling and Measuring of Timber in
the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec.
An Act to amend " The Consolidated
Inland Revenue Act, 1883."
An Act to restrict and regulate Chinese immigration into Canada.
An Act respecting the administration of
Justice, and other matters, in the North-West.
Territories.

The [jULY 20, 1885] Prorogation

1431

the diligence with which you have performed
your duties duringthis long protracted Session.
It has been in many respects an eventful
Session-in none more so than because since
its commencement the peaceful progress of
the Dominion, unbroken for so many years,
has been interrupted by a serious insurrectionary outbreak in the North-West Territories.
I congratulate you upon the prompt and
complete suppression of these disorders and
on the restoration of public confidence throughout the regions in which they occurred.
The insurrection lias been encountered by
the Military Force of the Dominion under
Major General Middleton in a manner
deserving of the highest commendation.
The courage vhich our citizen soldiers have
shown ini the face of a formidable and determined eneiny, their cheerful endurance of
privation and fatigue, and the readiness with
which they have submitted to sacrifices, inevitable whenever a force composed of citizens
of ail classes is called upon to relinquish
the enjoyments of civil life, reflects the highest credit upon them.
I an gratified to find that both Bouses of
Parliament have considered the conduet of
Major-General Middleton and the officers and
men under his command deserving of their
formai thanks. It has been my agreeable
duty to bring under the notice of Her
Majesty's Governiment the value of the services which have been thus rendered to the
Empire.
I cannot leave this subject without expressing my sorrow that the success of our
arme should have been purchased at the cost
of many lives which Canada could il] afford
to spare. The mnemory of those who have
fallen eitlier on the field or from sickness
contracted during thîeir service will be gratefully cherislhed throughout the Dominion.
It aifords me nuch pleasure to acknowledge the prompt action of the Government of
the United States in taking the precautions
necessary in order to preventany co-operation
with the insurgents from their frontiers.
The ineasure for the adjustment of the
representation of the people in Parliaient
will extend the franchise to numbers who
have not hitherto enjoyed the riglt of voting
for the election of memibers of the Bouse of
Commons, and render such representation
free from frequent changes by the inconcerted action of the Provincial Legislatures.
The settlement of all matters in discussion
between the Federal Government and that of
Manitoba will, I trust, satisfy the expectations
of the people of that Province.
The Bill regulating the influx of the Chinese
people into Canada will, I doubt not, allay
the feeling of discontent in relation to that
subject wlich has for some time prevailed in
British Columbia.
SPEECH:
The aid to the Canadian Pacific Railway
Company will secure the advantages which
Honorable Gentlemen qf the Senate:
are justly expected from the completion of that
Gentlemen of the House of Commons:
great enterprise, whilst the grants in land
I desire to convey to you ny beet thanks for and money to other railways in various
An Act further to amend the Acts respectirig the Canadian Pacific Railway, and to provide for the completion and successful operation thereof.
An Act to authorize the granting of further
subsidies to and making further provision for
the construction and efficient operation of the
Railways therein described.
An Act to amend the several Acts relating
to Duties of Customs and Excise.
An Act to amend the Act forty-sixth Victoria, chapter nine, intituled : "An Act to
provide for the salaries and superannuation
and travelling allowances of certain Judges of
certain Provincial Courts."
AnAct to continue for a limited time the
Act therein mentioned.
An Act for facilitating navigation of the River
St. Lawrence, in and near the Harbor of
Quebec.
An Act to provide a salary for an additional County Court Judge in the Province of
Manitoba.
An Act to authorize the granting of the
Subsidies therein mentioned, in aid of the
construction of certain Railways.
An Act to authorize grants of land to members of the Militia Force lately on active service in the North-West.
Then the Hon. the Speaker of the House of
Commons addressed Bis Excellency the Governor-General as follows:
" MAY IT PLEASE YouR EXCELLENcY :
" The Commons of Canada have voted the
supplies required to enable the Government
to defray the expenses of the public service.
" In the name of the Commons I present to
Your Excellency the following Bills:
'An Act for granting to Her Majesty the sum
of $1,700,000, required for defraying certain
expenses now being incurred in connection
with the troubles in the North-West Territories.'
'An Act for granting to Her Majesty certain
sums of money required for defraying
certain expenses of the publie service, for
the financial years endinig respectively the
30th J une, 1885, and the 30th June, 1886,
and for other purposes relating to the
public service,' to which Bills I humbly
request Your Excellency's assent."
To these Bills the Royal assent was signified in the following words:" In Her Majesty's name, His Excellency
the Governor-General thanks Her loyal
subjects, accepts their benevolence, and
assents to these Bills."
After which His Excellency the GovernorGeneral was pleased to close the THIRD
SEssIoN of the FIFTH PARLIAMENT of the
DoMINION with the following

1432

TU [SENATE] Prorogation

portions of Canada may be expected to nient to meet the various engagements of the
accelerate the progress of settlement and country.
I now with reiterated thanks relieve you
augment the commerce of the Dominion.
The ready conversion of our five per cent. for the present from your important duties.
bonds, which have recently matured, into
The SPEAKER of the Senate then said :
four per cent. securities, and the success of
the loan for four millions of pounds sterling,
lately offered in the London market, show Ronorable Gentlemen of the Senate and Genthe satisfactory state of the credit of Canada.
tlemen of the House of Commons:
I congratulate you on the other useful
It is His EXcELLENcY THE GOVERNOR GENneasures, both of a public and private nature, ERAL's will and pleasure, that this Parliament
which you have passed.
be prorogued until Saturday, the twenty-ninth
Gentlemen of the House of Commons :
day of August next, to be here held, and this
Majesty's name I thank you for the Parliament is accordingly prorogued until
In Her
the public Saturday, the twenty-nînth day of August
supplies you have granted for
service.
next.
Bonorable Gentlemen of the Senate:
Gentlemenof the Bouse of Commons:
The readjustment of the tariff will tend to
increase the revenue and enable the Govern-

I

1ý -D

-T

DEBATES

Z.X

O--

OF. THE
SESSION

SENATE.

1SS5.

PART I. constitutes an Index to the names of Senators with their action upon the

respective subjects.

In this part italics denote that the Motion, Amendment or Inquiry in

-question emanated from the Senator mentioned.
PART IL. constitutes an analytical index to all the subjects debated.

Names in italies

and parenthesis after the subject indicate the movers.
The following abreviations have been employed: Amt., Amendment; Appt., Appointment ; B., Bill; Com., Commuittee; Concurr., Concurrence; Corresp., Correspondence;
Dischgd., Discliarged; Div'n, Division ; H.E., His Excellency; H.M., Her Majesty; Incorp.,
Incorporation; Inqy., Inquiry; M., Motion ; m., moved; Res., Resolution ; Ry., Railway;
W., Whole House, thus Com. of W., Committee of Whole House; Withdr., Withdrawn.
On a Division :-C., Contents; N.-C., Non-Contents.
lst R., 2nd R., 3rd R,, 1st, 2nd and 3rd Reading.
, Without comment or discussion.

1.-INDEX TO SENATORS.
ALEXANDER,

HoN.

GEORGE.

Absence of Ministers frorm the Capital.
On Mr Power's motion for address, 169.
Address, in debate on the.
Remarks, 10.
Adjournment-Easter holidays.
Remarks, 454.

Adjournment, (May 8th-2oth).
On Mr. Bellerose's motion, 920.
Adjournment, (June 2oth-July 2nd).
Reinarks, 1088.
Bank of Upper Canada, Debt due to
Govt. by.
Enquiry, 35.
Bank of Upper Canada, as to the realization of assets.
M. for Com., 58-68.
Bank of Upper Canada, assets of.
M. for return postponed, 480.
Bank of Upper Canada, Investigation
into affairs of.
M. for Com., 599; Question of Order
therein, 600; M. withdrawn, 619.
Brantford, Waterloo & Lake Erie
Incorp. B. (59).
On 3rd R.,466.
British Columbia, White Population of,
Explanation and Correction.
22.
Canadian Pacific Railway, criticisms
upon.
12.
Canada Temperance Act 1878 Amt.
B.

(92).

On 2nd R., 714
In Com., 879.
Civil Service Acts Consolidation B. (31).
On 2nd R., 830; In Com., 904.
Debates of the Senate, Circulation of.
24.
Deputy Speaker of the House of Commons B. (26).

In Com., 115; On 3rd R., 122.
Divorce Committee, Publication of
Evidence before.
Remarks, 329.
Grand Trunk Railway, injustice done
to by Government complained of.
11.
Globe correspondent and the Senate.

Inquiry, 458,

Half-breed Claims in the North-West.
On Mr. Trudel's M. for Return, 644.
Half-breed Grievances in the NorthWest, Correspondence in relation to.
M. for Return, 1029.
Huron & Ontario Ship Canal Co's
B. (69).
On 2nd R., 614.
Indians in the North-West, Correspondence concerning.
On Mr. Schultz's M. for Return, 595.
Industries and Manufactures of Canada,
Report upon.
On Mr. Macdonald's Enquiry ; Remarks,
289-291.
Legislation in the Senate, Joint Com.
upon.
On Sir Alex. Campbell's M,, 706.
Messengers, Complaint as to the deficiency of.
Remarks, 105.
North-West
Troubles,
Half - breed
Claims.
M. for Return agreed to, 523.
North-West Territories, Disposal of
Lands in.
On Mr. Wark's Inquiry, 844.
North-West Rebellion, Provision for
Families of Volunteers killed and
wounded in.
Inquiry, 937.
North-West Rebellion, Correspondence
in relation thereto.
M. for Return, 1012; Quest. of Order as
to Reading Speech, 1013.
Order, Question of, on Mr. Howlan's
Remarks.
Remarks, 846.
Parliamentary Returns, Number and
Expenses of.
On Mr. Flint's M. for Return, 517.
Personal position defined.
Remarks, 10.
Portrait of Sir David Macpherson,
Removal of, from Senate corridors.
Motion, 45.
Privilege, Question of, as to Mail
newspaper.
480.
Privilege, Question of, as to expunging
of his Speech from the Reports.
239, 241; Called to order, 242.

1436

I. - INDEX TO SENATORS.

[Session

Public Affairs of the Dominion.
North-West Rebellion, Vote of thanks
M. relating thereto postponed, 514;
to Gen. Middleton, the Militia,
Further postponed, 555, 705, 735;
&c.
Ruled out of order, 817.
Remarks, 1394.
Public Loan B. (145).
Winnipeg Bank Incorp. Act Amt. B.
On 2nd R., 1049; On 3rd R., 1070.
(62).
Real Property in the North-West TerRep. fron Coin., 640.
ritories B. (A).
On 2nd R., 199; In Con., 362; On Mr.
ALMON, HON. WILLIAM J
Scott's Aint., 376.
Short Line Railway.
Adjournment, Easter holidays.
Remarks on Mr. Power's M. for address
Remarks, 454.
for copies of Reports of Surveys, &c.,
Adjournment suggested.
347
Remarks, 822.
Strangers, exclusion of, from Senate
Canada
Congregational Missionary
corridors.
Socy's B. (54).
Remarks, 105.
On 3rd R., 408.
Statutes, Consolidation of, AppointCanada Temperance Act 1878 Amt. B.
ment of Joint Com. upon.
(92).
Remarke, 321.
On postpmt. of 2nd R., 623; On 2nd R.
Treaties with the Indians in the North674-8; In Coin., 866, &c.; Aint. m
West.
893; On Postpnt. of 3rd R., 925
On Mr. Read's Inquiry, 809.
Further Postpint., 932
Vote of Censure proposed by Sir Alex.
Canada Temperance Act; Commission
Campbell.
of Enquiry into working of.
Explanation and apology, 219.
Petition for presented and read, 617.
Chinese Immigration Restriction -and
ALLAN, HON. GEORGE WILLIAM.
Regulation B. (155).
Bank of Upper Canada, debt due
On 2nd R., 1295; In Coin., 1326; Ex.
Government by.
planation after 3rd R., 1411.
On Mr. Alexander's Enquiry, 36.
Civil Service Acts Consolidation B.
Bank of Upper Canada.
(3').
On Mr. Alexander's M. for Com., 65.
In Coin., 909.
Cox Divorce B.
Bank du Peuple B. (53).
On Postpint. of 2nd R., 406.
Rep. from Coin., 579; On 3rd R.. 585.
Davis Divorce B. (C).
Canada Temperance Act 1878 Amt.
On Rep. of Com., 130; On 3rd R., 155.
B. ( 9 2).
On 3rd R., 978-81.
Divorce Committees, Publication of
Evidence before.
Central Bank of New Brunswick B.
Remarks, 325.
(40).
Explosive Substances B. (K).
Rep. Irom Con., 640.
In Com., 278.
Civil Service Acts Consolidation B.
Judge Rigby, Petition against.
(31).
Presented and withdrawn, 108.
Rep. from Coin., 914.
Legislative Work, Increase of, in the
Chinese Immigration Restriction and
Senate.
Regulation B. (155).
On Mr. Plumb's M., 632.
On 2nd R., 1296.
Offences against the Person Act Amt.
Dominion Grange Fire Ins. Ass. B.
B. (S).
(55).
On 2nd R., 726.
Rep. from Coin., 841.
Offences against the Person B. (S).
Federal Bank B. (io).
In Com., 786; On Concurr. in Amts.,
lst R.«, 256; 2nd R. ?n, 268.
813; On 3rd R., 823.
Library of Parliament Act Amt. B.
Pawnbrokers' B. (R).
(139).
In Coin., 737.
In Coin., 1169.
Maritime Court of Ontario Jurisdiction
Preservation of Peace near Public
B. (11).
Works Act Amt. B. (O)
Rep. from Coin., 554, 565.
On 2nd R, 596.

I.-INDEX

1885.]

TO SENATORS.

Railway Subsidies B. (158).
On 2nd R., 1404.
Real Property in the North-West Territories B. (A).
In Coin., 264, 272.
Sable Island, Life-saving Service at.
Inquiry, 641.
Smith Divorce Bill.
As to Selection of Coni., 54.
Temperance Legislation, Petition regarding.
Presentation of, 578.
BAILLARGEON, HON. PIERRE.

Short Line Railway.
Remarks on Mr Power's M. for address
for copies of Reports of Surveys, &c.,
346.
HON. JOSEPH H.
Address, in Debate on the.
Remarks, 20.
Adjournment, (February 13 th-2oth).
Motion, 49.
Adjournment, (May 8th-2oth).
Notice of M., 851 ; M. carried, 918-23.
Adjournment, (june 1st).
M. carried, 1033.
Adjournment, (June 12th).
M. carried, 1047.
Complains because neither mover nor
seconder of the Address spoke in
French.
19.
Canadian Pacific Railway Completion
B. (153).
In Com., 1367.
Consolidated Militia Act Amt. B.

BELLEROSE,

(152).

On 3rd R., 1289.
Divorce Committees, Publication of
Evidence before.
Remarks, 328.
Dry Dock Construction Act Amt B.
(1o8).
Rep. trom Con., 622.
Electoral Franchise B. (103).
On 2nd R., 1206-1216; Question of Order
raised as to relevancy of Remarks,
1214; On 3rd R., 1332; Ant. (in reference to Quebec) m, 1341; Ant.
(as to voters' lists) m, 1342.
Half-breed Clains in the North-West.
On Mr. Trudel's M. for return, 649.
Legislative Work, Increase of, in the
Senate.
On Mr. Plunb's M., 658.

143

Legislation in the Senate, Joint Com.
upon.
On Sir Alex, Campbell's M., 710.
Library'of Parliarnent Act Amt. B.
(139).
On 2nd R., 1110.
Manitoba Claims Final Settlement B.
('55).
Rep. trom Coin., 1329.
North-West Rebellion, Vote of thanks
to Gen. Middleton, the Militia,
&c.
Remarks, 1396.
Order, Question of, as to Mr. Plumb's
Remarks in discussing the Franchise Bill.
Remarks, 1221.
Protests against method of Hon. Mr.
Robitaille's appointment to the
Senate.
20.
Parliamentary Returns, Number and
Expenses of.
On Mr. Flint's M. for Return, 514.
Prince Edward Island, Communication
with.
On Mr. Howlan's Inquiry, 507.
Railway Subsidies B. (158).
On 2nd R., 1407 ; In Con. Aint. (to lst
clause) lost on div., 1415 ; On 3rd R.
sane Anmt. ruled out of order, 1419.
Real Property in the North-West Territories B. (A).
In Com., 262.
St. Vincent de Paul Penitentiary Investigation.
M. for Return, 555.
Short Line Railway.
Remarks on Mr. Power's M. for addressfor Copies of Reports of Surveys, &c.,
344.
Summary Proceedings B, (I).
On 2nd R., 393.
Treaties with Indians in the NorthWest.
On Mr. Reade's Inqniry, 801.
Veterans of the War of 1812.
Petitions for Pensions presented, 1274.
BOLDUc, HON. JOSEPH.

Summoned to the Senate and introduced.
3.

HON. AMros EDWIN
Canada Temperance Act Amt. B.
On Mr, Power's Amt. before going into.
Coin., 853.

BOTSFORDL

143S8

1.-INDEX

TO SENATORS.

[s88i0%

CAMPBELL, HON. SIR ALEXANDER.
Cape Traverse Branch Railway.
M. for Return, 370.
Absence of Ministers from the Capital.
Explosive Substances B. (K).
Mr. Power's M. for Address refused, 169.
Rep. from Coin., 279.
Addition of Hon. Mr. Poirier's name
Divorce B. (D).
Hatzfeld
to Committees.
Petition of Respondent for maintenance
352.
presented and ref. to Coin., m, 130.
Huron & Ontario Ship Canal Co's B.
Adjournment, Easter holidays.
Suspension of 51st Rule, m, 157.
Motion, 454.
Legislation in the Senate, Joint Coin.
Adjournment suggested.
u)on.
Reply to Mr. Power, 822.
On Sir Alex. Campbell's M., 707.
Adjournment (May 8th-2oth).
Offences against the Person B. (F).
On Mr. Bellerose's M., 919.
Reported iroin Coi., 108.
Adjournment (Queen's Birthday).
Order, Question of.
Motion, 945.
On Mr. Alexander's M. in re Bank of
Remarks on
Canada,
Upper
Adjournment (June 2th-JUly 2nd)
Speaker's Ruling, 619.
Mr. McInres' M.agreed to, 1088.
Prince Edward Island, Communication
Adjournment (June 3 rd-22nd)
with.
Mr. Nelson's M. not agreed to, 1038; Adj.
On Mr. Howlan's Inquiry, 507.
(June 3rd-10th) agreed to, 1039.
Privilege, Question of.
Administration of Justice in NorthAs to Expunging of Mr. Alexander's
West Territories B. (V).
speech fromn the Reports. Attention
1st R.*, 931; 2nd R. m, 942; In Com.,
called to presence of strangers, 242.
1025-29; 3rd R. ?n, 1033; Amts.of
H. of C. agreed to, 2n, 1396.
Public Loan B. (145).
On 2nd R., 1050.
Administration of Criminal Justice in
Real Property in the North-West TerriDisputed Territory B. (165).
1st R.* and Suspension of 41st Rule, m,
tories B. (A).
1412; 2nd and 3rd Rs.*, 1413.
In Coin., 272.
Advances to the Provinces B. (7).
Sewerage and Ventilation of Senate
Ist R.', 564; 2nd R. m, 598; 3rd R., 615.
Building.
Agricultural Fertilizers B. (122).
Remarks upon, 1045.
1st R.*, 1051 ; 2nd R. m, 1084; In Com.,
Smith Divorce Bill.
1087 ; 3rd R.*, 1087.
As to selection of Coin , 55.
Bank of Upper Canada, Debt due GovVote of Censure upon Mr. Alexander.
ernrment by.
Remarks, 220.
On Mr. Alexander's Inquiry, 44.
Bank of Upper Canada.
BOUcHERVILLE, HON. C. E. BOUCHER DE.
On Mr. Alexander's M. for Coin., 61.
Debates Reporting Com.
British Columbia Bank B. (1o5).
lst R.*, 1047 ; 2nd R. m, 1054; 3rd R.*,
Adoption of Reports m; lst Rep., 735;
1083.
2nd Rep. (additional appropriations)
1293.
British Medical Acts.
Electoral Franchise B. (103).
On Mr. Sullivan's M. for return, 48.
In Coi., 1276; On 3rd R., 1337; Amt.
Canada Temperance Act 1878 Amt B.
(as to definition of " person ") in,
(92).
1343; Aint. (as to Christian ChinaOn 2nd R, 732; In Coin., 855-898; On
ien) m, 1343.
Concurr. in Aints., 917 ; Postpmt. of
Food, Drugs, &c., Adulteration B. (W).
3rd R. m, 923; Further Postpmt,
Coin., 1044.
Rep. fron
932 ; 3rd R. in, 946 ; 975, Consideration of Senate Anmts. postponed, 1096;
Liquor License Act 1883 Amt. B.
Senate Ants. insisted upon, 1155(134).
1167.
Rep. Ironi Con., 1272.
Canadian Pacific Railway Completion
Privilege, Question of.
B. (153).
As to expunging of Mr. Alexander's
2nd R. m, 1305-18; Ili Coin., 1344-1369;
speech from the Reports, 240.
On M.for 3rd R. Ant. m, 1369;3rd R.
in, 1370 ; On Mr. Power's A it., 1384;
Railway Subsidy B. (158).
On Mr. McInnes' Amt, 1385.
In Coin., 1415-16; On 3rd R., 1419.

1885.

1439

1.-INDEX TO SENATORS.

Canadian Pacific Railway Terminus in
British Columbia.
In Reply to Mr. McInnes' M. for Return,
1137.
Canned Goods Bill (V).
lst R.', 898; 2nd R. m, 930; In Coin.,
933-36; 3rd R. postponed, 988;
Further postpmt., 990; 3rd R. nt,
1024; Concurr. in Comnons' Arnts.
m, 1119.
Cape Traverse Branch Railway.
Mr. Botsford's M. for Return agreed to,
373.
Chapais, Senator, the late.
Renarks concerning, 1388.
Chinese Immigration Restriction and
Regulation B. (155).
1st R, 1193; 2nd R. m, 1295.1299; In
Corn., 1326; 3rd R.*, 1410; Reply to
Mr. Almon's Remarks, 1412.
Civil Service Acts Consolidation B.
(31).
2nd R. m, 825; In Coni., 899-914; 3rd
R. m, 927; Ait. not insisted upon,
1046.
Colonial and Indian Exhibition B.
(126).

lst R.*, 1047; 2nd R. m, 1052; In Com.,
1086 ; 3rd R.', 1086.

Commercial Bank of Windsor B. (117).
Iet R.*, 1047; 2nd R. m, 1051; 3rd R.*,
1083.
Consolidation of Dominion Statutes.
M. for reference to a Select Com. postponed, 80.
Consolidated Inland Revenue Act
Amt. B. (146).
lst R.«, 1143; 2nd R. m, 1192; In Coni.,
1293; 3rd R. m, 1305.
Consolidated Insurance Act 1877 Modification B. (20).
lst R., 1093; 2nd R. m, 1151; In Com.,

1177-1181 ; 3rd R.n,1194.
Consolidated Militia Act 1883 Amt. B.
(152).

1st R.*, 1193; 2nd R. m, 1273 ; 3rd R. m,

1287, 1290.
Consolidated Railway Act 1879 Amt.
B. (Q).
lst R., 649; 2nd R., 685; In Com., 733;
Bill dropped, 990.
Cox Divorce Case.
As to Compliancewith rules, 25.
As to Sufficiency of affidavit of service of
Petition, 31.
As to dispensing with rules, 34.
Cox Divorce Bill.
Suspension of 72nd Rule opposed, and B.
sent back to Com, 50.
On Postponement of 2nd R. 406.
Proof of Service, &c., 664. .

Crown Accounts Books, Proof of
Entries in B. (M).
lst R.«, 352; 2nd R. m, 407 ; 3rd R.*, 412,
Consideration of Connon's Amte.,
1047 ; Concurr. in Amits. m, 1082.
Criminal Law, Codification of.
Intention of Government, 48.
Customs and Excise Act Amt. B. (157).
lst R.*, 1397 ; 2nd and 3rd R's, m, 1414.
Davis Divorce Case.
Objection as to sufficiency of notice, made
and withdrawn, 27.
As to exam. of Pètitioner, 57.
Davis Divorce B. (C).
On M. for 2nd R., 103 ; On Rep. of Com.,
129; On 3rd R., 156.
Death of Senator Benson.
M. for Adjournment, 350.
Deputy Speaker for House of Commons
B. (26).
lst R.*, 108; 2nd R. m, 114; In Com.,
115; 3rd R m,122.
Divorce Cases.
As to proper preparation of papers in,
104.
Divorce Cases.
As to Change of Procedure in, 110.
Divorce Committees, Presence of
Strangers at.
Remarks, 323.
Dominion Grange Mutual Fire Ins.
Assm. B. (5 5).

On. 2nd R., 686.
Dry Dock Construction Act Amt. B.
(108).
lst R.', 488; 2nd R. in, 513; In Corn.,

622; 3rd R.,622.
Electoral Franchise B. (103).
lst R.', 1168; 2nd R. m, 1194-1200; In
Com., 1276-1287; 3rd R. m, 1329.
Evans Divorce Case.
As to the evidence of service of the
Petition, 30.
Evans Divorce B. (G).
As to clause providing for custody of
child, 113.
Evans Divorce B. (G).
On M. fer 3rd R., 365.
Evidence in Criminal Cases Amt. B.
(6).
On 2nd R., 576.
Evidence in Divorce Cases, Printing
and Publication of.
Motion, 322.
Explosive Substances B. (K).
let R.', 179; 2nd R. m, 221; In Con.,
276 ; 3rd R.

m,

280.

Food, Drugs, &c., Adulteration B. (W).
Ist R.*, 931 ; 2nd R. m, 944; In Corn.,

I.-INDEX

1440

[s688'iO9

TO SENATORS.

1039-44; 3rd R. m, 1044; Concurr.
in Commons' Anhts. m, 1118, 1167.
France and Canada, Steam communication between.
Reply to Mr. Pelletier's Inquiry, 664.
Gas and Gas Meters Inspection Acts
Amt B. (119).

1st R.*, 1047; 2nd R.*, 1082; 3rd R.,
1085.
General Inspection Act 1874 Amt. B.
(135).

1st R.*, 1,088; 2nd R. m., 1,090; In Com.,
1,097-1,108, 1,119-1,122; 3rd R.»,
1,122.
Globe Correspondent and the Senate.
Reply to Mr. Alexander's Inquiry, 459.
Half-Breed Troubles in the NorthWest.
Reply to Mr. Scott's Inquiry, 410.
Half-breed Grievances in the NorthWest, Correspondence in relation
to,
Reply to Mr. Alexander's M. for Ret.,
1,031.
Halifax Harbor Master's Act Amt. B.
(148).

lst R., 1,093; 2nd R m.,1,108; In Com.,
1,167 ; 3rd R. m. 1,168.
Halifax Volunteers, Transportation of,
Reply to Mr. Power's lnquiry, 536.
Halifax Volunteers, Transportation of,
Explanation, 562.

Hatzfeld Divorce Case.
As to sufficiency of service of notice, 32.
Hatzfeld Divorce B. (D).
On 2nd R., 117; on Ref. to Com., 120;
on 1st Rep. of Com., 121.
Hudson's Bay, Exports from,
Mr. Schultz's M. for Return agreed to,
199.
Hydrographic Surveys in the NorthWest.
On Mr. Schultz's Inquiry, 48.
Indians in the North-West, Correspondence concernimg.
Mr. Schultz's M. for Return agreed to,
595.
Industries and manufactures of Canada,
Report upon.
On Mr. Macdonald's enquiry, 145, 154,
155.
Infectious and Contagious Diseases
Affecting Animals B. (41).
Ist R., 735; 2nd R., m, 790; In Com.,
839; 3rd R. m, 840.
Insolvent Banks, Insurance Co's, &c.,
Act Amt. B. (N).
On 2nd R., 488.

Legislative Work, Increase of, in the
Senate.
Mr. Plumb's M. postponed, 179; debate
postponed, 597; remarks, 653-58,
662.
Legislation in the Senate, Formation of
Joint Committee upon.
M, and remarks, 705.
Library of Parliament Act Amt. B.

(39).

lst R., 1,095; M. for 2nd R., 1,095; 2nd
R. m, 1,108, 1,113; In Com., 1,1681,171; 3rd R.*, 1,171.
Liquor License Act 1883 B. (134).
Ist R.*, 1,122; 2nd R. m, 1,171; In Com.,
1,272; 3rd R., 1,273.
Lionel Garnham's Case.
Reply to Mr. Haythorne's Inquiry, 389.
Lutheran Church Synod Incorp. B. (6o).
On 2nd R., 530.
Joint Com. on Division of Business,
Progress of.
Reply to Mr. Wark's Enquiry, 1,034.
Judge Rigby, Petition against.
Reply to Mr. Almon, 108.
Manitoba County Court Additional
Judge B. (162).
lst R.'; suspension of 41st rule and 2nd
and 3rd R's m, 1,429.
Manitoba Lands, Copy of Patent issued
to Mrs. Lonsdale.
Mr. Guevremont's M. for Ret. agreed to,
1,047.
Manitoba Province Claims Final Settlement B. (155).

1st R.', 1,193; 2nd R. m, 1,301 ; 3rd R.,
1,329.
Manitoba and North-Western Railway
Co's B. (74).

On 2nd R., 687.
Maritime Court of Ontario Jurisdiction
Extension B. (i

).

lst R.*, 382; 2nd R. m, 512; In Con.,
531-34; On 3rd R., 565,
Members of the Royal Society and the
Civil Service Examinations.
Reply to Mr. Trudel's Enquiry, 409.
See also p. 428.
Militia Force Land Grant B. (16o).
lst R*, 2nd R.* m and 3rd R., 1,425.
Morning Sitting of the Senate.
Motion, 1,388.
"Northern Light," Instructions to Commander of.
On Mr. Haythorne's M. for Return, 81.
North-West Rebellion, Telegram about
Frog Lake Massacre read.
513.

1.-INDEX

1885.]

TO SENATOÈS.

North-West Rebellion, Provision for
Families of Volunteers Killed or
Wounded in.
On Mr. Alexander's Inquiry, 939.
North-West Rebellion, Correspondence
in relation to.
Reply to Mr. Trudel's Inquiry, 1,035.
North-West Rebellion. Official report
of General Middleton presented.
1,168.
North-West Rebellion, Assistance to
Sufferers.
In Reply to Mr. Trudel's Enquiry, 1,274.
North-West Rebellion-Trials at Regina,
Conduct of.
In Reply to Mr. Trudel's Enquiry, 1,274.
North-West Rebellion-Vote of Thanks
to General Middleton, the Militia,
&c.
Motion, 1,390.
North-West Rebellion-Investigation by
Govt. into causes of, Extent of
Damage, &c.
Reply to Mr. Trudel, 1,410.
North-West Rebellion Expenses B.

(149).

lst R.', 1,093; 2nd R. m, 1,150; 3rd R.
m., 1,168.
North-West Territories, Superintendents
of Education in the.
Reply to Mr. Schultz's Inquiry, 199.
North-West, Representation of the, in
the Cabinet.
Reply to Mr. Schultz's Enquiry, 158.
North-West Territories, Disposal of
Lands in.
In Reply to Mr. Vark, 844.
North-West Mounted Police Force B.
lst R.*, 791; 2nd R. m, 840; 3rd R., 851.
North-West Mounted Police Augmentation B. (144).

1et R., 1,093; 2nd R. m, 1,114; 3rd R.
m, 1,150.
North-West Territories Census B. (21).
1st R.', 111; 2nd R. m, 123; In Com.,
279; 3rd R. m, 331.
Offences against the Person Act Amendment B. (F).
let R. and M. lor 2nd R., 48; 2nd R. m,
57; 3rd R. m, 481.
Offences against the Person B. (S).
In Com., 785.
Ontario Central Prison Act Amt. B.
(P).
1et R.*, 523; 2nd R., 597; 3rd R., 615.
Order-Objection to Mr. Alexander's
Speaking Twice on an Inquiry, 44.

Q3

1441

Order-Point of Order Raised as to
Relevancy of Mr. Alexander's
Remarks, 46.
Order, Question of, on Mr. Alexander's
Remarks, 707.

Parliamentary Returns, Number and
Expense of,
Mr. Flint's M. for Return amended and
agreed to, 516.
Pawnbroker's B. (R).
In Com. 731.
Petitions for Private Bills, Extension
of time for receiving.
m, 51.
Pontiac & Pacific Junction Railway
matters.
Mr. Trudel's M. for Return agreed to,
1,093.
Pontiac & Pacific Junction Railway,
Cost of.
Mr.Trudel's M.for Return agreed to,1,411.
Port Moody Engine House, Building
of.
Reply to Mr. McInnes' Enqiiry, 1,047.
Public Affairs of the Dominion.
On Mr. Alexander's Inquiry, question of
order raised, 817.
Public Loan B. (145).

let R.* and M. for 2nd R., 1,048; 3rd R.,
1,055, 1,063.
Preservation of Peace near Public
Works Act Amt. B. (O).
1et R.«, 523; 2nd R., 596; In Com. and
3rd R., 623.
Prince Edward Island, Winter Communication with.
Reply to Mr. Haythorne's Enquiry, 82.
Prince Edward Island, Winter Communication with.
Information as to boat houses, 410.
Prince Edward Island, Communication
with.
On Mr. Howlan's Inquiry, 511.
Printing Com's 2nd Report, Adoption
of, Postponed, 49.
Privilege, Question of,
As to expunging Mr. Alexander's speech
from the reports, 241; Mr. Alexander called to order, 242.
Privilege, Question of,
Explanation to Mr. Baythorne, 466.
Prisoners' Employment Act Amt. B.
(81).
let R.*, 898; 2nd R. m, 931; 3rd R. m,
932.
Provincial Courts Judges' Salaries Acts
Amt. B. (161).
1st R.*, 1,397; 2nd and 3rd R's, 1414.

1442

I.-INDEX TO SENATORS.

Quebec Harbor Navigation B. (159).
let R.*; suspension of 41st rule m; 2nd
and 3rd R's m, 1,429.
Question of Order raised as to Mr.
Alexander's remarks on M. to
adjourn, 456.
Railways, An Act relating to.
let R.* 5.
Railway Survey Reports, Bringing down
of.
Reply to Mr. Power's Inquiry, 822.
Railway Land Subsidies B. (147).
Jet R., 1,093; M. for 2nd R., 1,093; 2nd
R. n, 1,150; In Con., 1,176; 3rd R.,
1,177.
Railway Subsidies B. (158).
2nd R*, 1,398; In Com., 1415-17; 3rd R.
m, 1417.
Railway Subsidies B. (164).
let R.* and 2nd R. m, 1,422; 3rd R. m,
1,424.
Real Property in the North-West Territories B. (A).
let R.*, 22; 2nd R. m, 70-79, 204-208; In
Com., 242, 248, 252, 253, 257; Mr.
Power's suggested Ant. to 12th
clause accepted, 259; Mr. Scott's
Ant. to 22nd clause accepted, 263,
264, 265, 269, 270; Amt. to 72nd
clause m, 274, 352, 357, 359; Aimt.
to 22nd clause m, 361, 363; Ant. to
127th clause m, 365, 373; Concurr.
in Ants. m, 374; Mr. Scott's Arnt.,
striking out 8th clause not accepted,
374; Mr. Trudel's Amts. to 12th
clause not accepted, 380 ; Mr.
Dickey's Ant. to 91st clause not
accepted, 381 ; 3rd R. m, 382.
Rebellion in the North-West--Proclamation to Rebels.
Reply to Mr. Haythorne's Inquiry, 723.
Red River, Dredging the Mouth of.
Reply to Mr. Schultz's Enquiry, 256.
Registration of Medical Practitioners.
On Mr. Sullivan's M. for Address, 453.
Rush Lake and Saskatchewan Railway
and Navigation Co's B.
As to presentation of petition, 130.
Sable Island, Life-saving Service at.
Reply to Mr. Almon's Inquiry, 643.
St.Vincent de Paul Penitentiary Investigation.
Mr.Bellerose's M. for Return agreedto,561
Secretary of State Department Acts
Amt. B. (102).
let R.*, 488; 2nd R. m, 536; 3rd R., 598.
Sewerage and Ventilation of Senate
Building.
Reply to Remarks upon, 1,045.

[Sa8i07

Short Line Railway,
Mr. Power's M. for address for reports of
surveys, &c., agreed to, 350.
Short Line Railway, Route provided
for.
Reply to Mr. Power's Inquiry, 1.149.
Short Line Railway, Petitions for a
Survey, &c.
Mr. Power's M. for Return agreed to,
1,192.
Simpson,
Hon.
Mr.,
Death
of,
announced, 427.

Smith Divorce Case.
Notice declared sufficient, 28.
Smith Divorce Bill.
As to examination of witnesses, 52; as to
selection of coinmittee, 55.
South-Western Railway, Corstruction
of.
Reply to Mr. Reesor's Enquiry, 410.
Speech from the Throne.
Consideration of m*, 5.
Statutes, Consolidation of, Appointment of Joint Com. upon.
Motion, 302-321.
Steamboat Inspection Act, 1882, Amt.
B. (133).

lst R*, 1,047 ; 2nd R*, 1,0821 In Com..
1,085; 3rd R., 1,085.
Summary Proceedings B. (L).
On 2nd R., 403.
In Com., 481-87 ; 525-26.
The Supply B. (163).
Ist R.*; suspension of 41st R. m; 2nd
and 3rd R's*, 1,413.
Surveyors in the North-West, Damage
done by.
Reply to Mr. Trudel's Inquiry, 1,035.
Temperance Legislation, Presentation
of Petition concerning, 579.
Three Rivers Harbor Commissioners'
B. (i5o).
let R.*, 1,122; 2nd R. m, 1,175; In Coi..
1,193; 3rd R. m, 1,194.
Timber Culling and Measuring Acts
Ait. B. (154).

lst R.*, 1,193; 2nd R. m, 1,294; In Coin.,
1,326; 3rd R. m, 1,388.
Timber Regulations in British Columbia,
Correspondence concerning.
Mr. McInnes' M.' for Ret. agreed to, 1,369.
Tracadie Harbor, Improvement of.
Reply to Mr. Haythorne's Inquiry, 518.
Treasury Board Constitution Acts Amt.
B. (104).

lst

R.* 914; 2nd R. m, 914; 3rd R. m,
927.

I.-INDEX

1885.]

TO SENATORS.

Treaties with Indians in the NorthWest.
Reply to Mr. Read's Inquiry, 806.
Troops in the North-West, Withdrawal
0f.
Reply to Mr. Power's Inquiry, 1,055,
Vote of Censure upon Mr. Alexander,
for misconduct.
M. withdrawn, 218.
Weights and Measures' Acts Amt. B.

(118).

lst R.«, 931; 2nd R. m, 939; In Coin.,
1,024; 3rd R., 1,025.
Winter Communication with Prince
Edward Island.
Reply to Mr. Haythorne's Inquiry, 100;
Explanatiou, &c., 106.
York Station, P. E. Island Railway,
Closing of.
Reply to Mr. Haythorne's Inquiry, 521;
explanation, 564.
York Station, P. E. Island Railway.
Mr. Haythorne's M. for papers, &c., assented to, 621.
CARVELL,

Hon. J. S.

Canadian Pacific Railway Completion
B. (153).

On 3rd B., 1,382.
Canada Temperance Act, 1878, Amt.
B. (92).
In Coi., 881; on 3rd R., 981.
Canned Goods B. (U).
3rd R. postponmt. asked for, 988.
General Inspection Act Amt. B. (135).
In Coin., 1,121.

CLEMOW, Hon. FRANCIS.
Introduced, 28.
DEVER,

Hon.

JAMES.

Administration of Justice in the N. W.
Territories B. (V).
On 2nd R., 944.
Canned Goods B. (U).
In Coin., 936.
Canada Temperance Act, 1878, Ant.
B. (92).
In Com., 861, 879; Quest. of order, 881;
on 3rd R. 956-59,
Chinese Immigration Restriction and
Regulation B. (155).
On 2nd R., 1,298.
Civil Service Acts Consolidation B.
(31).
On 2nd R,,836.

1443

Consolidated Insurance Act, 1877,
Modification B. (20).
Rep. fron Coin., 1,181.
Divorce Committees, Publication of
Evidence before.
Remarks, 328.
Food, Drugs, &c., Adulteration B. (W).
In Coin., 1,041.
Industries and Manufactures of Canada.
On Mr. Macdonald's M.; Remarks, 77980-84.
Railway Subsidies B. (158).
On 2nd R., 1,408.
Sewerage and Ventilation of Senate
Building.
Reniarks upon, 1,045.
Weights and Measures Acts Amt. B.

(118).

On 2nd R., 940.
Hon. ROBERT B.
Alberta and Athabasca R.R. Co's B.
(73).
Rep. from Com., 685.
Brantford, Waterloo & Lake Erie R.R.
Co's B. (59).
Rep. from Coin., 408.
Canadian Pacific Railway Completion

DICKEY,

B. (153).

In Con., 1,360; on 3rd R., 1,384.
Canada Southern & Erie & Niagara

R.R. Co's B. (9).

Rep. from Com., 331.
Canada Temperance Act, 1878, Amt.
B. (92).
On postponement of 2nd R., 622; on 2nd
R., adjournmt. of debate, 684; remarks, 687-696, 731; on pospint of
M. into Coin., 791; In Com., 857;
on Mr. Almon's ant., 877; on
concurr. in aints., 914 ; on postpmt.
of 3rd R., 923; as to insistance upon
Senate Amts., 1,162.
Canned Goods B. (U).
On 2nd R., 931.
Cape Traverse Branch Railway.
On Mr. Botsford's M. for Return, 371.
Civil Service Acts Consolidation B.
(31).
In Com., 905.913; on 3rd R., 929.
Consolidated Insurance Act, 1877,
Modification B. (20).

In Coin., 1,179.
Cox Divorce B.
On postponement of 2nd R., 406.
Davis Divorce B. (C.)
let Rep. of Coin. (asking forpermission
to employ a shortehand writer)

I.-INDEX

1444

TO SENATORS.

adopted, 104; 2nd Rep. of Com. m,
128.
Rep. fron Corn., 111.
Electoral Franchise B. (103).
On 2nd R., 1,233-1,237; on 3rd R., 1,330.
Evidence in Criminal Cases Amt. B.
(6).
On 2nd R., 571.
Explosive Substances B. (K).
In Com., 277.
Fredericton & St. Mary's R.R. Bridge
Co's B. (5 0).
Rep. from Coin , 685.

Halifax Volunteers, Transportation of.
Remarks, 562.
Hamilton Provident & Loan Society's

B. (J).
On Rep. from Corn., 370.
Hatzfeld Divorce B. (D).
On 2nd R., 118; or ist Rep.of Con., 120.
Huron & Ontario Ship Canal Co's B.
(69).
Rep. froni Con., 685.
International Coal Co's B. (5').
On 2nd R., 382; Rep. fron Corn., 407.
Legislative Work, Increase of, in the
Senate.
Adjournrnt. of Deb, m, 450; furtier
adjournimt., 598; renarks, 603-12.

[€88ion

Railway, Telegraph and Harbor Com.
Adoption of Reports m-lst Rep. (reduc.
tion of quorum) 28.

Real Property in the North-West Territories B. (A).
In Coni. 257, 270, 273, 275, 354, 360, 361,
364, 373; on Mr. Scott's Arnt., 377;
A rnt. to 91st clause not accepted, 381.
River St. Clair Railway Bridge & Tunn l Co's B. (8).
Rep. orn Com., 331.
Rush Lake & Saskatchewan R.R. &
Navigation Co's Incorp.B. (70).
Petition presented, 131.
Rep. froin Com., 816.
Smith Divorce Bill.
As to selection of corn., 55.
Summary Proceedings B. (L).
On 2nd R., 394; In Corn., 526.
Tidal Observations, taking of.
Presentation of Petition, 352.

Vote of Censure upon Mr. Alexander.
Renarks, 221.
West Ontario Pacific R.R. Co's Incorp.

B. (94)

Rep. fromn Corn., 815.
Winnipeg & Prince Albert R.R. Co's
Incor). B. (91).

Rep. fron Corn., 815.
Legislation in the Senate, Joint Con.
Wood Mountain & Qu'Appelle R.R.
upon.
Co's Incorp. B. (23).
On Sir A. Canpbell's M., 711.
Rep. from Com. with A nt., 465.
Library of Parliament Act Amt. B.(' 39).
In Coni., 1,169.
FERRIER, Hon. JAMES.
Maritime Court of Ontario Jurisdiction
Prince Edward Island, Communication
B. (11).
with.
In Corn., 534.
On Mr. Howlan's Inquiry, 509.
North-West Territories, Disposal 'of
Lands in.
FIANT, Hon. BILLA.
On Mr. Wark's Inquiry, 850.
Adjournment (May 8-20)
Offences Against the Person B. (S).
On Mr. Bellerose's M., 922.
In Con., 785-90; on concurr. in Ants.,
812.
Canada Temperance Act (1878) Amt.
Order, Question of, as to Mr. AlexanB. (92).
On postponemt. of 2nd R., 623; In Con.,
der's M. in re the Upper Canada
868, &c.; on concurr. n ants., 917;
Bank, 599.
on postpnt. of 3rd R., 924; on 3rd
Order, Question of, on Mr. Alexander's
R., 946-956.
Inquiry as to Public Affairs, 818.
Chapais, Senator, the late.
Order, Question of, as to Mr. KaulRenarks concerning, 1,390.
bach's remarks on 3rd R., of
Death of Senator Benson.
Franchise B., 1,339.
On M. to adjourn, 351.
Divorce Committees, Publication of
Pawnbroker's B. (R).
In Corn., 736; on 3rd R., 738.
Evidence before.
Remarks, 330.
Petitions for Private Bills.
As to extension of time for receiving, 51.
Huron & Ontario Ship Canal Co's B.
(69).
Qu'Appelle Diocese Incorp. B. (39).
On 2nd R., 614.
3rd R. m, 465.

I.-INDEX

1885.]

TO SENATORS.

Industriesand Manufactures of Canada.
M. for adjournmt. ot debate, 480; on Mr
Macdonald's M., remarks, 537-44.
Militia Force Land Grant B. (16o).
on 3rd R., 1,428.
North-West Rebellion - Correspondence in Relation thereto.
On Mr. Alexander's M. for Return, 1,016
Parliamentary Returns, Number and
Expense of.
M. for Return agreed to, 514.
Railway Subsidies B. (164).
On 2nd R., 1,422.
Summary Proceedings B. (L.)
On 2nd R., 404; In Com., 486.
Treaties with Indians in the North-West.
On Mr. Read's Inquiry, 798.
GIRARD,

Hon.

MARc AMABLE.

1445

Rush Lake and Saskatchewan Railway
and Navigation Company's Incorp.
B, (70).
lst R., 649; 2nd R. m, 686 Concurr.,
in Amts, and 3rd R, 840.
Sisters of Charity of the North-West
Incorp. Act Amendment B. (1).
1st R.*, 131; 2nd R., m, 268; 3rd R. 407.
Steamboat Inspection Act Amendment
B, (133).

Rep. Irom Com., 1085.
Winnipeg Bank Incorporation Act Amt.
B, (62).
Concurr. in Aimts., 640.
Winnipeg and Prince Albert Railway
Co's. Incorp. B., (91).

1,t R., 650; 2nd R., 728; Concurr. in
Amts. and 3rd R., 816.

GLAZIER, Hon. JOHN.
Address, in Debate on the.
Hatzfeld Divorce Bill, (D).
18.
On M. for Adoption of Rep. of Coni. 276.
Canned Goods, B. (U).
Rep. from Com., 937.
GOWAN, Hon. JAMEs ROBERT.
Crown Account Books, Proof of Entries
Sunmmoned to the Senate, 3; Intro
in B. (M).
duced, 22.
Rep. fron Com., 412.
Bank of Upper Canada.
Explosive Substances, B. (K).
On Mr. Alexander's Enquiry, M. for Com.
In Coni., 278.
Question of Order raised as to Mr.
Fort Macleod Ranche Telegraph Co's.,
Alexander's rernarks 60; Further
Incorp. B. (8o).
remarks 63.
Tst R.0, 932; 2nd R., n, 945; Concurr in
Canada Temperance Act (1878. Amt.
Armts , m, 1046; 3rd R.*, 1046.
B, (92).
General Inspection Act Amt., B. (135).
On 2nd R., 679-80.
On 2nd R.*, 1107.
Deputy Speaker of the House of ConiHudson's Bay route, remarks upon.
mons B. (26).
19.
In Coni., 115.
Library of Parliament Act Amts., B.
Divorce Committees, Presence
of
Strangers at,
(139).
Rep. from Com., 1171
Remarks 324.
Manitoba and North-West Territories
Electoral Franchise Bill, (103).
On 2nd R.«, 1261-1268; In Con., 1286.
Census, B, (21).
In Committee, 279.
Evans Divorce Bill. (G.)
Manitoba and North Western Railway
Readin g of Petition m, 29; 1st R.*, 49:
2nd R., 112; As to clanse providing
Company's B. (74).
for cupto(dv of child 113; Ref. to Com.
Tst R., 650; 2nd R., 686; 3rd R., 841.
114; lot Rep. of Con. m, 122; Rep.
Manitoba claims, Final Settlement Bill,
from Coi. 198.
(155).
Adoption of Rep. of Com. m. 280; M. for
On 2nd R., 1304.
3rd R., 280; 3rd R., m. 365.
North-West Territories Census B., (21).
Evidence in Criminal Cases Amt. B. (6).
On 2nd R., 125.
On 2nd R., 572.
Railways in the North-West, Suggestions
Hatzfeld Divorce Bill. (D).
On 2nd R., 119; On Rep. to Com. 120.
as to better method of Government
aid to.
Huron and Ontario Ship Canal Co.
19.
Ist R., 554; 2nd R., 613; 3rd R., 685.
Maritime Court of Ontario Jurisdiction
Real Property in the North-West TerBill. (1i).
ritories B, (A).
On 2nd R., 512.
On 2nd R, 191 ; In Coma., 249; 261; 362.

I.-INDEX

1446

TO SENATORS.

In Com. 532-34.
North-West Territories Census B. (21).
On 2nd R., 127.
Offences against the Person Act Amt.
B. (S).
lst R., 663; 2nd R., 725; In Committee
784-90; Concurr. in Amts, m, 811;

3rd R. m, 822.
Order, Question of.
As to Mr. Alexander's M. re Bank of
Upper Canada, 602.
Pawnbroker's Bill. (R).
1st R., 663; 2nd R., 723; In Com. 736.
38; 3rd R., 738.
Real Property in the North-West Territories B. (A).
On 2nd R., 196; In Com. 247; 255; 262;
267; 273.
Smith Divorce Bill. (B).
1st Rep. of Com., (permission to employ
a Stenographer). 111.
Rep. of Com. m, 256; Adoption of Rep.
m, 368.
Summary Proceedings Bill. (L).
let R.*, 331; 2nd R. m, 390; In Coin.
481-88; 525-30; 3rd R. m, 536.
Winter communication with Prince
Edward Island.
On Mr. Haythorne's Inquiry; 99.
GUEVREMONT, Hon. JEAN-BAPTISTE.
Manitoba Lands, copy of Patent issued
to Mrs. Lonsdale.
M. for Return ; 1046.
HAYTHORNE, Hon. ROBERT POORE.

Address, in Debate on the.
Remarke, 20.
Absence of Ministers from the Capital.
On Mr. Power's M. for Addresses, 171.
Adjournment-Easter Holidays.
Remarks, 457.
Adjournment (May 8th-2oth).
On Mr. Bellerose's M. 921.
Adjournment (June 3rd-oth).
Remarks upon, 1038.
Adjournment (June 2th-JUly 2nd).
Remarks, 1089.
Administration of Justice in North-West
Territories Bill. (V).
In Committee, 1029.
On M. to agree in Amts. of H. of C., 1397.
Agricultural Fertilizers Bill. (122).
On 2nd R., 1084; In Com. 1087.
Canada Temperance Act 1878 Amts.'
B.

(92).

On 2nd R., 715-23; Adj. of Deb. m, 723;
Remarks continued, 728-31 ; In Com.
865; 895, On 3rd R.0, 1006-1011; as

[&88"

to insistence upon Senate Amts.,
1159.
Cape Traverse Branch Railway.
On Mr. Botsford's M. for Return 372.
Chinese Immigration Restriction and
Regulation B. (156).
On 2nd R., 1300; In Com. 1328.
Civil Service Acts Consolidation B. (31).
On 2nd R., 837; In Coin. 903, 908.
Colonial and Indian Exhibition B. (126).
On 2nd R., 1053.
Commercial depression, causes of.
21.
Committees meeting during adjournment.
Inquiry 51.
Consolidated
Insurance Act 1877
Modification Bill. (20).
On 2nd R., 1153.
Deputy Speaker of the House of
Commons Bill. (26).
Rep. from Com. 116.
Electoral Franchise Bill. (103).
On 2nd R., 1249-1252; M. to adjourn
Debate 1252; Remarks conbinued
12,3.61 ;In Com. 1278.1282; O n3rd R
Anmt. (exemption of P. E. Isiend) m,
1329, 1339.
Food, Drugs, &c. Adulteration B. (W).
On 2nd R., 944; In Com. 1039.
General Inspection Act Amt. B. (135).
On 2nd R., 1091; In Com. 1107.
Industries and Manufactures of Canada,
Report upon.
On Mr. Macdonald's Inquiry, Adjournment of Debate, m, 217 ; Remarks

222-238.
Legislative Work. Increase of, in the
Senate.
On Mr. Plumb's M. 633-39; Remarks
Concluded 650-53.
Library of Parliament Act Amt. B. (139).
On 2nd R., 1112; In Com. 1170.
Lionel Garnham's Case.
Inquiry 389.
Manitoba Claims Final Settlement Bill.

(155).

On 2nd R., 1303.
"Northern Light," Instructions to Commander of.
M. for Return withdrawn 84.
North-West Mounted Police Augmentation Bill. (144).
On 2nd R., 1116.
North-West Rebellion Expenses Bill.

(149).

On 2ndR., 1150.

1885.]

I.-lND=

TO SZflýrORS.

1447

144.7
I.-INDEX TO SENÂTOBS.
1885.]
General Inspection Act Amt. B. '35)
Order, Question of.
In Coin. 1097-1105 , do 1119-21.
On Mr. Alexander's Remarks, 525.
Industries and Manufactures of Canada,
Order, Question of.
Report upon.
As to Mr. Plumb criticising the conduct
On Mr. Macdonald's Inquiry. Adjournof inembers of the H. ot C. 1376.
ment of Debate m, 238; Remarks
Prince Edward Island, Winter com.
280-289.
munication with.
Maritime Court of Ontario Jurisdiction
22.
Bill. (1i).
Enquiry as to effects of late disaster, 28.
In Coin. 533.
Enquiry as to intentions of Government
in reference to. 81-84.
North-West Territories, Disposal of
On Mr. Howlan's Inquiry 504-06.
Lands in.
Privilege, Question of.
On Mr. Wark's Inquiry 845.
466.
In reference to M. for adjournment
Prince Edward Island, Communication
Prohibitory Liquor Law, Petition for,
with.
presented.
Inquiry and Remarks 489-504.
616.
Order, Question of.
Provincial Rights.
As to Mr. Alexander's M. in re Upper
Remarks upon, 21.
Canada Bank.
602.
Question of order raised on Mr.
Real Property in the North-West
Kaulbach's remarks.
Territories Bill. (A).
42P.
On 2nd R., 194.
Railway Subsidies Bill. (164).
Weights and Measures Acts Amt. Bill.
On 2nd R., 1423.
(118).
Real Property in the North-West
On 2nd R., 941.
Territories Bill. (A).
Winter Communication with Prince
On 2nd R., 203.
Edward Island.
Rebellion in the North-West, ProclamOn Mr Haythorne's Inquiry 91 ; Further
Remarks 107.
ation to rebels.
Inquiry 723.
KAULBACH, Hon. HENRY A. N.
Tracadie Harbor, Improvement of.
Inquiry 517.
Absence of Ministers from the Capital.
Washington Treaty, Fishery Clauses of.
On Mr. Power's M. for address. 172.
21.
Adjourriment. Easter Hohdays.
Weights and Measures Acts Amt. Bill.
Remarks, 456.
(118).
Adjournment (May 8th-2oth).
On 2nd R., 942.
On Mr. Bellerose's M., and Mr. Wark's
Winter Communication with Prince
Aint. thereto 919,
Edward Island.
Adjournment (June 3rd-ioth).
Enquiry 85, 102; Further Remarks 107.
Remarks upon 1039.
York Station, P. E. Island Railway,
Advances to the Provinces B. (7).
closing of.
In Com. 615.
Inquiry 519; On Sir Alex. Campbell's
Canadian Pacific Railway Terminus in
Explanation 564.
British Columbia.
York Station, P. E. Island Railway;
On Mr. McInnes' M. for Return 1137.
Correspondence &c. in regard 1 Canadian Pacific Railway Completion
thereto.
Bill. (153).
M. for Return 619.
In Com. 1345; 1353; on 3rd R., 1380-82.
Canada Temperance Act 1878 Amt.
HOWLAN, Hon. GEORGE W.
B. (92).
Canned Goods Bill. (U).
In Coin. 858; On concurr. in Amts. 916;
In Coin. 934.
On adj. of Deb. 987; on 3rd R.,
1001-1005.
Contingency Com.
Canned Goods Bill. (U).
Adoption of Reports m, lst Rep. (reduction
On 2nd R., 931; In Com. 936.
of quorum) 29; 2nd Rep. (expenditure &c.) 1413.
Chinese Immigration Restriction and
Regulation Bill. (155).
Electoral Franchise Bill. (103).
On 2nd R., 1296; In Con. 1328.
On 3rd R., 1332.

I.-INDEX

1448

TO SENATORS.

Civil Service Acts Consolidation B. (31).
In Com. 903; On 3rd R., 930.
Consolidated Militia Act Amt. B. (152).
On 3rd R., 1289.
Cox Divorce Bill.
As to relaxing rules in reference to
notice. 50.
Proof of Service &c. 664.
Divorce Committees, Publication of
Evidence before.
Remarks 328.
Davis Divorce Bill (C).
Amendment of M, in reference to exam.
of petitioner. 57.
Asks to be excused fron serving on Com.
104; On Rep of Coni. 128; On 3rd
R. 156.
Evans Divorce Bill. (G).
On M. for 3rd R. 365.
Electoral Franchise Bill.

(103).

On 2nd R., 124t-1249; On 3rd R., 1339.
Evidence in Criminal Cases Amt. Bill.
(6).
On 2nd R., 567.
General Inspection Act Amt. B. (135).
On 2nd R., 1091; In Con. 1097-1106.
Half-Breed Claims in the North-West.
On Mr. Trudel's M. for Return 648.
Halifax Volunteers, Transportation of.
On Mr. Power's Inquiry, 535.
Halifax Volunteers, Transportation of.
Remarks, 562.
Hatzfeld Divorce Bill (D).
Reading of Petition, m, 32; lst R.1, 34;
As to Service of Notice, &c., 116;
2nd R. m, 117; Ref. to Con., 120;
1t Rep of Com., 120; Rep. fron
Com., 198

Adoption of Rep. of Com . m, 276; 3rd R.
m, 368.
Industries and Manufactures of Canada,
Report upon.
On Mr. Macdonald's Inquiry; Remarks,
300.302; Adjournmt. of Debate m,
302; Renarks concluded,
383;
Further remarks, 412-427; Continued, 461-465.
Legislative Work, Increase of, in the
Senate.
On Mr. Plumb's M., 449.
Library of Parliament Act Amt. B.

(139).

In Con., 1170.
Liquor License Act 1883 B. (134).

On 2nd R., 1173.
Manitoba Claims Final Settlement B.
(155).
On 2nd Rk 1303.

[&98$0%

Maritime Court of Ontario Jurisdiction
B. (11).

On 2nd R., 512.
In Con. 531-34.
Militia Force Land Grant B. (16o).
On 3rd R. 1427.
North-West, Disposal of Lands in.
On Mr. Wark's Inquiry, 847.

North-West Rebellion, Vote of thanks
to Gen. Middleton, the Militia,
&c.
Remarks,1395.

North-West Territories Census B. (21).
On 2nd R., 127.
North-West Rebellion, Correspondence
in relation to.
On Mr. Alexander's M. for Return, 1020.
Offences against the Person Act Amt.
B. (S).
On 2nd R., 726.
Offences against the Person B. (S).
In Coi., 786; On Concurr. in Ants.,
811; On 3rd R., 824.
Order, Question of, raised.
As to Mr. Bellerose's remarks, 560.Order, Question of.
On Mr. Alexander reading his speech,
1013.
Pawnbrokers' B. (R).
In Com., 738.
Prince Edward Island, Winter Communication with.
On Mr. Haythorne's Inquiry,82.
On Mr. Haythorne's Inquiry, 97.
On Mr. Howlan's In4uiry, 506.
Prisoners' Employment B. (87).
On 2nd R., 931.
Public Loan B. (145).

On 3rd R., 1072.
Railway Loan Subsidies B. (147).
In Corn., 1177.
Railway Subsidies B (158).
On 3rd R., 1417.
Railway Subsidies B. (164).
On 3rd R, 1426.
Real Property in the North-West Territories B. (A).
On 2nd R., 192; In Com., 244, 247, 254,
261, 264, 265, 272, 356, 359; On Mr.
Scott's Aints., 375.
Sable Island, Live saving Service at.
On Mr. Almon's M., 642.
Sewerage and Ventilation of Senate
Building.
Remarks upon, 1045.
Short Line Railway,
Remarks on Mr. Power's M. for address
for Reports of Surveys, &c., 348.

I.-INDEX To SENÂTORS.

1885.]

Short Line Railway, Petition for a
Survey, &c.

On Mr. Power's M. for Return, 1189.
Smith Divorce Bill (B).
As to selection of Coi., 54.
On M. for adoption of Rep. of Com., 368.
St. Vincent de Paul Penitentiary Investigation.
On Mr. Bellerose's M. for Returu, 561.
Summary Proceedings B. (L).
On 2nd R., 403.
In Coi., 482-86, 529.
LACOSTE, HON. ALEXANDER.

Congregational Missionary
Canada
Socy's B. (54).
Rep. from Com., 408.
Canada Co-operative Assn. B. (81).
Rep. from Con., 599.
Evangelical Lutheran Church of Canada Synod Incorp. B. (6o).
Rep. from Com., 705.
Real Property in the North-West Territories B. (A).
In Com., 244, 255.
Standing Orders Com.
Adoption of Reports m.
2nd Rep. (exttnsion of time for receiving
petitions for Private Bills) m, 31.
4th Rep. (compliance with rules), 34.
5th Rep. (extension of time), 34.
8th Rep. (extension of time), 79.
12th Rep. (extension of time), 239.
Summary Proceedings B. (L).
In Com., 482-87.
LEWIN, HON. JAMES D.

Industries and Manufactures of Canada.
Remarks, 477 80.

11"9

Simpson, Hon. Mr., Death of.
Reinarke upon, 428.
Summary Proceedings B. (L).
Rep. from Com., 529.
Real Property in the North-West Territories B. (A).
On Mr. Scott's Amt., 379.
MACDONALD, HON. WILLIAM JOHN

(B. C.)

Address in reply to the Speech from
the Throne.
Motion, 5.
Absence of Ministers from the Capital.
On Mr. Power's M. for Address; Question of Order raised on Mr. Power's
remarke, 167; and on Mr. Alexander's remarke, 171; See also 173.
Administration of Justice in the NorthWest Territories B. (V).
In Com., 1027.
Canada Temperance Act 1878 Amt.
B. (9 2).
lu Con., 856.
Canadian Pacific Railway Terminus in
British Columbia.
On Mr. McInnes' M. for Return, 1142.

Canadian Pacific Railway Completion
B. (153).

In Coin., 1364.
Chinese Immigration Restriction and
Regulation B. (155).
On 2nd R., 1,296, 1,298; In Com., 1,327.

Electoral Franchise B. (103).

In Com., 1,276-83.
Industries and Manufactures of Canada,
Report upon.
Enquiry and remarks, 131-141.
Further remarks, 780-84.
Treaties with Indians in the NorthWest.
On Mr. Read's Inquiry, 809; called to
order, 809.
Sewerage and Ventilation of Senate
Building.

MCCLELAN, HoN. ABNER REID.
Canada Temperance Act 1878 A
B. (92).
On Postprnt. of 3rd R., 925.
Evangelical Lutheran Church Syi
Remarks upon, 1,046.
Incorp. B. (6o).
1st R.*, 488 ; 2nd R. m, 530.
McDONALD, Hon. WILLIAM (C. B.)
Industriés and Manufactures of Can
On Mr. Macdonald's M.; Remarks,
Summoned to the Senate and intro554; Debate adjourned, M., 6
duced, 3.
Rem
Further adjourned, 663;
Adjournment (May 8-20).
concluded, 738-79.
On Mr. Bellerose's M., 919.
Legislative Work, Increase of, in
International Coal Co's B. (5r).
Senate.
Concurr. in Amtu. of Coin., m, 408.
Adjournment of Debate, M, 612;
marks, 623.30.
North-West Territories, Disposal of MACFARLANE, Hon. ALEXANDER.
Lands in.
Bridge, Boom, &c., Act Amt. B. (îor).
On Mr. Wark's Inquiry, 850.
lst R.', 488; 2nd R. m, 536; 3rd R., 598.

R3

1450

L

1i*bÉk "

SENA'iOns.

Manitoba and N hM-West Ttritofies
Census B. (21)

Debates of the Senate Committee,

Winter Communication with Prince
*Ed:a'dl fîland.
On Mr. Haythorne's Inquiry, 90.

Mr. Trudel's M, for Return assented to,
644.
Industries and Manufactures of Canada,
Report upon.

Rep. frodà Cdm., 280..

Hon. DONALD.
4nil Service Acts

MACINNES,

B3.

•Consolidation

(31)

On 2nd R., 827.
McINls, Hon. TuomAs R. (B. C.)
Adjourntrient'(Jume 20oJuly .2>
M..agîeed to 1,088.
Eritish ,C1ämb a '3anl B. G(o5).
Ca'iada
qp.,
In (92)

, lerrane .At 1878 Amt. B.
fl

o

d

In Opm., ~&3; on adjournmtof deb.,'987.

Canadian Pacific RailwayTerminus in

4

British Columbia.
fRptra, .123.

Appointment of, m, 24.
Half-breed Claims in the North-west.

On Mr. Macdonald's Inquiry,Adjournmt.
of debate m, 154; remarks, 209-217.

North-West Rebellion, Correspondence
in Relation to.
Mr. Alexander's M. for Return agreed to,
1,022.
North-West Troubles, Half-breed claims,
Mr. Alexander's M.for Return agreed
to, 525.

Real Property in the North-West Territories B. (A).
Adjournment of debate on 2nd R. m, 178;
remarks on 2nd R., 179-182.

Select Standing Committees, Appointment of, M, 23.

Canadian Pacific RZailway Completion McKAY, Hon. THOMAS.
Albion Mines Savings Bank B. (157),
lst R.*, 382; 2nd R. m, 411; 3rd R, 535.
Moody) m, 1,345-52; on 3rd R., Amt.
(terminus to be fixed at Pt Moody)
m, 1,385; lost on div.,1,386; Amt. McMASTER, Hon. WILLIAM.
(nochaegeef terminus' for 10. yewrs) Canada Temperance'
Act, 1878, Amt.
lost on diy., 1,387.

Il Com., Amt. (as to terminus at Pt

B. (92).

:Caned Goods'B (U).
On 2ndSf., 930,

Rep. froin Com., 898.

Electoral Franchis0 B (t63),
J4 1Uo0., 1,279; on ård R., 1,36.

Evans Divorce Bill, Conduct of, transferred to Hon. Mr. Gowan, 29.

Great Western & Lake Ontario Shore
Port Moody Engine House, Building
Junction R.R. Co's Amt. B. (38).
of.
lst R.*, 302; 2nd R. m, 369; 3rd R., 407.
Inquiry, 1,047.
,Répresétitation of the Provinces and
McMILLAN, Hon. DONALD.
Territories in the Privy Council.
Sewerage and Ventilation
Building.
Remarks upon,,40Q45.

of Senate

Canada Temperance Act, 1878, Amt.
B. (92).
In Com., 869; on 3rd R. Amt. m, 972-74.
Temperance Act Petitions, Forgery of
Signatures to.
As to McDongald's declaration, 989;
matter brought up again, 1,036.

Timber Regulations in British Columbia; Corresporidencé concerning.
Ai. r0r Returu, 1,369.
Weights & Measures Acts Amt. B. MONTGOMERY, Hon.

(118).

On 2nd R" 940.'

DoNALD.

Electoral Franchise B. (103).

On 3rd R., 1,334.

MAcPiHRSON, Hon.,Sir DAVID LEWIS.
NELSON, Hon. HUGH.
Bank of Upper, Car)da, Debt dpe
Adjournment (June 3-22).
M. not agreed te, 1,038.
Gvèrhmúrrit by.On.'lp Alexât(der'aInqkiry, 39.
Agricultural Fertilizers B.
0à M* ÂlekadesiM. for com 66.
Rep. fromn Comn., 1,087.

(r

2).

1885.]

L-Iva

1885.]
Canada Temperance. Act,

1

Adet

Sapoai

IM~.
1878,

B. (92).

In Comn., 855; on 3rd B., Ant.

Amt.

m, 975.

Canadian Pacific Railway Completion

1eal Propery iç e, North-W
ritories B. (A).

On 2nd R., 182
Terry Divorce . (E).
' ''Qn to enploy
lst R. of Ciom,

B. (153).
short-hand *ip.rom
In CoM., 1,361.
Com , 382; Adoptibi ôf'
and
Chinese Immigration Restriction
Regulation B. ('55).
OGILvIE, Hon. ALEXANDh W.
In Coni., 1,326.

Electoral Eranchise B. (103).

ln Con., 1,277-83.
Infectious or Contagious Diseases of
Animals B. (34).
Rep. from Com. 840.
O'DONOHOE,

Hon. JoHN.

Adjournment-Easter Holidays, 457.
Adjournment (May 8-20).
On Mr. Bellerose's M., 921.
Canadian Pacific Railway Completion
B. (153).
Rep. from. Co.m,, 1,369.
Canada Temperance Act, 1878, Amt.
B. (92).
On 3rd ., 983-86; on postpmt of consid.
of Commons Amts., 1,096.
Divorce Committees, Publication of
Evidence before.
Remarks, 327.
Electoral Franchise B. (103).

On 3rd R., 1,338.
Offences against the Person B. (S).
On Concurr. in Amts., 811.
Real Property in the North-West Territories B. (H).
On 2nd R., 200; lu Com., 263, 359.
Summary Proceedings B. (L).
On 2nd R., Amt. (six months, hoist) not
agreed to, 398, 405.
West Ontario Pacific R. R. Co's Incorp.

B. (94).

2nd R., 736.
ODELL,

Hon.

WILLIAM HUNTER.

,76.

Adjournment (June 2oth-Jily 2nd?.
Remarks, 1088.
(gt
.
Banque dû Pèu

On 3rd R., 586.
Canned Goods B. (U).
In com., 9k.
Consolidated Insmnaèté AQt f877
Modification . 0).
In Comn., 1181.
Consolidated Militia MAt r8,81"Atùt. B.

On 2n

., 1273.

Cox DivorceB. (1).'
Reading of Petitionr M. ýwithdrà*î,' 25
M. renewed and greed to, 31; M.as
to dispensig' with 2nd- Rule postponed, 34; ef. baek toiCot». 49;
nd . pçstponed 4p5, Fqtther
postponement, og%
Davis Divorce BÀll
)
feading of Petiton p, i.
R. , and
M. for 2ba R., 2ï 2u R. petponed,
à
mi, 56.
Halifax Volunteers, Transpostation of.
Op Mr. Power's Inq uiry, 536.
International Coal Cos.
.
lst R.*, 350, M. for 2nd ,52.
Prince Edward Island,'Corimunication
with, ,
nir,
On Mr. H owlan's Inquiry, 608,
North-West Territories Cen'sus . (2 1).
Un 2nd:R., 125.
Smimary Pr'Ôceedings B.(1
In Coin., 48.*
Treatieî with thé Indians in 'thWNdrthWest.
On Mr. Read% Itquiry,'T47.

Advances to the Provinces B. (7).
PAQUET, Hon. ANSEBLmHoludtR
Rep. from Com., 616.
Banque du Peuple B.'3).
Canada Temperance Act 1878 Amt. B.
st A*, 429 2nd R. m,n466
(92).

sk. Ter-

579.

i3dIB. m,

In Com., 868, 891.
Electoral Franchise B. <Qo3).
Central Bank of New Brunswick B. (4o).
On 2nd Ré 1268-12700
Concurr. in Aint., M., 640.
Food, Drugs, &c., Adulteration B. (W).
Divorcé Committees, Presence of
In Com., 1043.
Strangers at.
PELLETIER, Hon. C. £.
Remarks on, 323.
France and Canada, Steàm ComnmunicaPreservation of the Peace near Public
Works B. (0).
tion between.
Rep. froin Com., 623.
Inquiry, 664.

I.-INDEX TO SENATORS.

1452

Richelieu and Ontario Navigation Co's.
B. (61).
2nd R. m, 810; 3rd R., 841.
Timber Culling and Measuring Acts and
Amts. B. (154).
In Com., 1326.
Vote of Censure upon Mr. Alexander.
Remarke, 221.
PLUMB, Hon.

J. B.

Adjournment, Easter Holidays.
Remarks, 457.
.Absence of Ministers from the Capital.
On Mr. Power's M. for Address, 167.
Adjourniment (June 3rd-roth).
Remarks upon, 1038.
Adjournment (June 2oth-July 2nd).
Remarks, 1088.

Banking and Commerce Con.
Adoption of Reports m; lst Rep. (reduction of quorum), 29.

Bank of Upper Canada Debt due
Government by.
On Mr. Alexander's Inquiry, 44.
On Mr. Alexander's M. for Corn., 66.
Banque du Peuple B. (53).
On 3rd R., 581.
Brantford, Waterloo, and Lake Erie, R.
R. Co's Incorp. B. (59).
lst R.', 350; 2nd R. m, 382; Concurr. in
Amts. of Com. postponed, 408; 3rd
R. m, 466.

Canada Southern and Erie & Niagara

R. R. Co's B. (9).

lst R.*, 130; 2nd R. m, 178; 3rd R. m.
331.

Canada Temperance Act 1878 Amt. B.
(92).

On 2nd R., 680-84; In Com., 866, &c,
884; On Poetpmt.of 3rd R., 926; On
adjournment of Deb. 986; As to
Insistence upon Senate Amts. 1165.
Canadian Pacific Railway Completion
B. (153).

In Com. 1367; On 3rd R., 1370-76.
Chinese Immigration Restriction and
Regulation B. (155).
In Com., 1327.

Civil Service Acts Consolidation B.
(31).

In Com , 906,

Consolidated Insurance Act 1877 Modification B. (20).
In Com., 1180.
Davis Divorce B. (C).

As to exclusion of persons from Com.

room, 156.
Death of Senator Benson.
On M. to adjourn, 351.

[Session

Divorce Committees, Publication of
Evidence before.
Remarks, 325.
Dominion Drainage Co's Incorp. B.
(28).

let R.*, 1143; 2nd R. m, 1192; 3rd R. m,
1193.
Dominion Grange Mutual Fire Ins.
Assn. B. (55).
lst R., 650; 2nd R. m, 686; Concurr. in
Aits. and 3rd R., 841.
Electoral Franchise B. (103).
On 2nd R, 1216-1230; In Com., 1278;
On 3rd R., 1335.
Evans Divorce B. (G).
On M. for 3rd R., 366.
Federal Bank of Canada B. (ro).
Rep. from Com. and M. for 3rd R.. 350.
Fort Macleod Ranche Telegraph Co's
Incorp. B. (8o).
Rep. from Com., 1046.
Hamilton, Guelph & Buffalo R. R. Co.

Incorp. B. (77).

let R.*, 554; 2nd R., 612; 3rd R., 684.
Hamilton Provident & Loan Society's

B. (J).
Rep. from Coin., 370.
Hatzfeld Divorce B. (D).
On 2nd R., 119; On let Rep. of Com.,
122.
Huron & Ontario Ship Canal Co's B.
(69).

On 2nd R., 614.
Industries and Manufactures of Canada,
Report upon.
On Mr. Macdonald'sInquiry,145,146,784.
Lake Erie, Essex & Detroit River R. R.
Co's Incorp. B. (24).
let R.*, 302; 2nd R. m», 411; 3rd R.,
465.
Legislation in -the Senate, Joint Con.
upon.
On Sir Alex. Campbell's M., 706.
Legislative Work, Increase of, in the
Senate.
M. postponed, 80; Further poetponement,
179; M. and reniarks, 429-444;
Further remarks, 659-662.
Library, Joint Com. upon.
let Rep. (publication of Mr. Todd'e
work) adoption, m, 1398.
Library of Parliament Act Amt. B.
(39).
On M. for 2nd R., 1095.
Liquor Traffic, Amount of Revenue
from in 1884.
M. for Return agreed to, 109.

1885.]

L.-hNEx To SzNTOES.

London Life Ins. Co's Act Amt. B.

(76).

2nd R. m, 988; 3rd R., 1012.
North-West Mounted Police Augmen
tation B. (144).

1458

Standing Orders and Private Bills Com.
Adoption of 14th Rep. m, 332.
St. Claire Bridge and Tunnel Co's B.
(8).
lst R.*, 111; 2nd R. m, 127; 3rd R. m
331.
Summary Proceedings B. (L).

On 2nd R., 1118.
North-West Rebellion, Correspondence
In Com., 482-86.
in relation thereto.
West Ontario Pacific R. R.Co's Incorp.
Quest. of Order on Mr. Alexander's
Speech, 1013.
B. (94).
let R., 711; Consideration of Amts. m,
North-West Territories Census B. (21).
815; 3rd R. m, 840.
On 2nd R., 123.
Wood Mountain & QuAppelle R. R.
North-West Territories, Disposal of
Co's Incorporation B. (23).
Lands in.
let R.», 302; 2nd R. m, 369; 3rd R. m,
On Mr. Wark's Inquiry, 848.
465.
Ontario & Pacific R. R. Co's B. (72).
1st R., 554; 2nd R., 598; 3rd R., 684.
POIRIER, Hon. PAScAL.
Order, Question of, raised as to relevSummoned to the Senate, 239; Introancy of Mr. Bellerose's remarks on
duced, 269.
Franchise Bill.
Civil Service Acts Consolidation B.
1214,
(31).
Order, Question of, as to Mr. Power
On 2nd R., 839.
attributing motives to members of
Consolidated Insurance Act 1877
the House of Commons.
Modification B. (20).
1403.
In Com., 1178.
Parliamentary Returns, Number and
Electoral Franchise B. (103).
Expense of.
On 2nd R., 1270-1272.
On Mr. Flint's M.for Return, 515.
North-West Rebellion, Vote of thanks
Privilege, Question of, as to accuracy
to Gen. Middleton, the Militia
of Mr. Power's statement.
&c.
1083.
Remarks, 1396.
Public Loan B. (145).
On 3rd R., 1074,
On roth Rep. of Printing Com.
Remarks, 1398.
Qu'Appelle Diocese Incorp. B. (39).
let R.*, 302; 2nd R. m, 411.
POWER, Hon. LAWRENCE GEoeFREY.
Question of Order raised as to Mr.
Absence of Ministers from the Capital.
Alexander's remarks on M. to adM. tor Address, 159-168; Withdrawn,
journ.
173.
455.
Adjournment, Easter holidays.
Railway Subsidies B. (164).
Remarks, 454.
On 3rd R., 1425.
Adjournment suggested.
Real Property in the North-West TerriRemarks, 822.
tories B. (A),
Adjournment (Queen' Birthday).
On 2nd R., 182; In Com., 256, 265, 270,
On Sir Alex. Campbell's M. 945.
352; On Mr. Scott's Ants., 375.
Adjournment (June 3rd-loth).
Sewerage and Ventilation of Senate
Remarks upon, 1039.
Building.
Administration of Justice in the North
Remarks upon, 1045.
West Territories B. (V).
Short Line Railway, Petitions for a
On 2nd R., 944; In Com., 1028.
Survey, &c.
Advances to the Provinces B. (7).
On Mr. Power's M.for Return, 1191.
In Com., 615.
Smith Divorce Bill.
Agricultural Fertilizers B. (122).
Inaccuracy pointed oui in papers, 53.
In Com., 1087.
Canada Temperance Act 1878 Amt. B.
South Saskatchewan Valley R. R. Co's
(92).
Incorp B. (37.
On 2nd R., 733; On Postpmt. of M.into
lst R.*, 405; 2nd R. m, 411 ; 3rd R, 465.

[
[&'0"o

TO SaMIbs.:

· pflm.,79Ný

it

mntorCon., A

on
9prpçsedi going

o. Quept. of
Order ,81 ;idR, dR.mt, W 960-67,
976;101 00h Posipmt. of codsideration of. Senate Aints., 1096.
Cgnadianx Pacifie Railway Completion

B. (1%3

On 2nd1tR.1, -26; In Coin.,1844135;
On 3rd R., 1376-1380; Art.:<as to

extension; to EnglisBh Bo.y) m, Jl9;
Amit. withdrawn, 1385; Amt. (as
to terminus in B. C.) losL on div.,
'1387.

Canadian Pacifiê Railway Terminue, in
British Columbia.
.0n Mr. MOInqes' M.for Reurn, 1140.
Canned Goods B. (U).
l Comr., 933.
Chinese Commission, Expenses of.
M.fqrReturn granted, 469.
Chinese Immigration Restricion and
Regulation B. (155).1
On 2nd R., 1297; In Com., 13.
Civil Service Acts Consôlidtidh B.
On 2nd R., 831; In Oom., 901; Amt. m,
904, 907, 908-13.
Codification of the Criminal Law.
Inquiry as to intention4f Govt., 48.
Colonial and Indian Exhibition B.
(126).

On 2nd R. 1053; Rep. from Com., 1086.
Commercial Bank of Windsor . (117).
On 26d . 082>
Consolidated Insurance Act 1877 Modification; B. (20).

In ConS., 1177.
1
Coulsoldated Militia Act 1883 An. B.
(152.
On 2nd&, 1278; On 3rd R., 1289.
Consolidated Railway' Act !879 Amt.

B. (Q).

In Com., 733.
Contigery CoM. 2nd Rep.
On M.' for adoption, 1,414.
Crown 'Accounts Books, Proof of
Entries in, B. (M).
On Consideration of Commons Aint.,
104T.
Davis Piyorce BilU.
Ai to M.for postponer#eut of 2nd B., 57.
Debates, of ithe Seste, Circulation of.
25.
DeputySpeaker of the Hôuse of Commons B. (26).
Em3n&Pn. 4 .j!4
n
.

Diwrce
Committees,
Presece, of
Strangers at, and Publication of
Evidehce.
Bentarka ?24.
Electoral Franchise B. (ro3).
On 2nd R., 1237-1244:; In Coin., 1280-87;
On 3rd R. Armt. (definition of " person"')n, 1342.
Evans Divorce B. (G).
On M. for 3rd R., 360Q
Evidence: in Crimirial Cases Amt; B.
(6).
8et B.*, 382; 2qd R. M, 565, 077.
Explosive Substances B. (K).
In Com.,,276, 278.
Food, Drugs &Ë., Adulteration B. (W).
On 2nd R.,:945;-in Com., 1,039, &o.; on
concurr. in Commons, Amte., ,118.,
General Inspection Act Amt. B. (135).
On 2nd R., 1,091 ; in Goin., 1,097-1,107;
1,119-1,121.
Half-breed Claims in the North-West.
O.n:mr. Trudel's M.for Return, 646.
Half-breed Grievances in the NorthWest, Correspondence in Relation
to.
On Mr. Alexander's M. for Ret., 1,032.
Halifax Harbor Master's Act Am t. B.
(148).
On 2nd it., 1,108- in com., 1,167; on 3rd
R., 1,168.
Halifax Volunteórs, Transportation of.
Inquiry, 535; explaiation, 603.
Hatzfeld Divotcç B. (),.
As to sufficiency of service, 32 ; ôn ist
Rep. of CoM., 120.
Huron & Ontario Ship Canal Co's B.

(69).

On 2nd R., 613.
Industries and Manufactures of Canada,
Report upon.
On Mr. Macdonald's Inquiry, remarks,
291-300.
Infectious or Contagious Diseases of

Aniinals B.

(34

fi Coin., 839.
Insolvent Banks' and Corporations' Act
Amt. B. (W).
On 2nd R., 488.
In Com., 530,
International Coal Co's B. (5î).
2nd R. m, 382.
Legiàlative Work, Increase of, in the
Sdnate.
As to regularity o M. Plumb's notice,
80.

1885.j

L-IDErTe SanTbms

14U5
14~

1885.3
Legislative Work, Intrese &f, in the
Senate.
On Mr. Plumb's M. 448 ; f(rther remarks,
633.
Library of Parliament Act Amt. B.
(139).

On M.for 2nd R., 1,095; on 2nd R., 1,108;
in Com., 1,169.
Liquor License Act, 1883, B. (134).
On 2nd R., 1,174.
Manitoba and North-West Territories
Census B. (21).
In Com., 279.
Manitoba Claims Final Settlement B.
1302.
On 2ad
Maritime Court of Ontario Jurisdiction
B. (11).
On 3rd R., 565.
Militia Force Land Grant B. (16o).
On àrd 1., 1,429.
North-West Mounted Police Augmentation B. (144).
On 2nd R., 1,116.
North-West Rebellion, Correspondence
in Relation thereto.

On Mr. Alexander's M. for Return, 1,017.

North-West Rebellion-Vote of Thanks
to General Middleton, the Militia,
&c.
Remark, 1.396.
North-West Territories Census B. (21).
On 2nd R., 123.
North-West Territories, Disposal of
Lands in.
On Mr. Wark's Inquiry, 847.
Offences Against the Person Act Amt.
B. (S).
On 2nd R., 727.
In Com., 788; on totcurr. 1h Arts., 1l.
Order, Question of, Raised as to Mr.
Plumb's Remarlçs, 456.
Order, Question of, as to Mr. Alexander's M. rn re Bank of Upper
Canada, 6o1.
Order, Question of, on Mr. Alexander's
Inquiry as to the Publiç Affairs,
818.
Order, Question of, on Mr. Alexander
Reading his Speech, 1,014.

Order, Question· of, as to Mr. Plumb
asserting that Mr. Power had no
authority for a certain Statement
in Reference to the Canadian
Paëific Railw&y, 3,375-î

Pawnbrokers B. (R).
On Ref to -Com. .of W., 728; ln 'Com.,
737; on 3rd B., 738.
Preservation of Peace near Public
Works. B. (O).
n CoM., 623.
Prince Edward Island, Commùniktion
with.
On Mr. Howlan's Inquiry, 510.,
Privilege, Question of, as to epuiging
Mr. Alexander's Speech from. the
Reports, 240.
Privilege, Question of.
Accuracy of statement established, 1,083.
Public Loan B. (145).

On 2nd R., 1,50$; on 3rd R.) 1,67.
Railway Land Subsidies B. (147).
In Con., 1,177.
Railway Subsidies B. (158),

On 2nd à., 1,398; in Com., 1,415; Anit
(to 1st clause) lost on a div., f,415;

on 3rd R., same Amt. j'aled out of
order, 1,417; another Ait. ruled
out of order, L420.
Railway Subsidies B. (164).
On 2ud R, 1,423; on 3rd R., 1,424.
Railway Survey Reporte, Bringing
down of.
Inquiry, 822.
Real Poperty iù the North-Wèst Territories B. (A).
On 2nd R., 188; in Coni., 251, 255, iuggested Anit.'to ffth elan aché ed,
257.8, 263, 266, 267e 268, 269, 272,
274, 356, 858, 363, 374; on Mr. Scott's
Anits., 376; Amtia to ilth and 12th
clau8es not accepted, 381.
Soult Ste. Marie Bidge CÔ. B. <i)J
lst Re., 302; 2nd R.m, 368; 3rd R., 407,
Secretary of State Department Aiendment B. (1o).

On 2nd R.,536.
Sewerage and Ventilatibn of Senate
Building.
Remarks upon, 1,044.
Short Line Riilway..-M. /for,.addiess
for copies of reportgof sÙ1rveys, &c.

Remarke,332-344; -348,850.
Short Line Rail*ày, Pétitions for a
survey, &c.
fot Rèturhil,1 .
Short Line Railway, Riuté Provided
for.
Smith Divorce Bil.
As to exàtin.: b? itness, 53; as toô'election of con., 54.
Standing Oders Com.i On 8th Rep. of,
79.

I.-INDEX

1456

TO SENATORS.

Summary Proceedings B. (L).
On 2nd R., 399; in Com., 481-87, 529.
Temperance Legislation, Presentation
of Petition Concerning.
Remai ks, 579.
Treaties with Indians in the North-West.
On Mr. Read's Inquiry, 802.
Troops in the North-West, Withdrawal
of.
Inquiry, 1055.
Weights and Measures Acts Amt. B.

(118).
On 2nd R., 940; In Com., 1024.
Winter Communication with Prince
Edward Island.
On Mr. Haythorne's Inquiry, 94.
READ, Hon. ROBERT.

Adjournment, Easter Holidays.
Remarks, 457.
Adjournment (May 8th-2oth).
On Mr. Bellerose M., 922.
Adjourniment (June 3 rd-ioth).
Remarks upon, 1038.
Consolidated Militia Act Amt. B. (152).
On 3rd R., 1288.
Cox Divorce B. (H).
lst R. and M. for 2nd R., 106; Proof of
Service &c., 664; 2nd R. m, 665;
Ado tion of Rep. of Com. m, 735;
3rd . m, 736.
Davis Divorce B. (C).
2nd R. m, 103; Ref. to Com., m, 103.
3rd R. m, 155; Communication of
evidence to House of Commons, n,
156.
Divorce Committees, Publication of
Evidence before.
Remarks, 326.
Dominion Drainage Co's. Incorp. B.
(28).

Rep. from Com., 1193.
Electoral Franchise B. (103).

Rep. from Coin., 1287.
Halifax Volunteers, Transportation of.
Remarks, 563.
Industries and Manufactures of Canada.
M. to adjourn Debate, 465; Remarks,
467-74.
North-West Rebellion, Correspondence
in relation to.
Remarks, 1021.
Parliamentary Returns, Number and
Expense of.
On Mr. Flint's M. for Return, 515.
Printing Committee.
Adoption of Reports m; let Rep. (reduction of quorum), 31 ; 2nd Rep.

688i0%

adoption postponed, 49; 2nd Rep.
adopted, 104; 3rd and 4th Rep. m,
130.
3rd Rep., (Documents to be printed), 368;
6thRep., (Increase of Salary), 612;
7th Rep., (Documents printed), 1024;
8th Rep. Consideration postponed,
1253.
Printing Committee &c.
9th Rep. (Documents printed &c.), 1292;
10th Rep. (Appointmt. of Officials
&c.), 1397.
Qu'Appelle Diocese Incorp. B. (39).
Rep. from Com., 465.
Railway Subsidies B. (158).
Rep. fron Com., 1417.
Real Property in the North-West Territories B. (A).
Rep. from Com., 374.
Smith Divorce Bill (B).
Reading of Petition m, 27; lt R.0, and
Motion for 2nd K., 29; Exam. of
Witness and 2nd R. m, 52; Ref. to a
Select Com. m, 54; Reported against
by Com., 256; Rep. of Com. adopted,
368; Refund of Fees m, 1275.
Standing Orders and Private Bills Com.
Adoption of Reports m; let Rep. (reduction of quorum), 28; 2nd Rep.,
(extension of time), 28; 3rd Rep.,
(compliance with rules), 28; 9th
Rep. (Suspension of 59th Rule), 157;
lOth Rep. (Suspension of 51st Rule),
157; 13th, 14th and 15th Reps. m,
332.
Terry Divorce Bill.
Reading of petition m, 30; let R.*, 34;
2nd R. m, 110; ref. to Select Com.,
m 111 ; 3rd R. m, 331.
Three Rivers Harbor Commissioners B.
(150).

Rep. Irom Com , 1,193.
Trcaties with the Indians in the NorthWest.
Inquiry, 791.
Weights and Measures Acts Amt. B.

(118).

On 2nd R., 942; Rep. from Com., 1,025.
ROBITAILLE,

Hon.

THEODORE.

Summoned to the Senate and introduced, 3.
Canada Temperance Act, 1878, &c.,
Amt. B. (92).
As to insistence upon Senate Amts.
rejected by Commons, 1158.
Legislative Work, Increase of, in the
Senate.
On Mr. Plumb's Motion, 630.32-83.

1885.]

I.-INDIEX To SFNATolts.

1457

1457'
1.-INDEX TO SEN~T0RS.
Amts.,
As to insistence upon Senate
REESOR, Hon. DAVID.
1157, &o.
Evangelical Lutheran Church Synod
Canadian Pacific Railway Employees
Incorp. B. (60).
Relief Ass'n (75).
3rd R. m, 705.
lst R., 554; 2nd R. m, 613; 3rd R., m,
640.
South-Western Railway, Construction of
Inquiry, 409.
Canned Goods B. (U).
In Coin., 933.
RYAN, Hon. THOMAS.
Chapais, Senator, the late.
Remarks concerning 1389.
Bank of Montreal Annuity and GuaranCivil Service Acts Consolidation B.
tee Funds Society B. (48).
(31).
lst R.«, 429; 2nd R. in, 522; 3rd R.',
On 2nd R., 834.
535.
Colonial and Indian Exhibition B.
Bank of Montreal Pension Fund
Society B. (49).
(126.)
On 2nd R., 1052.
Ist R.', 429; 2nd R. m, 522; 3rd R.*,
535.
Cox Divorce Bill.
As to dispensing with rules, 34.
Canada Co-operative Assoc'n B. (81).
Death of Senator Benson.
lst R.*, 429; 2nd R. m, 522; 3rd R., 599.
On Motion to adjourn, 351.
Maritime Court of Ontario Jurisdiction
Deputy Speaker of the House of ComB. (11).
mons B. (26).
In Com., 532.
In Con., 114.
Royal Canadian Ins. Co's B. (48).
Electoral Franchise B. (103).
lst R.«, 488; 2nd R. m, 522; 3rd R.* m,
Ou 2nd R., 1200-1206; Amt. noved (six
587.
months' hoist), 1206; In Com., 127687 ; On 3rd R., Ait. (to 9th section)
SCHULTZ, Hon. JOHN.
n, 1341.
Evidence in Criminal Cases Amt B.
Hudson's Bay, Exports from.
Motion for Return agreed to, 199.
(6).
On 2nd R., 575.
Hydrographic Surveys of Lakes in the
Half-breed Grievances in the NorthNorth-West.
Inquiry, 48.
West, Correspondence in relation
to.
Indians in the North-West, Correspond.
On Mr. Alexander's Motion for Return,
ence Concerning.
1032.
Motion for Return, 587.
Half-breed Troubles in the NorthNorth-West, Representation of the, in
West.
the Cabinet.
Inquiry, 410.
Inquiry, 157.
Industries and Manufactures of Canada,
North-West Territories, Superintendents
Report upon.
of Education in the.
On Mr. Macdonald's Inquiry, 141-154.
Inquiry, 199
Insolvent Banks, Insurance Co's, and
Red River, Dredging the Mouth of.
other Corporations Act Amt. B.
Inquiry, 256.
(N).
lst R.*, 429; 2nd R. m, 488; 3rd R.,
ScoTr, Hon. RICHARD WILLIAM.
530.
Address, in debate on the,
Legislative Work, Increase of, in the
Renmarks, 13.
Senate.
Administration of Justice in the NorthRemarks on Mr. Plumb's Motion, 444-448;
West Territories B. (V).
Further Remarks, 661-663.
On 2nd R., 943.
Library of Parliament Act Amt. B.
Bank of Upper Canada.
(139).
69.
On Mr. Alexander's Motion for Com.,
In Com., 1171.
Canada Temperance Act, 1878, Amt.
Liquor License Act 1883 B. (134).
B. (92).
On 2nd R., 1172.
On 2nd R., 696-705: in Corn., 859, &c.;
Militia Forte Land Grant B. (16o).
on 3rd R., 974; adjournmt of Deb.
On 3rd R.,1425.
m, 986; remarks, 990-1001.
S 3
1885.]

1458S

.- INDEX TO SENATORS.

North-West Mounted Police Augmentation B. (144).

[S88sion

Maritime Court of Ontario Jurisdiction
B. (i1).

On 2nd R., 1116.
In Com., 533.
North-West Rebellion, Provision for
Families of Volunteers killed or SUTHERLAND, Hon. JOHN.
wounded in.
Administration of Justice in the NorthOn Mr. Alexander's Inquiry, 938.
West Territories B. (V).
North-West Rebellion, Vote of thanks
In Coi., 1028.
to Gen. Middleton, the Militia,
North-West Territories Census B. (21).
&c.
On 2nd R., 126.
Sir Alex. Campbeli's Motion seconded,
North-West Territories, Disposai of
1392,
Lands in.
Offences against the Person B. (S).
On Mr. Wark's Inquiry, 851.
In Coi., 787; On 3rd R, 823.
Real Property in the North-West TerriOntario Boundary Award referred to.
tories B. (A).
17.
In Com., 261, 275; On Mr. Scott's Amts.,
Order, Question of.
376.
On Mr. Alexander reading bis speech,
Winnipeg Bank Incorp. Act Amt. B.
1013.
(62).
Provincial Rights, a proper basis for,
Ist R., 554; 2nd R., 598.
advocated.
18.
SPEAKER,
lie (Hon. William Miller).
Public Loan B. (145).
Absence of Ministers from the Capital.
On 2nd R., 1049; On 3rd R,, 1056.
On Mr. Pover's Motion fo. Address ; Mr.
Railway Land Subsidies B. (147).
Power's reiarks ruled out of order,
On Motion for 2nd R., 1093; In Coin., 1175.
167; Mr. Alexander's renarks ruled
Real Property in the North-West Terriout of order, 171.
tories B. (A).
Adjournment (May 8th-2oth).
Adjournint. of Debate on 2nd R. i, 79 ;
On Mr. Bellerose's Motion Mr. Wark's
Remarks on 2nd R., 173-178; In
Ant. declared out of order, 922.
Con,, 257, 259; Aitt. to 22nd clause
Bank of Upper Canada.
accepted, 263. 271, 273, 355, 364.
On Mr. Alexander's Motion for Coi.; Mr.
Aint. striking ont 8th clause not acAlexander's renarks ruledi out of
cepted, 371.
order, 60.
Summary Proceedings B. (L).
Banque du Peuple B. (53).
On 2nd R., 394, 400-01.
Ott 3rd R., 581.
In Coin., 483-85, 528-29.
Temperance Act Petitions, Forgery of
Canada Tenperance Act Amt. B.
Signatures to.
(92).
Declaration presented, 988.
Ruling as to Quest. of order on Mr.
Power's Amt., 854.
Washington Treaty, Fishery clauses of.
Renarks, 17.
Divorce Cases.
As to proper preparation of papers relatng to, 104.
SMITH, Hon. FRANK.
Change of Procedure announced, 109.
Canada Temperance Act 1878 Amt. B.
Divorce Committees,
Presence of
(92).
Strangers at.
Petition in favor of Ants. to, presented,
Construction of Rule, 324.
937.
On 2nd R., 711.14; On 3rd R., 967-70.
Evans Divorce B. (G).
On Motion for 3rd R., 367.
Canadian Pacific Railway Completion
B. (153).
Evidence taken in Divorce Cases.
1st R.*, 1276.
As to its being printed in French, 331.
Canned Goods B. (U).
Hatzfeld Divorce B. (D).
As to exclusion of strangers from the
In Con., 934.
General Inspection Act Amt. B. (135).

In Coin., 1102, 1104.
Industries and Manufactures of Canada.
On Mr. Macdonald's Motion ; Renarks,
745.

comrnittee room, 122.

Industries and Manufactures of Canada,
Report upon.
On Mr. Macdonald's Inquiry; As to ad.
journnent of Debate, 155,

1885.]

1.-INDEX TO SENATORs.

1459

Speech from the Throne reported.
Joliette District, Baptisms, Marriages
5.
and Burials in.
Temperance Legislation, as to presentaReturn presented, 663.
tion of petition concerning, by Mr.
Legislative Work, Increase of, in the
Almon.
Senate.
579.
As to regularity of Mr. Plunb's M., 80.
Vote of Censure upon Mr. Alexander.
Library of Parliament.
Mr. Alexander's remarks ruled out of
order, 219.
Report of Acting Librarian presented, 5.
Order, Question of.
ULLIVAN, Hon. MICHAEL.
Mr. Alexander ruled out of order, 44.
Mr. Alexander's remarks ruled out of
Summoned to the Senate.
order as being irrelevant, 46.
3.
Ruling as to a motion having no seconder,
Address in reply to the Speech from
47.
Mr. Alexander's remarks as to exclusion
the Throne.
of strangers, and deficiency of
Seconded, 8.
messengers, ruled out of order, 105.
British Medical Acts.
Question of, raised by Mr. Haythorne on
Motion for return agreed to, 47.
Mr. Kaulbach's rcmarks.
Canada
Congregational
Ruling upon, 421.
Missionary
Mr Alexander and Mr. Plumb ruled out
Society's B. (54).
of order, 456.
3rd R. m, 408.
Mr. Alexander ruled out of order, 525.
Registration of Medical Practitioners.
Mr. Bellerose ruled Io be not out of
Motion for address, 450.
order, 560.
As to Mr. Alexander's Motion re Bank of
Upper Canada. Decision postponed, THIBADEAU, Hon. JOSEPH RoSAIRE.
602; Decision given, 618.
Mr. Alexander ruled out oforder, 707.
Banque du Peuple B. (53).
As to Discussion on Inquiries. Ruling,
On 3rd R.,585.
809.
Canada Temperance Act 1878 Amt. B.
On Mr. Alexander's Inquiry as to the
(92).
Public Affairs of the Dominion.
In Coi., 883.
Remarks and Ruling, 819.
On Mr. Howlan's remarks. Ruling, 846.
Mr. Alexander ruled out of order in read- TRUDEL, Hon. F. X. A.
ing his speech, 1013.
On Mr. Alexander's remarks, 1089.
Banque du Peuple B. (53).
As to propriety of Mr. Plumb's remarks
On 3rd R., 583 and 586.
in discussing the Franchise Bill,
Canadian Pacific Railway Completion
1221.
B. (153).
Petitions for Private Bills.
On 3rd R., 1382, 1387.
As to extension of time for receiving, 51.
Chapais, Senator, the late.
Renarks concerning, 1389.
Privilege, Question of.
As to expunging of Mr. Alexander's
Civil Service Acts Consolidation B.
speech from the reports.
(31).
Mr. Alexander called to order, 242.
In Com., 903.
Strangers ordered to withdraw, 242.
Consolidated Inland Revenue Act Amt.
In reply to Mr. Haythorne, 466.
B. (146).
Prorogation announced.
In Com., 1293.
1432.
Consolidated Militia Act Amt. B (152).
Railway Subsidies B. (158).
-n 3rd R., 1287, 1290.
On 3rd R., Amts. of Mr. Power, Mr.
Electoral Franchise B. (103).
Trudel and Mr. Bellerose ruled out of
On 2nd R., 1230-1233; ln Com., 1281-84.
order, 1419.
Half-breed Claims in the North-West.
Senators, newly appointed, names of
Motion for Correspondence, 644.
announced.
Half-breed Grievances in the NorthWest, Correspondence in relation
Smith Divorce Bill.
to.
Telegram read, 51; as to mode of examinOn Mr. Alexander's Motion for Return,
ing witness, 52; as to selection of
1032.
Com., 55.

I.-INDEX

1460

TO SENÂTORs.

Manitoba Claims Final Settlement B.
('55).
On 2nd R., 1303.

Members of the Royal Society and the
Civil Service Examinations.
Inzquiry, 408; See also 428.
North-West Troubles, Correspondence
in relation to.
Motion for Return, 1034.
North-West Rebellion, Assistance to
Sufferers.
Inquiry, 1274.
North-West Rebellion, Trials at Regina,
Conduct of.
Inquiry, 1274.
North-West Rebellion, Vote of thanks
to Gen. Middleton, the Militia,
&c.

Remarks, 1395.
North-West Rebellion, Investigation by
Government into causes of, extent
of Damage, &c.
Inquiry, 1410.
North Shore Railway, Indemnity to
Province of Quebec on account of.
Motion for Return agreed to, 105.
Pontiac & Pacific Junction Railway
matters.
Motion for Return, 1092.
Pontiac & Pacific Junction Railway,
Cost of.
Inquiry, 1411.
Real Property in the North-West Territories B. (A).
On 2nd R., 184; In Con., 248, 252, 253,
254, 258,264,266, 269, 275, 358,360;
On Mr. Scott's Ants, 377.
3 Ants to 12th clause not accepted, 380.
Railway Subsidies B. (158).
On 2nd R., 1405; In Com. Ant. (to lst
clause) lost on div., 1415; On 3rd
R. same Aint. ruled out of order,
1418.
Short Line Railway.
Remarks on Mr Power's Motion for address for copies ofReports of Surveys,
&c., 345.
Smith Divorce Bill.
On Motion for 2nd R., suggestion that each
stage of bill be entered on the minutes
as being carried on a division, 29.
Surveyors in the North-West, Damage
done by.
Inquiry, 1035.

Hamilton Provident and Loan So's B.

(J).

lst R.*, 178; 2nd R. m, 221; 3rd R. n,
390.
Amts. of H. of Coin. concurr. in, Motion,
728.
Hatzfeld Divorce B. (D).
On lst Rep. of Coin., 121.
Industries and Manufactures of Canada.
Remarks, 474-77.
On Mr.Macdonald's Motion Remarks,780.

Maritime Court of Ontario Jurisdiction
B. (11).

In Com., 531-33, 554; 3rd R. m, 564.
VIDAL, Hon. ALEXANDER.

Administration of Justice in NorthWest Territories B. (V).
Rep. fron Com., 1029.
Alberta & Arthabaska R. R. Co's
Incorp. B. (78).
lst R.*, 488; Motion for 2nd R. postponed,
530; 2nd R. Motion, 612; Concurr. in
Amts, 685; 3rd R., 723.
Canada
Congregational Missionary
Society B. (54).
lst R.*, 302; 2nd R. m, 369. Canada Temperance Act 1878 Amt. B.
(92).

let R., 587; 2nd R. postponed, 622; 2nd

R. m, 665-74; Motion togo into Com.
postponed, 790; Further postponement, 813; Quest. of Order on Mr.
Power's

Canned Goods B. (U).
On 2nd R., 931 ; In Com., 932-37.

Amt.,

852 ; In

Com.,

855-898; On Concurr. in 9Amts.,
914-918; Motion for 3rd R., 18; On
Motion for Postponemt. of3rd R.,923;
N. of Motion 3rd R., 932; On 3rd R.
970-72, 975, 976-78; As to Insistence
upon Senate.Amts., 1153-1167.
Canada Temperance Act.
Presbyterian Church Assembly Petition
presented, 1122.
Chinese Immigration Restriction and
Regulation B. (155).
On 2nd R., 1297.
Consolidated Inland Revenue Act Amt.
B. (146).
Rep. from Coin., 1294.
Electoral Franchise B. (103).
In Com., 1276 ; On 3rd R., 1337.
Evans Divorce B. (G).
On M. for 3rd R. Amt. m, 367.
Gas and Gas Meters Inspection B.
(119).

TURNER, Hon. JAMES.

[ssion

Rep. from Com., 1086.
Insolvent Banks and Trading Corporations Act Amt. B. (N).
Rep. from Con., 531.

I.-INDEX

1885.]

TO SENATORS.

Liquor License Act 1883 B. (134).
On 2nd R., 1173.
London Life Ins. Co'sActs.Amt. B3(76).
Ist R.*, 932.
Manitoba Lands Final Settlement B.
(155).

On 2nd R., 1304.
Preservation of Peace near Public
Works Act Amt. Act B. (O).
On 2nd R., 596
Privilege, Question of.
As to expunging of Mr. Alexander's
speech fron the Reports, 239.
Railway Land Subsidy B. (147).
7
Rep. from Com., 117 .
WARK, Hon. DAVID.

Adjournment (May ith-28th).
Notice of Motion, 918; On Mr. Bellerose's
Motion, 919.
Canada Temperance Act 1878 Amt.
B. (92).

In Coin., 868, 878; On adjourninent of
debate, 987.
Canned Goods B. (U).
In Com., 935.
Central Bank of New Brunswick B.
(40).

Ist R., 513; 2nd R. 7m,536; 3rd R., 640.
Chinese Immigration Restriction and
Regulation B. (155).
On 2nd R., 1298.
Civil Service Acts Consolidation B.
(3[).
On 3rd R., 930.
Consolidated Insurance Act 1877 Modification B. (20).

On 2nd R., 1152; In Coin., 1178.
Consolidated Militia Act Amt. B. (152).
On 3rd R., 1288.
Food, Drugs etc, Adulteration B. (W).
On 2nd R., 945; In Coi., 1041.

1461

Fredericton & St. Mary's R. R. Bridge
Co's B. (50).
Ist R.*, 488; 2nd R. m, 523; 3rd R., 685.
General Inspection Act Art. B. ('35).
On 2nd R., 1092.
Joint Com. on the Division of Business,
Progress of.
Inquiry, 1034.
Library of Parliament Act Anit. B.
(139).

In Com., 1170.
Manitoba Claims Final Settlement B.

(155).

On 2nd R., 1302.
North-West Territories, Disposal of
Lands in.
Inquiry, 841.
North-West Troubles, Information Concerning.
Inquiry, 639.
Parliamentary Returns, Number and
Expense of.
On Mr. Flint's Motion for Return, 516.
Prince Edward Island, Communicationj
with.
On Mr. Howlan's Inquiry, 508.
Railway Subsidies B. (158).
On 2nd R., 1404.
Real Property in the North-West 'Ferritories B. (A).
In Coin., 253.
Statutes, Consolidation of, Appointment of Joint Com. upon.
Remarks, 322.
Timber Culling and Measuring Acts
Amt. B. (154).

On 2nd R., 1294.
Weights and Measures Acts Amt. B.

(118).

On 2nd R., 940.
York Station, P. E. Island Railway.
On Mr. Haythorne's Inquiry, 564.

Il.-INDEX TO SUBJECTS.
Renarks (Mr. Read), (Mr. Haythorne),
Acts, number of, passed by Dominion
(Mr. Plumb) 1038; Amt. carried, 1039.
and Provincial Parliaments.
See Mr. Plumb's renarks, 432;
Adjournment (June iith-i5th).
M. (Mr. Bellerose) agreed to, 1047.
Addresses asked for in the Senate and
House of Commons, number and Adjournment (June 1 9 th-July 2nd).
cost of.
M. (Mr. MeInnes B. C.) 1088; Debate (Mr.
Motion (Mr. F lint) 514; Debate 511-517.
Plumb), (Mr. Ogilvie), (Sir A. Campbell),

4bbrroo, it Itpit to tilt $:perft
fron t4e (thour.
Consideration mn, (Sir A. Campbell) 5;
Address in(Mr. Macdonald, B. C.) 5;
seconded (Mr. Sullivan) 8; Debate (Mr.
Alexander) 10; (Mr. Scott) 13; (Mr.
Girard) 18; (Mr. Bellerose) 19; (Mr.
Haythorne) 20; Motion agreed to, 22.
Adjournment of Debate, Propriety of
Motion upon an Inquiry.
See Inquiries.
Adjournment (February 1 3 th-2oth).
Mr. Bellerose's Motion agreed to, 49.
Adjournment (March 27th-April 8th).
Motion (SirA. Campbell)454; Renarks(Mr.
Power), (Mr. Almon), (Mr. Alexander)
454; (Mr. Kaulbach) 456; (Mr. Read),
(Mr. O'Donohoe), (Mr. Haythorne), (Mr.
Plumb), 457 ; Motion agreed to on a Div.,
458.
Adjournment suggested.
Remarks (Mr. Power). (Sir A. Campbell),
(Mr. Almon) 822.
Adjournment (May 8th-2oth).
Not. of Motion (Mr. Bellerose)851; Motion
made ,918; Remarks (Mr. Macdonald B.
C. (Mr. Wark), (Mr. Kaulback), (Sir A.
Campbell) 919; (Mr. Alexander) 920;
(Mr. O'Donohoe), (Mr. Haythorne) 921;
(Mr. Read), (Mr. Flint), 922; Carried on
a Div., 922.
Adjournment (May i1th-28th).
Not. of M. (Mr. Wark) 918; moved as an
amt. to Mr. Bellerose's M., 919; Ruled to
be out of Order, 922.
Adjournment (May 29 th-June 2nd).
Motion (Mr. Bellerose) agreed to, 1033.
Adjournment (June 2nd-oth).
Moved in amt. to Mr. Nelson's, M. and
agreed to, (Sir A. Campbell) 1039.
Adjournment (June 2nd-22nd).
M. (Mr. Nelson) 1038; Amendment (June
2nd-10th) Sir A. Campbell) 1038;

(Mr. Alexander) 1088; (Mr. Haythorne)

1089; M. agreed to, 1090.
Advances to the Provinces B. (7).-Sir
A. Campbell.
1st R.*, 564; 2nd R. m, 598; in Coni.,
615; rep. from Con. and 3rd R.,
616; assent, 814.
Alberta and Athabaska Railway Conpany's
Incorp. B. (73).-Mr. Vidal.
Ist R.*, 488; 2nd R. postponed m, 530;
2nd R. m, 612; rep. from Coin., and
concurr. in Anits., 685; 3rd R.*, 723;
assent, 1430.
Albion Mines Savings Bank B. (15).-

Mr. MKay.
1st R.*, 382; 2nd R. m, 411; rep. froni
Coin. and 3rd R., 535; assent, 814.
Agricultural Fertilizers B. (122).-Sir A.
Campbell.
1st R.*, 1051; 2nd R. m, 1084; in Com.,
rep, from Com. and 3rd R.*, 1087;
assent, 1430.
Assent to Bills.
By the Deputy-Governor 814; By the Governor-General 1430.
Banks, Acts relating to.
See British Columbia Bank.
Banque du Peuple.
Central Bank of New Brunswick.
Commercial Bank of Windsor.
Federal Bank.
Insolvent Banks.
Winnipeg Bank.
Banque du Peuple B. (5 3 ).-Mr.Paquet.
1st R.*, 429; 2nd R. m, 466; rep. from
Corn., 579; M. to refer back to Coi.
for Amt. (Mr. Bellerose) lost on a
div., 586; 3rd R.*, 587; assent, 814.
Bank of British Columbia B. (io5).-Sir
A. Campbell.
1st R.*, 1047; 2nd R. m, 1054; rep. from
Corn. and 3rd R«, 1083; assent,
1430.

11.-INDEX TO SUBJECTS.
Bank of Montreal Pension Fund Society's
Incorp. B. (49).-Mr. Ryan.
lst R.*, 429; 2nd R. n, 523; rep. from
Com. and 3rd R., 535; assent, 814,
Bank of Upper Canada, Realizing of Assets
of.
En quiry (Mr. Alexander) 35; Reimiarks
(VMr. Allan) 36; (Sir D. L. Macpherson)
39; (Mr. Plumb) 44; Reply (Sir A.
Campbell) 44.

Bank of Upper Canada Investigation into
affairs of.
M. for Coi. (Mr. Alexander) 58; Reply
(Sir A. Campbell) 61; Remarks (Ar.
Gowan) 63; (Mr. Allan) 65; (Sir D. L.
Mac.pherson) 66; (MNr. Plumb) 67; (3r.Scott) 68.
Bank of Upper Canada, Realization of
Assets of.

M. for address (Mr. Alexander) postponed,
480.
Bank of Upper Canada, the estate of.
M. for Coin. of Enquiry (Mr. Alexander)
599; Quest. of Order raised (Mr. Dickey)
599; Deb. (Mr. Alexander) 600; (Mr.

Power) 601; (Mr. Row'lan) 602; (MVr

Gowan) 602; (The Speaker) 602; Decision

reserved 602; The Speaker's Ruling 618.
Bank of Winnipeg Act Incorp. B. (02).Mr. Sutherland.
let R., 554; 2nd R. m, 598; rep. from
Coi , concurr. in Aits. and 3rd R.
m, 640; assent, 814.
Banking and Commerce Committee.
List of Members 23; 1st Rep. (Reduction
of Quorum), Mr. lumb 29.
Benson, Senator, the late.
M. to adjourn out of respeetto his memory,
(Sir A. Campbell) 350; Renarks (Mr.
Scott), (1fr. Flnt), (Mr. Plumb) 351.

BILLS •
Railways, an Act relating to.-Sir A.
Campbell.
lst R.*,5.
(A) An Act respecting real property in
the North-West 'Territories.-Sir
A. Campbell.
let R.*, 22; 2nd M.,70; Debate adjourned
79; Debate continued, 173-178; Debate adjourned (on M. of Sir D. L.
Macpherson) 178; Debate continued,

179-198; Debate adjourned, (onMi. of
Mr. Alexander) 198; Debate resuimed,
199-209; 2nd R. agreed to, 209; in
Coi., 242-256; Aint, to 12th clause
(Sir A-

Campbell),

258 ;

22nd

clause amended, 263; 32nd clause
amended, 268; 72nd clause aiended,
274; 108th clause amended, 275; in
Con. again, 352-365; 127th clause
amended, 365; in Con. agamn, 373;

1463

rep. from Com., 374; on M for Concurr. in Aits., Mr. Scott's Ait (to
strike out clause 8) rejected on division, 374; Mr. Tridel's 3 Amts. rejected, 380 ; Mr. Dickey's Ait. (to
leave out clause 91) rejected, 381 ;
Mr. Pow'erx Amt. (to leave out
clause 11), rejected, 381 ; rep. of
Com., Concurr. in, and 3rd R, 382.

(B) An Act for the relief of Charles
Smith.-Mr. Read.
1st R. and M. for 2nd R., 29; 2nd R.

on a division, 51 ; ref. to select Com.
m. carried on division, 54; lst rep.
of Com adopted (on M of Mr Gowan)
111 ; rep. agaiînst [y Com., 256; rep.
of Coms. adopted, 368; refund of fees,
m., 1275.

(C) An Act for the relief of Amanda
Esther )avis--Mr. Ogilvie,
1st R. and M. for 2nd R., 29; 2nd R.

postpoined, 56; 2nd R (on M. of Mr.
Ogilvie), 103; rof to Select Coi., m,
103 ; 1st rep. of Coi. adopted (on M.
of Mr. Dickey), 104; rep. froi Coi.,
111; rep. udopted (ou M. of Mr.

Dickey), on a division, 128; 3rd R.

(on M. of Mr. Read), 155; message
tu House of Com nons, 156.

(D) An Act for the relief of George
Louis Emil Hatzfeld.-Mr. Kaulbac/i.
lst R.*, 34; proof of service, 116; 2nd
R., 117; re-, to Select Coi., 120; let
rep. of Coin. adopted (on M. of Mr

Kaulbach), 120; petition of wife re.

ceived and ref. to Coin., 130; rep.
froin Coni. ( Mr. Kaulbach), 198 ; rep.
of Coin. adopted on a division, 276 ;
3
rd R. ou a division, 368; assent, 814.

(E) An Act for the relief of Fairy Emily
Jane Terry.--Mr. Read
lst R.*, 34; proof otservice, 110; 2nd
R. and ref to Select Coin., 111 ; lst
rep. of Coi. adopted (on M. of Mr.
Odell), 111 ; rep. from Coi. (Mr.
Odell), 238; rep. of Com. adopted,
270; 3rd R. m., 331; assent, 814.

(F) An Act further to amend an Act
intituled

"An

Act

respecting

offences against the person."-Sir
A. Campbell.
let R. and M. for 2nd R., 48; 2nd R. m.,
57; In Com, 108; 3rd R,481; assent

1430.
(G) An Act for the relief of Alice
Elvira Evans.--Mr. Gowan.
let R., 49; proof of service, 112; 2nd
R., 113; ref. to Select Coin., 114; lst
rep. of Com. adopted (on M. of Mr.
Gowan), 122; rep. fron Com. 198:
rep. of Com. adopted and M. for 3rd
R., 280; Atn. adopted, 367; 3rd R.
m., 365-368; assent, 814,

II.--INDEX

1464

(H) An Act for the relief of George
Branford Cox.-Mr. Read.
1st R. and M. for 2nid R., 106; 2nd R.
postponed, 405 ; 2nd R. further postponed, 513; proof of service, 664 ; 2nd
R. and ref. to Con. m. 665; rep. of
Coi. and 3rd R., 736; assent, 1340.
(1) An Act to amend the Act to incorporate the Sisters of Charity of the
North-West
Territories. - Mr.
Girard.
Ist R.1, 131 ; 2nd R. n., 268; rep. from
Com. and 3rd R., 407 ; assent, 814.
(T) An Act to comprise in one Act a
Limitation of the Share and Loan
Capital of the Hamilton Provident
and Loan Society.-Mr. Turner.
Ist. R.', 178; 2nd R. m., 221 ; rep. froi
Com. m. 370; 3rd R., 390; Aits. of
House of Commons concurred in, rn.,
728.

(K) An Act respecting explosive substances.-Sir A. Campbell.
18t R.». 179; 2nd R. m. 221 ; In Com.,
276; rep. from Com., 278; 3rd R., n,
280; assent, 814.

(L) An Act to make further provision
respectng summary proceedings
before justices and other magistrates.-/r.
Go-wan.
Ist R.*, 331; 2nd R. m, 390; Debate

thereon, 390-405; M. for 6 months'

hoist (Mr. O'Donohoe) lost on division, 405; In Con., 481 ; 2nd clause

amended, 481; 4th clause amended,
484 ; 6th clause amended, 487; In
Com. again, 525; 2nd clause amend-

ed, 525; rep. froni Com., 529: 3rd R.
m, 536.
(M) An Act respecting proof of entries
in books of account kept by officers
A. Camtpof the Crown. -Sir
bell.
lst R.*, 352; 2nd R. ni, 407 ; In Coi.,

rep. from Coin. and 3rd R., 412; consideration of Aits. of flouse of Commons, 1047; Anits concurred in,
1082; assent, 1430.

(N) An Act further to amend the Act
respecting Insolvent banks, insurance companies, loan companies,
building societies, and trading corporations-Mr. Scott.
Ist R.*, 429; 2nd R., 488: In Com.,
530; rep. from Coin. and 3rd R., 531.
(O) An Act further to amend the Act
for the better preservation of peace
in the vicinity of public works.Sir A. Campbell.
Ist R.*, 523; 2nd R. m., 596; In Coni.,
rep. from Com. and 3rd R., 623;
assent, 1430.

[#688$0%

TO SUJECTS.

(P) An Act to amend the Act respecting the Central Prison for the
Province of Ontario-Sir A. Campbell.
1st R.*, 523 : 2nd R. n,, 597 ; In Coni.,
rep. froni Coi.
assent, 1430.

and 3rd R., 615;

(Q) An Act to amend the Consolidated
Railway Act of 1879-Sir A.Campbell.
lst R.*, 649; 2nd R. n., 685; In Com.,
733 ; dropped, 990.

(R) An Act to make further provision
respecting
pawnbrokers. - Mr.
Gowan.

Ist

R.', 663; 2nd R. ni., 723; In Com.,

736-738; rep. from Coni. and 3rd R.
m., 738; assent, 1430.

(S) An Act to further amend the Act
respecting offences against the person.-Mr. Gowan.
lst R.', 663; 2nd R. m., 725; Amt. (3
months hoist) Mr. Almon, lost on
division, 728; In Com., 784-790;

Amt to lst clause (Mr. Gowan)
adopted, 788; Ait to 2nd clause
(Mr. Kaulbach), 788; Aimt. to Aint.
(Mr. Power) m., 789; lost and Ant.
carried, 790; rep. from Con. 790; on
Concurr. Mr. Dickey's Amt. adopted
on a division, 813; 3rd R. m, 822;
Aint. (3 months' hoist) Mr. Almon,
823; rejected on a division, 825; M.
for 3rd R. rejected on a division, 825.
(T) An Act respecting the North-West
Mounted Police Force.-Sir A.
Campbell.

Ist

R.*, 791; 2nd R.

m.,

840 ; rep. from

Coi. and 3rd R., 851; assent 1430.
(U) An Act regarding canned goodsSir A. Campbell.
Ist R.', 898; 2nd R. m. 930; In Com.,

932.937 ; rep. from Com. and Concurr. in Amits, 937 ; on M. for 3rd R.
clause 3 struck out, and clause 4
amended, 988; 3rd R. postponed, 988;
postponed again, 990 , 3rd R., 1024;
Concurr. in Ants. of' House of Conimons, 1119; assent, 1430.
(V) An Act respecting the administra

tion of justice, and other matters
in the North-West Territories.Sir A. Campbell.
ist R.', 931 ; 2nd R,

m.

942; In Com.,

1025; rep. from Coin., 1029; 3rd R.
m., 1033; Ants. of House of Coi.
mons agreed to, 1396 ; assent 1430.
(W) An Act respecting the adulteration
of food, drugs, and agricultural
fertilizers.-Sir A. Campbell.
lst R.*, 931; 2nd R, m., 944; In Con.,
1039-1044; clause 2 amended, 1039;

II.-INDEX TO SUBJECTS.

1885.]

rep. from Con., concurr. in Aints.

and 3rd R., 1044; Concurr. in Aints.
of House of Commons,1118 and 1167;
assent, 1430.

(6) An Act to further amend the Law
of Evidence in criminal courtsMr. Power.
Ist R.0, 382; 2nd R. m. 565 . Debate,
565-578; M. rejected on a division,

578;
(7) An Act respecting certain advances
to the Provinces.-SirA. Campbell.
1et R.*, 564; 2nd R. mn.,
598; In Coin.,
615; rep. from Coi. and 3rd R.,616;
assent, 814.

(8) An Act respecting the River St.
Clair Railway, Bridge and Tunnell
Co.-Mr. Plumb.
Ist R.*, 111 ; 2nd R. m. 127 ; rep from
Com. and 3rd R. m. 331 ; assent,
814.
(9) An Act respecting the Canada
Southern Railway and Erie and
Niagara Railway Co.-Afr. Plumb.
1st R.*, 130; 2nd m., 178; rep. from
Con. and 3rd R. m., 331; assent, 814.
An Act to reduce the stock of the

(10)

Federal Bank of Canada and for
other purposes-Mr A/lan.
Ist R. , 256: 2nd R. m., 268; rep from
Coi

and 3rd R., 350; assent, 814.

An Act to extend the jurisdiction
of the Maritime Court of Ontario.
-Sir A. Campbell

(i1)

1st R.*, 382; 2nd R. m. (Mr. Turner),
512; In Com., 531-535; In Coi.
aga-i, 5.54; 1st and 2nd clauses
aiended. 554; rep froni Comî. 554;

3rd R m. 564.

An Act to continue the Act re-

(15)

specting the Albion Mines Savings
Bank.-Mr. McKay.
Ist R.*, 382; 2d R. m. 411 ; rep fron
Com. and .rd R., 535; assent, 814.

An Act to modify the application
of the Consolidated Insurance Act
of 1 8 7 7 .- SirA. Campbe//.
Ist R.* 1093: 21d R m 1151: In Coni.
1177-181 ; rep fromn Con.,1181; 3rd
R. m. 1194; assen t, 1430.
(21) An Act to Provide for the Taking
of a Census in the Province of
Manitoba, the North-West Territories and the District of Keewatin.
-Sir Alexander Campbell.
(20)

1st R.', 111; 2nd R., 123; in Com.,
279; R. from Com., 280; 3rd R., m
(23)

331 ; assent, 814.
An Act to amend the Act to incorporate the Wood Mountain &
T3

1465

Qu'Appelle Railway Co.-Mr.
Plumb.
1st R.*, 302; 2nd R., m, 369 ; R. from
Com. and 3rd R., m, 465; assent,
814
(24) An Act to incorporate the Lake
Erie, Essex, and Detroit River
Railway Co.-Mr. Plumb.
1st R.*, 302; 2nd R., m, 411 ; Rep. from
Com. and 3rd R., 465; assent, 814.
(26) An Act to Provide a Deputy
Speaker of the House of Commons.
-Sir Alexander Campbell.
Ist R.', 108; 2nd R., 114; Rep. from
Coi. without amt., 116; 3rd R., 122;
assent, 814.
(28) An Act to incorporate the Dominion Drainage Company. - Mr.
Plumb.
1st R.*, 1143; 2nd R., m, 1192; Rep.
fron Coi.; Concurr in Amts. and
3rd R., m, 1193; assent 1430.
(31) An Act to amend and Consolidate
the Civil Service Acts of 1882,
1883,1884.-Sir Alexander Campbell.
1st R.*. 760; 2nd K., m 825; Debate,
825-839; ii Coin., 898; ci 3 anended, 899; Mr. Ptower's amiit to el. 8
witldrawn, 9u5; on cl 346, Mi.
Power's Anit. (names io be arranged n order of nerit) lost on a
div., 907; Rep. from Com. and Concurr in Ants , 914; 3rd R, m 92730; 3rd aint. disagreed tu in H. of C.

and receded from%, 1046; assent,
1430.
(37) An Act further to amend the Act
to incorporate the South Saskatchewan Valley Railway Co.-Mr.
Plumb.
Ist R.*, 405; 2nd R., m 411; Rep. from
Coi. and 3rd1 R., 465; assent, 814.

(38) An Act to amend the Acts relating
to the Great Western & Lake
Ontario Shore Junction Railway
Co.-Mr. McMaster.
1st R', 302; 2n1d R.. m 369 ; Rep. from
Coi and 3rd R.«, 407 ; assent, 814.
(39) An Act to incorporate the Synod
of the Diocese of Qu'Appelle and
for other purposes connected therewith.-Mr. Plumb.
1st R.*, 302; 2nd R, m 411; Rep from
Comu. and 3rd R., m 465; assent,
814
(4o) An

Act further relating to the

Central Bank of New Brunswick.
-Mr. Wark.
ist R.«, 513; 2nd R.. m 536; Rep. from

II.-INDEX

1466

TO SUBJECTS.

Com,; concurr in Amts. and 3rd R.,
m 640 ; assent, 814.
(41) An Act respecting Infectious or
Diseases Affecting
Contagious
Animals. -SirAlexander Campbell.
lst R.*, 735; 2nd R., m 790; in Com.,
839; Rep. froni Com. and 3rd R, 840;
assent, 1430.

(43) An Act to Authorize the Royal

Canadian Insurance Co. to reduce
its capital stock, and for other purposes.-i-Mr. Ryan.
1st R.*, 488; 2nd R., ni 522; Rep from
Com. and 3rd R., m 587; assent 814.
(48) An Act respecting the Annuity
and Guarantee Funds Society of
the Bank of Montreal. -Mr. Ryan.
Ist R.*, 429 ; 2nd R., m 522; Rep. from
Com. and 3rd R., 535; assent, 814.

(49) An Act to incorporate the Pension

Fund Society of the Bank of Montreal.-Mr. Ryan.
1st R.*, 429; 2nd R., m 523; Rep. froin
Com. and 3rd R., 535; assent, 814.
(50) An Act to incorporate the Fredericton & St. Mary's Railway Bridge
Co.-Mr. Wark.
lst R.*, 488; 2nd R., ni 523; Rep. froin
Com.; Concurr in Amits and 3rd R.,
m 685; assent, 814.
(51) An Act for granting certain powers
to the International Coal Co.,
(Limited).-Mr. Ogilvie.
1st R.«. 350; Placed on the Orders of
the Day, m 352; 2nd R., (on M. of Mr.
Power) 382; Rep from Com., 407;
concurr in amits. and 3rd R., 408;
assent, 814.
(52) An Act respecting the Sault Ste
Marie Bridge Co.-Mr. Power.
1st R.', 302; 2nd R., rn 368; Rep. froin
Com. and 3rd R., 407 ; assent 814.

(53) An Act respecting La Banque du
Peuple.-Mr. Paquet.

lst R.*, 429; 2nd R. m, 466: rep. from

Com., 579; M. to refer back to com.
for amit. (Mr. Bellerose) lost on a
div., 586; 3rd R*, 587; assent, 814.

(54) An Act respecting the Canada

Congregational Missionary Society.-Mr. Vidal.
1st R.*, 302; 2nd R., m, 369; rep. from
com. and 3rd R. m, 408; assent, 814.

(55) An Act

for

granting

certain

powers to the Dominion Grange
Mutual Fire Ins. Association.Mr. Plumb.
lst R.*, 650; 2nd R. n, 686; rep. from
Com., concurr. in Amits. and 3rd R.,
841 ; assent, 1430.

€&88i0q%

(59) An Act to incorporate the Brantford, Waterloo & Lake Erie Railway Company.-Mr. Plumb.
Ist R.*, 350; 2nd R. m, 382; rep. froin
Com., 408; concurr. in Amts. and
3rd R. m, 466; assent, 814.
(6o) An Act to incorporate the Synod
Lutheran
of the Evangelical
Church ofCanada.-Mr.MciClean.
let R.., 488; 2nd R. m, 530; rep. from
Coin. and 3rd R.', 705; assent, 814.
(61) An Act to further amend the Acts
incorporating the Richelieu Navigation Company, and the Richelieu
& Ontario Navigation Company.Mr. Pelletier.
1st R.', 760; 2nd R. in, 810; rep. from
Coin. and 3rd R., 841; assent, 1430.
(62) An Act to amend the Act to
incorporate the Bank of Winnipeg.-Mr. Sutherland.
Ist R.', 554; 2nd R.

m,

598; rep. froin

Coin., concurr. in Aits. and 3rd R.
ni, 640; assent, 814.
(69) An Act respecting the Huron &
Ontario Ship Canal Company.
Ist R.*, 554; placed on the ordersm (Mr.
Vidal) 596; 2nd R. (Mr. Gowan m,
613; rep. from Com., concurr. in
Ants. and 3rd R., 685; assent, 814.
(72) An Act respecting the Ontario &
Pacific Railway Company.-Mr.
Plumb.
Ist R.*, 554; 2nd R. ni, 598; rep. from
Com. and 3rd R., 684; assent, 814.
(73) An Act to incorporate the Alberta
& Athabaska Railway Company.Mr. Vidai.
1st R.*, 488; 2nd R. postponed m, 530;
2nd R. m, 612; rep. from Com. and
concurr. in Amts., 685; 3rd R.*,
723; assent, 1430.
(74) An Act respecting the Manitoba
and North-Western Railway Co.
of Canada.-Mr. Girard.
1st R., 650; 2nd R. m, 686; rep. from
Coin. and 3rd R.*, 841; assent,
1430.
(75) An Act to incorporate the Canadian Pacific Railway Employees'
Relief Association.-Mr. Scott.
lst R.*, 554; placed in the orders m (Mr.
Scott) 596; 2nd R. m, 613; rep.
from Com. and 3rd R. m, 640; assent,
814.
(76) An Act to amend the Acts respecting the London Life Insurance
Co.-Mr. Vidal.
lst R.*, 932; 2nd R. m, 988; rep. from

1885.]

II.-INDEX TOSUBJErIB.

Com. and 3rd R.*, 1012; assent,
1430.
An Act to incorporate the Hamil(77)
ton, Guelph & Buffalo Railway
Co.-Mr. Plumb.
1st R.*. 554; 2nd R. m, 612; rep. fromt
Com. and 3rd R., 684; assent, 814.
(79) An Act to incorporate the Rush
Lake & Saskatchewan Railway &
Navigation Co.-Mr. Gitard.
lst R.«, 649; 2nd R. m, 686; rep. from
Com., 816; concurr. in Amts. and
3rd R., 840; assent, 1430.
(8o) An Act to incorporate the Fort
Macleod Ranche Telegraph Co.Mr. Girard.
lst R.*, 932; 2nd R. m, 945; rep. from
Coin., concurr. in Aits. and 3rd
R., 1046; assent, 1430.
(81) An Act respecting the Canada
Co-operative Supply Association
(Limited).-Ar. Ryan.
lst R«, 429; 2nd R. in, 522; rep. from
Coin. and 3rd R. m, 599; assent, 814.
(87) An Act to amend the Act intituled
"An Act to provide for the employment without the walls of Common
Jails of Prisoners sentenced to
imprisonnient therein."-Sir A.
Campbell.
1st R.«, 898; 2nd R. m, 931; 3rd R. m,
932; assent, 1430.
(91) An Act to incorporate the Winnipeg and Prince Albert Railway
Company.-Mr. Girard.
lst R.*, 650; 2nd R., m, 728; rep. from
Com., 815; concurr. in Amts. and
3rd R., 816; assent, 1430.
(92) An Act further to amend the
Canada Temperance Act of 1878,
and the Liquor License Act of
188 3 .- Mr. Vidal.
lst R.«, 587; 2nd R., postponed, 622; 2nd
R m, 665; debate, 665-684; deb.
adj. m, 684; deb. cont'd, 687-705; M.
in Amt. (3 months' hoist) Mr.
Dickey, 696; deb. adj., 705; deb.
continued, 711-723; deb. adj., 723;
deb. concluded, 728-33; Mr Dickey's
Ant. withdrawn, 732; 2nd R., 733;
going into con. postponed, 790;
ostponed again, 813; Mr. Power's
.(three-fifths of votes polled to be
required) 852; quest. of order raised
(Mr. Vidal) 852, and Mr. Botsford,
853; Speaker rules M. out of order,
854; in Com., 855; clause 2 amended,
855; clause 3 amended, 857; on
clause 5, Mr. McMillan's Amt. (a@
to medical practitioners) aireed to,
8-9-868; further Amt. agreed to,
869-70; Mr. Almon's Amt.(permitting

1467

sale of light wines and beer) noved,
873; debate, 873-98; adopted on a
div., 898; rep from Com., 898; on
concurr. in Amts. Mr. Vidal moves
for postp nit., 914; Mr. Dicl-ey's
Ait. (that the Amts. be now
concurred in) carried on a division,
918; 3rd R. postponed, 923-27; 3rd
R. postpd again, 932; 3rd R. m, 946;
deb. 946-987; Mr. Power's Amt.
(majority of three-fifths of votes
polled instead of one-half to be
required) rejected on a div., 972;
Mr. McMillan's Amt. (as to sale by
medical practitioners) carried on a
div., 974; B. in Coin. again and
rep. (rom Coin., 975; on M. for 3rd
R. Mr. Nelson's An. to 2nd section
lost on a div., 976; Mr.Vidal's Amt.
(to strike out the clause exempting
beer, wine, &c) m, 976 ; adj. of deb.
m (Mr. Sco.t) carried on a div.,
987; deb. contd, 990-1011; Mr.
Vidal's Amt. rejected, 1011 ; M. for
3rd R. carried on a div., 1011; message fron B. olr C. as to Senate
Amts. recd., 1095; amuts. of the
Sena.e adhered to, 1153-1167.
(94) An Act to incorporate the West
O.itario Pacific Railway Conp-ny.-Mr. Pluimb.
lst R*, 711; 2nd R. n, 736; rep. from
coin., 815; coîcirr. in Amts. and
3rd R., 840; assent, 1430.
(1oi) An Act to amend the Law respecting Bridges, Booms and other
Works constructed over or in
Navigable Waters, under the
authority of Provincial Acts.-Mr.
Macfarlane.
lst R.*, 488; 2nd R. m, 536; rep. from
Coin. and 3rd R., 598; assent, 1430.
(102) An Act to amend the Acts respecting the Departmient of Secretary of State.-SirA. Campbell.
Ist R.*, 488; 2nd R m, 536; rep. from
Coin. and 3rd R., 598; assent, 1430.
(103) An Act respecting the Electoral
Franchise.-Sir Campbell.
A.
Ist R.*, 1168; 2nd R. m, 119 4-12 00 ; Amt.
(3 months' hoist) Mr. Scott, 1200-06 ;
debate, 1,206-53; adj. of deb., 1253;
deb. concluded, 1253-72; 2nd R.
carried on a div., 1272; in Com.,
1276-1287; rep. from com.- 1287;
3rd R. m, 1329; debate, I329-44;
Amt. (exem pting Prince Edward
Island) Mr. Haythorne in, 1330; lost
on a div., 1340; Amt. (extendng
manhood suffrage to all the Provinces) Mr. Scott, lost on a div.,
1341, Aint. (exempting Quebec from
piovisions of Act) Mr. Bellerose,
lost on div., 1342; Amt. (as to preparation of voters' lists); Amt. (as to

IL.-IIIXX TO SU.BJEJTS.

1468

definition of "person") Mr. Power and
Mr. DeBoucherville's Ait. thereto,
lost, &c.,1343; Ait.(inserting "unless
lie be a Christian") Mr. DeBoucherville, lost, 1343; M. for 3rd R.
carried on a div., 1344; assent, 1430.
(104) An Act to amend the Sections

of the Act therein mentioned
relating to the constitution of the
Treasury Board.--SirA. Campbell.
lst and 2nd R's, 914 ; 3rd R. m, 927 ; assent, 1430.
(1o5) An Act respecting the Bank of
British Columbia.-Sir A. Campbell.
1st R.0, 1047; 2nd R. m, 1054; rep.
fron Coin. and 3rd R.*, 1083; assent,
1430.
(io8) An Act to amend the Act 45
Vic., chap. 17, to encourage the
construction of Dry Docks -Sir
A. Campbell.
1st R.», 488; 2nd R. m, 513; in Coi., rep.
from Com., and 3rd R., 622; assent,
814.
(117)

An Act respecting the Commer-

cial Bank of Windsor.-Sir A.
Campbell.
Ist R.', 1047; 2nd R. m, 1051; rep. froi
Com. and 3rd R.*, 1083; assent,
1430.
(118) An Act further to amend the
Acts relating to Weights and
Measures.-Sir A. Campbell.
1st R.', 931; 2nd R. m, 939; in coin.,
1024; rep. from coin. and 3rd R.,
1025; assent, 1430.
(i19) An Act

further to amend the

Acts respecting the inspection of
gas and gas meters.-Sir A.
Campbell.
1st R.', 1047; 2nd R.*, 1082; in coin.,
1085; rep. fron coin. and 3rd R.,
1036; assent, 1430.
(122) An Act respecting Agricultural
Fertilizers.-Sir Campbell.
A.
let R'., 1051 ; 2nd R. m, 1084; in coin.,
rep. from coin. and 3rd R.*, 1087;
assent, 1430.

(126) An Act to provide for the fitting
representation of Canada at the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition,
to be held in London in the year
1886.-Sir
A. Campbell.
lt R.*, 1047; 2nd R. m, 1052; in coin.,
rep. fromu com. and 3rd R., 1086;
assent, 1430.
(133) An Act further to amend the

Steamboat Inspection Act,
Sir A. Campbell.

1882.-

[S688'ï0%

-1st R.*, 1047; 2nd R.', 1082; in coin.,
rep. from Com. and 3rd R.*, 1085;
assent, 1430.
(134) An Act respecting the Liquor
License Act, 1883.-Sir A. Campbell.
Ist R.*, 1122; 2nd R. in, 1171; in Coni.,
rep. fron Coin. and 3rd R.*, 1272;
assent, 1430.
(135)

An Act further to amend

the

General Inspection Act, 1874, and
the Acts amending the same.Sir A. Campbell.
1st R*, 1088; 2nd R. m, 1090; in Coi.,
1097-1108, 1119-1122; rep. from
Coi. and 3rd R., 1122: assent,
1430.
(139) An Act to amend

the Act in

relation to the Library of Parliament.- Sir A. Campbell.
1st R.*, and M. for 2nd R., 1095; 2nd R.,
1108; in Com , 1168-71 ; rep. from

com. and 3rd R.,
1430.

1171 ; assent,

(144) An Act to authorize the augmen-

tation of the North-West Mounted
Police.-SirA. Campbell.
Ist R.*, 1093; 2nd R. m, 1115; 3rd R.',
1150; assent, 1430.
(145) An Act to authorize the raising
by way of loan of certain sums of
money for the public service..Sir A. Campbell.
Ist R.*, 1048; 2nd R. m, 1048; debate,
1048-51; M. agreed to, 1051; 3rd R.
in, 1055 ; debate, 1056-1082 ; M.
agreed to, 1082; assent, 1430.
(146) An Act to amend the Consolidated Inland Revenue Act.-Sir
A. Campbell.
1st R.*, 1143; 2nd R.', 1192; in Com.,
1293; rep. froin Coin., 1294; 3id R.
in, 1305; assent, 1430.
(147) An Act to authorize the grant of
certain subsidies in land for the
construction of the railways therein
mentioned.-Sir A. Campbell.
1st R.*, 1093; M. for 2nd R., 1093; 2nd
R. m, 1150; in Com., 1175; rep.
froin Con., and 3rd R.*, 1177;
assent, 1430.
(148) An Act to amend the Acts respecting the appointment of a
Harbor Master at the port of
Halifax.-Sir A. Campbell.
lst R.*, 1093; 2nd R. m, 1108; in Com.
and rep. from Cin., 1167; 3rd R. m,
1168 ; assent, 1430.
(149) An Act for granting to Her
Majesty the sum of $1,700,ooo,

.18835.

II.-INDEX TO SUECTS.

required for defraying certain
expenses in connection with the
troubles in the North-West Territories.-Sir A. Campbe/l.
lst R.*, 1(i93; 2nd R. m, 1150; 3rd R. n,
1168; assent, 1430.
(150) An Act to authorize the advance
of a certain sum to the Harbor
Commissioners of Three Rivers.Sir A. Campbell.
lst R.*, 1122; 2nd R. ni, 1175; in Com.
and rep. froi coin., 1193; 3rd R. m,
1194; assent, 1430.
(152) An Act to amend the Consolidated Militia Act, 1883.-Sir A.

Campbell.
lst R*, 1193; 2nd R. m, 1273; 3rd R. n,
1287; assent. 1430.
(153) An Act further to amend the

Acts respecting the Canadian
Pacific Railway, and to provide
for the successful completion and
operation thereof--Mlr. Smith.
lst R.*, 153; 2nd R. m (Sir A. Campbell)
1305-1318; debate, 1318-1328; M.
agreed to, 1326; in Coi., 1344;
Ait. (terminus in British Columbia
to be at Port Moody) nt, 1345; debate
1353-69; Amt. rejected on a div.,
1369; rep, froi Com., 1369; on 3rd
R. Aint. (insertion of certain words)
Sir A. Cimpbell n, agreed to,_1369 ;
db. on 3rd R., 1370; Aint. (lien of
Govt. to apply to English Bay extension) Mr. Power m. 1379; withdrawn,
1385; Aint. (terminus to be at Port
Moody) Mr. McInnes m, 1385; lost
on a div,, 1386; Anit. (no change in
termîinusfor ten vears) m Mr McInnes,
lost on a div., 1387; Amnt. as to
harbor at English Bay) Mr. Power,
lost on a division, 1387; 3rd R. of
B., 1388; assent, 1430.

(154) An Act further to amend

the

Act relating to the culling and
measuring of timber in the Pro
vinces of Ontario and Quebec.Sir A. Campbell.
1st R.', 1193; 2nd R. m, 1294; in Coin.
and rep. froin Coin., 1326; 3rd R. n,
1388; assent, 1430.
(155) An Act for the final settlement
of claims made by the Province of
Manitoba upon the Dominion.Sir A. Campbel.
Ist R.', 1193; 2nd R. m, 1301; in Com.,
rep. froin Con. and 3rd R., 1329;
assent, 1430.
(156) An Act to restrict and regulate
Chinese immigration into Canada.-SirA. Campbell.

1469

Ist R, 1193; 2nd R.m, and ref. to Corn.,
1295 ; deb. 1295-1300 ; in Com.,
1326 ; Mr. Almon's Amt withdrawn,
1327; Coi adjd, 1329; 3rd R.',
1410; assent, 1430.
(157)

An Act to amend the several

Acts relating to Duties of Customs
and Excise.-Sir A. Campbell.
Ist R.', 1397; suspension of 41st rule and
2nd and 3rd R's, 1414; assent, 1430.
(158) An Act to authorize the granting
of further subsidies to, and making
further provision for, the construction and efficient operation of the
railways therein described.-Sir
A. Ca;mpbell.
Ist R.*, 1369; 2nd R. m, 1398; debate,
1398-1410; 2nd R., on a div., 1410;
in Coin., 1415; Amt. to 1st clause
(Mr. Trudel) lost on a div., 1415;
Amt. to saine clause (Mr. Bellerose)
do.dri; Amt.to same cl.(Mr.Power)
do. do ; Bill rep. froni Com., 1417;
3rd R. m, 1417; Ant. as to route of
Short Line) Mr. Power, 1417; ruled
ont of order, 1418; Amt. (as to
clause 1) Mr. Trudel m, 1418; ruled
out of order, 1419; Ant. (as to 1st
section), Mr. Belterose m, 1419 ; ruled
out of order, 1420; Ant. (as to Short
Line) Mr. Power m, 1420; ruled
out of order, 1421; 3rd R. carried,
1421 ; assent, 1430.
(159) An Act for facilitating the navigation of the St. Lawrence River
in and near the harborof Quebec.Sir A. Campbell.
Ist R.*, suspension of 41st rule, and 2nd
and 3rd R's, 1429; assent, 1430.
(16o) An Act to authorize grants of
land to members of the Militia
Force lately on active service in
the North-West.-Sir A. Campbell.
lst and 2nd R's 1425; 3rd R., 1429;
assent, 1430.
(161) An Act to amend the Act 46
VTic., chap. 9, intituled, "An Act to
provide for the salaries and superannuationand travelling allowances
of certain Judges of certain provincial courts.-Sir A. Campbell.
lst R', 1397; suspension of 41st rule and
2nd and 3rd R's, 1414; assent, 1430.
(162) An Act to provide a salary for an
additional County Court Judge in
the Province of Manitoba.-Sir
A. Campbell.
1st R.0, suspension of 41st rule, and 2nd
and 3rd R's, 1429; assent, 1430.
(163) An Act for granting to Her
Majesty certain sums of money

II.-INDEX TO SUBJrs.
for defra ing certain expenses of
the Public Service, for the financial years ending respectively the
the 3oth
3 oth June, 1885 and
June, 1886, and for other purposes
relating to the public service.Sir A. Campbell.
lst R.* ; suspension of 41st rule m, and
2nd and 3rd R's, 1413; assent, 1430.
(164) An Act to authorize the granting
of the subsidies therein mentioned
in aid of the construction of certain railways.-Sir A. Campbel.
lst R.*, 1422; 2nd R., under suspension
of rule, 1422; 3rd R. m, 1424; assent,
1430.
(165) An Act to continue for a limited
time the Act therein mentioned.Sir A. Campbell.
1st R.*, 1412; suspension of 41st rule and
2nd and 3rd R's. 1413; assent, 1430.
Boot and Shoe Industry condition of.
See Mr. Macdonald's remarks, 136.
Brantford, Waterloo, and Lake Erie Railway Co's. B. (59).
lst R.*, 350; 2nd R. in, 382 ; rep. frorn
Corn., 408; concur in Ants. and 3rd
R. m, 466; assent, 814.
Bridge, Boom, &c. Construction Act Amt.
B. (ior)-Mr.Macfarlane.
1st R.*, 488; 2nd R. m, 536; rep. from
Com. and 3rd R., 598 ; absent, 1430.
British Columbia, Timber Regulations in.
Motion !or return; Mr. McInnes and
reply, (Sir A. Campbell) 1369.
British Columbia, White Population in.
See " White Population."
British Medical Acts, Correspondence
relating to.
M. for return agreed to, (Mr. Sullivan)
47.
Building Societies.
See " Insolvent Corporations Bill."
Business, Relative State of, in the Senate
and House of Commons, since Confederation.
See Sir A. Campbell's remarke, 653.
Canada, Perilous Position of.
In Debate on the Address (Mr. Alexander, 10.
Canada, Representition of, at Colonial
Exhibition.
See " Colonial and Indian Exhibition
Bill."
Canada and France, Steam Communication between, Inauguration of.
Inquiry (Mr., Pelletier), reply (Sir A.
Campbel), 664.

(&ss8ion

Canada, Increase of Indebtedness.
See Mr Sc it's rernarks on Public Loan
B., 1056, and also Mr. Power's, 1069.
Canada Congregational Missionary Society's B. (54)-Mr. Vidal.
Ist R.*, 302 ; 2nd R. m, 369 ; rep. from
Con. and 3rd R. m, 408; assent, 814.
Canada Co-operative Supply Association
B. (81)-Mr.Ryan.
1st R.«, 429; 2nd R. m, 522; rep. from
Corn. and 3rd R. in, 599; assent. 814.
Canada Southern & Erie & Niagara Railway Co's. B. (9 ).-Mr.Plumb.
1st R.*, 130; 2nd R. n, 178; rep. from
Com. and 3rd R. m, 331; assent, 814.
Canada Temperance Act, Exemption of
Wine and Beer from, &c.
Petition presented (Mr. Smith) (937).
Canada Temperance Act, Petitions concerning.
Declaration as to genuineness of signatures, presented (Mr. Scott), 988;
renarks (Mr. McMillan), 989; explanation (Mr. McMillan), 1036.
Canada Temperance Act, Petition of
Presbyterian Church in reference to
Amts. H. of C.
Presented (Mr. Vidal), 1122
Canada Temperance Act and Liquor
License Act Amt. B. (92).-Mr.
Vidal.
lst R.*, 587; 2nd R., postponed, 622; 2id
R. m, 665; debate, 665-684; deb adj.
m. 684; deb. cont'd, 687-705 ; M. in
Armt. (3 months' hoist) Mr. Dickey
696; deb. adj., 705; deb. continued,
711-723; deb. adj., 723 ; deb. concluded, 728-33; Mr. Dickey's Arnt. withdrawn, 732; 2nd R., 733; going into
corn. postponed, 790; postponed
again, 813; Mr. Power's M. (threefifths of votes polled to be required)
852; quest. of order raised (Mr.
Vidal) 852, and Mr. Botsford, 853;

Speaker rules M. out of order, 854;
in Con.,855;clause 2 anended,855;
clause 3 anended, 857, on clause 5,
Mr. McMillan's Amt. (as to medical
practitioners) agreed to, 859.868;
further Amt., 869-70; Mr. Alnon's
Ant. (pernitting sale of light
wines and beer) rnoved, 873 ;
debate, 873·98; adopted on a div.,
898; rep. trom) Com., 898; on concur
in Amts., Mr. Vidal inoves for postponernent, 914; Mr. Dickey's arnt.
(that the Aints. be now concurred

in) carried on a div., 918; 3rd R.
postponed, 923-27 ; 3rd R. postponed
again, 93z; 3rd R. m, 946; deb. 946987; Mr. Power's Amt. (majority of
three-fifths of votes polled instead of
one-half to be required) rejected on a
div., 972; Mr. MOMillan's Ant. (as

1885.]

II.-INDEX

To SUJLkECTS.

1471

Remarks (Mr. Dickey), 371; (Mr.
to sale by medical practitioners) carHaythorne). 372; agreed to (Sir A.
ried on a div., 974; B. in Com.
Campbell), 373.
again and rep. from Com., 975 ; on M.
for 3rd R. Mr. Nelson's Aimt. to 2nd
section Jost on a div., 976; Mr.
systems.
Vidal's Amt. (to strike out the clause
See Debate on the 2nd R. of the Maniexempting beer, win(, &c.) i, 976;
toba Censug Bil," 123, te,
adj. of deb. m (Mr. Scott) carried on
a div., 9s7; deb. cont'd, 9A0-1011;
Central Bank of New Brunswick B., (40).
Mr. Vidai's Amt. rejected, 1011
-3fr. Tark.
for 3rd R. carried on a div., 1011;
messge from H. of C. as to Senate
18t R', 513 2nd R. m, 536; rep. from
Coi.; concur in Amts. and 3rd R.,
Amts. reed., 1095; Aints. of the
m, 640; assent, 814.
Senate adhered to, 1153e1167.
(Yinadian Pacific Railway-Construeîion Chapais-the late Senator.
Tributes ot Respect to; (Sir A. Campof.
1389;
S'cott), (Mr.
C
bell) (Mr.)del),
In debate on the address- (AMr. Alex.
(Mir. F4lint), 13190.
ander), 12.
Canadian Pacifie Rail way- -Western T'er- Chinese--he Exclusion of, from other
Provinces than British Columbia.
minus of, in British Columbia.
See Debate on 2nd R. of Chinese mmiM. for Ret. (Mr. Acnnes), 1123-37;
gration B., 1295.
Renarkos (bar. Kaulbach), 1137; (Cer
inA. CJampbell), 1137-40; (Mr. Powe1). Chinese Commission-expenditure
curred in connection with.
acIl40; (Mr. .Mcnnes), 1141; Mr. M
for Retrn (tr. Poer),459; agreed
,M.
mton a
nat a
460.
to
R
Canadian Pacifie Railway Empoyees e- Campheal), (Sir A.
lief Association B., (75.-MAr. &Ott. Chinese Immigration, Restriction and
Regulation B., (i56.-SirA. CampIs R.*, 554; placed in the orders m (Mr.
bell)
Scott) 596; 2n R. m, 613; rep. from
lst R.. 1193; 2nd R. m, and ref. to Com.,
Coi. and 3rd . m, 640 ; assent, 814.
1295-1300; i Coin. 1326;
C eeb.1295;
Canadian Railway Completion B., (5).
Alinon's Anit. vithdrawn, 1327;
-Si A. Ca ri bei Cfr.
o2
Co;S. adjd., 1329; rd R.', 1410;
Re
Mst , '53; 2nd a.n (Sir A. Campbell)
.
assent, 1430.
135-1318; debate, 1318-1328; M.
4
agreed p, 1326 in Coi., 1344; Amt. Chinese Immigration Restriction Bill.
(terminus in British Columbia to be
Explanation ini ruference to 3rd R.
(Mr.Ainon), 1411.
a Port MooIy) m, 1345; debate,
M
Amt.
1 ad53.69; rejacted on a div.
1i69; rep. fron Coin., 169; on :rd Chinese Question, Commission of Inquiry
B
into
sR. Aint. (insertion of certain words
In debate on the Addresr. (or. Mac(Sr A. Camp bell) m, agreed to, 1.69;
donald, B. C. 6; (anr. Sufvan) 8;
deb. n 3rd R., 1370; Anit. (lien of
cott) 16;
(9r.
Govi. to app y to Enlish Bay exen-.
S1 i) Ar. Poerll, 1379; withravn, Civil Service Acos Amendinent and Con13R,; Ant. (termins to be at l'rC
solidation B.: (31)-SiA. Camne1i.
Moody) Mr. Mnnes m, 1385; ost
on a div., 1386; Aint. (no chan in Ci nst R , 760; 2nd R. m, 825; deb. 825ec. 3 a ended,
839; in Coin., 898;
terminus tor ten years) m bir. ML.
899; Air. Power's Anit. to ci. 8 withnes, Iost on a div., 1387; A nit. (as to
drawn, 905; on . 346, Mr. Powers
harhor at Engish Bay) ir. Po er,
At. (u aies to be arranged in order
los on a div., 1387; 3rd R. of B
on a iv. 907; rep.
oost
1388; assent, 1430. ;f Amitit)
fromCoin. and concur in acots.) 914;
Canadian Pacifie Railwa -ndebtedneof.
to in l. of C. and receded from, 1046;
See Sir A. Campbell's Remarks (1207>.
assent, 1430.
Canned Goods B., (U.).-Sr A. Camlp- Civil Service Examination Board, cost of.
bel/.
See Debate on " Civil Service Act
lst R.*, 931 ; 2nd R, m. 942; In Coin,,
Amts. B."
1025; rep. from Con., 1029; 3rd R. Civil Service Examinations, and Members
m., 1033; Ants. of House of Comof the Royal Society.
mons agreed to, 1396; assent 1430.
Inquiry (Mr. Trudel) 408 ; reply (Sir
Cape Traverse Brandi Railway-Cost of
A. Campbell) 409; further remarks
Construction, &c.
(Sir A. Campbell) 428; (Mr. Trudel>
429.
M. for Return (Mr. Botsford), 370 ;

1472

I.-INmaX TO SUBJETS.

[se688iOn

31; M. for dispensing with 72nd Rule,
Clothing Industry, condition of.
Mr. Ogi/vie, postponei 34; Petition
See Mr. Macdonald's remarks, 138.
referred back to Com. 49.
Coal Product of Canada.
County Court Judge in Manitoba B. (162)
See Mr. Read's remarks, 468
-Sir A. Campbell.
Colonial and Indian Exhibition B. (126)
lst R.', Suspension of 41st Rule, and
Sir A. Camp5bel/.
2nd and 3rd R's., 1429; assent, 1430.
lst R.*, 1047; 2nd R. n, 1052 ; in Com.,
and 3rd R., 1086; Cox Divorce Bill. (H)-Ar. Read.
rep. fron Coin.
lst R. and M. for 2nd R., 106; 2nd R.
assent, 1430.
postponed, 405; 2nd R. further postCommercial Bank of Windsor B. (117)poned, 513; proof of service, 664; 2nd
Sir A. Campbell.
R.and ref. to Coin. m. 665; rep. of
let R.*, 1047; 2nd R. m, 1051 ; rep. from
Com. and 3rd R., 736; assent, 1430.
Com. and 3rd R.«, 1083; assent, Criminal Cases, Law of Evidence in.
1430.
See " Evidence in Criminal Cases."
Commercial Condition of Canada.
Crossing from Prince Edward Island to
See " Industries and Manufactures."
Mainland, Perils of.
Committees, Sessional.
See Debate on Mr. Haythorne's Inquiry
Library; Printing; Banking and Com.
in reference to " Northern Light."
merce; Railways, Telegraphs & Har- Customs
and Excise Acts Amt. B. (157)
bors; Contingent Accounts; Stand-Sir A. Campbell.
ing Orders and Private Bills; Senate
lst R.', 1397; Suspension of 41st Rule,
Debates; appointment of ; m (Sir D L
and 2nd and 3rd R's., 1414; assent,
Macpherson) 23.
1430.
Competitive Examinations in the Civil
Davis Divorce Case.
Service.
Petition of Ainanda E. Davis, read and
See Debate on " Civil Service Acts
received m, (Mr. Ogilvie), 26.
Consolidation B."
Davis Divorce Bill (C)-Mr. Ogilvie.
Confectionery Manufactures ccndition of.
1st R. and M for 2nd R., 29; 2nd R
See Mr. Macdonald's remarks, 136.
postponed, 56; 2n d R (on M. of Mr.
Ogi/vie), 103; ref. to Select Coni. m,
Consolidated Inland Revenue Act Amt
103; 1st rep. of Comn. adopted (on M.
B. ( 146)-Sir A. Campbell.
ol Mr. Dickey), 104; rep. trom Coni.,
1st R.', 1143; 2n1d R.*, 1192; In Com,
111 ; rep. adopted (on M. of Mr.
1293, Rep. from Coi., 1294 ; 3rd R
Dickei), on a division, 128; 3rd R.
m, 1305; assent, 1430.
(on M1.of Mr. Read), 155; message
Consolidated Insurance Act of 1877
to House of Cominions, 156.
Modifying B. (2o)-Sir A. Campbell. Debates of the Senate, Extension of Cirlst R.*, 1093; 2nd R. in, 1151 ; In Coi.
culation of.
1177-1181 ; Rep. from Coi., 1181
Remarks (Mr. Alexander) 24; (Mr.
3rd R. m, 1194; assent, 1430.
Power), 25.
Consolidated Militia Act 1883 Amt. B. Debates, Report of, Expunging
of Speeches
(15 2)-Sir A. Campbell.
from.
lst R.'. 1193; 2nd R. m, 1273; 3rd R.
See uinder " Privilege"
in, 1287 ; assent, 1430.
Deputy Speaker of the House of Commons
Consolidated Railway Act 1879 Amt. B.
B. ( 26> -Sir A. Campbell.
(Q)-SirA. Campbell.
lst R.», 108; 2nd R., 114; Rep. from
lst R.*, 649; 2nd R. m., 685; In Com.,
Com. without amt., 116; 3rd R.,122;
733; dropped, 990.
assent, 814

Consolidation of Dominion Statutes.
Dewdney, Lieut.-Governor, Letters from
See " Dominion Statutes."
and to, as to North-West Troubles.
Contingent Accounts Committee.
Motion for Return (Mr. Triviel), 644.
List of members 23; let Rep. (Reduction of quorum) Mr. Bowlan, 29; Disputed Territory Justice Administration
B. (165)-Sir A. Campbell.
2nd Rep. (Various matters) 1413.
lst R.*, 1412; Suspension of 41st Rule,
Cotton Manufacture, Development of.
and 2nd and 3rd R's., 1413; assent,
See Debate on the ' 'Industries and
1430.
Manufactures of Canada."
Divisions:
Cox. Divorce Case.
Canada Temperance Act Aint. B.
Petition of George B. Cox, presented
On 3rd R.; Mr. Power's Amt. (majorand reception postponed, 25; Petition
ity of three-fifths of votes polled inread and received on M. of Mr. Ogilvie

1885.]

II.-INDEX TO SUECTS.

stead of one-half tobe required)rejected on a division; C. 23,"N.-C. 25, 972.
Canada Temperance Act Amt. B.
On 3rd R.; Mr. McMillan's amt. (as to
sale of liquors by medical practitioners) carried on a div.; C. 23, N.-C.
21, 974
Canada Temperance Act Amt. B.
On 3rd R.; M. to adj. deb. on Mr.
Vidal's Anit. ; carried on a div ; C.
26, N.-C. 22, 988.
Canada Temperance Act Amt. B.
3rd R. of B. carried on a div.; C. 33,
N.-C. 19, 1011.
Canada Temperance Act Amt. B.
On M. for 3rd R.; Mr. Vidal's amt. (to
strike out Clause exemptng beer,
wine, &c.) rejected on a div.; C. 20,
N.-C. 31, 1011.
Canada Temperance Act Amt. B.,
Senate Amts. adhered to.
6th amt. (sale of liquor by physicians)
adhered to on a div; C. 30, N.-C. 13,
1159.
Canada Temperance Act Anit. B.
10th amt. of Senate adhered to on a
div ; C. 30, N.-C. 13, 1160.
Canada Temperance Act Amt. B.
Ilth amt. (perniitting sale of winîe,
beer, &c.) adhered to on a div.; C.
30, N-C. 15, 1167; 12th am t.- the
same-1167.
Canada Temperance Act Amt. B.
In Coin.: Mr. McMillan's amt. to clause
5 (as to sale of liquor by medical
practitioners) adopted on a division;
C. 35, N-C. 16.
Canada Temperance Act Amt. B.
On Concurr in Amts. and Mr. Vidal's
M. for postpnt.; Mr. Dickey's amt.
(that the amts. be now concurred.in)
carried on a division ; C. 38, N-C.
22, 918.
Canadian Pacific Railway Completion
B.
In Com.: Mr. McInnes' amt. (Pacifie
.terminus to be at Port Moody) lost
on a div.; C.12, N-C. 28, 1369.
Canadian Pacific Railway Coin pletion B.
On 3rd R.; Mr. McInnes'amt.(terminus to be at Port Moody) lost on a div.
C. 12, N-C. 27, 1386.
Canadian PacificRailway CompletionB.
On 3rd R.; Mr. McInnes's amt. (no
change in Pacific terminus for ten
years) lost on a div.; C. 12, N-C. 27,
1387.
Divorce Cases-Every motion to be entered as agreed to upon a Division.
See the different cases.

Us

1473

Electoral Franchise B., (103)
On M. for 2nd R. ; Mr. Scott's amt. (3
months' hoist) lost on a div; C. 17,
N-C. 33, 1272.
Electoral Franchise Bill.
On 3rd R.; Mr. Scott's amt. (extending
manhood suffrage to ail the Provinces) lost on a div; C. 12, N-C. 31,
1341.
Electoral Franchise B.
On 3rd R; Mr. Haythorne's amt. (exenpting Prince Edward Island) lost
on a div.; C. 15, N-C. 29, 1341.
Electoral Franchise B.
On 3rd R.; Mr. Bellerose's amt. (ex.
enipting Quebec from provisions of
the Act) lost on a div.; C. 16, N-C.
29, 1342.
Electoral Franchise B.
On 3rd R.; Mr. Bellerose's Amt. (as to
preparation of voters' lists) lost on a
div.; C. 16, N-C. 29, 1342.
Electoral Franchise B.
On 3rd R ; Mr. DeBouchereille'.q aimt.
to Mr. Power's amt. (as to definition
of " person ") lost on a div. ; C. 8,
N-C. 29. 1343.
Electoral Franchise B.
On 3rd R.; Mr. Power's amt, (as to
definition of " person ") lost on a
div.; C. 13, N-C. 31, 1343.
Electoral Franchise B.
On 3rd R.; Mr. DeBoucherville's ant.
(insertion of words, " unless he he a
Christian,") lost on div. ; C. 21, N-C.
25, 1343.
Evans Divorce B., (G).
On M. for 3rd R. ; Mr. Vidal's amt.
(that the 3rd clause be struck out)
adopted; C. 19, N-C. 13 367
M. for adjourrnment (May 8-2o).-Mr.
Bellerose.
Carried on div.; C. 46, N-C. 12, 922.
Mr. Alexander's M for a Com. to inquireinto the affairs of the Bank of
pper Canada rejected on a div; C.
1, N.C. 49, 70
Offences against the Person B., (S).
On M. to Concur in Ant ; Mr. Dickey's
aint. (as to evidence of Wite adopted)
on a div.; C. 21, N.C. 12, 813.
Offences against the Person B., (S).
On M. for 3rd R.; Mr. Almon's amnt. (3
months' boist) rejected; C. 23, N-C.
23; M. for 3rd R. lost on div.; C. 23,
N-C. 24, 825.
On Mr. Alexander's M. for a Com. to investigate the affairs of the Bank of
Upper Canada.
C. 1, N-C. 49; 70.

IL-INDEX TO SUBJECs.

Portrait of Sir D. L. Macpherson,
Removal of.
Mr. Alexander's M. rejected; (C., 1;
N.-C., 52), 47.
Real Property in North-West Territories B. (A).
On M. to Concur in aits.; Mr. Scott's
M. to refer B. back to Com. to strike
out Soc. 8 rejected; C. 18; N-C. 36,
379.
Divorce Cases, exclusion of persons from
the Committec Room.
Renarks i Plumb), 156.
Mr.
Divorce Cases, printing of evidence taken

in.

Motion (Sir A. Campbell), 322; remarks

(Mr.

Odell),

323;

(The

Speaker), 324; (Mr. Gowan), (Mr.
Power), 324; (Mr. Almon), (Mr.
Plumb), 325; (Mr. Read); 326; (Mr.
O'Donohoe), 327: (Mr. Bellerose),
(Mr. Kaulbach), (Mr. Dever), 328;
(Mr. Gowan), (Mr. Alexander), 329;
(Mr. Flint), (Mr. Power), 330.

Divorce Cases,
adopted.

procedure

in, change

Renarks (The Speaker), (Mr. Dickey),

[&ssion

Dry Dock Construction Act, Amt. B.
(io8).-Sir A. Campbell.
lst R.*, 488 ; 2nd R. m, 513; in Com.
rep. from Com, and 3rd R , 622;
assent, 814.
Dynamite, precautions against illegal uses
of.
See " Explosive Substances Bill."
Education, superintendents of, in the
North-West.
Inquiry (Mr. Schultz), reply (Sir À.
Campbell), 199.
Electoral Franchise B. (1o3).-Sir A.
Campbell.

1st R., 1168; 2nd R. m, 1194-1200; Amt.
(3 mon ths' hoist) Mr. Scott, 1200.06;
lebate, 1206-53; adj. of deb. 1253;
deb. concluded, 1253-72; 2nd R.
carried on a div., 1272; in Com.,
1276-1287; rep from Com., 1287;
3rd R. m, 1329; debate, 1329-44;
Aint. (exempting Prince Edward
Islond) Mr. Havthorne m, 1330; lost
on a div., 1340; Anit. (extending
nianhood suffrage to all the Provinces) Mr. Scott, lost on a div.,
1341, Amt. (exempting Quebec from
provisions of Act) Mr. Bellerose, lost
on div., 1342; Ant. (as to preparaLion of voters' lists) ; Ant. (as to
definition of "person") Mr. Power
and Mr. DeBoucherville's Amut.
thereto, lost, &c., 1343;
Amt.

109 ; (Sir A. Campbell), 110.
Divorce Cases, proof of service of petition,
importance of.
In debate on "Hatzfeld Divorce Bill".
32-34.
(inserting "unless lie be a Christian")
Divorce Committees, distribution of eviMr. DeBoucherville, lost, 1343; M.
dence taken before.
for 3rd R. carried on a div., 1344;
Remarks (Mr. Power), 121 : (Mr Kaulassent, 1430.
bach) Mr. (Turner). (Mr. Gowan), Electoral Franchise. uniformity in.
(Sir A. Camp bell), (Mr. Dickey),121;
In debate on the address (Mr. Scott),
(Mir. Plumb), 122.
15.

Divorce.
See "Cox Divorce Case and Bill," England, commercial condition of.
See Mr. Haythorne's remarks, 228 et
"Davis Divorce Case and Bill,"
seq.
"Smith Divorce Case and Bill,
English Bay, Extension of Canadian
"Evans Divorce Case and Bill,
"Terry Divorce Case and Bill,"
Pacific Railway to.
Hatzfeld Divorce Case and Bill,"
See " Canadian Pacifie Railway."
Dominion Drainage Co's. Incorp. B (28). Evangelical Lutheran Church Synod
Incorp. B. (6o)-Mr. McClelan.
-Mr. Plumb.
Ist R.*, 488; 2nd R. m, 530; rep. from
1st R.*, 1143; 2nd R. w, 1192; rep.
Con. and 3rd R.*, 705; assent, 814.
from Com.; concurr. in Anmts. and
3rd R. m, 1193; assent, 1430.
Evans Divorce Case.
Petition presented, read. and received,
Dominion Grange Mutual Fire Insurance
on M. of Mr. Gowan, 29
Assn. B. (55).
Evans Divorce Bill (G)-Mr. Gowan.
1st R.*, 650; 2nd R. m, 686; rep. fron
1st R., 49; proof of service, 112; 2nd
Coin.. concurr. in Anits. and 3rd R.,
R., 113; ref. to Select Con., 114; 1st
841 ; assent, 1430.
rep. of Coi. adopted (on M. of Mr.
Dominion Statutes, Consolidation of; ReGowan), 122; rep from Com. 198:
rep. of Coin. adopted and M for 3rd
ference of Report to Com.
R., 2WO; Amt. adopted, 367; 3rd R.
M. (Sir A Campbell) postponed, 80;
m., 365-368; assen t, 814.
brought forward and discussed (Sir
A. Campbell), 302 , (Mr. Alexander), Evidence in Criminal Cases Act Amt. B.
321 ; (.ir. Wark), 322.
(6)-Mr.Power.

1885.]

II.-INDEX

TO S

ECTS.

7
14759

lst R.*, 382; 2nd R. m, 565; debate, 565- Free-Trade and Protection, relative merits
578; M. rejected on a division, 578.
of.
See debate on the "Industries and
Evidence in Divorce Cases, Printing of
Manufactures of Canada."
Evidence taken in.
Frog Lake Massacre, announcement of.
Bee " Divorce Cases."
Sir A. Campbell, 513
Exclusion of Persons from the Senate
Furniture manufacture, condition of.
Corridors.
See Mr.Macdonald's remarks, 133.
Remarks (Mr. Alexander), (Mr.
Gas and Gas Meters, inspection Act Amt.
Dickey), (The Speaker), 105.
B. (119).-Sir A. Campbell.
Expenditure by Government, Increase in.
1st R.*, 1042; 2nd R.*, 1082; in Com.,
See Debate on 3rd R. of Public Loan B.
1085; rep. from Com. and 3rd R..
1061 &c.
1086; assent, 1430.
Explosive Substances B. (K)-Sir A. General Inspection Act 1874, Amt. B.
Campbell.
(135).-Sir A. Campbell.
1st R.«. 1088; 2nd R. m, 1090; in Com.,
Ist R.*. 179; 2nd R. m. 221 ; In Com.,
1097-1108, 1119 1112; rep. from Com.
276; rep. fromi Com., 278; 3rd R., ut,
and 3rd R., 1122; assent, 1430.
280; assent, 814.
Federal Bank of Canada Bill (io)-Mr. General Miscellaneous Industries, condition of.
Allan.
See Mr. Macdonald'sremarks, 139.
lst R.«, 256; 2nd R. m, 268; rep. from
Com. and 3rd R., 350; assent 814.
Globe correspondent and the Senate.
Inquiry (Mr. Alexander), 458; reply
Financial Status of the Dominion.
(Sir A. Campbell), 459.
In Debate on the Address, (Mr. Macdonald B. C.) 6 ; (Mr. Sullivan) 9.
Globe of Toronto, editorial in, reflectFiscal Policy of the Dominion.
ing upon the Senate.
In Debate on the Address, Mr. MacReferred to by Mr. Plumb and others,
donald (B. C.) 5; (Mr. Sulliîan) 9;
326.
(Mr. Scott) 14; (Mr. Haythorne) 20; Grand Trunk Railway, injustice done to,
Fishery Clauses of Washington Treaty.
by the Government.
In Debate on the Address, (Mr. Scott)
In debate on the address (Mr. A lexan17; (Mr. Haythorne), 21.
der), 11.
Fisheries of Canada, Value and Importance Great Western and Lake Ontario Shore
of.
Junction Railway Co's Acts Amt. B.
See Mr. Bowlan's renarks 1100.
(38).--Mr. McMaster.
Food, Drugs, and Agricultural Fertilizers
lst R., 302; 2nd R m, 369; rep. from
Coi. and 3rd R.*, 407 ; assent, 814.
Adulteration B. (W)-Sir A. CampbeIl.
Greater Canada, representation of, in the
Ist R.*, 931; 2nd R m, 944; in Com.,
Dominion Cabinet.
1039-1044; clause 2 amended, 1 39;
Inquiry (Mr. Schultz), 157; reply (Sir
rep. from Coi., concurr. in Aints
A. Campbell), 158.
and 3rd R.. 1044; conicurr. in Aints. Half-Breed claims in
the North-West, inof House of Commons, 1118-1167;
structions to commissioners, etc.
assent, 1430.
M. for return (Mr. Alexander), 523;
Fort MacLeod Ranch Telegraph Co's Inreply (Sir D. Macpherson), 525.
cor. B. (8o).-Mr. Girard.
lst 'R.*, 932; 2nd R. m, 945; rep. from Half-Breed troubles in North-West.
See "North-West."
Con., concurr. in Amits, and 3rd
R ,1u46; assent, 1430.
Halifax Harbor Masters Act Amt. B. (148)
Foundry Business, condition of.
-Sir A. CamPbell.
1st R.*, 1093; 2nd R. m,1108; in Com.
See Mr. Macdonald'sremarks, 133.
and rep. tron Coi., 117; 3rd R. m,
France and Canada, steam communication
1168; assent, 1430.
between.
Halifax Liquor Dealers Petition.
See Canada.
Read at length on M. ot Mr. Almon, 616.
Fredericton and St. Mary's Railway
Halifax Volunteers, Treatment of.
Bridge Co's Incorp. B. (5o)-Mr.
Remark s (Mir. Power), (Mr. Koulbach)
Wark.
535; (Mr. Ogilvie),,(irÀ. camphell)
lst R «, 488; 2nd R m, 523; rep. from
536 and 562; (Mr. Kaulbach), (Mr.
Con.; Concurr. in A ins. and 3rd R.
Dickey) 562: (Mr. Read) 563; Exm, 685; assent, 814.
planation (Air. Power) 603.

1476

IL.-INDEX TO SUBJECTS.

Hamilton, Guelph, and Buffalo Railway
Co's. Incprp. B. (7 7)-Mr-. Plumb.
lst R.», 554; 2nd R. m, 612; rep. from
Com. and 3rd R., 684; assent, 814.
Hamilton Provident and Loan Society's
Capital Limitation B. (J)-Mr.
Turner.
let R.*, 178; 2nd R. m., 221 ; rep. from
Com. m., 370; 3rd R., 390 ; Aints. of
House of Commons concurred in, m,
728.
Hatzfeld Divorce Case.
Petition of George L. E. Hatzfeld read
and received, on M. of Mr. Kaulbach
32.
Hatzfeld Divorce Bill (D)-Mr.Kaulbach.
lot R.', 34; proof of service, 116; 2nd
R., 117; ref. to Select Com., 120; lst
rep. of Com. adopted (on M. of Mr.
Kaulbach), 120 ; petition of wife received and ref. to Com., 130; rep.
from Com.(Mr. Kaulbach), 198; rep.
of Coni. adopted on a division, 276;
3rd R. on a division, 368; assent, 814.
House of Commons and Senate, Relations
between in reference to Business.
See " Senate."
Hudson's Bay, Exports from.
Inquiry (Dr. Schultz) 199; reply (Sir
A. Campbell) 199.
Hudson's Bay, Navigation of.
In Debate on the Address, (Mr.
Sullivan) 8; (Mr. Scott) 17; (Mr.
Girard) 19.
Huron and Ontario Ship Canal Company.
Suspension of 51st Rule in relation to
Petition recommended 157.
Huron and Ontario Ship Canal Company
(69)-Mr. Vidal.
lst R.«, 554; placed on the Orders, m,
(Mr. Vidal), 596 ; 2nd R. (Mr Gowan

m, 613; rep. from Coin., concurr. in
amts. and 3rd R., 685; assent, 814.
Hydrographic Surveys in the North-West.
See "N orth-West."
Imperial Federation.
In Debate on the Address, (Mr. Macdonald B. C.) 6.
Implement Manufacture, Condition of.
See Mr. Macdonald's remarks, 134.
Indebtedness of the Dominion, Increase in.
See Mr. Scott's remarks, 1056.
Indians in the North-West, expenditure
upon.
See Mr. Read's remarks, 791, &c.
Indians in the Provinces, extension of the
Franchise to.
See "Electoral Franchise Bill."
Indians in the North-West, food supplied
to.
See Mr. Read's remarks, 794.

6&88i0%

Indians in the North-West, treaties with.
Inquiry (Mr. Read), 791-797; remarks
(Ar. Ogilvie), 797-798; (Mr. Flint),
798; (Mr. Bellerose), 801; (Mr.
Power), 802; reply (.Sir A. Campbell)
806; (Mr. Alexander), 809.
Indians of the Canadian North-West, information concerning.
M. for return (Mr. Schultz), 587 ; remarks (Sir A. Campbell), 595; (Mr.
Alexander), 595; M. agreed to, 596.
Industries and Manufactures of Canada,
circulation of report of Commission
upon.
Inquiry (Mr. Macdonald, B. C.), 131141; debate (Mr. Scott), 141,154; M.
to adj. debate (Sir D. Macpherson),

154; debate resumed (Sir D. Macpherson), 209-217; M. to adj debate
(Mr.Haythorne),217 ; debate resumed
(Mr.
Haythorne),222-238; debate adj.
m. (Mr. Howlan), 238, debate continued (Mr. Bowlan), 280 289; (Mr.
Alexander), 289-291; (Mr. Power),
291-300; (Mr. Kaulbach), 300-302;
debate adj. m. 302; debate continued,
(Mr. Kaulbach), 383-388; debate adj.
m., 388; (Mr. Kaulbach), 412-427;
debate adj., 427; (Mr Kaulbach),
461-465; adj. of debate (Mr. Read),
465; debate continued (Mr. Read),
467-474; .(Mr. Turner). 474; (Mr.
Lewin), 477; adj. of debate (Mr.
Flint), 480; debate continued (Mr.
Flint), 537-545; (Mr. McClelan),545554; adj.of debate m. (Mr.McClelan),
554; further adj., 639; adj. again,
663; debate continued (Mr. McClelan), 739.779; (Mr. Dever), 779780; (Mr. Turner). 780; (Mr. Macdonald), 780-784; ( Vr. Plumb), 784;
debate concluded, 784.
Infectious or contagious diseases affecting
animals B. (41).-Sir A. Campbell.
let R.«, 735; 2nd R. m, 790; in Con.,
839; Rep. from Com. and 3rd R.,
840; assent, 1430.
Inquires, debate upon, propriety of motion
to adjourn.
Discussion aud ruling of Speaker, 154.

Inquiries, subjects to be discussed must
be clearly set forth.
See Speaker's Decision, 819.
Insolvency Bill, introduction of.
In debate on the address (Mr. Sullivan),
9; (Mr. Scott), 16; (Mr. Haythorne),
21.

Insolvent Banks, Insurance Companies,
and other Corporations Act Amt. B.
(N).-Mr. Scott.
1st R.*, 429; 2nd R.*, 488 ; In Com.,
530; rep. from Com. and 3rd R., 531.
Insurance Companies.
See "Insolvent Corporations Bill."

II.-INDEX

1885.]

TO SUBJECTS.

1477

Insurance Companies, making of returns Lionel Graham's Case.
Inquiry (Mr. Haythorne) 389; reply
by.
(Sir A. Campbell) 389.
See debate on "Consolidated Insurance
Bill," 1178 &c.
Liquor License Act 1883, Amendment of.
See " Canada Temperance Act Aint. B."
International Coal Co's B. (51).- Mr.
Liquor License Act 1883, B. (1 3 4 )-Sir
Ogilvie.
lst R.0, 350; Placed on the Orders of
A. Campbell.
the Day, m, 352; 2nd R.(on M of Mr.
lst R.«, 1122; 2nd R. m, 1171; in Com.,
Power),382; Rep. froi Coin., 407;
rep. fromx Coin. and 3rd R.*, 1272;
concur in amte. and 3rd R., 408;
assent, 1430.
assent, 814.
Liquor, Sale of, by Medical Practitioners
International Exhibition Antwerp.
and Druggists.
In Debateon theAddress(Mr. Sullivan)
See Debte on " Canada Temperance
9; (Mr. Scott) 17; (Mr. Haythorne)
Act Amnt. B."
21.

Iron Manufacture Condition of.
See Mr. Macdonald's remarks, 134.
Joliette, Baptisms, Marriages and Burials
n.
Return presented (The speaker), 663.
Justices and Magistrates, Summary Proceedings before.
See " Summary Proceedings Bill."
Knitting Industry, Condition of.
See Mr Macdonald'sremarks, 135.
Lake Erie, Essex, and Detroit River R.
R. Co's. Incorp. B. (24)-Mr.Plumb.
Tht R.*, 302; 2nd R. m, 411 ; Rep. from
Coni. and 3rd R., 465; assent, 814.
Laws of the Dominion, Consolidation of.
See " Dominion Statutes."
Land Titles Registration, Introduction of
Torrens System into the North-West.
See Debate on 2nd R. of " Real Property in North-West Territories B."
Leather, Brush, and Broom Industry,
Condition of.
See Mr. Macdonald's reniarks, 135.
Legislation in the Senate, Increase of.
See "Senate and House of Commons."
Legislative Work, Increase of, in the
Senate.
See I Senate."
Library, Joint Committee upon.
List of members, 23; Tst Rep.(Publication of Dr. Todd's Book), adopted on
M. of Mr. Plumb, 1398.
Library of Parliament.
Report of Acting Librarian presented,
(The Speaker), 5.
Library of Parliament Act Amt. B. (139)
-- Sir A. Campbell.
lst R.*, and M. for 2nd R., 1095; 2nd
R., 1108; in Con., 1168-71 ; rep.
from Com., and 3rd R.', 1171
assent, 1430.
Life Saving Service at Sable Island.
See " Sable Island."

Liquor Traffic, Revenue derived from.
M. for Return (Mr. Plumb), agreed to.
I 09.
Loan Companies.
See " Insolvent Corporations' Bill."
London Life Insurance Co's. Amt. B. (76)
-Mr. Vidai.
1st R.*, 932; 2nd R. m, 988; rep. trom
Com. and 3rd R.', 1012; assent, 1430.
Machinery Manufacture, condition of.
See Mr. Macdonald'sremark-, 134.
Macpherson, Sir David L., portrait of, removal of.
Motion (Mr. Alexander), 45; rejected
on a div., 47.
Manitoba and the Dominion, arrangement
between.
In debate on the address, (Mr. Scott),
15; (Mr. Girard), 18.
Manitoba and North-West Territories
Census B. (21),-SirA. Campbell.
lst R.«, 111; 2nd R., 123; in Com.,
279; R. from Com., 280; 3rd R., m,
331; assent, 814.
Manitoba and North-Western Railway
Co's B. (74).-Mr. Girard.
Tht R., 650; 2nd R. m, 686; rep. from
Com. and 3rd R.*, 841; assent, 1430.
Manitoba Claims, Final settlement B.
(15 5),-Sir A. Campbell.
Ist R.*, 1193; 2nd R. m, 1301; in Comn.,
rep. from Com. and 3rd R., 1329;
assent, 1430.
Manitoba, patent for lands in.
M. for return (Mr. Guévremont), 1046;
agreed to (Sir A. Campbell), 1047.
Manufactures of Canada.
See "Industries and Manufactures."
Marine Department, Instructions given
by, to "Northern Light."
See "Northern Light."
Maritime Court of Ontario, Jurisdiction
Extension B., (11).--Sir A. Camtbell,
lst Rt.1, 382; 2nd R. m, (Mr. Turner),
512; In Com., 531-535; In Coin.

fI.-INDEX TO StEMrs.

['8ession

ag in, 5.34;
st and 2nd clauses North-West, Half-breed Troubles in.
amended. 554; rep. from Com., 554;
In quiry (Mr. Scott) 410; reply (Sir A.
3rd R. m, 564.
Campbell) 411.
Medical Acts, British.
North-West, Hydrographic Surveys in,
See "British Medical Acte."
Prosecution of.
Enquiry (Mr. Schultz) 48; reply (Sir
Medical Practitioners, registration of.
A. Campbell) 48.
M. for address (Mr. Sullivan), 450; reNorth-West, Immigration into.
ply (Sir A. Campbell), 453.
In Debate on the Address (Mr. MacMessengers, deficiency of.
donald B. C.) 6; (Mr. Sullivan) 8;
(Mr. Scott) 15.
Remarks ( Mr. Alexander), (Sir A.
Campbell), 105; The Speaker, 106.
North-West Mounted Police Force B.
Metal Manufactures, condition of.
(T)-SirA. Campbell.
See Mr. Macdonald's remarks, 137.
1st R.*, 791 ; 21d R. m., 840 ; rep. fron
Con. an i 3rd R., 851; assent 1430.
Militia Force Land Grant B. (16o).-Sir
North-West Mounted Police Force AugA. Campbell.
mentation B. (144)-SirA. Campbell.
let and 2nd R's, 1425; 3rd R., 1429;
lst R.', 1093; 2nd R. m, 1115; 3rd R.
assent,1430.
1150. assent, 1430.
Ministers, presence of, at Ottawa, during
North-West, Number, Nationality &c. of
1883 1884.
Government employees in.
M. for return (Mr. Power), 159-168;
M. for Returu (1Mr. Trudel) 644.
remarks ('ir A. Campbell), 168-169;
(Mr. Alexander), 169-171; (Mr. Hay- North West Rebellion, Information conthorne), 171; Mr. Kaulbach), 172;
cernng.
(Mr. Macdonald, B. C.). 173; (JYr.
Inquir (Mr. Wark) 639; reply (Sir
Powr) M. withdrawn. 173.
A. ampbell) 639.
Montreal and Moncton, shortest railway North-West Rebellion, Proclamation
to
line between.
Rebels.
See Mr Power's remarks on Short Line
Inquiry (Mr. Haythorne), reply (Sir A.
Railway, 332, &c.
CainpbeUl) 723.

Montreal Bank Annuity and Guarantee North-West Rebellion, Provision for families
Funds Society B., (48).-Mr.Ryan.
of Volunteers.
lst R.«, 429; 2nd R.. m 522; Rep. fron

Inquiry (Mr. 4lexander) 937; remarks
Coi. and 3rd R., 535; assent, 814.
(Mr. Scott) 938; reply (Sir A. CampSee Bill (48).
bell) 939.
Morning sitting of the Senate.
North-West Rebellion, Letters of warning
Motion (Sir A. Campbell), 1388.
concerning.
Musical Instruments Industry, condition
M. for Return (Mr. Alexander) 1612;
of.
remarks (Mr. Flint) 1016; (Mr.
See Mr. Macdonald'srenarks, 137.
Alexander) 1017; (Mr. Power> 1017;
(Mr. Kaulbach) 1020; (Mr. Read)
National Policy, advantages and disadvan1021 ; (Sir D. Macpherson) 1022; M.
tages of.
agreed tc, 1024.
See debate on the "Industries and
North-West Rebellion, Official Report of
Manufactures of Canada," 209.
General Middleton.
North Shore Railway, Correspondence
Presented (Sir A. Campbell) 1168.
relating to.
M. for Return (Mr. Bellerose) agreed to, North-West Rebellion, Government assist105.
ance to sufferers.
Inquiry (Mr. Trudel); reply (Sir A.
"Northern Light," Instructions given to

by Marine Department.
M. for Return (Mr. Haythorne) 84;
Agreed to (Sir A. Campbell) 84.

Campbell) 1274.

North-West Rebelion, Trial of offenders,

Number of Jurors.
Inquiry (Mr. Trudel) 1274; reply (Sir
"Northern Light," Insufficiency of, for
A. Campbellj 1271.
the Winter service to Prince Edward
North-West Rebellion. Vote of Thanks
Island.
Explanation (qir A. Campbell) 106;
to General Middleton, the Militia,
renarks (My. Haythorne), (Mr. Bowthe Mounted Police, &c., for Services.
lan 107.
Motion and renarks (Sir A. Campbell)
North-West, Condition of Indians in.
1390 92; (Mr. Scoit) 1392; (Mr. A llan)
See " Indians."
1394; (Mr. Trudel) (Mr. Kaulbach)

1885.

U.-IDEx

ro SnaBcTs.

1
1479

1395; (Mr. Poirier) (Mr. Bellerose)
Tst R. and M. for 2nd R , 48; 2nd R. m,
57; in Coi , 108; 3rd R., 481;
(Mr. Power) 1396.
assent, 1430.
North-West Rebellion, Investigation by
Government into Causes of, and Offences against the Person Act further
Means of Repairing Damage done.
Amt. B. (S).-Mr. Gowan.
[nqniry (Mr Trudel) reply (Sir A.
Ist R11.', 663; 2nd R. -n, 725; Amt. (3
mllonths' hoist) Mr. Almon, lost on
C'ampbell) 1410.
division, 728; in Com., 784 790;
Expenses B.
Rebellion
North-West
Amt. to lst clause (Mr. Gowan)
(1 4 9)-Sir A. Campbell.
adopted, 788; Amt. to 2nd clause
lst R., 1093; 2nd R. in, 1150 ; 3rd R. m,
(Mr. Kaulbach), 788; Amt. to Arnt.
1168; assent, 1430.
(Mr. Power) m, 789; lost and Amt.
carred, 790; rep. from Com., 790;
North-West, Superintendents of Education mn.
on concnrr. Mr. Dickey's Amt.
on a division, 813; 3rd R.
See Education.pted
w. 822; Amt. 3 monthe' hoist) Mr.
North-West Territories Administration of
on ,
.ected
A'inon, 823: r
Justice B. (V).-Sir A. Campbe//.
.:rd R.. rejected on a
,M.
1st R.', 931; 2nd R. m, 942; in om.,
1025; rep. from Con., 1029; 3rd I.
m, 1033; Amts. of House of Con- Ontario & Pacific Railway Company's B.
(72).-Ar. Plumb.
MOns agreed to, 1396; asseut, 1430.
18t R.', 554; 2nd R. m, 598; rep. from
North-West Territories, Lands in, DispoCoin. and 3rd R, 684; assent,814.
sition of.
11oquiry (Mr. Wark) 841 ; reply (Sir A. Ontario Central Prison Act Amt. B.
(P)
Sir A Camb/ll
Campbell 844; remarks (Mr. Alexli.
.
.'
ander 845; (Mr. iowlan) 845; M r.
lSt l.*, 523; 2nd R. m. 597; in Con,.,
Kaulbach) (Mr. Powei) 847; (Mr.
rep. from Coni and 3rd R., 615;
Plumb) 848 ; (Mr. Dickey) (Mi.
assent, 1430.
MfcLelan) 850 ; (Mr. Sutherland)
Ontario Maritime Court.
851.
See " Maritime Court."
North-West Territories, Protection of.

See Mr. Haythorne's remarke, 1116

North-West, Treaties with Indians in.
See "Indians."
North-West Troubles, Correspondence and
Reports Concerning.
M. for return (Mr. Trudel) 64i ; agreed
to (Sir D.Macpherson) 644; reuiinr-k
(Mr. Alexander) 644; Amt. iuitle
(21fr. Scott) 646; (Mr. Power) 647;
(2Mr. Kaulbach) 648; (Mr. Bellérose)
649.
NortlWest Troubles-Depredations and
Damages Committed by Survuyors.
nqy
fbre
Not-Ws Trube-35.
reder
North-West Troubles-ances-Lieut.-Governor Dewdney's
Report.
M. for Ret., 1029;

(Mr. Alexander)

1031 ; remarks (Mr. Power, (Air.
Scott) (.Sir A. Campbell) (Mr. Tru71del)
1032.
North-West Troubles - Representation
concerning Half-breed Clainis.
Inquiry (Mr. Trudel), 1034; reply
(Sir A. Campbell) 1035.
North-West, Withdrawal of Troops from.
I.nmy(irA (Mr. Power) reply (8ir A.
IUy
bell) 1055.
Offences against the Person Act Amt. B.
(F)-Sir A. Cambell

Order, Privilege, &c.
C

]

exa n cir
See "AleNaîîder.'
Procedure in Divorce Cases, Change in.
Sce" Divorce (ases.'
Rules, Suspension of.
ORDER, Personal.
beM
Sir A. f!aCne,t ojects to Mr A .exandel" % eaking twice on an inquiry.
The peaker rules Mr. Alexander
Procedure inDi 44.
out of order,
Sir A. Campbell objects to Mr. Alexarks as irrelevant, and
the Speaker mies them out of order,
IlCI
_11r GoiUU Qbjtui. i> Mr. Alexandem'a
reinarks as iSing,"shampand taxing"
ai1 the Speaker rides theni out of
order, 60.
Sir .Gn
ark s to Mr. Ae
niessengers, ad The Speaker mules
theni out of order, 106.
Mr. Macdonald (B. C.) objects to relevaticy of Mr. Power's reinarks in metprepeîîce of Ministeme
eretice to theand Phe Speaker mules
at Otawa;
theni out of order, 167.
Mr. Macdonald (B. C.) cals Mr.
Alexander to order for using impor.-

IL.-INDEX TO SUBJECTS.
per language. The Speaker rules
Mr. Alexander out of order, 171.
Sir A. Campbell moves a vote of censure upon Mr Alexander, which is
withdr. upon Mr. Alexander making
an apology, 219.
Sir A. Campbell calls Mr. Alexander
to order for improper lang uage and
The Speaker rules Mr. Alexander to
be out of order, 242.
Mr. Haythor'ne objects to Mr. Kaulbach introducing English politics in to his remarks, 420.
Mr. Plumb objects to Mr. Alexander's
remarks ou M. for adjournment, 455.
Sir A. Campbell objects to Mr. Alexander's remîarks upon M.for adjournnient and The Speaker rules them
out of order, 456.
Mr. Power calls Mr. Plumb to order
for remarks upon Mr. Alexander
reading his speech, 456.
Sir A. Campbeil calls Mr. Alexander to
order for making untrue statements,
458.
Sir A. Campbell calis Mr. Alexander to
order for referring to what took place
with closed doors, 459.
Sir A. Campbell calis Mr. Alexander to
order for irrelevant remarks, 517.
Mr. Plumb calls Mr. Alexander to
order for a personal allusion, 615.
Mr. Power calls Mr. Flint to order for
referring to Mr. -Ilexander as a
crank, 615.
Mr. Dickey catls Mr. Alexander to
order for making two motions upon
the same subject, and a deb. ensues,
599.
TheSpeaker rules Mr.Alexander out of
order, 618.
Sir A. Campbell objects to Mr. A lexander's relerrinig to a past debate, &c.,
645.
Mr. Power catls Mr. Kaulbach to order
for using the word "con temipti ble" in
reference to hiin, 649.
Sir A. Campbell calls Mr. Alexander to
order twice for unparliamentary
language, 707.
Mr. Kaulbach call Mr. Dever to order
foi speaking twice on the same subject, 784.
Sir A. Campbell calis Mr. Alexander
and Mr. Macdonald to order for
speaking on an inîqutiry alter the repy hasbeen gi ven,809.
Sir A. Campbell objects to Mr. Alexander's inquiry on the "Public affairs
of the Dominion" as being out of
order, and Tte Speaker rules that it
is so, 817.
M,'. Power calls Mr. Dever to order for
personal references to Mr. Alexander
in debate on the Canada Temperance
Act, 881.
Mr. Kaulbach, in Com. on Civil Service
Act Consolidation Amt. B., objects to
Mr. Alexander referring to the

[688'Î0

appoinment of Librarian ; the Chairman sustains the objection, 912.
Mr. Plumb calls Mr. Alexauder to
order for reading his speech, 1012;
Mr. Botsford also does so. 1015; The
Speaker's ruling 1013 and 1015.
Sir A. Campbell calls Mr. Alexander
to order for accusing the Govt. of
corruption ; The Speaker rules Mr.
Alexander out of order, 1016.
Sir A. Campbell calls Mr. Alexander to
order for bringing accusations against
the Govt. 1089.
Mr. Bellerose calls Mr. Plumb to order
for criticising the decision of the
Speaker; The .speaker rules Mr.
Pumb in order, 1221.
Mr. Dickey raises point of order as to
discussion on Mr. Haythorne's Amt.
to Franchise Bill; Speaker rules
discussion in order. 1339.
Mr. Plumb catls Mr. McInnes to order
for speaking several times on the
same question, 1364.
Mr. Power calls Mr. Macdonald toorder
for irrelevant renarks, 1365.
Mr. Power calls Mr. Plumb to order for
qnestioning the sccuracy of his statements; The Speaker rules Mr. Plumb
to be in order, 1375.
Mr. Baythorne calls Mr.Plumb to order
for criticising the conduct of members
of the House of Commons; The
Speaker rules Mr. Plumb in order,
1376.
Sir A. Campbell calls Mr. Power to
order for inmputing motives to members of the House of Com mons; The
Speaker rules that Mr. Power is not
out of order, 1402.
Mr. Plumb calls Mr. Power to order for
attacking nembers of the House of
Commons; The Speaker rules Mr.
Power in order, 1403.
ORDER, Procedure.

Mr. Vidal and Mr. Botsjord, on M. to

go into Coin. on Canada Temperance
Act Amt. B. (92), olject to Mr.
Power's M. in Anmt. as being out of
Order. The Speaker rules it out of
order, 852-54.
PRIVI LEGE, Personal.
Mr. Alexander calls attention to instructions having been given to expunge one of his speeches from the
debates, 239; reinaiks (Mr. Vidal),
239; (Mr. DeBoucherville), 240; (Mr.

Power), 240; (Sir A. Campbell),241;

doors closed, 242.
PRIVILEGE, Question of, as to debate
on adjournnent.
Remarks (Mr. Haythorne), (Speaker),

(Sir A. Campbell), (Mr. Kaulbach),

466.
PRIVILEGE, Question of, as to article in

Toronto Mail.
Remarks (Mr. Alexander), 480.

18s5.1

II.-ISDEX TO SCBJECTS.

Question of, as to accuracy
of a statement.
Remarks (Mr. Poiver), (Mr. Plumb),
1083.
Mr. Botsford calls the Speaker's attention to the presence of strangers in

PRIvILEGE,

the Senate, and the doors are closed,

1481

let R «, 523; 2nd R. m., 596; In Coni.,
rep. from Coin. and 3rd R., 623
assent, 1430.

rince Edward Island, Accident to IceBoats, &c.
Inquiry (Mr. Haythorne) 28 ; reply

(Sir

A. Campbell) 28.
242.
Prince Edward Island, exclusion of from
Paper Manufacture, Condition of.
operation of Franchise Bil].
See Mr Macdonald's remarks, 137.
See Mr. Haythorne's Amt. on 3r3 R.,
Parliamentary Returns, Bringing down of.
1330.
replv (Sir A. ?rince Edward
Inquiry (Mr. Power),
Island, winter communiCampbell).
cation with.
Parliamentary Returns, Number of, &c.
In debate on the address (Mr. HayM. for return (Mr. Flini) 514; remarks
thorne), 22.
(Mr. Bellerose) 574; (Mr. Read),
(Mr. Plumb) 515 ; (Sir A.Campbell) Prince Edward Island, winter communication with, provision for by the
516; (Mr. Alexander) 517.
Govt.
Pawnbrokers Further Provision B. (R).Inquiry (Mr. Haythorne), 81; reply
Mr. Gowan.
(Sir A. Campbell), 84.
let R.*, 663; 2nd R, m., 723; In Com.,
736-738; rep. from Com. and 3rd R. Prince Edward Island, winter communim., 738; assent, 1430.
cation with, intentions of the Govt.
Inquiry (Mr. Haqthorne), 85 and 102,;
Penitentiary of St.Vincent de Paul, Investiremarks (Mr. McFarlane),90; (Mr.
gation into.
Bowlan), 91; (Mr. Power), 94; (Mr.
See " St. Vincent de Paul."
Kaulbach), 97 ; (Mr. Gowan), 99;
Petitions for Private Bills.
(Sir A. Campbell), 100.
Time for receiving extended, on M. of
Prince Edward Island, tunnel communiSir A. Campbell, 51.
cation with.
Poirier, Senator.
Inquiry (Mr. Howlat), 489-504; reAdded to the Library, and Standing
marks (Mr. Baythorne) 504-506;
Orders and Private Bille Com., 362.
Mr. Kaulbach), 506; (Mr. Botsford).
& Pacific Junction Railway ComPontiac
(Mr. Bellerose), 507; (Mr. Wark),
pany.
508; (Mr. Ogilvie), 508; (Mr. FerM. for Return Mr. Trudel) 1092; agreed
rier), 509: (Mr. Power), 510; (Sir
to (Sir A. Campbell) 1093.
A. Campbell), 511.
Pontiac & Pacific Junction Railway, Cost Printing, Joint Committee upon.
per Mile of.
List of menbers, 23.
M. for Return (Mr. Trudel) agreed to,
1st rep. (reduction of quorum) (Mr.
1411.
Read), 31.
2nd rep. consideration poetponed, 49;
Port Moody as the Western Terminus of
2nd rep, adopted, 104.
the Canadian Pacific Railway.
3rd and 4th reps. adopted, 130.
See " Canadian Pacifie Railway."
5th rep. (documents printed), 368.
Port Moody, Railway Engine House at,
6th rep. (increase of salary), 612.
7th rep. (documents to be printed),,
Building of.
1024.
Inquiry (Mr. McInnes, B.C.), reply (Sir
8th rep. consideration postponed, 1253.
A. Campbell, 1047.
9th rep. (documents to be printed),.
Portrait of Sir David L. Macpherson.
1292.
10th rep. (printing, officials, &c.) 1397.,
See " Macpherson."
Prisoners Employment Act Incorp. B.
PRACTICE.
(87).-Sir A. Campbell.
Inquiries-The subject of the Inquiry
lst R.0, 898; 2nd R. m, 931 ; 3rd R. m, 932;
must be specifically stated.
assent, 1430.
See Speaker's ruling as to Mr. AlexPrivate Bills Corn.
ander's Inquiry.
See "Standing Orders."
Usage in the Senate of permitting
speeches upon inquiries and motions, Private Bills, extension of time for receiv817.
ing.
Preservation of Peace near Public Works
On Sth rep. of Standing Orders Com.,
Act Amt. B. (O).-Sir A. Campbell.
79.

V3

Il.-INDEX

TO SUBJECTS.

Provincial Statutes, Different ConsolidaPrivate Bills, initiation of in the Senate.
tions of.
See "Senate, increase of Legislation
in."
See Sir A. Campbell's renarks, 303.
Public affairs of the Dominion.
PROCEDURE.
Inquiry-Mr. Alexander, postponed,
Adjournments, practice as to motions
514; Further postpmts.555; 707, 735,
proceeded with 817; Quest. of order
for.
raised (Sir A. Campbell) ; remarks
See Mr. Alexander's remarks, 454.
(Mr. Power) 818; decision of Speaker
Conference between Senate and House
819; Inquiry ruled out of order, 822.
of Commons in event of a disagreePublic Loan Bill (I45)-Sir A. Camnpbell.
ment, rules concerning.
lst R.*, 1048; 2nd R. m, 1048; debate,
See discussion on Canada Temperance
1048-51; M. agreed to, 1051; 3rd R.
Act, pp 1154, &c.
M, 1055; debate, 1056-1082 ; M.
agreed to, 1082 ; assent, 1430.
Private Bills, difference of procedure as
to, in the British and Canadian Par- Public Works, preservation of peace in
liaments.
vicinity of.
See Mr. Plumb's remarks, 430.
See " Preservation of Peace &c."
Prohibition, effect of its adoption upon Qu'Appelle Diocese Synod Incorp. B.
the prosperity of the country.
(39)-Mr. Plumi.
See Mr. Smith's remarks on Canada
1st R.', 302; 2nd R. in, 411 ; Rep. fron
Temperance Act, 711.
Conm. and 3rd R., m, 465 ; assent, 814.
Prohibition Legislation, practical success Railways, Act relating to-SirA. Campbe//.
of.
1st R.', 5.
See debate on 2nd R. of" Canada Tem. Railways, encouragement of, in the Northperance Act Aint. B."
West Territories.
Prohibitory Liquor Law, adoption of by
In debate on the address, (Mfr. Scott)
the Provinces.
16; (Mr. Girard) 19.
Petition presented (Mr. Haythorne),616. Railway Land Subsidies B. (147)-Sir A.
Proof of entries in Crown Account Books
Campbel/.
Ist R.', 1093; M. fbr 2nd R., 1093; 2nd
B. (M)-Sir A. Campbell.
R. m, 1150; In Con., 1175; Rep. fron
1st R.', 352; 2nd R. m, 407 ; In Com.,
Com., and 3rd R.', 1177; assent, 1430.
rep. from Coin. and 3rd R., 412; consideration of Amts. of House of Com- Railway Subsidies B. (:58)-Sir A.
Mons, 1047; Amts concurred in,
Camtpbei.
1082; assent, 1430.
lst R.', 1369; 2nd R. i, 1398; debate,
Prorogation.
1398-1410; 2nd R., on a div., 1410;
Bills assented to, 1430; Speech from
in Com., 1415; Amt. to 1st clause
the Throne, 1431; Prorogation by
(Mr. Trudel) lost on a div,, 1415;
Speaker, 14 12.
Amt. to sane clause (3r. Bellerose)
do. do ; Ant. to sane cl. (Mr. Power)
Protection and Free Trade, relative merits
do. do. ; Bill rep. fronm Coi., 1417 ;
of.
3rd R. m, 1417 ; Amt. (as to route of
See Debate on the "Industries and
Short Line) -Mr. PIowcer, 1417; ruled
Manufactures of Canada."
out of order, 1418; Ant. (as to
clause 1) Mr. Trudel in, 1418 ; ruled
Provinces, Advances to, from the Dominion
out of order, 1419; Amit (as to Ist
Government.
section), Mr. Bellerose m, 1419 ; ruled
See " Advances to the Provinces."
out of order, 1420 ; Arnt. (as to Short
Line) Mr. Power m, 1420 ; ruled out
Provinces, Represeitation of, in the Privy
of order, 1421; 3rd R. carried, 1421
Council.
assent, 1430.
See " Representation."
Railway Subsidies B. (164)-Sir A.
Provincial Courts Judges Act Amt. B.
Campbell.
lst R.*, 1422; 2nd R., under suspension
(16i)-Sir A. Campbell.
of ride, 1422 ; 3rd R. m, 1424; assent,
lst R.*, 1397; Suspension of 41st Rule,
1430.
and 2nd and 3rd R's., 1414; assent,
Railways, Government aid to.
1430.
See " Debate on 3rd R. of Public Loan
Provincial Rights, Placing of, on a proper
B., 1057, &c.
basis.
Railways, Telegraphs and Harbors' Com.
In Debate on the address, (AMr. Scott)
Ist Rep. (Reduction of Quorum) Mr.
18; (Mr. Haythorne), 21.
Dickey, 28.

1SS5.]

II.-INDEX

TO SUBJECTS.

14th Rule-Suspended un Mr. Bellerose's M. for adjournnent, 1033.
21st Rule-In voked by Sir A. Campbell
upon Vr -Alexander's proposed Inquiry into the Public Affaire of the
ominion, 817.
41st Rule-Suspended on 2nd R. of
Publ:c Loan B. (145); M. (Sir A.
Campbell) agreed to, 1048.
41st Rule-Suspension of, to permit
passage of Bill (165). Motion (Sir
A. Campbell), 1413.
41st Rule-Suspension of, to permit
passage of Supplv Bill. Motion (Sir
A. Campbell), 1413.

Real property in North-West Territories
B. (A).-Sir A. Campbell.
let R.*,22; 2nd R. M., 70; Debate adjourned 79; Debate continued, 173-178;
Debate adjourned (on M. of Sir D. L.
Macpherson) 178; Debate continuied,
179-198; Debate adjourned, (onM. of
Mr. Alexander) 198; Debate resumed,
199 209; 2nd R. agreed to, 209; in
Coin., 242-256 ; Aimt, to 12th clause
Campbell), 258 ; 22nd
(Sir A.
clause amended, 263 ; 32nd clause
amended, 268; 72nd clause aniended,
274; 108th clause anended, 275; in
Coi. again, 352-365; 127th clause
anended, 365; in Com. agan, 373;
r(p. troni Com., 374; on M for Concurr. in Ants., Mr. Scotl's Anit (to
strike out clause 8) rejected on division, 374 ; Ir. Trudel's 3 Amts. rejected, 380 ; fr. Dickey's Amt. (to
leave out clause 91) rejected, 381;
Mr. Powver's Amîît. (to leave out
clause 11), rejected, 381 ; rep. of
Rice
Com., Concurr. in, and 3rd R, 382.
Red River, Dredgng of the Mouth of.
Inquiry (21fr. Schultz); Reply (Sir A.
Campbell); 256.
Registration of Medical Practitioners.
See " Medical Piractitioners."

41st Rule-Suspension of, on 2nd and
3rd R's. of Bill (161). Motion (Sir

A. Campbell), 1414.
41st Rule-Suspension of, on 2nd and
3rd R's. of Custons and Excise Bill.
Motion (Sir A. Campbell), 1414.
41st Rule-Suspension of, to permit
passage of Bills (159) and (162).

Motion (Sir A. Campbell), 1429.
Lake and Saskatchewan R. R. and
Navigation Company.
Petition for leave to present a petition
(Mr. Dickey), 130.
Rush Lake and Saskatchewan Railway
and Navigation Co's Incorp. B. (79).
-

M/r. Girard.

lst R.«, 649; 2nd R. m, 686; rep. fron
Coi., 816 ; concurr. in Amts. and
3rd R., 840; assent, 1430.
Mfr. McInnes' M. withdrawn, 1388.
Sable Island, Life-Saving Service at, imRevenue from Liquor Traffic.
provement in.
See " Liquor Traffic."
Inquirv (Mfr. Almon), 641; remarks
(1fr. Kaulbach), 642; reply (Sir A.
Revising Barristers-Appointment and
Campbdl), 643.
Powers of.
St. Lawrence River Navigation Facilitation
See " Electoral Franchise Bill."
B. ( 15 9).--Sir A. Campbell.
Rigby Judge-Charges Against.
Iet R.*, suspension of 41 et rule, and 2nd
Petition for investigation presented and
and 3rd R's, 1429; assent, 1430.
withdrawn (Mr. Almon), 108.
St. Vincent de Paul Penitentiary, InvestiRichelieu & Ontario Navigation Co's Ingation into the affairs of.
corp. Act Amt. B. (61).-Mr. PelleM. for return (Mr. Bellerose), 555; retier.
marks (Sir A. Campbell), 561; (mr..
1st R.', 760; 2nd R. m, 810; rep. froi
Kaulbach), 561 ; M. agreed to, 562.
Com. and 3rd R., 841; assent, 1430.
Sault Ste Marie Bridge Co's B. ( 5 2).-Mr.

Representation of the Provinces and Territories in the Privy Council.

River St. Clair Railway Bridge and Tunnel Co's. B. (8).-Mfr. Plumb.

Power.

1st R.«, 302; 2nd R., m, 368; Rep. froi
Com. and 3rd R., 407; assent, 814.
Scott Act, majorities in favor of, in the.
Royal Canadian Insurance B. (43).--Mr.
Provinces.
Ryan.
See Mr. Vidal's remarks, 668, &c.
lst R.*, 488; 2nd R. m, 522; Rep. from
Com. and 3rd R. m, 587; assent, 814. Secretary of State Department Acts Amt.
B. (102).
Royal Society-Members of, and the
let R.*, 488 ; 2nd R. m, 536; rep. from
lst R.*, 111 ; 2nd R. m, 127; rep. froin
Com. and 3rd R. m, 331, assent, 814.

Civil Service Examinations.

See " Civil Service Examinations."

Rules :
l1th Rule-Suepension of, on M. to adjourn (Sir A. Campbell), 946.

Com. and 3rd R., 598; assent, 1430.
SENATE, The.
Building, Sewerage and Ventilation of.
Remarks (Mr. Power) 1044; (Mr.
Plumb, Mr. Kaulbach, Mr. Macdon-

II.-INDEX TO SUBJECTh.

[Séd88'40n

aid, Mr. Botsford, Mr. Dever, Mr. Sewerage and Ventilation of Senate BuildMcInnes, Sir A. Campbell), 1045.
ing.

Debates Committee.
List of members, 24;

See Senate Building.
Remarks upon Short Line Railway, application of subsidy
(Mr. Alexander) 24; (Mr. Power)
voted for &c.
25; Ist rep. adopted on M. of Mr.
Inquiry (Mr. Power), 1143-48; reply
DeBoncherville, 735 ; 2nd rep.
(Sir A . Campbell), 1149.
(increase of reporters' remuneration,
1293.
Short Line Railway, Reports of Surveys.
M. for Return, (Mr. Power), 332-44;
Increase of Legislative Work in. M.
debate (Mr. Bellerose) 344; (lir.
for Comnittee.-f;r. Plumnb.
Trudel), 345 ; (Mr. Baillargeon),
M. postponed, 80; postponed again, 179;
346; (Mr. Alexander), 347; (1fr.
debate (Mfr. Plumb) 430-444 ; (3fr.
Kaulbach), 348; (Mr. Pýower), 348;
Scott) 414-448; (Mr. Power) 448;
(Sir A . Campbell), 350.
(Mr. Kaulbach) 449; adj. of deb. n,
(Mr. Dickey) 450; deb. postponed, Short Une Railway, Survey of Central or

597 ; deb. continued (Mr. Dickey)
603-612; adj. of deb. m,(Mr.McClelan)

Richmond Route.
M. for Return (Mr. Power), 1182-89

612; deb. continued (Mr. MrClelan,
remarks, (3fr. Kaulbach), 1189-91;
623 ; (Mr. Robitaille) 630: (Mr.
(.fr. Plumb), 1191 ; (fr. Bellerose),
Almon (632; (Mr. Power, M1r. Robi1192; M. agreeti to, (Sir A. Camptaille) 633; (Mr. Haytlorne) 633bell), 1192.
639, 650-653 ; (Sir A. Campbell) Simpson, Hon. B. D.
653-658; (MV. Bellerose) 658; (fr.
Death of, an îounced, (Sir A . Campbell),
Plumb) 659; (Sir A. Campbell) 662
427; remark s (.Mr. McClelan), 428.
(Mr. Scott) 663.

Membership of.
Bee Mr. Plumb's3 remarks, 437.

Sisters of Charity in North-West Territories
Incor). B. (I)-Mr.

Girard.

lst R.», 131 ; 2iîi R. in., 268 ; rep. froi
Com. ant 3rd H.. 40î; assen t, 814.
The Speaker's ruling, 51.
Smith Divorce Case.
French Language-not used by either
Petition of Charles Smith read and
the mover or seconder of the Address.
(.r. Read), 27.
received mn,
See Mr. Bellerose's remarks, 19.
-. Read.
Smith Divorce Bill (l)
French Minister in the.
1st R. and M. for 2nd R., 29 ; 2nd R.
Committees sitting during adjournnient,

Mr. Bellerose calls attention to there
being none, 19.

Reading Speeches in the.
Mr. Speaker rules it out of order,
1013.
Robitaille, Hon.
Mr., manner of
appointnent of condemned.
In de bate on t he adlress (ffr. Bellerose)

20.
Senate and House of Commons, Relations between in regard to despatch
of business.

on a division, 51 ; ref. to select Con.
m. carried on division, 54; lst rep.
of Com adopted (on M of Mr. Gowan)
111; rep. against by Com., 256; rep.
of Com. adopted, 368 ; refund of fees,
m., 1275.
Smuggling produced by Prohibitorv Laws.
See 1r. Haythorne's reinarks, 717.
South Saskatchewan Valley Railway Co's.
Incorp. Act An t. B.( 3 7)-11 l1u"!.
lst R.*, 405; 2nd R. in, 411 ; Rep. from Con.
and 3rd R., 465; assent, 814.
South Western Railway, Construction of.
Inqniry (Mr. Reesor), 409; reply (Sir
A. Campbell), 410.

M. for joint com. (SirA. Campbell) 705;
remarks (1fr. Plumb, Mr. Alexander)
706 ; (.ir. Botsford) 707; (Mr. Belle.
rose 710; (MVr. Dickey) 711 ; M. agreed Speech fron the Throne.

to, 711.
Delivered by His Excellency the Governor-Generaf, 3; reported and read,
Senator, New (Pascal Poirier).
5; M. for consideration (Sir A. CampSummoned, 239; introduced, 269.
bell), 5; for address in reply see
Senators, New.
" address."
Summoned-M essrs, William McDon- Speech from -he Throne on Prorogation.
aid, Joseplh Bolduc, Theodore Ro1431.
bitaille, \lichael Sullivan, James R.
Gowan, 3.
Statutes, Consolidation of, Joint Committee
Introduced-Messrs.McDonald,Bolduc

and] Robitaille, 3; Mr. Gowan, 22.
.Sessional Committees.
See " Committeeg."

upon.
M. (Sir A.

Campbell), 302.321;

re-

marks (Mr. Alexander), 321-322;
(Mr. Wark), 322; M. agreed to, 322.

]I.-INDEX TO SUBJECTS.

1885.]

1485ý

Steam communication between France and Terry Divorce Bil (E) -1fr. Read.
lst R', '4; proof of service, 110; 2nd
Canada.
R. ani ref to Select Coin., 111 ; lst
See " Canada."
rep. of Coi. adoptet (on M. of Mr.
Steamboat Inspection Act (1882) Amit.
from Com. (Mr.
Odeli), 111; rep. of Corn. adopteti,
B., (133).-Sir A. Campbell.
238; rep.
B., (~ 3 )-SirOdeli),
lst R.*, 1047; 2nd R.*, 1082; in Coin.,
276; 3rd R. m., 331; assent, 814.
rep. fron Com. and 3rd R.*, 1085; The Supply Bil, (163). -Sir A.Campbell.
lst H., suspension of 4lst rule in, and
assent, 1430.
Standing Orders and Private
Bills
2nd ant 3rd R's, 1413 ; assent, 1430.
Comn.
LiCof imbr, 4
Three Rivers Harbor Commiissioners B.
List of mnembers, 24.
io.
irACalpe.
Ist rep. (Reduction of Quorum), Mr.
(
.Si
A. CRm,1ii.
Read, 28.
ant R. 1122; Cn., 113; iii C.
2nd rep. (Time limited for receiving
anti Reni
Co30.
Petitions for PrivateBills), Mr. Read,
28.
Tidal observations on
3rd rep. (Davis and Smith Divorce
taking of.

Cases), Mr. Read, 28.

Petition of Roal

Dominion

Coast,

Society presentet

2nd rep. (extension of tine for receiving
(Mr. Dickey), 352.
Petitions for Private Bills), Mr. La- Timber Culling and Measuring Acts Amî.
coste, 31.
B. (154)-Sir A. Gaibei.
4th rep. (Evans, Terry and Hatzfeld
lst R.', 1193; 2nd R. m, 1294; ii Coi.
Divorce Caqes), Mir. Lacoste, 34.
5th rep. (as to Private Bille), Mr. Laand rep. front Coin., 1326 ; 3H R. m,
1388; assent, 1430.
coste, 34.
8th Rep. (as to Private Bills), Mr. La- Timber Regulations in British Columbia.

coste, 79.
9th and 10th reps. (Mr. Read), 157.
12th rep. (Mi Lacoste), 239.
13th, 14th and 15th reps. (Mr. Read),
332.

Sec "British Coin mbia."
Tobacco ant Cigar Manufacture

condi-

tion of.
See Mr. Macdonald's reniarks.

Torrens System of Land Transfer, introSubsidies to Railways.
Anounts votei in 1882 and following
duction of, into the North-West.
years; see " 1fr. Scott's Remarks,"
In tebate on the addres.s
Scotl),
1057.
14.
Torrens System of Land Tities RegistraSugar Manufacture, Development of
See deb. on the " Industries and Manu.
factures of Canada."

Summary

Proceedings -

Further

tion.
See "Lands 'ifle &c."

Pro- Tracadie Harbor, Improvements at.
Inquiry (Mr. Haythorne), 517 ; reply

vision B., (L)-Mr.
Gowan.
lst R.*, 331 ; 2nd R. m , 390; Debate

(Sir'A. lampbell), 518.

thereon, 390-405; M. for 6 mont hs' Trading Corporations.
hoist (fr. O'Donohoe) lost on diviSee ''nsolvent Curporations lI."
sion, 405; [n Corn., 481 ; 2nd clause
aiended, 481; 4th clause amended,freasury I3ard Constitution Xcts Amt.
484 ; 6th clause amended, 487 ; In
B.
A. Campbl.
Corm. again, 525; 2nd clause anendIst and 2nl R's, 914; 3rt R. in, 927
ed, 525 ; rep. fron Coin., 529 : 3rd R.
aïscnt, 14:30.
m, 536.
Treaties with Indians in the North-West.
Tariff, Ineuitable operation of
Sec
See Mr. Scott's reinarks in deb. on the Tunnel Communication between Prince
" Indistries of Canada," 144 et seq. ;
Edward Island and the Mainland.
also Sir David Jfacpherson's, 209.
Inquiry (Mr. Bowlan), 488 ; debate,

504-512.
Upper Canada Bank.
See "Bank of Upper Canada."
Petition presented (1fr. Almon), 578.
Territories, representation of in the Privy Veterans of the War of 1812.
Council.
Petitions from, presented (Mr. BelleSee "Representation."
rose), 1274.
Volunteers from Halifax, Transportation
Terry Divorce Case.
of.
Petition presented, read, and received
(on M. of Mr. Read), 30.
See " Halifax Volunteers."
Temperance Legislation,
of those affected by.

Compensation

II.-INDEX
Volunteers from the North-West, Assistance to Families of.
See " North-West Rebellion."
Weights and Measures Act Amt. B.
(i18).-Sir A Campbell.
1st R.', 931; 2nd R. m, 939; in Com.,
1024: rep. from coin. and 3rd R.,
1025; assent, 1430.
West Ontario Pacific Railway Co's Incorp.
B. ( 9 4 ).-Mr. Plumb.
Ist R., 711 ; 2nd R. m, 736; rep. from
Com., 815; concurr in Amts. and
3rd R., 840; assent, 1430.
Western Terminus of the Canadian Pacific Railway.
23
See debate on Mr. McInnes' motion,:11 .
White population in British*Columbia.
Explanation as to mis-statement (Mr.
Alexander) 22.
Wife, Admission of, as a Witness against
her Husband.
See debate on Offences Against the
Person B., 125, &c.
Wine, Beer, &c., Exemption of, from
Canada Temperance Act.
See " Canada Temperance Act."
Winnipeg and Prince Albert Railway Co's
Incorp. B. (91).-Mr.Girard.
1st R.', 650; 2nd R. m, 728; rep. from
Corn., 815; concurr. in Amts, and
3rd R., 816; assent, 1430.

TO SUBJECTS.

Winter Communication with Prince Edward Island.
Statencnt as to progress made (Sir A.
Campbell, 410.
See " Prince Edward Island."
Woman Suffrage opposed.
See Mr. Bellerose's remarks, 1211, &c.
Wood Mountain & Qu'Appelle Railway
Co's Incorp. Act Amt. B. (2 3 ).-Mr.
Plunb.
1st R.*, 302; 2nd R. m, 369; Rep. from
Com. and 3rd R. m, 465; assent, 814.
Wood Manufactures, Condition of.
See Mr. Macdonalci's remarks, 136.
Woollen Manufactures, Condition of.
See Mr. Macdonald's remarks, 135.
Work of the Session, Progress made in.
Inquiry (Sr. Wark) 1033; reply (Sir
A. Camp bell), 1034.
York Station, Prince Edward Island
Railway, Closing of.
Inquiry (Mr. laythorne) 519; reply
(Sir À. Campbell) 521; explanation
(Sir A. Campbell) 565; reinarks
(Mr. Raythorne, Mr. Wark), 565.
York Station, Prince Edward Island
Railway, Establishment and Abolition of.
M. for return (Mr. Haythorne, 619; Sir
A. Campbell) 621.

