Technical and Bibliographic Notes / Notes techniques et bibliographiques
The Institute has attempted to obtain the best original copy
available for scanning. Features of this copy which may be
bibliographically unique, which may alter any of the images
in the reproduction, or which may significantly change the
usual method of scanning are checked below.

U
W
D
D
D
D

w
w

Coloured covers /
Couverture de couleur

Covers damaged /

Couverture endommagée

Covers restored and/or laminated I

LII

w
D

Couverture restaurée et/ou pelliculée

Cover title missing /
Le titre de couverture manque

Coloured maps /

Cartes géographiques en couleur

Coloured ink (i.e. other than blue or black) I
Encre de couleur (i.e. autre que bleue ou noire)
Coloured plates and/or illustrations /
Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur
Bound with other material /
Relié avec d'autres documents
Only edition available /
Seule édition disponible
Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion
along interior margin 1La reliure serrée peut
causer de l'ombre ou de la distorsion le long de la
marge intérieure.

LI

L'institut a numérisé le meilleur exemplaire qu'il lui a été
possible de se procurer. Les détails de cet exemplaire qui
sont peut-être uniques du point de vue bibliographique, qui
peuvent modifier une image reproduite, ou qui peuvent
exiger une modification dans la méthode normale de
numérisation sont indiqués ci-dessous.

Additional comments /

Commentaires supplémentaires:

Coloured pages / Pages de couleur
Pages damaged / Pages endommagées

Pages restored and/or laminated I

Pages restaurées et/ou pelliculées
Pages discoloured, stained or foxed/

w
w
w
D
D

Pages décolorées, tachetées ou piquées
Pages detached / Pages détachées
Showthrough / Transparence
Quality of print varies I
Qualité inégale de l'impression

Includes supplementary materials /

Comprend du matériel supplémentaire

Blank leaves added during restorations may
appear within the text. Whenever possible, these
have been omitted from scanning / Il se peut que
certaines pages blanches ajoutées lors d'une
restauration apparaissent dans le texte, mais,
lorsque cela était possible, ces pages n'ont pas
été numérisées.

DEBATES
-OF-

THE

SENATE
-0F THE-

DOMINION

OF

CANADA

1885.

R iPOR TED,

EDITED,

AND

PUBLISIIED

BY

HOLLAND

BROS.,

Oficial Rejorters of the .Senate of Canada, Ottawa.

THIRD SESSION-FIFTH PARLIAMENT.

OTTAWA:
PRINTED BY A.

S. WOODBURN

1885.

ELGIN ST

THE DEBATES
-F

SENATE

OF
-IN

THIRD

THE-

CANADA,

THE-

SESSION OF THE FIFTH PARLIAMENT OF THE DOMINION
CANADA, APPOINTED TO MEET FOR DESPATCH OF BUSINESS
ON THE 29TH OF JANUARY, 1885, IN THE FORTYEIGHTH YEAR OF THE REIGN OF

OF

HER MAJESTY QUEEN VICTORIA.
THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Thiursday, January 2 9 th, 1885.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at
Three o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
NEW SENATORS.
The SPEAKER presented to the House
communications from the Clerk of the
Crown in Chancery, certifying that His
Excellency the Governor General had
sumrnmoned to the Senate the Honorable
Messrs.
William McDONALD, of Cape Breton,
N. S., in the room of the late Hon. Mr.
Bourinot,
Joseph BOLDUC, of St. Victor de
Tring, Que., in the room of the late Hon.
Mr. Pozer,
Hon. Theodore ROBITAILLE, of
New Carlisle, Que., in the room of Hon.
Louis Robitaille, resigned,
Michael SULLIVAN, of the City of
Kingston, Ont., and
Hon. James Robert GOWAN, of the
Town of Barrie, Ont.
Hon. Messrs. McDonald, Bolduc and
Robitaille were then introduced, and
having taken the Oath prescribed by
law, took their seats.

The House
The House
)leasure.

was adjourned during
was adjourned during

SPEECH FROM THE THRONE
This day, at
ExCELLENCY

THREE o'clock P. M., HIs
THE GOVERNOR-GENERAL

proceeded in state to the Chamber of the
Senate, in the Parliament Buildings, and
took his seat upon the Throne. The
Members of the Senate being assembled,
His Excellency was pleased to command
the attendance of the House of Commons,
and that House being present, His
EXCELLENCY was pleased to open the
THIRD SESSION of the FIFTH PARLIAMENT
OF THE DOMINION OF CANADA, with the
following Speech :Honourable Gentlemen of the Senate,
Gentlemen of the louse of

commons:

In again meeting you for the despatch of
business, I have to congratulate you on the
abundant harvest with which Providence has
blessed our Country, and upon the general
Its commercial
condition of the Dominion.
prosperity, although it has to some extent shared
in the depression which has prevailed in Great
Britain and in the neighbouring Republic, rests
upon foundations which no temporary or partial
disturbance can remove.
I trust that the present year will be one of peace
and progress.

Speech from

[SENA.TE]

The flow of population into Manitoba and the
North-West Territories, although impeded by
various and unexpected causes, has been substantial,
and the testimony of members of the British
Association, and other visitors to the North-West
last summer as to the well-being, contentment,
and hopefulness of the setilers, is most gratifying.

the Tlhrone.

In pursuance of the vote of last Session I
caused a vessel to be fitted out and dispatched to
Davis' Straits and Hudson's Bay, in order to obtain
more accurate information as to the navigation of
those waters, and test the practicability of the
route for commercial purposes.

A report of the progress of the expedition
A Bill introducing into those Territories a more during the last season will be laid before you.
simple and economical system for the transfer of
An International Exhibition will be opened at
land will be laid before you.
Antwerp during the present year, and a Colonial
The Report of the Commission for the consoli- and Indian Exhibition is to be held in London in
dation of the Statutes affecting the Dominion has 1886. Canada should, I think, be represented in
been completed, and will be submitted to you for her various manuFactures and natural productions
legislative action.
on both occasions, and I invoke your consideration
of the best means of aiding in these important
You are again invited to consider a measure
objects.
relating to the representation of the people in
Parliament and for the assimilation of the ElecSeveral other measures of importance will be
toral Franchises in the several Provinces.
submitted to you ; among them will be Bills to
A provisional arrangement of matters for some
time under discussion with the Government of
Manitoba has been entered into, and a measure
confirming the same will be submitted to you so
soon as it has been accepted by the Provincial
Legislature.
I deemed it expedient to issue during the recess
a Commission to consider and report upon the
whole subject of Chinese Immigration, with
reference to its trade relations, as well as to those
social and moral objections which have been taken
to the influx of the Chinese people into Canada.

amend the Insurance Act of 1877, the Civil
Service Act, and the law relating to contagious
diseases among cattle, as well as measures for
taking, at an early period, a census of the population of the North-West Territories, and one relating to the North-West Mounted Police.
Gentlemen of the Ioise of Commons:
The accounts of the past fiscal year will be laid
before you. You will find that notwithstanding
the very considerable reduction in the prices and
volume of many of the leading imports, the income has exceeded the expenditure chargeable to
Consolidated Revenue.

The Report of the Commissioners is very nearl>
completed, and will be laid before you during th(
The Estimates for the ensuing year will also be
present Session.
submitted. They will be found, I trust, to have
been prepared with due regard to economy.
The necessity of encouraging the speedy con
struction of lines of Railway through the North -Honourable Gentlemien of the Senate,
West Territories has pressed itself on my Govern
Gentlemen of the Hiouse of Commons:
ment, and you will be asked to aid Railwa
enterprise by liberal grants of land.

I am sure that your earnest consideration will
Urgent representations have been made by th be given to the subjects I have mentioned, as well
Boards of Trade of the chief towns in Canada, a s as to every matter which may affect the prosperity
well as by some of the Chambers of Commerce i n and good government of Canada.
Great Britain, of the necessity that exists for th
His Excellency, the Governor General,
adoption of some system of Bankruptcy or insol - was pleased to retire and the House of
vency giving adequate protection against undu e Commons withdrew.
preferences, and your attention to this importan t
The House was resumed.
subject is earnestly invited.

The

[JAN. 30, 1885]

RAILWAYS BILL.
FIRST READING.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL intro-

duced a Bill intituled " An Act relating to
Railways."
The Bill was read the first time.

THE ADDRESS.
MOTION.

The SPEAKER reported His Excellency's Speech from the Throne and the
same was then read by the Clerk.
H1>N. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
that the House do take into consideration
the Speech of His Excellency the Governor
General to-morrow.
The motion was agreed to.

THE LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT.

Address.

5

the satisfactory condition of the revenue,
nd the many useful measures on which
we are invited to legislate during the
present session.
We must all feel gratified in the assurince and knowledge that the country has
been blessed with a bountiful harvest, and
that peace and plenty prevail in all parts
of the Doninion-the highest blessings
which can be obtained, and which are the
aim of all countries to attain.
Although peace may reign within our
own immediate borders, yet we cannot
help feeling deep interest and great anxiety
in the affairs of the Empire, and that her
wars and troubles are shared in by the
Dominion of Canada; that what sheds a
lustre on the Empire sheds a lustre on
us, and that any reverse or loss of prestige
she may suffer, would be deeply felt by
this, the oldest and most important colony
of Great Britain. May the Empire prosper
wherever her flag floats.

In looking at the trade position of the

country we must hold in view the very
great extent to which the commercial
REPORT.
relations of all civilized nations are interThe SPEAKER presented the Report woven, and that any disturbance of trade
of the Acting Librarian on the state
of an upward or downward tendency in
of
the Library of Parliarnent.
any one country soon acts on the others,
and this sensitive feeling is clearly illusThe Report having been read, it was trated in this country. The condition of
ordered that the same do lie on the table. trade in England, the United States and
the West Indies, (for which we cannot be
The Senate adjourned 4.30
p.m.
held responsible), has affected us Most
injuriously. Canada being a large producer of corn, meat, fish and timber must,
to make ber prosperous, have foreign
THE SENATE.
markets-and when, unfortunately, the
markets of those three countries, England,
Oftawa, Friday,January3oth, r885.
the United States and the West Indies,
The SPEAKER took the Chair at which are our chief customers, are closed
to us by the depressed condition of trade
Three o'clock p.m.
in those countries, we must look for a
corresponding state of things in the
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Dominion, and we may consider ourselves
fortunate that we stand as well as we do
THE ADDRESS.
in the face of such circumstances.
It has been said, and no doubt will be
HON. MR. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I
said again, that our fiscal policy is at the
have much pleasure in moving that an
root of our present depression, that our
Address be presented to His Excellency
the Governor General, in reply to the manufactures are over-stimulated, the
result being over-production, warehouses
Speech

from the Throne.
I think, hon. gentlemen, the Speech over stocked, and low markets.
I
may be justly considered very satisfactory causedeny that our fiscal system is the
of
as indicating the position of the country, which I any such condition-in proof of
will instance England, which

The

[SEJNATE]

cannot be accused of over stimulating her
manufactures. If any country is a free
trade country she is-especially in cotton,
woolens and iron-and what do we find?
Unfortunately, stagnation,-hundreds of
mills and factories closed, thousands of
persons unemployed, and her shipping
industry in great distress.
I will now take the United States, with
a high protective tariff, and what do we
find ? Just the same condition of things
which prevails in England. So that under
free trade, and protection, commercial
countries are evidently doomed to periodical waves of depression. I will leave
the politicaleconomist to solve the problem
-which of the two systems creates the
evil-reserving to myself the opinion that
a moderate fostering cf our young industries, such as we have in Canada, is the
wisest course.
I have no doubt but our manufacturers,
who deserve every praise and encouragement, will, with experience, learn to gauge
their productions so as to correspond with
the demand, and thereby avoid the fluctuatior s to which business is now liable.
The farmers of this country, with their
surplus grain, although prices are low, are
most fortunate compared with those of
England and other parts of Europe.
Here the farmer is his own landlord.
With no rents or poor rates to pay he can
afford to hold his stock for better times,
whereas in Europe rents and taxes are
very high and must be paid, and the
farmer is compelled to sell his produce.
however low the market may be, to meet
those demands. Our farmers then, with
more than abundance to eat and drink,
may be congratulated on their condition.
We can only judge of the position of
our country by comparing it with that of
others, and I think hon. gentlemen will
agree with me that the prospects and
condition of the Dominion compare favorably with those of any other countrv,
It is very gratifying to know that the
cumulative testimony of disinterested and
distinguished persons continues to confirm
the favorable impressions previously
formed of the adaptability of the Canadian
North-West as a field for immigration,
where every man may be his own landlord,
and where with ordinary industry he may
live in comfort and peace. It is pleasing
to know that a reasonable addition was
HON. MR.

MACDONALD (B.C.)

Address.

made in the past year to the population
of that country. A moderate tide of
immigration, which the country can conveniently absorb, is more to be desired
than too rapid a flow, which from its
volume might have to endure some priva.
tion. We are pleased to know that every
facility will be given for the acquisition
and transfer of land in that country.
The Act relating to the representation
of the people, and the measure confirming
the arrangement with Manitoba, will, I
am sure, receive the best consideration of
this House, as well as all those other
measures referred to in the Speech from
the Throne.
The issuing of a Commission to enquire
into the various phases of the Chinese
question was, no doubt, the best course to
take ; especially in view of the very extreme opinions held by some persans on
this question.
In a free country, Chinamen as well as
persons of other nationalities, have their
rights and privileges, so long as they conform to the laws of the country. The
Chinaman has undoubted rights, but my
opinion on this subject I will defer to
some other time
It is most cheering and encouraging to
know that the revenue of the country is
in such a prosperous condition, and this
is doubly gratifying when the shrinkage in

trade during the past year is taken into
consideration.
Then again, the credit of the country
never stood higher in the London money
market than it does now ; nor has a colonial loan ever been negotiated at so low

a rate of interest as that negotiated last
year.
The substantial wealth of the country

also has greatly increased in railways and
other improvements, and notably so in
the money savings of the people which
increased by two millions in the past
year. So that taking all in all, we have

reason to be satisfied with the state of our
country.

There is a subject of some importance
to which I may briefly allude, of which I
consider the Colonies may feel proud.

That is, the desire on the part of many
eminent statesmen for closer union with
the Colonies-a federation of all the
Colonies with the Empire. Whether such
a grand scheme can be perfected it would

TAe

[JAN. 30, 1885]] Address.

be premature now to say. The interest North-West Territories, although impeded by
taken in the Colonies, however, must be a various and unexpected causes, has been substan
matter of satisfaction to us.
tial, and that the testimony of members of the
There is another matter for which we British Association and of other visitors to the
have particular reason to feel gratified, North-West last summer' as to the well-being,
that is the marked honor conferred on contentment, and hopefulness of the settlers, is
Pne
remier of the Dominion by our most gratifying.
gracious Sovereign. Such a fitting recognition of his long public services, will, I We learn with much interest that a Bil intro.

an sure, be regarded by the majority of ducing into those Territories a more simple and
the people with much satisfaction.
economical system for the transfer of land will be

I beg to move :-

laid before us.

That the following Address be presented to
His Excellency the Governor General to offer the
respectful thanks of this House to His Excellency
for the gracious Speech he has been pleased to
make to both Houses of Parliament, namely -

It affords us much pleasureto know that the
Report of the Commission for the consolidation
of the Statutes affecting the Dominion has been
completed and will be submitted to us for legisla-

To His EXCELLENCY the Most Honourable
Henry Charles Keith Petty-Fitzmaurice, Marquis
of Lansdowne, in the County of Somerset, Earl
of Wycombe, of Chipping Wycombe, in the
County of Bucks, Viscount Caîn and Calnstone,
in the County of Wilts, and Lord Wycombe,
Baron of Chipping Wycombe, in the County of
Bucks, in the Peerage of Great Britain ; Earl of
Kerry and Earl of Shelburne, Viscount Clanmaurice and Fitzmaurice, Baron of Kerry, Lixnaw,
and Dunkerron, in the Peerage of Ireland ; Gov-

The consideration which Your Excellency has
been pleased again to invite to a measure relating
to the representation of the people in Parliamente
and for the assimilation of the ElectoralFranchise

ernor General of Canada.

tive action.

in the several Provinces, shall be most attentively
given thereto.
We thank Your Excellency for informing us
that a provisional arrangement of inatters for
some time under discussion with the Government
of Manitoba has been entered into, and that a
measure confirming the same will be submitted ta
. us so soon as t

MAY IT PLEASE YOUR EXCELLENCY :-

1as

een accepteu

by

the Frov

II

cial Legislature.

We receive with great interest the informatioth
We, Her Majesty's dutiful and loyal subjects,
that Your Excellency deemed it expedient to issue
the Senate of Canada in Parliament assembled,
humbly thank Your Excellency for your gracious during the recess a Commission to consider and
report upon the whole subject of Chinese Immi.
Speech at the opening of this Session.
gration with reference to its trade relations, as
We rejoice that Your Excellency in again meet- well as to those social and moral objections which
ing us for the despatch of business has to congrahave been taken to the influx of the Chinese peotulate us on the abundant harvest with which ple into Canada; and that the Report of the
Providence has blessed our country, and upon the Commissioners is very nearly completed, and will
general condition of the Dominion, whose com- be laid before us during the present Session.
mercial prosperity, although it has to some extent
We hear with interest that the necessity of enshared in the depression which has prevailed in
couraging the speedy construction of lines of rail.
Great Britain and the neighbouring Republic,
rests upon foundations which no temporary or way through the North-West Territories has
pressed itself on Your Excellency's Government.
partial disturbance can remove.
and that we will be asked to aid railway enterWe trust, with Your Excellency, that the
prise by liberal grants of land.
present year will be one of peace and progress.
We thank Your Excellency for inviting our
It affords us great satisfaction to be informed attention to the urgent representations which'
that the flow of population into Manitoba and the have been made by the Boards of Trade of the

The

[SENATE]

chief towns in Canada, as well as by some of the
Chambers of Commerce in Great Britain, of the
necessity that exists for the adoption of some system of Bankruptcy or Insolvency giving adequate
protection against undue preferences ; and we
beg to assure Vour Excellency that this importan,
subject shall receive our earnest consideration.
We also thank Your Excellency for informing
us that, in pursuance of the vote of last Sessiont
Your Excellency caused a vessel to be fitted out
and despatched to Davis' Straits and Hudson's
Bay, in order to obtain more accurate information
as to the navigation of those waters, and to test
the practicability of the route for commercial purposes; and that a report of the progress of the
expedition will be laid hefore us.
We agree with Your Excellency in thinking

ßhat, as an International Exhibition will be opened
at Antwerp during the present year, and as a
Colonial and Indian Exhibition is to be held in
London in 1886, Canada should be represented in
her various manufactures and natural productions
on both occasions. The best means of aiding in
these important objects shall not fail to receive
the consideration Your Excellency has been
pleased to invoke from us.
. It affords us pleasure to learn that several other
measures of importance will be submitted to us ;
and that among them will be Bills to amend the
Insurance Act of 1877, the Civil Service Act, and
the law relating to contagious diseases among
cattle, as well as measures for taking at an early
period a census of the population of the NorthWest Territories, and one relating to the NorthWest Mounted Police.
We beg to assure Your Excellency that our
earnest consideration will be given to the subjects
your Excellency has mentioned, as well as to every
matter which may affect the prosperity and good
goveriment of Canada.
HON. DR. SULLIVAN-The distinguished honor of seconding the Address,
which has justbeen so ably presented to you
by my hon. friend from British Columbia,
is a peculiar gratification to me, a gratification which I would be happy to exhibit
more properly than I can on this occasion,
were the time afforded me. Unfortunately,

Addre8.

I must throw myself on the generosity of
this House, and ask them to attribute any
faults of mine to the short time at my
disposal, which did not admit of such
preparation as would be worthy of this
occasion.
The agricultural interest of this country,
strong, powerful and progressive, rejoices
in the results of a bountiful harvest. The
prosperity of this interest is felt by all
classes of the community. When they
rejoice the whole country shares in their
rejoicing; in their adversity the whole
country is sad with them. I am, therefore,
very glad to be able to congratulate this
House on the bountiful harvest which the
agricultural community have reaped and
on the restoration of their prosperity.
The flow of population into Manitoba,
as is mentioned here, is a matter which is
also of great consequence to the whole
Dominion. One of the most important
social events of last year was the visit of
the British Medical Association to Canada. I had the honor of meeting its
members in Montreal, and from every one
of them I heard words of pride and gratification at the extraordinary success to which
Canada had attained, and expressions of
surprise at seeing such a hardy, bold,
adventurous race occupying the Northwest as they found there.
I shall not take the time of the House
in dealing with other matters which are
rmentioned in this Address. I am sure
we all take a deep interest in the subject
of Chinese immigration, in its moral and
social aspects, and it is possible that
Canada may succeed in solving this, as she
has solved other difficult problems in
government. We shall look forward with
great interest to the report of the commissioners on this subject, and probably
we will be enabled to reach some satisfactory conclusion on this grave question
which threatens to agitate the whole
Dominion.
I am pleased to find that the possibility
of Davis' Straits and Hudson's Bay being
used for commercial purposes has been
tested, and although there are rumorsnot anything definite, but rumors merelythat not much may be expected in this
direction, possibly something much more
beneficial to the whole Dominion may
result therefrom than is generally anticipated.

The

[JAN. 30, 1S851

Reference is also made in the Address
to the Exhibition, or World's fair, to be
held in Holland during the current year.
As those exhibitions are powerful means
of advancing the interests of Canada, and
disseminating a knowledge of this country
and of its people and products, thereby
serving the purpose of an extensive advertising agency, the subject is worthy of
careful consideration, and is one which, I
hope, will result in Canada being properly
represented in a country containing
a
frugal and industrious population, a
people amongst whom undoubtedly the
best class of emigrants for this country
will be found.
But the fact of which we all have greatest reason to be proud is that the affairs
-of this country have been conducted with
Such economy and efficiency that the
Government are able to announce another
surplus. I am avare that nany people
Consider a surplus undesirable. I entertain a different opinion. It may be
due
to My ignorance of how Parliameintqry
men look upon these questions,
but I
know that in the ordinary affairs
of life it
is not considered an undesirable thing
to
have a surplus at one's command.
We have the announcement that
the
overessi n in trade in Canada is passing
state.t
is one of
Statenents that could the most pleasing
be made in the
Address.
When we look at the great
depression which prevails in the
countries
with which we are most intimatelv
associated, those with which our ititerests
are so
closely identified, England and the United
States, one strongly protectionist,
the
other a free trade country, surely we may
claim that the depression in Canada
not the most remote connecLion with has
our
fiscal policy. It was with great pride
and
gratification I heard recently the announcement made by the gentlemen who control
the destinies of this country, that they
were
well satisfiedwith the National Policy which
lifted the clouds of depression from this land
and shed a gloom of sunshine on its
commercial condition, and first gave our people hope and encouragement. It was
gratifying to learn that not only are
they
not dissatisfied with that policy, but that
they are determined to stand by it, and
that they expect it will continue to confer
solid and abiding advantages on the people of this country. They refuse to be-

Addre88.

lieve that it has had any connection with
the depression, which is happily passing
away, but on the contrary they are satisfied that it has prevented much more extensive distress than might otherwise have
been expected in the manufacturing interests. For these reasons they are determined to adhere to it, and I hope that
nothing will cause them to swerve frcm
their determination in this respect. The
National Policy, no doubt, induced nany
persons to enter into manufacturing, with
the natural result of over-production. For
that we have no remedy but the operation
of the law of the survival of the fittest.
Those who are best able to maintain
themselves and retain their positions will
do so, and those who are not able must,
of course, find other occupations, and thus
the commercial interests of the Dominion
will be strengthened and consolidated,
and maintained in a prosperous condition.
There is also reference made in this
Address to an Insolvency Bill. Of that I
can have but a very imperfect knowledge.
I have, however, a recollection of the
great dissatisfaction which prevailed under
the former system, and I remember how
the grievance becamne so great that the
Government had finally to repeal the Act
and leave the different provinces to manage
these matters for themselves. I am glad
to learn that something will be done to
ensure a fair distribution of bankrupt
estates.
I think there is reason for congratulation
on the peaceful and prosperous condition
of Canada. In no country in the world
bas there been a steadier and more solid
and enduring progress than there are
evidences of in the Dominion. My observation is, of course, limited to the locality
and neighborhood in which I live, but
judging by that-and I arm sure it is not the
most prosperous portion of the countryno better evidence could be afforded of
the happiness and contentment which
prevail amongst al) classes.
The confederation of the Provinces and
the legislation of the past few yearsbecause but 17 years have passed since the
Union-have had the effect of inspiring a
national sentiment and removing those
animosities and acerbities which disturbed
the quiet and peaceable relations of the
people, and to-day they occupy the position
of being the freest, the most tolerant, and,

The

10

[SEN ATE]

at the same time, the most contented people in the world.
Hon. gentlemen, I thank you for the
lkind manner in which you have received
the few crude remarks which I have had
to make-necessarily crude from the impossibility of devoting to the subject that
time and attention which the dignity of
this House demands-and therefore is it
with feelings of humility, and a conviction
of the imperfect manner in which I have
endeavored to express those sentiments,
that I crave your indulgence on this
occasion.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Knowing,
as the members of this hon. House do,
the long period of broken health which I
have passed through, and that I was
simiply unable to take any part in the
proceedings of the House last session, I
am sure that hon. gentlemen will grant me
their usual kind indulgence in offering
some observations with regard to the
Address now before us.
I will preface the remarks I am about
to make by defining my own position. It
would be unmeaning on the part of the
leaders of the government to repeat a
former charge that I had gone over to the
Liberal party, from the views which I now
I simply speak as a member
entertain.
of this high judicial body, because I have
never regarded this House as a body that
should be rendered partizan, and I have
always feIt that the two leaders of this
House, in the manner in which they have
controlled it, have inflicted a deep injury
upon this Chamber, and upon the country.
I rise as a member of this high judicial
body to express the opinion which I conscientiously hold, thinking and acting for
the people of this country, and not for a
party. That is the view which I entertain
of the vocation and duty of this House,
and, I may add, that at my advanced age
there is no office at the disposal of this or
any other Administration which I desire
to accept or could accept ; so let there be
no misunderstanding on that point, and
let there be no insinuations thrown out
by the Minister of Justice, as on former
occasions, that I am looking for officethat I am wanting the Governorship of
Ontario, or any other position
When I speak, I do so according to the
best of my humble judgment in the
HON. DR. SULLIVAN.

Addres8.

interests of the country, and if I have ever
said anything on the floor of this House
which the Senate has deemed to be aný
error of judgment, I make the most ample
apology for any such sentiment that I may
have uttered. Hon. gentlemen know the
high opinion which I have always entertained of the individual members of this
House. They know that I have alvays.
expressed my opinion that a more estimnable body does not exist in the Dominion
than the members of this Senate. But
the Senate has, in some manner, been
controlled by the leaders of this House ;
their opinions are supposed by influences
used, to be silenced, and, as a natural
result, the Senate, as a body, no longer
commands the respect or confidence of
the country, and the charge lies at the
door of the Ministers of the Crown for the
manner in which they have conducted
themselves since they have corne into
power.
I do not propose to weary the House
by referring to any of the subject matters
of this Address. When a vessel is believed
to be drifting amongst the breakers fromn
the guidance of the helmsman (that is the
Government, who appear to be suffering
from a fatal disease called Phrenzy) the
absorbing thought of those on board is
It is a very
how the ship can be saved!
painful duty for nie to say, that, as
an old and life-long Conservative (and I
hope to die a Conservative) I am from a
sense of duty led to warn you that there
are acts of the present Conservative
Government that must affect disastriously
the country for a time, and must certainly
wreck the Conservative party in less than
two years, and, I am sorry to be compelled
to add, that there are acts of the present
which show lamentable
Government
depravity of character and total abandonment of principle. Some of their acts
show that as regarding the Government all
prudence, and care, and principle, and
justice, and public gratitude, are gone.
Vested rights are no longer respected but
are ruthlessly trampled under foot. This
Government has become a danger to the
State, and I will illustrate in what manner.
In my opinion the time has arrived when
mass meetings should be held frorn one
end of the Dominion to the other to stop
in their course those who, to retain power,
have demoralized the public men and the

Tle

[JAN. 30, 1885]

electorate, and are demoralizing the
churches and the people of the country.
This Government, intoxicated by their
large majority in the Commons, and
by the kind manner in which the
Majority of this House yield to their
wshes-unfortunately for the interests of
the cuntry-have become so reckless,
that the bankers of Montreal and of
Toronto are at this day alarmed to think
of the position of our affairs. They
appear to forget that we are a people
of
limited numbers and limited wealth,
only
Struggling into existence by hardship
and
toil. There may be an appearance
of
Wealth im Our cities.
We may see a
Inumber of costly carriages with liveried
servants; but we are not quite sure that
those carriages are not run by moneys
obtained by fraud-by moneys obtained
by defaultng banks. We are not sure
that some of the best houses in which
those people live are not built by
money
Obtaned by fraud in connection with the
banks and (ter monetary institutions
of
the country.

I say that the the
d epressed state of Government forget the
Maritime Provinces
which every newspaper that comes
there proclaims. They forget the from
limited

rources of the Province of

Quebec.

will rhve got in their brain the fame that
ect on them, poor men, in having

constructed this colossal railway from the
Atlantic to the Pacine, that
they may
ravel in their triumphal car over that road
rom ocean toocean, and we behold them
rushing vith electric speed this public
work through the vast Laurentian ranges
and the gorges and canyons of the Rocky
Mountains to reach that rich and fertile
agricultural country of British Columbia
with its 16 ,ooo white people all
and the Government are looking told ;
forward
to the joy with which they will traverse
the continent in their triumphal car
ere
the belîs have rung in the advent of 1886.
There is not a banker or enlightened
rmerchant in the country who does
not
know that the public obligations which
the Government are throwing upon
us
Must bring widespread discontent, and
endanger the permanence of the
confederation, and if disaster should overtake this
Dominion, the charge will lie with
the preseit Governnent. When the people
realize
the fact that after we shall have spent

Addres8s.

seventy millions of dollars on construction,
the country will have to vote eight millions of dollars annually for the operation
of a road, where, for sixteen hundred
miles little else can be heard but the
mournful screech of the owl, or the echoes
of the locomotive whistle in the solitudes.
of those mountains,-I say when the
people of this country realize this fact,
they will deeply regret the folly which
they and their representatives have been
guilty of, in supporting a Government
which appears to be lost to all sense of
responsibility, and who seem to think only
of keeping themselves in power. A great
public work may be carried outwith wisdom
or it may be carried out to produce great
Our great inter-oceanic road
disaster.
should have been constructed with prudential care, considering the present
extent of our population, and the
limited resources of the people, and it
should have been built by the Govern
ment.
Having said enough to prove
the entire recklessness of the Government, would the House now kindly
permit me to show one of the instances
wherein the Government have inflicted
wrong and injustice, and shown gross ingratitude. I refer to the wrong and injustice done to the Grand Trunk Railway
by permitting the Canadian Pacific Railway to build, with the aid of Government
subsidies, a competing line with the Grand
Trunk Railvay, through the Province of
Ontario, with the view eventually of extending it to Chicago with moneys out of the
public chest of the Dominion. When I
becamne aware of the purpose of the
Paciic Railway Company to operate a
new line from Montreal, via Peterboro to,
Toronto, and from there west to St.
Thomas, with a view of competing with
the Grand Trunk for the trade with
Chicago and the North-West, I could not
but come to the conclusion that the
Government's sense of justice and rectitude
were things of the past. When we calmly
ponder over all the benefits and services
which the Grand Trunk Railway Company
have rendered in devdoping the magnificent Province of Ontario and the country
from Montreal westward, fostering the
rapid growth of the cities of Montreal and
Toronto, and in like manner every town
and village along the line; while the
farmers acknowledge that the value of

Te

12

[SENATE]

their property has been increased ten-fold
thereby-I say when we consider those
facts we cannot but feel that the Government have shown by the course they have
pursued, a want of every sense of right
and justice and public gratitude ; and
further, they have by their act placed us,
the people of the Dominion, in the humiliating position of being chargeable with
heartless ingratitude to the shareholders
of that Railvay Company, who, with their
English gold, developed and built up this
magni icent Province. No one knows
better than the present Government that
$5o,ooo,coo of share capital were spent by
that railway corporation, upon which not
one dollar of interest or dividend has ever
been declared, and it is sad to think that
any Government in a British Colony could
act in so heartless and ruthless a manner,
towards a company who have invested
their capital on the faith that they might
look for British honor and honesty among
colonial statesmen. How dreadful it is to
think that the Government could be guilty
of such acts. The Grand Trunk Railway
Company has had a heavy struggle to live
through all the adverse interests opposed
to it. It has, considering all things, done
its work well. As to charges preferred by
Montreal or Toronto merchants that it is
a monopoly, those gentlemen ought to
remember that a railway nust earn its
way, and they must remember that the
$50,ooo,ooo share capital has never returned a farthing of dividend. If the
road is obliged to carry at every point at
under rates, how can it possibly keep its
bridges, culverts, and rolling stock in
proper order to serve the comfort and
safety of the travelling public, and the
commercial interests of the country ? The
result of permitting the Pacific Railway
Company to use a part of their subsidy
on this competing line will be that they
will be enabled to crush gradually the
Grand Trunk Railway Company, and
depreciate the value of their bonds, until,
in despair, they will be driven to sell them
at any price, and in this way thousands of
English families will be brought to poverty
and ruin through the unwise acts of
the Dominion Government, and we shall
then have one grand railway monopoly
extending from Montreal west, and exer-cising a control over the Dominion, which,
in the end, may drive our people in despair
HON. MR.

ALEXANDER.

Address.

to look to Washington for better Government.
A gentleman has asked me to explain
how such a large annual vote will be
required for many years to operate the
Canadian Pacific Railway after it is finished. If the House will allow me, I will
give the particulars. The most experienced railvay men will tell you that a continuous line of rails between two points does
not make a railway. Structures of trestle
work have to be filled up, stations have to
be established and station houses constructed, transfer facilities provided, railway sidings made, new engines and cars
furnished of every kind and description.
Why ! the destruction of property from
railway casualties alone, which no care
has been found sufficient to prevent in the
past, is such as to require an untold
amount of capital. It is computed, and I
believe computed correctly, that at least
8,ooo men will be required at times to
keep the track clear of snow north of the
lakes. I do not say they will be required
continuously, but snow storms will come,
and as you know that country, to the
extent of 8oo miles, is incapable of sustaining population, and the Canadian
Pacific Railway Company will have to
bring men hundreds of miles from the east
and the west in order to keep the track
clear of snow. The Intercolonial Railway,
when the capital account was closed, cost
$22,500,000.
I may be in error, but I
am told that the figures have swollen to
$38,000,000.
I might mention a very peculiar fact
which was brought to my attention before I left Quebec, about the Canadian
Pacific Railway. It is difficult to explain
how the Government permit it, but
the present contractors, I was given to
understand, instead of following Sandford
Fleming's line, which would have taken
them to the Yellow Head Pass and enabled them to cross the Rocky Mountain
range with gradients not exceeding fifty
feet to the mile, have adopted a route,
portions of which actually have gradients
of 200 feet to the mile, and on some
portions 250 feet to the mile. Every
railway man and every merchant knows
that they could not bring up three cars
at a time on a road with gradients 250
feet to the mile. Was there ever such
madness, such folly, as the Government

The

[JAN. 30, 1885]

permitting a road to be built with such
gradients. The idea of allowing any portion of that great work to be built so
that a locomotive could not haul three
cars at a time over it, and this simply in
order that the$25,000,000 in gold may
be paid over to the Syndicate!
The
other day at Toronto, some one jocularly
observed that they had better send some
members of the Government to Victoria
and rnake them station masters there
order to book passengers for Jupiter in
or
JUpiter's satellites in order to obtain
traffic
for the Canadian Pacific Railway.
ever there was a country that deserved If
to
be well governed, it is Canada.
If ever
there was a people, who by their industry,
their frugal habits and their
self-denial,
deserved to have their affairs well
adnimistered, it is the people of
this
Dominion ; yet we find this Government
guilty, for some unaccountable objects, of
bringing untold disaster on the
country,
ant they may create such widespread
discontentas May endanger the Confederation.
Now, when we consider the financial
obligations throwvn upon this country,
and
the wrong and injustice done,
not only to
the Grand Trunk Railway,
but also the
Maritime Provinces and the
Province of
Quebec, we cannot be surprised
Quebec last session sent delegates that
here
to demand better terms, and again,
this
session, send a delegation to
demand
more aid. We find the old,
historic
City of Quebec a place of such natural
attractions and of such interest,
and which
ought to have been, but for the miserahle
conflict of party, the seat of goveriment
for the Dominion, deeply dissatisfied
and
determined they shall have their
rights;
and can we wonder that a similar
state of
feeling exists in Nova Scotia and in
New
Brunswick. Nova Scotia was forced
into
the Confed2ration contrary to its
will;
and is it any wonder if they c.ime here
to
demand large addiitional subsidies,
when
they find the Government throwing
the
public money into the construction of
a
road which can only benefit a sparse population for many years to come.
When we behold all this and observe
that the Government have become
so
reckless, and determined that the Liberal
party shall not come into power, or any
Qther party, so.long as they can buy up
the provinces, is it any wonder that the

Address.

country is becoming deeply alarmed ?
Man, in the plentitude of his power, thinks
he can secure success by artifice and
questionable means; but no one can with
impunity transgress the laws which are
eternal and immutable for the well being
of society. The only principles which
stand the test of time are the principles
of truth, of right and of justice. Any
other principles must bring a judgment
from above upon the country. I do not
believe that a people so enlightened as
those of this Dominion will any longer
countenance such an abandonment of
principle in high quarters, and I do
not think that with all the teachings
of our churches throughout the land,
If
no honest government can live.
we behold the Roman Catholic Church in
the Province of Quebec, we can find
throughout that province well ordered
parishes, and the name of God respected
and virtue and morality prevailing. Go
to Upper Canada, and sec there the results
of virtuous lives, of frugality and industry.
Vet these gentlemen tell us that no honest
government can live in this country. I will
now conclude my remarks, and I have to
apologize to the Hduse for the imperfect
manner in which I have expressed those
views which I sincerely entertain, and
which I have expressed because I feel the
dreadful position into which we are being
brought by this Government. And if this
Administration is kept longer in power,
and the peonle do not rise in their might
to cleanse the political atmosphere, the
electric fluid will do its work and we will
be overtaken with a grave commercial
disaster. I will now conclude by quoting
the remarks of the illustrious Washington
in his farewell address to the people of the
United States. lie observed :
« Hvowever partizan combinations ma'y now
and then answer popilar entds, they are like'y
in the course of time to beconie engines by
which ennieing, and ambitions and un primeipied mcn wil be enabled to subvert the power

of the peopi and use their position for their
own seIfisli ends."

HON. MR. SCOTT.-The task of moving the resolutions for an Address to His
Excellency in answer to the Speech from
the Throne has been discharged by the
member for Victoria with his usual clearness, and with such a warm approval of
the policy of the Government as must no

Tle

LSENATE]

Address.

.doubt have been gratifying to his leaders. of what might be called the new policy in
The hon. gentleman, the youngest Senator this country, that it was going to avert
in this House, who has seconded the just such a crisis as there is now uver
resolution we have ail heard with very Canada. In 1877 and 1878 the Governgreat pleasure, and I am quite prepared ment of that day were time and again told
to make ail allowances for his first address that it was their duty to avert the then
to this Chamber, although I think that existing depression, that by the adoption
any apology on that score is quite unneces- of a protective policy the evils of a depressary. I am very glad to welcome that sion might be to some extent minimized.
ihon. gentleman to this Chamber, for That opinion, at the time, I challenged,
although he is a Conservative, I assume and I think recent experience of those
that that is a blemish which we must over- who have given the subject anything like
look. Under the principle on which gen- careful thought bas convinced them that
tlemen are appointed to this House only the policy adopted in 1879 was not a wise
adherents of the dominant party are one, that we have utterly failed to provide
admissable ; and therefore I am free to for the farmer of this country what he was
say that a very good selection has been then promised, a home market; that we
made in this instance. Though the hon. have utterly failed to sustain our own
gentleman has not in the past filled aîy manufactures, even by the high wall that
representative position in the country, yet we erected to keep the manufacturers ot
So long as the
he is not altogether unknown to fame as a other countries out,
distinguished member of the profession to general products of this country had
which he belongs. The hon. gentleman a demand in the markets of the world,
is appointed to a postion in this House more particularly the products of our
that was formerly held by a gentleman farms and the products of our forests and
from Kingston, whose memory we ail hold fisheries, so long did prosperity reign, and
in very high esteem, a gentleman who had, it mattered little whether we paid high
before he left this House, been recognized or low taxes, but when the strain came
as the oldest member, and had been a upon us, when the wave of depression
long respected member of the Legislative swept over other countries, we immediCouncil of old Canada and of the Senate. ately shared in the consequence of the
The protective policy of this
Now, coming to the first paragraph of vav e.
the Address, on which I wish to make country was quite unequal to giving what
some brief comments, I am free to say had been so liberally promised by the
that I cannot entirely concur in the ful- Government, when such conditions as
some observations made by my hon. have arisen, arise in this country. So
friend who moved the resolutions. We long as our exports were large, and so
are asked to join in congratulations on the long as Great Britain and the United
abundant harvest with which Providence States were able to buy from us, the wealth
has blessed our country, and if the para- that flowed into Canada was attributed to
graph stood alone, I an free to say I the National Policy, although as a matter
should heartily join in it, but it is very of fact we were really importing more than
cunningly united with one congratulating we had been importing before, with a
us also on the general condition of the consumption of more manufactures than
Dominion. With that part of the para- we had consumed before. If the argugraph I am disposed in some degree to ment had been a sound one, the manufind fault. The paragraph tells us later factures in Canada would have grown and
on that "the commercial prosperity of spread, and we would have inported less.
Canada, although it bas to some extent The policy of the Government was that
shared in the depression which bas pre- we should manufacture for ourselves and
vailed in Great Britain, and in the neigh- not buy abroad. It is quite apparent,
boring Republic, rests upon foundations therefore, that the fiscal policy adopted in
which no temporary or partial disturbance 1879, has failed to provide the home
market promised to the farmers of this
can remove."
Now, we were told, not a great many country. No doubt, while the prosperity
years ago, in 1879 and 188o, and we have continued it stimulated the manufacheard it very frequently since the adoption tures of this country. It induced many
HON. MR.

SCOTT.

T7te

[JAN. 30, 1885]

Of our people to take their savings out
of other industries and place them in
sugar, cotton, iron and other manufactures.
What bas been the result ? Ask the
shareholders of those enterprises whether
they would not to-day have preferred
to Place their money in 1879, 188o
and 1881 in five per cent. debentures
rather than place them in the industries to
which I have alluded!
Ask any one of
them if he would not have preferred to
take that course rather than to follow the
advice of the Government in spreading
the
industries of this country and increasing
the manufactures ! We were unable to
'Compete with foreign manufactures, and
Our own people found, when depression
came, that they could buy as cheaply
abroad and pay the 40, 50 or 6o per cent.
taxes, as the case might be, as to purchase
in this country. The lesson is a good one,
and if our people gain experience by it, it
will be a blcssing to this country in its
early history to pass through an ordeal of
that kind.
In the next paragraph of the Address
we are told that the flow of population
anto Manitoba and the North-West,
although impeded by various and
Pected causes, has been substantial. unexvews on that question of emigration My
have
been Placed before this House
on prevous occasions, and I think the history
one year with another goes to
confirm the soundness of the opin-

Address.

swells also, and as theirs diminishes ours
also goes down. Theirs kept going down
from 1877 to 1879 just as ours did. I was
often taunted, when I occupied a seat on
the other side of the House, with the idea
that we were unable to devise any immigration scheme that would induce immigrants to settle in Canada. I answered
ther that the causes that led to the
removal of people from one country to
another were entirely beyond the control
of anything like legislation on our part.
In 1877 in the United States immigration
had not only ceased, but the migration
was the other way, and we know how the
volume began to swell in 1879, 1880, 1881
and 1882, until it had risen to the largest
figures that ever marked the flow of
immigration into the United States.
We hear that the Government propose
to adopt the Torrens system for the transfer of property in the North-West. I
think the system will answer there very
well. I would not like to see it applied
in the older provinces, more particularly
in the Province of Ontario, with whose
laws I am more familiar, inasmuch as I do
not think it would be suitable where there
are intricate titles from antecedent titles.
In the North-West the titles are few as yet,
and lands have not so freely changed
hands, and the Torrens system can be
safely and easily introduced there.
For the third time we are told that it is
proposed to introduce a bill for the purions I have so frequently enunciatedpose of giving us more uniform representthat is, that we could exercise in
but a ation through the elective franchise. I
small degree the influence which causes have never favored that view, because I
people on the other side of the
Atlantic think it is a matter that ought to have
to cross to America.
The laws which been left with the provincial authorities. I
govern the flow of population to this conthink there is less danger of political intertinent are beyond our influence
or control. ference with the franchise where it is left
No doubt we may offer facilities, we may
gîve away our lands, and widely advertise entirely with the local authority to form
the basis upon which the electors shall be
them. All those things, I am
free
have their incidental advantages, to admit, permitted to vote. It will give rise, no
but that doubt, to the appointmen-t of revising
they affect to any marked degree
the barristers, and a host of appointments
current of population from one country to
altogether in the interests of the political
another, I entirely deny: and
we have party that for the time being bas control
Only to look to the last ten or fifteen years, of the patronage of the country. It theretake any era we like, and compare the fore leaves the system
.
open to
immigration into this country with that tion of being fostered with the the imputaview to the
into the United States, and we find that
aiding in that way of the political party that
they move up and down just as truly
as makes theappointment of the officers whose
the mercury in one thermometer falls
or duty it will be to bring it into operation.
rises with the mercury in another. As
the
A provisional arrangement, we are
immigration to our shores swells up theirs has been made between the Dominiontold,
and

16

The

[SENATE]

the Government of Manitoba, for carrying
on the expenses of that country. We
have had this subject repeatedly before
Parliament, and I think thetime has come
when the youngest member of the Confederation ought to have her affairs placed
on such a basis as will render it unnecessary to be appealing year after year to the
Government of the day for an additional
subsidy. It ought to be placed on some
sort of a basis--either that of population
or on some other recognized principlethat would obviate this necessity of Manitoba being a supplicant to the Dominion
year by year, for assistance in carrying on
the Government of the Province.
We learn that we are to have a report
laid before us that has been prepared by a
commission that lately sat in British
Columbia, to enquire into the question of
Chinese immigration into that Province.
This Government is somewhat famous
for its commissions. We have commissions issued very frequently : in some instances they produce very small results.
They are very convenient mediums
for conferring favors upon the adherents
of the Government, by affording office for
those who are needy and have very little
to do. I arn curious to learn what the
report of this commission may be. I am
free to confess that it is not, perhaps,
desirable that we should have a Chinese
population settling in one of our provinces
in the large numbers that they do. They
are not a desirable class. The Mongolian
race do not seern acceptable to the
Caucasian family. Whether we ourselves
can adopt any policy that will keep them
froni coming to our shores is, I think,
very questionable. We all know that this
is a policy which must be entirely controlled by the Imperial authority. What Lord
Derby might have to say to it, I would
be rather anxious to know, because this
Chinese question has a curious history.
It is a matter within the remembrance of
us all, that the Chinese desired to keep
the barbarians out of China for a long
period of time, and it was only through the
arguments of grape and cannister and shot
and shell that they were induced to believe
in the superior humanizing influence of
the Anglo-saxon race to the Caucasian
We know that we inrace generally.
sisted upon their country being opened
to us; that we ought to have the right
HON. MR.

SCOTT.

Address.

to establish trade in a limited degree with the people of China
We
in consequence established ourselves at
Hong Kong, and insisted on having five
ports open to British shipping, and when
the Chinese did not see the propriety of
trading with us, we sent an army down to
Pekin and burnt their beautiful palace
there, and finally they were convinced by
our superior arguments that a trade with
the outer world was a policy that they
ought to adopt. It seems to me rather
inconsistent and rather illogical for the
Chinese now to be told-," It is true we
wanted to trade with China, and we
wanted to settle in China; we desired to
have it free for our merchants to make all
the money they could in that country, and
invest it in British stocks ; but the rule
does not seem to work the other way and
we are opposed to the Chinese coming
into our territory and settling themselves
amongst us." It will be an exceedngly
awkward problem to unravel, and to satisfy
the Chinese at least that we are consistent.
It is a subject that has formed for many
years an angry controversy between the
Government at Washington and the Government at Pekin-in fact the result
attained has never been one satisfactory
to either parties. The Chinese immigration has gone on on a kind of sufferance
system that has not been at all satisfactory,
and I assume that that will be the result
of any negotiation that we may desire to
make, unless we acquire the power of
making treaties ourselves, andthen possibly
we may be able to devise same systern by
which we can obviate the difficulty that
scems to be created by this large immigration of Mongolians into British Columbia.
We are told that the Government propose to aid railway enterprise in the NorthWest. I assume that that, perhaps, is by
renitting to the various companies that
have already been alloted grants of land
on their paying for it, the stipulated sum
of half a dollar or a dollar an acre. It is
a policy that I an quite prepared to
approve of, as I think the construction of
subsidiary lines of railway, through various
parts of the North-West, ought to be in
every way encouraged.
In strange contrast to the first paragraph
of the Address comes the next one, in
which we are told that the tine has arrived
in which it is necessary in effect to re-enact

T/e

[JAN. 30, 1885]

the old Bankruptcy Law. I say it is inconsistent with the first paragraph, in
which we are told that the towns of the
Dominion are fairly prosperous ; but as
the returns show that the increase of
failures has been very considerable, particularly the last few years, I assume that
such a provision as the one named in the
Address is an absolute necessity.
We are told, also, that in pursuance of
the vote of last session, a vessel was fitted
out in order to ascertain the feasibility of
the Hudson Bay scheme. As to the wisdom of that policy, honorable gentlemen
know my views. When the hon. Senator
from Montreal-who I regret is not now
in his place-first brought this subject
before the House, I then took the ground
that if it were feasible I thought we were
not acting in the interests of the people of
Canada in favoring a scheme which vas
going to divert the whole trade of the
North-West through the waters of the
Hudson Bay and the north Atlantic instead of through its natural channel, the
older Provinces of Canada. We have
been spending hundreds of millions of
dollars in opening up avenues by which
the products of the North-West could
reach tide water; and it seemed to me to
be inconsistent with our policy that
before
these avenues have been completed,
and
the wisdom of our large expenditure
put
to the test, that we should be actually preParing to divert the whole of that traffic
to another route in which the people who
contributed this large sum of money have
no Possible intercst. But I had always
entertained a belief that the scheme was
a chimerical one : that it was adopted by
the Governiient simlply as a foil. They
knew there was a good deal of dissatisfaction existing in the North-West, because

the people were told there that the
products of their farms must reach tide water
entirely through British channels, and over
one railway ; and to meet this proposition
the Hudson Bay scheme was allowed
to
take forn and shape, and Parliament
was
asked to vote a large sum of money
to
test the possibility of it. I have no
doubt
it may be that under certain circumstances
and for a limited time, a vessel
can succeed in getting through ; but that
the
Hudson Bay affords free and easy communication between Europe and the
North-West I am disposed to
deny.

Addres.

Railway schemes were favored last year
and the year before by which the traffic
from the North-West was to reach Hudson
Bay, and we are now spending this considerable sum of money in ascertaining whether a vessel can navigate the
waters of Hudson Bay and Straits. The
probability is that like some of the Arctic
expeditions, we shall have to send another
vessel to try and get the exploring vessel
out of the ice. We know that those
waters are so filled for many months of
the year with vast quantities of icebergs,
that it is wholly unsafe for any vessel to
navigate them except during a very limited
period of the summer season.
The proposition to represent Canada at
the Antwerp exhibition is one that I quite
approve of, and I think also it would be
proper that we should share in the
Colonial and Indian exhibition that is
proposed to be held in England in 1886.
It is a legitimate way of advertising the
pr;.ducts of Canada, and of showing the
advance that we have made in the growth
and prosperity of the country.
Various smaller measures are proposed
to be laid before us, but those I do not
propose to deil with until they come
properly before us. The Speech is rather
remarkable for its manifold omissions
than for the important communications
which the Government have vouchsafed
to give us.
It is remarkable, there being so
important a matter as the termination of
the Fishery Clauses of the Washington
Treaty, that no reference should be
made to the subject ; that this paternal Government should not say to
the fishermen who have heretofore found
a market in the United States, that
they hope in their self-reliance that they
would still go on and prosper, and that
other markets might be open to them in
lieu of the important one that is so soon
to be closed against them.
There are other important questions
that have transpired and have been discussed widely during the recess, that it
might have been proper for the Government to advert to, although possibly it
might have been an admission of humiliation. Since we last met in this Chamber
we know that a very considerable areaan area very much larger than some of the
provinces of this Dominion-has been

The

[SENATE]

awarded to the Province of Ontario, that
had been previously claimed as part of the
North-West, as Dominion property ; still
no allusion has been made to that in the
Speech from the Throne. The confirmation by the Privy Council of that long
disputed boundary award that has been
so frequently discussed in Parliament, and
about which so much bas been written,
was surely a matter worthy of notice.
Another question that might have been
adverted to with propriety, is the placing
on a proper basis provincial rights. In
thecontest that bas been going on betveen
the Dominion and the important province
of Ontario in regard to many questions of
right claimed on behalf of the Province,
the view of the Dominion bas been overruled-notably in the appeals known as
the " Streams Bill," and the " Dominion
License Act." I think if this Confederation is to be preserved that the federal
power, which is a strong one, ought to be
exceedingly cautious before it encroaches
upon the provincial authority. I entirely
approve ot the minute which was put on
record by the present head of the Government in 1868 or 1869, when this question
of disallowing provincial acts first came
before him. He then, with the full knowledge of what had been obtained in the
confederation of the provinces, and recognizing how delicate a subject it was,
fully appreciated the importance of giving
to the provinces their full and absolute
right, by declining to veto any local Bill
unless it was manifestly in excess of the
provincial authority. I say it would have
been a wise and a proper thing for this
Dominion if the principles that then actuated the leader of the Government had continued to be his guide in the consideration
of the subjects which have in recent years
come under his attention as the head of
this Government.
He has not recently
shown that broad statesmanship that
formerly characterized him, but rather a
tendency to cripple an important province
that seemingly, politically, bas not been
In
favorably disposed to his own views.
ail the contests that have arisen on those
constitutional questions it is a matter of
notoriety that the Dominion bas been
worsted
It is a matter of regret that those
contests should arise. There ought to be
some degree of elasticity allowed in pro
vincial legislation, and unless the province
HON. MR. SCOTT.

Address8.

is encroaching manifestly beyond its
proper limit, it ougbt fot to be interfered
with, and the question ought to be discussed on a broader and more friendly
basis. The Province of Ontario may feel
that it was a fortunate tbing for this
country that there was a tribunal on the
other side of the Atlantic made up of the
lav Lords of the Privy Council who took
a more just view of the situation, wbolly
unbiased by any political feeling. I trust
that the experience that bas been gained
in the past year may be a warning to
future governments that they are not to
cncroacb upon the rights of the provinces.
Our Dominion will be ail tbe stronger;
the people will be more contented if tbey
feel that the constitution that vas given to
thcm, the written constitution, is one whicb
is not to be encroached upon; that it bas
to he interpreted at least as fairly for the
weaker power as if it were ofequal strengtb
to the parent power, because tbings of that
kind naturally give rise to unpleasantness
They reflect upon the
and irritation.
federal Government, because tbey lead one
to the conclusion that it was a matter of
feeling ratber than of principle that was
the guide in considering the important
question of wbether the province had gone
bcvond its power in tbe legislation tbat is
sought to be vetoed.
bave been
MON. MR. (URARD.-I
long enough a member of this House to
feel assured tbat there will be no doubt
in the md of any one as to tbe position
I occupy. I bave come this year, as in
the past, quite disposed to belp tbe Government in ail measures in tbe interests of
the country. I do not sec in tbe Speech
from the Throne anytbing wbich I could
not sustain; but I rise in case some prejudice may be created in the minds of
hon. gentlemen, by the remarks made by
the hon, gentleman wbo bas just spoken
in reference to matters wbicb bave been
submitted lately by the Government of
Manitoba to the federal authorities, to
make some observations on certain matters
affecting the interests of my province. h
should be borne in mmd that we are
surrounded in that country by peculiar
circumstances. When we came into tbe
Dominion I do not think we received the
fair treatment that we deserved. We did
not receive an equivalent for wbat we gave,

The

[JAN. 30, 1S85]

and if, fromn time to time, we have been
forced to cone to the Federal Governirent
to get something more, it was because it
was impossible for us to go any further
otherwise. We have received liberal asSistance from the Government here, but
it does not follow that we have got al]
that we are entitled to ; and at the present
tilme, if we consider the value and importance, not only of'the vast Province of
Maitoba, but also of the North-West
Territories, I do not think it is saving too
much to observe that we have not yet
received one-half of what we were entitled
to at the time Manitoba was admitted
into the Union, if more precaution had
been taken then to secure our rights. W e
have respectfully come, fron time to time,
and stated our wants to the Dominion Goverirment and we have received kind attention from them, and I suppose in this instance also, we will receive an increase of
subsidy It simply an act of justice to the
Province which I have the honor to represent, and one which I am sure will be
unanininously conceded by this House.
I arn glad to see that the Government
are disposed to advance the construction
of railways in the North-West Territories.
There are lines which in the interests of
Conization should be constructed as soon
as possible. Lines are spoken of running
in north-west and south-west directions.
I hope the Goveriment will be disposed
to help those enterprises in such a way
that they vill be constructed rapidly in
order to promote the settlement of the
country. I would here take the liberty of
Suggesting a better system of aiding them.
Hiherto we have assisted them by grants
of land at a time when land in the NorthWest was not appreciated at its full value.
Prhaps It would be better to aid them
with a grant of money. It wouId be a
more practical mode of assisting the corporations which have undertaken the
construction of those roads. I respectfully
submit this suggestion in the interests not
only of Manitoba but of the North-West
Territories, and in the interests of the
whole of Canada
I observe with great satisfaction that
efforts have been made by the Government
during the last summer to ascertain the
practicability of navigating Hudson's Bay
and Straits.
We know that difficulties
exist, but I trust that the Government wîll

Adres.

fnot be diséouraged by then. The scheme,
at all events, should be thoroughly investigated ; if it should be found to be
impracticable, of course, nobody will expect it to be proceeded with ; but if it
should be found practicable the opening
up of that route would produce an inportant change in the commerce of the
whole Dominion, and especially
of
Manitoba and the North-West Territories.
It seens to me that it is the duty of the
Governrment to endeavor, until it is found
to be impracticable, to carry out the enterprise.
I wished to make some remarks on a
subject in which 1 am more directly interested ; but other occasions will arise
when I will be afforded an opportunity to
express my views. I am quite ready, as I
said at the begining, to give the Government the same support now that I have
given them in the past, not only in the
adoption of the Address but as to their
policy generally.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE.-While I
do not observe in the Speech from the
Throne nmeasures of such importance
announced as in years past, some of them
are certainly important, but as to those it
would be premature to express an opinion
now. They will corne before Parliament
in good time and we will then be able to
say whether they are of such a character
that we can support theni or not.
I rise on this occasion nainly to express
rny regret that the ordinary practice of
having the mover of the Address speak in
one of the two official languages, and the
seconder in the other, has been departed
from this year. If this were the only
objection, certainly, I should not have
risen to protest against it, because I do
not consider it of sufficient importance to
occupy the time of the House ; but it
must be borne in mind that we are till
without a representative of the French
Canadian race on the treasury benches
of this House, or any Minister who can
explain the measures that come before us
in our own language. We are deprived
of this constitutional right and we are
forced to discuss the important questions
submitted to us, in a language which is
not our own. Under the circumstances,
it is not only our right, but it is our duty
to protest against this injustice to the

The

LSENATE]

Addres8.

minority in this House. I do not want to of one or two cases in which gentlemen
complain too much, because I see there is worthy of occupying seats here, who have
a determination to trample upon our sacrificed the best part of their lives, and
.:onstitutional rights, and that the more given their means to promote the interests
we complain the worse we find our posi- of their country and aid the party to which
tion. Time will tell whether we are right they belong, who have asked for seats
or wrong in the position we have taken. I here in the place of old members who
believe that we should demand, every were ready to retire in their favor, yet
session, that our rights be respected, and their request was refused ; and I therefore
that those who refuse to concede those protest against the course which has been
followed in the present instance.
rights are perpetrating an injustice.
I was happy to learn, when for the first
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I shall
time I heard, last night, the announcement of the appointment of the new offer a few remarks or, the peculiarly comsenator from the Province of Quebec, the plicated clause of the Address which conhon. gentlemen from New Carlisle; be- gratulates Parliarnent on the bountiful
cause I know that with his great experience, harvest vouchsafed to us; at the same
and having been for years a member of the time venturing a doubt as to whether that
Privy Conncil, he will be an ornament prosperity so generally overspreads the
to the House, and may be able to ac- country as could be wished. To my
complish, perhaps, some thingswhich older thinking the prosperity of a country like
Her
and less distinguished men cannot do. Canada ought to be continuous
For that reason I an glad to see him normal state ought to be one of progress,
here, but I protest against the way in and if it fails to be so, the 'auses are to
which his appointment has been made. be feund in unwise legislation. The deWe hear in those days of corruption in pression of trade is due, in my opinion,
high places, and of governments which very largely to forcing capital and labor
I can- out of their natural channel into new ones,
are demoralizing our population.
not say that the transaction to which I which would not have taken place had it
have referred is one of those denoralizing not been for the protection afforded by
events, but it is part of the system. Some certain laws passed for that purpose.
four years ago I announced that this event This being so, the tendency of capitalists
would happen, and I cannot, feeling is naturally to take as large a share as
my responsibility as a public man, sit possible, and as speedily as possible, of
silently here while such things are going the new and lucrative undertakings, and,
I would be doing what I believe for a time, success attends those enteron.
to be a wrong, and when I know prises. A large amount of capital is cxthe right course to pursue I always pended in the erection of buildings, and in
It is not the setting up of machinery, and for a while,
endeavor to follow it.
that I oppose Lieutenant Governors in paying wages of laborers. For a time,
I believe it is right until the markets of the country are glutted
becoming senators.
that they should occupy seats in this with the products of the manufactories, a
House, and if a measure were submitted certain show of prosperity does exist ; but
to us to give to every Lieut.-Governor, at how long does that state of things go on
the expiration of his term of office, a seat in a country like Canada, whose manufacin the Senate, I should probably vote for tured products find no market abroad ?
it, because I believe that many of our Of course the period during which that
Lieut.-Governors are comparatively young prosperity is to last can, by skilled permen, and the Dominion should not be sons, be calculated to a nicety. It is well
deprived of their services. But while I known what a certain number of looms
approve of such a general principle, I can supply to a given population, and
protest aganst the manner in which this when that number of looms is greatly exlast appointment has been made-I pro- ceeded the period of prosperity cannot be
test against a member of the family, and a long, and the ultimate result must be a depublic official, being appointed here to pression. This, I think, is the explanation
keep the seat warm for him until the of a great deal of the depression whieh
expiration of his term of office. I know exists in Canada. I may be told that the
HON. MR. BELLEROSE

The

[JAN. 30, 18S5]

depression exists in free trade England
as well as in this country. No doubt
it
does, but I think those who have read the
recent debates in the British Parliament,
speeches of leading men in various parts
of the country, and the articles in the press
of England, must be aware of the fact that
it is boldly affirmed there, that free
trade England is less affected by the
depression, which undoubtedly does
exist in
many countries of the world, than
France,
Germany, or even the United States
of
mrenica.

Addre8.

subject, by those interested in the
Fisheries, and I cannot help regarding it as a serious omission from the topics
alluded to in the Speech, that the coming
cessation of the Fisheries Clauses of the
Washington Treaty is not alluded to.
With regard to provincial rights, to
which allusion has been made by a previous speaker, I must say I think it is a
matter of prime importance that the
position of the different provinces should

be well established and well maintained.
Without possession of those rights and

Now, this being so, we need not be
very privileges which are secured by the Con-

much surprised at the depression. We
fust look to time for a remedy, but the
Unfortunate part of the business is that a
large part of the available labor
of the
Dominion is detached from productive
pursuits. So long as prosperity exists
the employees of the manufactories and
are
well fed and clothed they are
in a happy
ition ; but what is to become of those
persons whose prosperity depends solely
01, the wages of manufacturing, when
the
emploYers, through no fault
of theirs, reduce ermployment to perhaps
half-time or
ess or shut up their manufactories

altogether t hese are questions
arise lut of the policy of which clearly
forcing capital
supported into enterprises which, unless
prt
by a premirnum
protective tariff, would have secured by a
no existence,
otofly a lhmited existence,
in Canada.
t sornetimes occurs that
fot mentioned in speechessubjects are
*from
Throne at the opening of Parliament the
in
which considerable interest is
felt.
there is a subject which attracts Now
great
attention in the Maritime
Provinces,
and much anxiety is felt
as to what
Course will be pursued in
the near
future with regard to it. I allude
to the
subject of the Fisheries and the approachIng cessation of the Fisheries Clauses of
the Washington Treaty. I think it would
have been a becoming
thing if the
Goverrment had introduced in the
Speech
from the Throne a paragraph or two
stating what their course of conduct
had
been with regard to the
Fisheries and
what they expected would be
the result of
the cessation of the Fisheries
the Washington Treaty, which Clauses of
is to take
Place next summer.
I know in the
Province from whi::h I come,
very
Considerable anxiety is feit
on the

federation Act our province is in a very
The usual result of
precaricus position.
encroachments on any of those privileges
is that the population commence to consider the subject of withdrawing from the
Union. I myself always feel inclined to
treat such things as a chimera; but I cannot help seeing that encroachment on
provincial rights is a matter of most
I think they should
serious importance.
be most carefully guarded not only by this
Parliament but by all the provincial
leuislatures as well.
Having myself been very much interested in the subject of exhibitions generally, I think it would be most desirable
that the Dominion should be re presented
on those two occasions which are alluded
to in one of the closing clauses of His
Excellency's Speech; but it is necessary
with regard to Antwerp at leas:, that no
time should be lost in taking measures to
collect the exhibits which should be sent
to that country. I am not aware of what
time the exposition will open, but I presume it is the produce of last season, so
far as cereals and articles of that description are concerned, that will be exhibited.
Later on, of course, would be more advantageous to us in making our exhibit more
general.
I observe that the subject of the Civil
Service is to be renewed, and the Civil
Service Act is to be amended, and perhaps,
from its unsatisfactory condition at present,
it is desirable that it should be so.
Another subject to which attention has
been called is the Bankrupt and Insolvent
laws, and those I think are of very great
importance. I believe, myself, that we
shall never have trade placed on a firm,
substantial basis until we have an adequate
Insolvency law. I trust during this session

New Senator [SENATE]

22

it will not be, as it was two or three years
ago, when I and others, expecting some
change would be made or introduced by
the Government, waited and waited until
finally, I remember, I stood in my place
and asked the leader of the Government
if any thing was to be done on that
question, and I was then informed by him
that the intention was to repeal the existing
laws. I hope that will not be done on this
ocer sion.
One other matter I must speak of, which
has reference to the Province from which
I come : it is that the promises which the
Government made with regard to certain
improvements at the points of transport
during the winter months for our mails
and passengers, had not been timely
attended to. I have called attention
in this House before to the breachI will not sav breach, but the non-performance of the promise that boat-houses
should be crected at each of the capes between which our mails cross at this season
of the year.
Last year no commencement had been made, and this year I
crossed at one of those points, not many
days ago, and found the boat-houses had
as yet no existence, although some gangs
of carpenters had just conimenced, at this
cold season of the year to work upon
themn.
I hope the Governrment will take
more pains to put that service upon a
thoroughly well organized footing.
Last
year, or the year before, I forget which, a
committee of the other House of Parlianient sat and examined a number of
witnesses, and made an extensive report,
which is in print now ; and I think that
that report contained many very useful
suggestions which rnight be carried out
with great advantage, for the improvement of the transport of mails in winter
to and from I-rince Edward Island.
Having occupied the time of the House
so long I feel inclined to close my remarks.
The motion was agreed to.

Introduced.
THE SENATE.

Ottawî'a, Monday, February 2nd, 1885.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
WHITE POPULATION OF
BRITISH COLUMBIA.
AN

EXPLANATION.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-During
the debate on Friday, from information
which I had previously obtained, I stated
that the whole white population of British
Columbia was 16,ooo souls, all told.
Since that time one of the hon. Senators
of this House reproved me, stating that I
had been wrongly informed ; that it was a
larger number. I have since made it my
duty to see Mr. Homer, one of the representatives in Parliament, of British
Columbia, and he informs me that the
number is 25,000.
I desire, of course, to
nake the amzende honorablefor the mistake.
I made the statemncnt in good faith, believing I had correct information, and I am
very glad to hear that the white population
of the province is 25,000.

The Senate adjourned at 3:30 p.m.

THE SENATE.
Ottaua, Tuesday, February,3 rd, 1885.

The
o'clock.

SPEAKER

took the Chair at three

Prayers and routine proceedings.
NEW SENATOR INTRODUCED.

Hon. James R. GOWAN was introduced, and having taken the oath
prescribed by law, took his seat.
respecting Real
The Senate adjourned at 3.30 p.m.
Act

BILL INTRODUCED.

Bill (A) "An
Property in the North-west TerritorieF.
The Senate adjourned at
HON. MR.

5:20

HAYTHORNE.

p.m.

The Sessional

LFEB. 4, 1885] Committees.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Wednesday, February 4th, i885.
The

the Chair at Three

SPEAKER took

O'clock

Prayers and routine proceedings.

THE SESSIONAL COMMITTEES.

CHAPAIS,
COCHRANE,
FERRIER,
HAMILTON,
LACOSTE,
LEWIN,
MACINNES (Burhna,
ton)

SIMPSON,
SMITH,
THIBAUDEAU,
TRUDEL,
TURNER,
WARK.

RAILWAYS, TELEGRAPHS AND HARBORS.

MOTION.

Hon. Messrs.

HiON. SIR DAVID L. MACPHER- ALEXANIJR,
SON moved the appointment of the fol- ALLAN,
)Owing Select Standing Committee

MACINNES (Burling
ton),

BOUCHERVILLE,

CAMPBELL(Sir
CARVELL,
CHA PAIS,

DE, MACPHERSON,

Alex.)

(Sir David L),

WILLIAMILLERkS
MILLER,
Hon. Messrs.
ALEXANDER,
ODELL,
ALLAN,
PLUMB,
ALMON,
POWER,
BAILLARGEON,
RYAN,
BUELLEROSF
ScOTT,
BOUCHERVLLE, DE, SULLIVAN,
OWAN,
TRUDEL,
HAYTHORNE,
WARK.

COCHRANE,

MONTGOMERY,
NELSON,
OGILVIE,

FERGUSON,
FERRIER,
HAMILTON,
KAULBACH,

POWER)
ROBITAILLE,
RYAN,
SCHULTZ,

LACOSTE

McKINDSEY,

JOINT COMMITTEE ON THE LIBRARY.

HON.

MACPHERSON
(Si

PLUIMB,

DiICKEY,

MCCLELAN,
MCDONALD

MCKAY

(Cape
Breton),

MACDONALD,
(New
CAPSLLSi Al.

d

JOINT COMMITTEE ON PRINTING.

MCMILLAN,

)EVER,
GOWAN,
GUEVREMONT,

OGILVIE,
PELLETIER,
READ,
SULLIVAN,
VIDAL,

HAYTHORNE,
KAULBACH,

MCCLELAN,

WARK.

BANKING

AND

COMMERCE.

Hon. Messrs.
ALLAN,
ARCHIBALD
BELLEROSE,
BENSON,
BOTSFORD,
BOYD,
CARVELL,
CHAFFERS,

MACPHERSON

(Sir David L.
MCMASTER,
ODELL,
PAQUET,
PLUMB,

Ross,
RYAN>

(r

Destminster),

CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS.

Hon. Messers.

CHAPIS

SMITH,
STEVENS,
SUTHERLAND,
TURNER
VIDAI

Hon. Messrs.
ALEXANDER,
ARCHIBALD,
ARMAND,
BOTSFORD,
CAMPBELL(Sir
CHAFFERS,
CORMIER,

DEBLOIS,

MCINNES

(B. C.),

MCKAY,
Alex),

MCKINDSEY,
MCMASTER,
MCMILLAN,
MACFARLANE,
MACPHARSON

(Sir David L.),

DICKEY,
NELSON,
ODELL,
FERRIER,
FLINT,
O'DONOHOE,
GIRARD,
PELLETIER,
GRANT,
POWER,
HAMILTON,
READ,
HOWLAN,
RoBITAILLE,
LEONARD,
RYAN,
MCCLELAN,
SCOrr,
MCDONALD,
SMITH,
(Cape Breton), VIDAL.

The Senate [SE1N ATE]
STANDING

ORDERS AND

.Debates.

PRIVATE BILLS. to enter into a long history of the reasons

why the Senate has sunk in public estimation, but I do implore the Committee
now named to see in future that the
ALMON,
LACOSTE,
Hansard Reports find their way to the
ARCHIBALD,
MCINNES (B. C.),
public. That is the sentiment of Western
ARMAND,
McKAY,
Ontario, and I know that in Western
BELLEROSE,
MCMILLAN,
Ontario nothing is known of the proceedBOLDUC,
MACFARLANE,
ings of the Senate. I hope that the
BOTSFORD,
MONTGOMERY,
members of the Committee will endeavor
CAMPBELL (Sir Alex), NELSON,
to extend the circulation of the reports
CARVELL,
O'DONOHOE,
of the debates of this Chamber. Up
DEBLOIs,
OGILVIE,
to the present moment they have been
DEVER,
PAQUET,
sent only to the daily journals and the
FERRIER,
PELLETIER,
Judges of the Supreme Court. Within
FLINT,
POWER,
the last 12 hours the Debates Committee
GIRARD,
READ,
of the House of Commons have decided
REESOR,
GLASIER,
to send a copy of the bound volume
SCH ULTZ,
GOWAN,
of their Debates to every public journal
SCOTT,
GRANT,
in the country. I ask the Senate why
SULLIVAN,
GUEvREMONT,
should not the Debates of this Chamber
SUTHERLAND,
HAYTHORNE,
be sent in the same way to every
TRUDEL,
HOWLAN,
local journal in the Dominion? While
we are throwing millions away in the
The motion was agreed to.
canyons of the Rocky Mountains, surely
we should not grudge a few hundred
THE SENATE DEBATES.
dollars to give the people information of
how the government of the country is
MOTION.
carried on. Why should not the Senate
Hon. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON follow the example of the popular branch
moved that the following Senators be of Parliament ? I have had to complain,
appointed a Comnittee on the Debates of session after session, of the action of the
Committee appointed to manage the rethe Senate :porting of the debates of this Chamber.
I have had to complain upon many
Hon. Messrs.
grounds, and as long as I retain my health
BOLDUC,
SCH U1.TZ,
I will continue to express my views openly
BOUCHERvILLE, DE, SCOr,
on the floor of this House, as a representHAYTHORNE,
THIBEAUDEAU,
ative of the people. I am not a nominee
HOw LAN,
TRUDEL,
of Sir John Macdonald. The Minister of
MACFARLANE,
VIDAL.
Justice once insulted this House by telling
PLUMB,
them that I was ungrateful
Hon. Messrs.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I am sure
the hon. gentlemen who have just been
named will endeavor to discharge their
duty to the best of their ability. All of us
who know the sentiment of the country
must be aware that the Senate has fallen
very much in public estimation. (No, No!)
I only wish it were not so. I wish that I
were not aware of the fact. When I visit
the western counties of Ontario, and
meet old Conservative friends, I wish
I could say that I find them perfectly

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
hon. gentleman has no right to assert that

I insulted the House.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I can only
say I am very sorry that the hon. gentleman once muade such an unwise speech.
I stand here as a representative of the
people because I was sent to Parliament
by the people, and the Goverrnment placed
me here when the last vacancy occurred.
I am sure we shall not have to complain
satisfied with the way in which we dis- of the Debates Committee that they
ýcharge our duties. Now, I am not going have not followed the example of the

The Cox

[FEB. A, 1885]

Divorce Biß.

flouse of Commons in sending a copy
Of
Our debates to every journal in every
Province of the Dominion, so that the
People who pay the taxes may know what
their representatives in Parliament are
doing.

second reading of the petition, evidence
should be given of the service of the notice of this petition upon the respondent.

ION. MR. POWER-I do not know
whether the Committee who are about
being appointed will be very much influenced by the remarks made by the hon.
Mnember for Woodstock, but for one
reason I would be sorry that they should.
The practice adopted in this House during
the last few years has been to send the rePorts of the Debates of the Senate to the
different journals throughout the country
according as the formes were printed. In
the House of Commons, where they had
Pursued the same system, they have
decided to follow the course recommended
here by the hon. member for Woodstock,
and instead of sending the reports of the
Debates as they are printed, to forward
the bound volumes at the close of the
session. I think it must strike every hon.
gendleman that the latter mode of procedUre is not nearly as likely to bring about
the end which the hon. member seems to
desire, as the system which has been
in
operation for some years past. If the
newspapers throughout the country do not
think it worth while to give up space to
the Publication of our Debates upon subJects in which an interest is being taken
at the time, it is altogether improbable
that after the close of the session, and
-when those debates have lost whatever
Interest they might have possessed for the
country, those newspapers would be dis-

37 Vic., C., 37, D.
In the matter lor an application for adivorce

Posed to copy them

The notice was read by the Clerk at
the table, and is as follows

of George Branford Cox. of the town of Goderich, in the Connty of Huron and Province
of Ontario.
1, George Robert Robinson, of the City of

Los Angeles, in the County of Los Angeles,.
in the State of Californuia, one of the United

States of Aumerica, Carpenter,
Do soleinilly declare tiat upon the thirty-

first day of Octoler, one thou-and eight
luindred an I eightv-foiur, I personalv served
Enmily Cox, nmentioned in the within not ice,
vitih a true copy of the said notice heretoannexed, miarked " A.''

That the said Emiily Cox is now living with

one John Elwood Ellis, at St. Gabriel, in the
sant State oi California, as his wife.
That I formerly lived in the said town of
Goderich, and well knew the said George
Biatford Cox. and also knew his wife, the
said Emily Cix, and the person I knew in the
said town of Go'ierich as the wife of the said
George Branufbrd Cox is the saine person who
I to-day served with a copy of the annuexed
notice, and wio is living witlh the said John
Elwood Elbis as his vile.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientionsly believing the sane Io be truie,
and by virtue ofthàe Act passed in the thirtyseventh year of Her Majesty's reign, " An
Act for the Suppression of Voluntary and
Extra-judicial Oat hs."
Declared before une at the City of Los
Angeles, in the County of Los Angeles, State
of California, this thirty-first day of Octuber,
A.D., 1884.
A. C. HOLM ES,
[L.S.j
Notary Public.

out of the bound

Notice is hereby giveu tluat George Branford
volumes. I presume it was not necessary
Cox, of the Town 6f Goderich, in the Counumty
that I should say what I have said, but
I of Huron and Province ofOitario, gentteman,
think it only right to state that I do not vil 1 apply to the Parliament of the louminion
concur with the hon. gentleman.
of Caniada, at the next Session thereof, for a

THE COX DIVORCE BILL.
PETITION RECEIVED.

t"ON. MR. OGILVIE moved
the petition of George Branford that
Cox,
Praying.for the passing of an Act to dissolve his marriage with Emily Cox,
be
nfow read and received.

Bill of Divorce froim his
formuîerly of the said Town
now ot Calitornia, in the
Amuerica, on the grounids
desertion.

wifle, Emiy Cox,
of Goder-ich, but
United States of
of adultery and

CAMERON, HOLT & CAMERON,
Solicitors for the said petitioner

George Branford Cox.

Dated at the said Town of Godericl, the 23rd

day of August, A.D., 1884.

HION. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We
Under the rule of the House upon
the are obliged to see that the rules are strictly

The Davis

[SEN ATE]

Divorce Bill.

-complied with in reference to all these the reading of the petition be an Order for
divorce matters, and I do not think they Tuesday next.
have been with reference to this declaraThe motion was agreed to.
tion. In the first place, it does not appear
by the declaration where the respondent
THE DAVIS DIVORCE BILL.
was at the time she was served with notice. That particular ought to be in the
paper, because the identity of the wornan
has to be established in such a way as
HON. MR. OGILVIE moved that the
will be satisfactory to Parliament ; and i petition of Amanda Esther Davis, praying
might also, possibly, become necessary for the passing of an Act to dissolve ber
afterwards to lay an indictment for perjury mariage with joseph DeSola, be now read
in some of those cases. Therefore, I and received. He said: I may say to the
think it is necessary to have a statement fouse that there are two witnesses here
of every detail, and it does not appear in in connection with this case-one from
this declaration where the woman was at Boston, and fron New York-who have
the time she was served. The rule is that been waiting here for some time, and are
she is to be served with a copy of the ready to be examined if required.
notice, and also with the notice as it ai)The Clerk read the declaration of the
peared in the Canada Gazette. The rule service of notice as follows
is : " Every applicant for a Bill of divorce
is required to give notice of his intended "ONTARIO, COUNTI O CARLETOX, To WIT
application, and to specify from whom and
I, George H. Mullin, of the City of Boston,
for what cause, by advertisement, during in the Sa
-six months in the Canada Gazette, and in United States of America Counsellorat Law,
solemnly declare:two newspapers published in the district,
in Quebec and Manitoba, or in the county
"1 That I dii. on Wednesday. the twentyinte te Poice lft
~
~
of Jâne, A.D., 1884, personally serve
or union of counties counties other~
in the
Provincestruen
copy of the
where such applicant usually resided at annexed notice of applicatiot to the Parliathe time of the separation, or if the requi- ment of*Canada, niarked "A," 5 deliv'ring
site numbers of papers cannot be found to and ieaving the saine vith him, at bie
therein, then in the adjoining district, or lodging bouse, in the said City of Boston,
bein'r No, 38 Dover street.
county or union of counties. The notice
"2. That the said Joseph DeSola ie perfor the Provinces of Quebec and Manitob, sonally known to ne, and believe him to be
is to be published in the English and the person in said notice of application referred to.
French languages."
Now it does not appear in the declara- con.scient iously believing sokmn declaration,
IlAnd 1 make this thiesanie to be true,
tion in this case that that notice was and by virtue of an Act passed in the thirtypublished in the Canada Gazette, at ail or seventh year ot Uer MajestY, intituled 'An
anywhere e!se. There is another serious Act for the Suppression of Voluntary and
objection to this declaration ; it is that it Extrajirdicial (atls'
y of
m
anetn bit
has been made before a foreign notary. I in teCounty o
would suggest to my hon. friend who has Febmuary, A D., in-).
-charge of the petition to allow the matter
A. F. MOINTYRE,
to remain over for a day or two, and in the
A Commissioner, &c.
meantime to supply a new declaration, or
GEORGE H. MULLIN.
new evidence to show that this service was
-effected at some particular place. I preie ad
lie Paiaent anadat
sume from what is said heie, that it was
effected really at St. Gabriel, California, tire mexto theroaneb of ame
but it does not say so, and evidence to the Amanda Esther Davis, of the City and Diseffect that the notice that was served is trict of Montreal, for a Bil of Divorce from
identical with the notice that appeared in lier husband, Joseph DeSola, heretotore of the
sane place, nierclant, on the ground of cruelty
the Oflicial Gazette is also necessary.
andI adults-rv.
Dated at Mon treal, this 3rd day of June, 1884.
HON. MR. OGILVIE-moved that the
KERR, CARTER & GOLDSTEIN,
of the day be discharged, and tbat tOrder
SoitirsforAppellant.
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL.

The Srmith [FEB. 4, 1885]
.ON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-In
this case there is an objection-I do not
know whether the house will consider it
of sufficient consequence to require that
the witness '-e called to the bar. The deClaration does not state distinctly that the
Joseph DeSola whom he served, is the
DeSola against whom the application is
Made. He says he knows one Joseph
DeSola, and that he believes him to be the
person referred to in the notice of application. I should think that is sufficient,
but if the House thinks otherwise we
might call the witness to the bar. He
served a person named DeSola, and he
believes he is the person nanied in the
petition. There is another objection, but
I do not know whether the House will
lonsider it one: this rotice, which is served
is not identified in any way with the notice
which appeared in the Canada Gazette
The rule requires that a copy of the
notice, in writing, as it appears in the
Canada Gazette, and in two newspapers
Published in the district wheie the ap
Plicant usually resided, is to be served, at
the instance of the applicant, on the
pertOn fron whom the divorce is sought, if
the residence of such person can be
ascertained ; and proof on oath of such service,
or of the attempts made to effect
it, to the
satisfaction of the Senate, is to be adduced
btfore the Senate on the
reading of the
Petition. There should be some evidence
to show that the notice served on DeSola
Is a true copy of the one that appeared in
.he Gazette so as to identify the proceedIngs and rnake the record of the transaction complete. If the hon. gentleman
is in
a Position to establish that it is a true copy,
I would suggest that he should put that
Proof n. A copy of the Canada Gazette
lflight do it.
[The notice served having been
Pared with the notice published coinin the
Canada Gazette was deemed to be acorrect
CoPy, and the motion was agreed to, and
the petition was read and
received.]

Divorce Bill.

HON. MR. READ said :-Before asking that the petition be read and received,
I put in the declaration of service of notice upon the Respondent. If the declaration is not deemed sufficient by the
House, there is a witness in attendance to
prove the service.
The Clerk reads the declaration of service at the table, as follows :
" In the inatter of Charles Smith, application for Divorce fron his wite, Mahala Smîith.
"ONTARIO, COUNTY OF NORTHUMBERLAND,

WIT:

To

I Charles Levis, of the City of Belleville,
Connty of Hastings, Gentleman, do solemnlv
declare
STlhat I did in afternoon of Thursday, the
eleventh day of September, in the year of Our
Lord, One thousandeiglt hundred and eightythur, about three o'clock, personally serve
Maliala Smith. the wife of Charles Smith, of
the Village of Campbellford, in the Cou"tv of
North:nberland, Province of Ontario, Miller,
with a true copy of the hereunto annexed
Notice of application for a Divorce, by handingto and leaving with the said Maliala Snith,
at the house of Charles Perkins, in the Town-hip of Laxton, in the Cointy of Victoria,
where the saie Mahala Smpith was then residing, the said copy of said Notice.
" Before I served the said Mabala Smith
with such copy ofsuch notice I inforned her
that it was a notice ofan intended application
by ber husband to the Parliament of Canada
for a Bill of Divorce from lier, and that I
served ber the said copy of the Notice at the
instance of ber hisbarnd and at his reqnest. I
also told lier the Notice was published in the
newspapers published at Campbellford and
Coboirgrh. in the Counlty of Northumberland,
and known as the Caiipbellford Herald and
Cobourgh Sentinel Star, and in the Canada
Gazette, published at Ottawa, in the County
of Carleton, whereupon she said: " What is
it going to anoant to ? "
I have known the said Mahala Smith for
seven years.
And I nake this solemn declairation, conscienteously believing the same to be true, and
by virtue of the Act, passed in the thirtyseventh year of Her Hajes.tv's reign, intituled:
"An Act for the suppression of Voluntary and
Extra-Judicial Oaths."
Declared before me at the Village of Campbellford, in the County of Northumberland,
this thirteenth day of Septenber, A.D. 1884.
DANIEL KENNEDY,
CHARLEs LEvIs.
J. P.

THE SMITH DIVORCE
BILL
PETITION READ AND RECEIVED.
The Order of the Day having
read, IReading Petition of Charles been
Smith,
Praying for the passing of
an Act to disNotice is herebv given that Charles Smith,
marriage with Mahala Mevilda of the Village of Campbellford, in the County
Zufeit.'
of Northunberland,in the Province of Ontario,

Reports of

28

[SENATE]

Miller,will apply to the Parliamentof Canada,
at the Session thereof next after the expiration
of Six months from the date of this Notice
for a Bill of Divorce from his wife, Mahala
Smith, on the ground of adultery.
Dated at Campbelltord this 2nd day of July,
A.D., 1884.

Committees.

vere injured by it, to which a reply
vas sent that the boatman would be treated
as mariners, and that they should be sent
at the public expense to the hospital, where
t
hey would be taken care of.

t
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I may say
By his Solicitor, ad litem,
hat the service having been disorganized
A. L. COLVILLE. by three boats' crews being disabled, if the
To MAHALA SMITH.
hon. gentleman is in possession of any
nformation that he can bring down toHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-This
morrow, the members from the Island
seems to me to be a perfect compliance Province who are deeply interested in it
with the rules of the House, and perhaps will be very much obliged to him if he
it might be as well in some way or another, will do so.
after the present Session, to call attention
to the particularities of the procedure reHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL said
quired by the House in those Divorce he should be very glad to bring down any
matters. In this case the deponent ex- information on the subject that was in the
presses that he knows the woman, that he possession of the Government.
served her with the notice at a particular
The Senate adjourned at 5 p.m.
locality, which he specifies ; that the paper
he served her with was the notice that had
appeared in the local papers and in the
Canada Gazette, so that as far as this
THE SENATE.
stage of the case goes it is made complete
and perfect.
Ottawa, Thursday, Feb). 5th, 1885.
CHARLES SMITH,

Hox MR. READ-I will now put in
THE SPEAKER took the Chair at three
the exemplification of judgment in the o'clock.
case of Smith v. Parker.
The motion was agreed to, and the
Prayers and routine proceedings.
petition was read and received.
NEW SENATOR INTRODUCED.
WINTER COMMUNICATION WITH
Hon. Francis CLEMOW was introPRINCE EDWARD ISLAND.
duced, and having taken the oath prescribed by law, took his seat.
INQUIRY.
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL moved

REPORTS OF COMMITTEES.

that the House do now adjourn.
HON. MR. DICKEY, from the ComHAYTHORNE-Before mittee on Railways. Telegraphs and
the House adjourns I might be permitted Harbors, presented their first report, reto ask the leader of the Government a commending a reduction of the quorum.
question,-without notice-whether the -Adopted.
Department of Marine and Fisheries has
HON. MR. READ, from the Committee
had any information respecting the late
disaster to the ice-boats in which it is re- on Standing Orders and Private Bills,
ported there were two members of Parlia- presented their first report, recommending
ment, by detention in the ice in the Straits a reduction of their quorum.-Adopted.
Also, their second report, recomof Northumbeiland?
mending that the time limited for receivHoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--The ing petitions for private bills be extended
only communication which is special to to Thursday the I9th inst.
Also, their third report, setting forth
the Government at all was one mentioning the disaster, and that persons that the 72nd rule of the Senate had been
HON.

MR.

HON. MR. READ.

The Evan8

[FEB. 6, 1S85]

COmplied with in the Davis and Smith
divorce cases.-Adopted.

HON. MR. PLUMB, from the Com-

Divorce Bill.
THE SENATE.

Ottawa, Friday, February 6th, 1885.

mittee on Banking and Commerce, preThe
sented their first report, recommending o'clock. SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
that the quorum be reduced.-Adopted.
HON. MR. HOWLAN, from the Comnittee on Contingencies, presented their

first report, recommending that
quorum be reduced.-Adopted.

the

Prayers and routine proceedings.

THE EVANS DIVORCE BILL.
READING OF THE PETITION.

THE SMITH DIVORCE BILL

The Order of the day having been
called :
Reading Petition of Alice Elvia Evans,
HON. MR. READ introduced Bill (B)
an Act to dissolve
"An Act for the relief of Charles Smith." rraying for the passing ofMorton Evansher niarriage with Owen
FIRST READING.

The Bill was read the fi:st time.

Hox. MR. McMASTER said-I pre
HON. MR. READ moved that the sented the Petition in this case, but I
second reading be fixed for Friday, the suggested that it should be conducted by
2oth instant.
a legal gentleman. The hon. member
from Barrie will take charge of it.
HON. MR.

TRUDEL-It is well known

that many hon. members of the Senate
HON. MR. GOWAN-I move that the
Consider it their duty to oppose these
Petition of Alice Elvia Evans, praying for
divorce bills at every stage. It is not the passage of an Act to dissolve her
custoniary, however, for those who are
marriage with Owen Norton Evans, be
opposed to the principle of a measure to now read and received. It is impossible
ask the House to divide upon it until
it to exaggerate the importance of a strict
'omes up for the second reading. I think
adherence to forms and procedure in matit .Ould be advisable, therefore, that the ters of this grave character. I do not
rlmority, who object to these divorce bills, mean a pedantic exactness which would
should enter their protest against them by substitute the means for the end, but an
having each stage entered upon the
to all that is substantial as
minutes as being carried on a division. adherence by the rules of this hon.
prescribed
The vote need only be taken, then, at the
body. I have endeavored to see what has
second reading.
been donc in the past. I have looked
The motion was agreed to on a division. over the cases of 1882 and 1883, and also

THE DAVIS DIVORCE BILL.
FIRST READING.

examined the rules, and I think my hon.
friend, the Minister of Justice, and other

hon. gentlemen will find the papers 1 pre-

The motion was agreed to, on a division.

sent in exact and very intelligent cempliance
with all that is necessary in cases of this
kind. Not only does the person who made
the necessary declaration know the respondent, but he also states where he served it,
when he served it, and his knowledge that
he is the man described as the respondent in the procedure. I can vouch for
the person who took the declaration being,
as he is described to be, a notary public,
and I happen personally to know his
signature, so that from my seat in the

The Senate adjourned at
3.50 p.m.

am bound to say, however, that there is

HON. MR. OGILVIE introduced Bill
(C) ' An Act for the relief of Amanda
Esther Davis."

.The Bill was read the first time, on a

division.

HON. MR. OGILVIE moved that the
Bill be read the second time on Friday,
the 2oth instant.

House here I can vouch for that fact.

I

Tle Terry

[SENATE]

one small point which nay be considered
important, and to which the Minister of
Justice referred on another matter similar
to this-that the form of notice is not
shown to be the identical forni as published
in the Gazette. Possibly he might consider the rule to apply, "id certum est quod
certum reddi poles/," but, at all events, to
make the matter sure, I provided nyself
with a copy of the Gazette to which the
Minister of Justice can refer, and it will
be found that not merely every form and
requirement has been complied with, but
that it has been complied with in a very
intelligent manner.

Divorce Bill.

the Town of Owen Sound, in the Countv of
Grey, and the Province of Ontario, Up-

holsterer, on the grounds of adultery and
desertion."

Then my hon. friend from Barrie says
he has compared this with the notice in
the Gazette and finds that it is a correct
copy.
HON. MR. READ-The House is now
in possession of this evidence.

The SPEAKER-The time to put
that in will be after the motion of the
hon. member from Barrie is agreed to.
The motion was agreed to on a diviHON. MR. READ-I do not under- sion, and the Petition was read and
stand that the House is in possession of received.
the declaration and notice of service.
THE TERRY DIVORCE BILL.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Oh
yes, of the Petition itself.
READING OF THE PETITION.

HON. MR. READ-The House is not

in possession of it yet.

HON. MR. READ moved that the
Petition of Fairy Emily Jane Terry, pray-

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--The
question is not upon the service of the
Bill, but the service of the Petition, and
the hon. gentleman who has charge of the
Petition gave me an opportunity of looking at the evidence of service and it
seemed to me complete. The affidavit is
by one Andrew Moag.

ing for the passing of an Act to dissolve
her marriage with Charles Hunter Terry,
be read and received.
The SPEAKER-Will the hon. gentleman allow me to remark that I think it
would be as regular a course if in sending
the motion to the Clerk he would send
the declaration with it.

"1. That I did on Wednesdav, the fourth
day of J une, 1884, serve Owen Norton Evans,
HON. MR. READ-The motion and
in the annexed Notice naned, with a true all the necessary papers ?
duplicate of the said annexed Notice hy delivering such duplicate to hinself personally
The SPEAKER-Yes, and explain to
at the warehouse of Wilson Brothers, in the
Town of Owen Sound aforesaid.
the H1ouse what they are.
" 2. That I an and have been intimately
acquainted with the said Owen Norton Evans

HON. MR. READ-I now send with
for the past five years, and know that the
person so served by me is the husband of the motion the affidavit of the serving of
A lice Elvira Evans, of the City of Toronto, the Bill, declaration of the serving of the
Dressmaker, in the said annexed Notice notice, and also proceedings had in the
named."
High Court of Judicature in Ontario, so
far as they have gone.
And the notice is
Order for the payment of alimony, and
" Notice is hereby given that application affidavit of service of a copy of the notice
will be made to the Parliainent of Canada at on the Respondent
were then read.
the first Session thereof which may be holden
after the expiration of six months from the

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
date of this Notice by me Alice Alvira Evans,
née Johnson, of the City of Toronto, in the service seems perfect and complete.
Province of Ontario, for a Bill of Divorce
The motion was agreed to on a division,
from my husband, Owen Norton Evans,
formerly of the City of Hamilton, and now of and the Petition was read and received,
HoN. MR. GOWAN.

The Cox

[FEB. 10, 1885]

Divorce Bill.

31

PETITIONS FOR PRIVATE BILLS. marriage with Emily Cox, be now read
and received. He said :-Since this PetiMOTION.
tion was before the House last week I
have received evidence which I think will
HON. MR. LACOSTE moved the be satisfactory to the Senate.
the adoption of the second report of the
Committee on Standing Orders and PriHoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-When
vate Bills.
He explained that it was this motion was made on a previous
nerely a recommendation that the time occasion, the affidavit of service of the
for receiving Petitions for Private Bills be Petition upon the respondent was not
extended to Thursday, the i 9 th instant. considered satisfactory, for several reasons
The motion was agreed to.
which were pointed out at the time,
amongst others one being that it was
The Senate adjourned at 3:45 p.mfl.
sworn before a notary public in a foreign
country, and there was no authority under
our rules for the swearing of an affidavit
before such a functionary. Another reason
THE SENATE,
was that there was no statement of the
place where the petition was served on
Ottawa, Monday, lebruary 9th, 1885. the respondent, and I think there were
one or two other objections. Since then,
Thc SPEAKER took the Chair at Three as the hon. gentleman from Montreal has
O'clock p.m.
said, further evidence has been reccived.
1 have had an opportunity of looking at
Prayers and routine proceedings.
this further evidence, and it seems to me
such as will be satisfactory to the House.
The Senate adjourned at
Hon. gentlemen will bear in mind that
3:30 p.m.
the evidence is not such as would be
required to satisfy a court of law. but
evidence which will be satisfactory to the
THE SENATE
House. This additional evidence is the
affidavit of Philip Holt, of the, Town of
Ottawa, Tuesday, Februaryioth, 1885. Goderich, who swears that he is solicitor
for the said George Branford Cox, " that
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three J. W. M'Kinley, of Los Angeles, in the
O'clock p.m.
State of California, is the Attorney for
Emily Cox, who resides in the said State
Prayers and routine proceedings.
of California. That the said Emily Cox
is the person from whom the said George
THE PRINTING OF PARLIAMENT. Branford Cox is now seeking a divorce.
That upon the 6th day of February, 1885,
FIRST REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE
I sent the telegram which is now shewn to
ADOPTED.
me marked'A,' and which is hereto annexed, to the said J. W. M'Kinley; and I did,
HON. MR. READ, from the Joint on the th day of February, 1885, receive
7
COmmittee on the Printing of Parliament, the reply which is now shewn to me markPresented their first report recommending ed 'B.'" The House will observe that the
that their quorum be reduced
to nine deponent says this M'Kinley is the attorney
Inembers.-Adopted.
of Emily Cox. He swears to that as a
matter of fact. The telegram is dated Los
THE COX DIVORCE BILL.
Angeles, California, February 7 th, and is
as follows :THE PETITION READ.
"To CAMERON, EoLT and CAMERON. Goderich,
" Service of Notice of
p ION. MR. OGILVIE moved that the Branford Cox for divorceapplication of George
admitted.
ortit onpassng of an Act to Cox, praying " J. W. M'KINLEY, Attorney for Mrs. Emily
e of George Branford dissolve
his Cox."

The Iatzfeld

(SEN ATIE]

There, therefore, is a direct admission
from the person who is sworn to be the
.attorney of Mrs Cox, of the service of
the papers upon ber at Los Angeles, and
this is accompanied by the letter, which I
have also read, from the first person who
effected the service, and who details at
considerable length the mode he took to
effect it, and he identifies herself and the
person with whom she is living, and establishes that she is the person from whom
the petitioner seeks to be divorced ; that
service was effected on ber, at this place in
California, of a copy of the notice which
appears in the Gazette and which is
attached to the affidavit ; so in my humble
opinion there is sufficient evidence to
satisfy the House that the petition bas
been duly served.
The motion was agreed to, and the
Petition was read and received on a division.
HON. MR. POWER-1 should ask to
have the original declaration of the party
-who served the notice read. I believe it
was read some days since, but I think it
would be more regular to read it now.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL -The
motion is passed, but I will read it. (Deýclaration read.)

THE HATZFELD DIVORCE BILL.
THE PETITION READ.

HON. MR. KAULBACH moved that
the petition of George Lewis Emil HatzHe said
feld be now read and received.
-Before
the reading of th e petition,
according to the rules of the House, it is
necessary for me to show to the satisfaction
of hon. gentlemen that a copy of the
notice for a Bill of Divorce has been
served upon the party.
I have that declaration before me, and I think every
essential form has been complied with.
The notice was served on Annie Maria
Hatzfeld personally in Toronto on the
24th November last, at the place where
she resided, she acknowledging at the
time that she was the party against whom
the application was made, and named in
the notice.
The person who served the
notice does not say that be is personally
acquainted with the respondent, but the

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Divorce Bill.

House will agree with me that when the
party admitted that she was the person
for whom the notice was intended, it is
evidence which may be considered satisfactory.
I have no identification of the
party himself, but the declaration is made
before A. M. Creelman, notary public, in
Toronto.
At a former sitting of the
House it was considered necessary to
show that the person making the declaration was the person be purported to be.
I do not thnk that is necessary, but I am
in this fortunate position that the bon.
member for Barrie (Mr. Gowan) knows
the party personally, and knows his signature, and therefore the objection on that
score will be removed. I have examined
the notice for application for the Bill of
Divorce, and the notice annexed to the
declaration is a copy of the notice with
some unessential words in it.
I do not
think that these additional words will affect
it at all. I did not consider it necessary
to bring a copy of the Gazette to the
House, but I have read the notice, and I
think this is substantially a copy of the
notice which was published. As the bon.
member for Barrie said, the House could
take judicial notice of it itself, that it is a
mnatter of certainty, according to the legal
maxim he then gave us: id certun est quod
certuni reddi potest.
I may say I have
shown the deciaration to the Minister of
justice,who bas said to me that he believes
all the requirements of the petition have
been complied with.
HON. SIR ALEX. CANMPBELL-I have
also had the opportunity of looking at the
evidence proving the service of the petition
in this case, and it seems to me to be
satisfactory in all respects, except that the
identity of the person is not sworn to by
the witness, but there is the statement
which the bon. gentleman bas alluded to
which is made by the respondent, who
admits that she was the party for whom
the notice was intended. It seems to me,
therefore, that if the service was made
upon a person going by that name, who,
in so many words, admitted that she was
the wife of the man whose petition we are
considering, that that would be sufficient
to satisfy the House.

HON. MR. POWER-I do not venture
to express a different opinion from the

The Ratzfeld

/[
FEB. 10, 18851

Minister of Justice, but I think the Senate
ought to be very particular as to this step
in these divorce cases. Ail the subsequent
proceedings are based upon the service of
tbis notice on the defendant, and unless
it is made perfectly clear that the defendant, or the party proposed to be made
defendant, has been duly served, the subsequent proceedings are all irregular.
Now, I think that one of the most essential
elements in the service is that there shall
be no doubt whatever of the identity of
the person. The Minister of Justice must
know that very often these divorces are
sougbt by collusion. I think that this
tribunal has to protect itself against the
risk of collusion as well as the ordinary
courts of the country. Then, it inay be
that this person who was served was not
the wife of the petitioner at all, but some
woInan representing herself to be his wife
in order to further the ends of the petitioner looking for the divorce. I think
that that is a very essential matter,
and
that it is to be regretted that there should
be such an omission in the declaration.
We have gone a long way in allowing
thèse declarations-they are not
oaths to be used instead of sworneven
evidence at the Bar of the House,
which the
Senate required a few years since,
and I
thnk that we should not proceed any furrthan
rection of we have already gone in the dimaking the procuring of these
Bills easy. I notice too, if I am not misfoken, by the glance that the hon. member
Lunenburg allowed me
declaration of service, that to have of that
the document
'vhich was served upon the supposed
is not an exact copy of the notice wife
which
appeared in the Gazette. Now, our rule
requires that the party shall be
served
ýith a copy of the notice which appears
lf the Gazette.

Divorce Bill.

made to the Parliament of Canada at the
next session thereof on behalf of George
Louis Emil Hatzfeld, of the City of Hamilton, accountant, for a Bill of Divorce
from Annie Maria Hatzfeld, his wife,
formerly of the town of Dundas, on the
ground of adultery and desertion. The
House will see that the man himself is
described at length, and his residence and
occupation are given, and that the woman
is described at length by name, and her
former residence is mentioned. The
declaration states that the man who served
the notice did, on the 24th day of November, 1884, " personally serve Annie Maria
Hatzfeld with a copy of the notice of
the application to the Parliament of
Canada herein by delivering such copy to
and leaving the same with her at number
252 Ontario Street, in the said City of
Toronto. At the time of such service as
aforesaid, the said Annie Maria Hatzfeld
admitted to me that she was the party for
whom the said notice was intended, and
that she was the Mrs. Hatzfeld referred to
in the said notice." A distinct admission
of that kind to the man who served the
notice is evidence which, I humbly submit, ought to be satisfactory to the House.
Then as to the declaration not being at
the Bar of the House, that we disposed of
in a previous session.
HON. MR.

to that.

POWER-I did not object

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We
are satisfied with a declaration which involves all the legal penalties of perjury
without asking people to take an oath,
which some persons have scruples in
doing. As to the surplusage in the copy
served, it seems to be of no moment.
The words which have been added are:
" in the County of Wentworth," and "to
ION. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
you." In the Gazette it appears : " notice
thoroughly agree with my hon.
friend in
an application, etc."
ais introductory remark as to the import- is hereby given that on the respondent it
the copy
nCe of this particular step in these divorce In "notice is served
is
hereby given to you that an
proceedings, but it seems to me
tha'
sient evidence has been furnished suffi- application, etc." Then in the notice in
of the the Gazette the description of the resiservice of the notice in this
case. The dence of the petitioner ends with " the
evles of the Senate do not require
evidence as would be necessary in such City of Hamilton." In the copy served
Of law ; it must be such evidence a court on the respondent it is "the City of
as will Hamilton, in the County of Wentworth."
theesatisfactory thatthe Senate. In this case These additional words do not create any
notice is to an application
will be uncertainty as to the place of residence

34

Tke Cox

[SENATE]

but rather make it more certain. We are
not tied down to the exact words of the
Gazette, if the words added are of no
consequence, or if they tend to make
more certain the notice in the Gazette.
It seems to me these are not objections
which ought to prevail in the House.

Divorce Ca8e.

of the Committee on Standing Orders and
Private Bills.

HON. MR. SCOTT-It has been a well
understood principle which prevails in this
Chamber-at least well understood by a
considerable section who are opposed to
divorce-that all the rules laid down by
The motion was agreed to on a division, the Senate should be scrupulously observand the petition was read and received.
ed, and that there should be no relaxation
whatever in any instance. I do not now
The Senate adjourned at 4 p.m.
speak of the merits of this case, or say
whether it is an important relaxation or
not, but I call the attention of the Senate
to it, and feel that it is incumbent upon
THE SENATE.
us, on the principles we have ourselves
laid down, to insist that all the rules be
Ottaia, Wednesday, February 11th, 1885. strictly complied with. If we once open
the door there is no knowing where we
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three shall stop, and it is the first case I thinko'clock p.m.
at least the first to which my attention has
been called-in which a relaxation of the
Prayers and routine proceedings.
rules has been asked for. I for one should
not be disposed to consent to it.
PRIVATE BILLS.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am
TIME FOR PRESENTING EXTENDED.
disposed to agree with the hon. gentleman
that we should not consent to a relaxation
HON. MR. LACOSTE, from the Com- of the rules in any case of this kind. I
mittee on Standing Orders and Private think the Committee have been induced
Bills, presented their fourth report, stating to make this report because recommendathat in the Evans, the Terry and the tions of the saine kind have been made
Hatzfeld divorce cases the rules of the with refcrence to ordinary bills, but I have
House had been complied with ; also no recollection of any such recommendarecommending that in the Cox divorce tion having been made with regard to
case the 72nd rule be suspended.
Bills of Divorce, and I agree with my hon.
Also the fifth report of the Committee, friend that the full notice required by the
recommending that the time for present- rules of the House should be given. I
ing Private Bills be extended to Thursday do not think it would be safe for us to
the 26th instant.-Adopted.
proceed with a Bill of Divorce unless that
full notice has been given. I would sugBILLS INTRODUCED.
gest to my hon. friend from Montreal that
he should defer this motion until the
Bill (D, " An Act for the relief of House has had time to consider whether
George Louis Emil Hatzfeld.
(Mr. they will, in the case of a Divorce Bill,
Kaulbach).
agree to any relaxation of their rules. If
Bill (E), " An Act for the relief of Fairy my hon. friend will postpone his motion
Emily Jane Terry. (Mr. Read).
until the day after to-morrow the members
will be afforded time to consider that

THE COX DIVORCE CASE.

question.

MOTION.

HON. MR. OGILVIE-My only reason
for asking that the rule be dispensed with

HON. MR. OGILVIE moved that the
72nd rule be dispensed with in so far as it
relates to the petition of George Branford
Cox, as recommended in the fourth report

in this case is that the informality has
been very trifling indeed. It is simply
that the notice was not published in the
local paper for the full two weeks. It was

HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL

The Bank qf

[FEB. 11, 1885]

Published in the Canada Gazette for the
time required by our rule. We have an
acknowledgement from the party against
Whom the Bill is asked, that the notice
Was duly served upon her, and I think
every member of the Committee was
satisfied that proper notice had been
given. Had the notice been published in
the Huron Signal for the two full weeks
the rule would have been fully complied
with. Of course I am in the hands of the
'ouse, and I am quite willing to let the
rnotion stand as suggested.
Motion postponed until Friday next.
THE BANK OF UPPER CANADA.
ENQUIRV.

HON.

MR.

ALEXANDER

rose

to

Upper Canada.

35

It is unnecessary for me to say that I
move now as a representative of the people
who have lost upwards of a million of
dollars by the failure of that bank; and
the people of this Dominion have a right
to know what has become of all its assets.
Those were first placed in the hands of
Mr. C. J. Campbell (brother of the present
Minister of Justice) and Mr. Peleg Howland, who, as Government Trustees, reported to the Government on the 22nd of
May, 1868, that after a close and careful
examination, they were afraid there would
be a deficiency of $509,284, after realizing
all the assets.
Our inquiry to-day is, what has become
of the other half million ? The history of
that bank from the year 1858 is a dreadful
one. Its collapse did not arise entirely
from ordinary commercial losses. A large
part of its capital ($3,ooo,ooo) as also

Call the attention of the Senate to the $1,000,000, borrowed from the Governrenissness of the Government in realizing ment, was wickedly plundered by men in
all the bonafide assets of the Bank of Upper high position, some of whom are now in
anada, in discharge of the large debt of this chamber, and have to-day luxurious
,100,000, due bv that institution to
the carnages, with servants and liveries, flauntcountry, and enqiire whether the Govern- ing their ill-gotten wealth in the faces of
.ne
t
to take any further steps to the ruined shareholders.
reiljze Propose saine.
on the
I was a director of that bank from 186o
lie said : I know that the two motions until its doors were closed
(1866) and
which I have on the paper to-day are of a know its whole history. Another member
doaracter to awaken much feeling. That of this House, the Hon. G. W. Allan, was,
oes not concern me. If we do not labor during that period, president of the Bank.
to check the wicked course of a few men He is a gentleman standing at the
ln high position, the moral leprosv will head of different religious institutions,
spread. The industrial classes in the president of
the British and Foreign
rural districts, and even in our cities, are
Bible Society in Toronto.
At every
a God-fearing people, trying to do what is annual election of directors of the
rght under the guidance of their excellent bank, he always held the proxies of
teachers and pastors, but there is
a class the poor widows and orphans and smaller
Of society, which I hope is limited, who shareholders, who placed them in his
think that wealth, grand mansions
and hands from the confidence they had in
tites are everything, and they
will do any- him, and he thus retained his position as
thing to obtain money to keep those up. president, although one of
its heavy
If they cannot do so by fair means,
they debtors, until the bank went down. The
try fouI means, and they care
not who result of the management under his presithey may injure. I am sure
I could not dency was that the bank became insolvent,
bring this subject before a more competent
spreading misery and woe in a hundred
tribunal than the high court of Parliament. households.
My next neighbor, a man
I need not say to the House that
I move highly respected in the County of Oxford,
an this matter from a sense
of public duty, had, as a shareholder, his means of supand not as a shareholder of the
although the loss I sustained old bank, port taken from him-sank into his grave
as a share- with a broken heart, and his family of
holder brought me almost
to want, blight- daughters was left in sad circumstances.
ing very rnuch the prospects of my
nasmuch as I was in a measure family, I could name a score of other families
deprived who were thus the victims of that foul
Of the means of educating
them.
conspiracy.

The Bank qf [SENATE]
If those wicked and heartless men, in
high position, who have caused this suffering and woe, were to follow some of
their victims to their impoverished and
destitute homes, they could scarcely derive pleasure from their luxurious mansions and other trappings of life, sustained
with money which has been taken from
the poor.
It is not my purpose to expose one
quarter the crime practised by those men
in high position in connection with that
old bank.
I could a tale unfold, which would
shock the moral sense of every honest
man. But I refrain from doing so, out of
consideration for the age of the parties
and the prominence of their position.
I now corne to the question: what has
become of that half million of missing
assets ? In the last report of the Committee of the Privy Council, signed "John
Rose, Minister of Finance," it appears to
be assumed that there will be only a deficiency of $500,ooo. Should not a Committee of Parliament make a thorough investigation of the assets, to see what the
different solvent debtors have actually
paid ? It is rumored in Toronto that
certain political supporters of Sir John
Macdonald have had their debts, what is
called, " settled." Is it possible that a
Canadian Government can have been so
depraved as to deal thus with the people's
money, and thus reward their political
supporters by remitting portions, or the
whole of their debt which they were owing
to the country ? This is a new phase of
political crime. I would respectfully ask
the Hon. G. W. Allan, who was the last
president of that insolvent bank-living as
he is in one of the so termed parks of
Toronto-has he paid the debt of $36,ooo
and interest which he owed in the books
of that bank ? I hope that I shall not be
driven to mention other names still more
prominent.
Now, if the House will kindly grant me
its indulgent ear, I will show how the
whole of the debt due by that Bank can
be recovered, and thus, $1,ooo,ooo saved
for the country. It is a matter of history
that in 1858-59 the Grand Trunk Railway
were owing certain contractors $ r,ooo,ooo
which they were unable to pay. The
Barings and the Glynns would not advance
any more money to that railway. Those
HON. MR. ALEXANDER.

Upper Canada.

contractors were thus in a very critical
position, for that railway's credit was
completely impaired.
But one of the
contractors was a man equal to the
emergency. He got himself and another
gentleman into the Bank Board during
that period, for I hold in my hand the
narnes of that Board during 1859, and by
a dexterous move (quite worthy of a
Scotchman) they induced the late Mr.
Thos. Ridout-who had been, up to that
period, a most upright and successful
cashier of the Bank-to become a Director
of the Grand Trunk Railway, and in that
capacity, draw two sterling drafts of
£1oo,ooo sterling each, upon the London
bankers, knowing they would lie dishonored ; and the said Thos. G. Ridout
was prevailed upon, as cashier of the Bank
of Upper Canada, to pay over that large
amount, namely $r,ooo,ooo to that very
distinguished gentleman of Celtic origin
for the benefit of himself and his co-contractors ; and as a matter of course a large
portion of that $1,ooo,ooo of the Bank

capital was thus lost.
I have taken the highest legal opinion
in regard to this matter, and I am assured
that an action for breach of trust could
to-day be instituted by the Government,
with the certainty of recovering the
amount of the loss from that gentleman.
I see before me an hon. member of this
House, now present, who could give valuable evidence in regard to that transaction.
He knows all about it, because he and
his powerful friend were members of the
Board for a limited portion of that year,
and I am sure that a gcntleman of his
patriotism will be desirous to aid the
Dominion Government in recovering their
loss. I need not say that I mean the
Hon. Sir David Lewis MacPherson,
Minister of the Interior, a member of thisuon. House, who, to my knowledge, was
oq that Bank Board, during that eventful
period, and when he went out, I became
a member of the Board soon after.
HON. MR. ALLAN-However unwilling I may be to drag any personal matter
before this House, it is scarcely possible,
after the allusions which have been made
to me in such untruthful and malicious
terms, by the hon. gentleman behind me,
to refrain from doing so, and therefore I
would ask the patience of the House

The Bank qf

[FEB. 11, 1885]

while I call their attention to a few facts
connected with the history of the Bank of
Upper Canada at the period to which the
hon, gentleman has referred, and especially
in relation to my own connection with the
bank.
I suppose, hon. gentlemen, that
there are very few in this House who do
lot remember the wave of financial de
pression and distress which passed over
this country in 1857, 1858 and 1859,
when real estate became almost unsaleable
and many men who were reputed to be
wealthy found themselves reduced almost
to beggary. I left everything brght and
prosperous in Canada two years before that
and I returned from abroad to find myself
unexpectedly involved in very serious
losses and difficulties, largely due to the
failure of others to meet their obligations
to me, and largely due to very heavy
responsibilîties which I was obliged to
assume, in which I had no personal conCern whatever, any more than the hon.
gentleman who has just addressed you.
The outlook at that time, as hon. gentleMen will remember, was dark and gloomy
enough.
Real estate had gone down
hopelessly in value. It was almost imPossible to raise money, except at very
great sacrifices. Notwithstanding this, as
ail those who know the circumstances
are aware-and there are
many hon.
gentlemen present in this House who
tnow the circumstances-I struggled on
t meet all my liabilities, and this one to
e Bank of Upper Canada amongst the
rest, honestly and faithfully. That indebtedness, hon. gentlemen, was
incurred
prior to my occupying a seat on
the board,
and not one shilling of accommodation
or
advance of any kind was ever
asked for or
Obtained by me, either for myself or
for
any friend or connection of
mine, from
the tirne I became president in 1862, until
the bank closed its doors in
1866.
I continued to make payments
debt, and other liabilities, from on this
time to
tirne as I could raise money
to do so.
tven my allowance as president, small as
It was, was paid in quarterly on the
same
account-I never touched a farthing of
it,
and so matters continued until
the bank
Stopped payment, when my indebtedness
at that time amounted
to
As hon. gentlemen are some $34,700.
aware, certain
trustees were appointed by the GovernMent to wnd up the affairs of
the bank.

Upper Canada.

31

Those trustees were the late Mr. Peleg
Howland, Mr. Peter Patterson, and Mr. C.
J. Campbell. I had continued making
payments to them on my debt every three
months, when those gentlemen applied for,
and at their request were furnished with, a
schedule of all my real estate, and a statement of my liabilities. After receiving
this they proposed to me, through my
agent, that I should make themi an offer
for a cash settlement. This I declined to
do, stating that, if allowed, I would much
prefer endeavoring to go on as I had been
doing, and, if possible, in time work out
the whole indebtedness.
The trustees,
however, were unanimous in preferring to
close the account, and offered if I would
pay a certain sum, $12,500 with interest
in six months, to accept it in full discharge,
and cancel my note, the debt then having
been reduced

to $25,ooo.

With great

difficulty, and at a very considerable sacrifice, I raised the specified amount and
paid it in within the required time, on the
11th July, 1870, and I am now, in 1885,
still working off, by the sale of my property,
the last of the moneys raised upon it to
meet this and other liabilities incurred in
those disastrous years.
This is a plain
and simple history of the whole transaction
as far as I am concerned in reference to
the Bank of Upper Canada. Hon. gentlemen will readily understand, and I am
sure will fully sympathise with me in the
painful position in which I am placed in
being obliged to bring these private
matters before an assembly of this kind,
but I think I have taken an honorable,
manly and straightforward course in fully
explaining my connection with the Bank
of Upper Canada and stating exactly what
the circumstances were.
Now, with reference to certain other
statements which have fallen from the hon.
speaks of
member for Woodstock :he
my having obtained my seat at the bank
board by soliciting proxies from ail classes
of shareholders, and which I obtained for
the purpose of procuring by my election as
president of the bank an accommodation
for myself and my friends. I do not wish
to use anything but Parliamentarylanguage
-but I have no other choice than to
designate that statement as wholly and
entirely untrue. As I shall show presently
that position was neither sought nor desired
by me ; but let me first give the history of

The Bank of [SENATE]
the connection of that hon. gentleman
himself with the Bank of Upper Canada.
The fact of the matter is that the hon.
gentleman became a director of the bank
very nearly at the same time that I was
placed on the board myself, and is in every
respect just as responsible as I am for all
that occurred in the bank from the year
i86o or 186i down to the time the bank
closed its doors. Soon after I was elected
a director of the bank, not at my own
suggestion nor by my own wish, I and
others of my colleagues, finding that the
affairs of the bank were in an unsatisfactory
state, and being dissatisfied with the management, knowing that the hon. gentleman
was a large shareholder and not then knowing him as well as I do now, I suggested
to my colleagues that it would be a good
thing if we could get a gentleman so
largely interested in the welfare of the
bank to take a seat on the board. After
a good deal of persuasion they accepted
my views. I went up to Woodstock ; I
had an interview with that hon. gentleman
and obtained his acquiescence,and he may,
therefore, be said to have been placed on
the board, if not by me, at all events mainly
at my instance and by my persuasion ; that
he was utterly useless there hon. gentleman
will readily conceive. With regard to my
appointment as president, the hon. gentleman knows very well indeed that that appointment was not sought by me
but thrust upon me. It was the very
last position I desired to fill, simply
from the fact that I was indebted
to the bank ; however at a general
meeting of all the shareholders, held, I
think, in 1861, when a change was made
in the management of the bank-the then
cashier and president having resigned,
there was a good deal of feeling elicited
by the statement of the affairs of the
bank then laid beforê the shareholders
by the gentleman who was the newly appointed cashier, the late Mr. Robert
Cassels. The report of the directors was
received with great disfavor, and the
meeting was at first not inclined to adopt
it. Some of us who had only been on the
board for a short time, and were in no
way responsible for the management of
previous years and its results, felt that
this was unjust to us, and I got up and
addressed the meeting, pointing out that
there were those sitting there who were in
HON. MR. ALEXANDER.

Upper canada.

no way responsible for the then position
of the bank, but that as the report would
shew we had been doing our best to
remedy the existing state of things. The
result was that the report was carried, and
very much to my surprise I found myself
elected president of the bank the next day.
Now, the hon. gentleman knows perfectly
well that so far from my desiring that
position, I had been extremely anxious
that a gentleman whose position in the
country was well known, a very wealthy,
honorable and upright man, and one
who had probably the largest share
in the bank, the late Mr. Thomas
Street, should be elected president;
and there are gentlemen in this House
who know that I did everything in
my power to induce that gentleman to
allow himself to be elected, and that failing to obtain his consent, the next step I
took was to endeavor to persuade a leading merchant in Toronto, whom I thought
was a good representative man, to accept
the same position. He also declined to
accept it ; and therefore, I again say that
that position was in no way sought by me,
nor was it ever used by me for the purpose-as insinuated by the hon. gentleman
from Woodstock-of obtaining one shilling
of accommodation either for myself or for
my friends.
I do not desire to continue a discussion which is in every way, I am sure, most
distasteful to this House, but I think it
fair and right when a gei tleman makes
such a gross and malignant personal
attack as the hon. member from Woodstock has made upon me, to point out to
the House the animus which has prompted
and the motives which have actuated him
in the course which he has taken to-day.
As I said before, that hon. gentleman was
placed on the board of the Bank of
Upper Canada, at my instance. He continued on the board with me until the
very time the bank closed its doors. We
met afterwards, as years passed on ; not
one word did I hear from the hon. gentleman, not a whisper or suggestion of the
false and malicious statements which he
has made to-day. We were, apparently, exceedingly good friends. When at Woodstock, I have been at his house, and not
only that, but he did not disdain to allow
his own family to accept the hospitality of
my own roof. For eighteen years I had

The Bank of

[FEB. 11, 1885]

lot the most remote reason to suppose
that the hon. gentleman entertained
the slightest feeling of hostility towards me, until the extraordinary outbreak, which will be fresh in the memOry of this House, which occurred in
1878, when he first thought proper, for
sone reason which I have never been able
to divine, and which my hon. friends on
the Opposite side of the House have never
been able to divine, to attack in the most
Unjustifiable manner the Honorable the
Mihister of Justice and myself, and he has
been continuing to do this in the grossest
and most malignant way, so far as regards
mfyself, by repeated false statements which
he never heretofore dared to make before
ny face, and by repeating those statements
in the corridors of the House, in the hotels
and by anonymous communications and
letters to the newspapers, containing the
mnost gross insinuations and slanders which
he dared not put his own name to, until
1ow the whole thing has culminated in the
attack which he has made to-day. I think
I mriay safely leave the matter in the hands
Of the House when I sum up the position
tn this way : that the hon. gentleman in
the first place is just as responsible for
what occurred in the Bank of Upper
Canada the whole time I was president as
i arn, because heoccupied a seat as
director
during all the time. In the second
plaec,
ththink that the House will fairly estimate
the patriotismat what it is worth of the hon.
gentleman as to whether he cares one snap
about this $i,Ioo,ooo which
he says is

tue to the Government and the people of
this country; or whether as in the
other
absurd motion which now stands on the
notice paper he has simply sought an opPortunity of giving pain and annoyance
to
one who had never injured him in any
Way whatever by dragging this matter
before the House and making
the maligant personal attack upon me in the
way
he bas done to-day. I do not think it
is
necessary for me to say anything
more
and I hope that hon. gentlemen
will
pardon me for trespassing on
the time of
the H ouse in giving the explanations
which Ihave been obliged to give
to-day.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON
--The charge
h
from Woostewbich the hon. gentleman
Woodstock brings against me is a
ver y grave one--at
least it would be a

Upper Canada

very grave one if it had a tittle of foundation in fact. I can assure the House however that it has none. The whole of the
story is the creation of his own brain. I
have lived all but 50 years in this country.
During nearly the whole of that time I
have been engaged in conducting large
and important business, and never until
now has any insinuation been made against
my honor. It is not in the power of any
man to-day, I rejoice to say, to assert that
in any of my many transactions I have
ever attempted to do anything that was
not strictly according to honor and according to the principles which should governt
a British merchant. I never was indebted
to the Bank of Upper Canada.
By that
I mean to say that I never owed one
shilling that was over-due to the Bank of
Upper Canada. My firm kept our account
with that bank for years. We were sometimes borrowers but we were generally
lenders-generally depositors with the
bank. Our transactions, if they could be
examined, would bear the strictest scrutiny.
So much for the transactions of my firm.
With respect to the Grand Trunk Railway, I never asked a favor for them from
the Bank of Upper Canada or any other
bank, and to say that during the short
time I was a director of that bank I had
used the influence which my position
there gave me to increase the debt of the
Grand Trunk Railway Company with that
bank, or to increase any other debt owing
to that bank is altogether unfounded-is
absolutely untrue.
The reason why I
went upon the board of that bank I shall
give to you in the words of another, not
I shall read a letter from the
my own.
Hon. Sir Alex. Galt, who was Finance
Minister at the time I was induced to
accept a seat on the board of the Bank of
Upper Canada.
St. Louis HOTEL,
QUEBEC, 22nd October, 1883.
"My DEAR MACPHERSON,-

I regret extreniely to learn froni your note
of the 20th instant, that your consent to becorne a director of the old Bank of Upper
Canada has caused you annoyance and misrepresentation.
The facts are that soon after my assumption of office in August, 1858, as Finance
Minister, I becane seriously uneasy at the
condition of the bank, and after the Session
-I think in June, 1859-I applied, with the
concurrence ot my colleagues, to the late Hon.
John Ross and yourself to accept the position

40

The Bank of [SEN ATE]

ot directoi, with ile expres. understanding
that you should exercise a strict supervision
of the operations of the bank executive, which
I am aware you did, and ultimately an improper extension of a Joan, contrary to the
directions of the board caused your resignation. With the transaction to which you
refer, of a loan by the bank to the Grand
Trunk Company of £100,000 you could not
as a director have anything to do, as it must
have occurred before your election ; and your
appointinent and that of Mr. Ross were intended to prevent any further advances by
the bank to that Company except with the
previous knowledge and consent of the
Government.

You are quite at liberty to m-ake any use
you may wish of this note, should you be
exposed to any further animadversion in
counsequence of your connection with the
Bank of Upper Canada."
Yours sincerely,
Signed,
A. T. GALT.
HON. D. L. MAcPHERsoN, &c.
That explains why I became a director
of the bank. I was elected a director on
the 2 5 th June, 1859, and took my seat at
the board for the first time on the 13th
July of the same year, and I resigned on
the i6th May, 186o. I was there only ten
months, and my reason for resigning I
shall also give to you in the words of
another gentleman. You will remember,
hon. gentlemen, that the events of which
we are speaking occurred twenty-five years
ago, and desiring to inforni myself as
thoroughly as I could, and to refresh my
memory, I applied to those whom I thought
The
were likely to be best informed.
managers of the bank, the president and
cashier, have both died : all the executive
officers, I believe, are dead, and I wrote to
the solicitor, Mr. Clark Gamble, of Toronto,
and asked him if he could give me any
information on the subject.
I did so in
1882, on the first occasion when the hon.
gentleman ventured to utter a slanderous
insinuation against me. I wrote to Mr.
Gamble asking for information, and this
is his reply "Uponi referring to the minute book of the
Bank of Upper Canada, I find that you were
elected a director upon the 25th June, 1859,
and alter acting at the board twenty-four
ti mes you resigned by letter on the 16th May,
1860. Both you and Mr. Ross (the late Hon.
John Ross) were elected in the following
June, but Tou do not appear to have taken
your seat.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON.

Upper Canada.

"With regard to your resignation,I recollect

it being spoken of at the time, and the reason
given was; that the cashier had discounted a
note of the Grand Trunîk Company for $5,000
which had been refused by the board on the
previons Wednesday, when you were present;
and on the following Wednesday you saw
what had been done, and called the attention
of the board to the fact, and commented on it
severely, and never took your seat again."
Now, hon. gentlemen, that was my
course when a director of the Bank of
Upper Canada. I have now told you why
I accepted a seat on that board, and why
I resigned, and the length of time I occuI may go on
pied a seat at the board.
and say that soon after that, the bank
getting into still deeper and deeper water,
the board was re-constructed, and the hon.
gentleman from Woodstock, who has
made this furious and unwarranted and
slanderous attack to-day, became one of
the directors and remained one until 1866,
when on the 18th of September of that
year the bank closed its doors. It is im
possible for me to say to what extent the
hon. gentleman was responsible for bringing about the insolvency of the bank, for
it was perfectly notorious that when he
was travelling up and down the railway
between Woodstock and Toronto, he did
nothing but question people about the
Bank of Upper Canada.
HON.
hear !

MR.

ALEXANDER-Hear !

HoN. SIR D. L. MACPHERSONWhoever would listen to him he asked
what they knew about it.
HON.
hear !

MR.

ALEXANDER-Hear !

HON. SIR D. L MACPHERSONHe was a member of that Board for about
six years after I left it. Is it not strange,
if I had been guilty of anything so improper as he states here to-day, that he
took no steps to have me taken to account
for it ? How does he reconcile it with
his duty, when at the time all the facts
must have been patent, when the executive
officers who must have been privy to them
-who, in fact, were the parties who must
have carried it out had there been any
foundation for his statements-when they
were all alive, that he did not bring up

The Bank of [FEB. 11, 1885]
this charge ? After the management
passed out of the hands of the directors
it went into the hands of trustees, and
Was there for four years, until 1870 I
think. Why did he not bring the matter
before them then ? Why did he wait for
twenty-five years until everyone who
knew anything at all about it is dead ?
It is quite evident to everyone who has
heard him to-day that he knows nothing
about it. He made one of the most
extraordinary and extravagant-and I was
going to say-infamous charges that it was
Possible f-%r a man to make and yet he
did not rest that charge on the slightest
foundation of evidence.
Why did he not bring this matter before
the shareholders ? There were meetings
of shareholders, one a private meeting, at
Which the report of the directors was subtoitted ; a meeting at which the shareholders attended for the purpose of deterrtiing what course they would take at
the official meeting. Before that meeting
Was held, a deputation waited on me and
asked me to preside at the meeting, which
I did. Is it likely, if there had been a
suspicion against me, that the shareholders
WOuld have asked me to do that ? Is it
likely, if there had been the slightestfoundation for this siander that it would not have
leaked out before a period of 25 years
had elapsed ? It is a charge that no re5
Ponsible man would dare to make unless
he was shielded by the privilege of ParliaMent ; and it is a most unworthy thing, as
every hon. gentleman in this House will
admit, for a member of the Senate to
abuse his privilege as the hon. gentleman
from Woodstock has done to-day.
do not think I need say anything
charge which
the
heore in denial ofThe gross for £1oo,ooo
has made.
bill
which he has referred to was a matter of
Public discussion for some years. I have
been unable to ascertain when it was
drawn, but from the best information I
cn get it was drawn in 1856
or 1857.
The information I have obtained points
8
tO ' 56-that is three years before I beit e a director-but it matters little when
thwas drawn, as I believe all the debts of
Ihe Grand Trunk Railway have been paid.
ceave taken a great deal of pains to
asfailed when that bill was drawn but have
Bank. of I enquired of the solicitor of the
Upper Canada, and his reply was

Upper Canada.

that the books of the bank for that period
had been destroyed. They had been
placed in a basement room on Church
street, where the sewage came in upon
them, and they became so offensive that
they had to be destroyed. I wrote to the
manager of the Grand Trunk Railway
Company, and he was unable to give me
any information. When Sir Alex. Galt was
High Commissioner in 1882, I wrote to
him in London, and requested him to enquire at the banking houses of Baring &
Co., and Glyn, Mills & Co., to ascertain
when it was, and I have a note which he
sent me from an officer of that banking

house, explaining why they could not give
any information. Sir A. T. Galt, in enclosing the letter, writes :
"9 VICTORIA CHAMBERS, LONDON, S. W.
December 3rd, 1883.
MY:DEAR MACPHERSON,

I have just received yours of the 19th ult.
You will have learned by niy note of Saturday
that it lias been found impossible to trace the
bill of exchange in the books of either Glyn
or Baring

. Yours sincerely,

A. T. GALT."
(Signed)
"HoN. D. L. MACPHERSON."
The following is the letter from the

bank, which was enclosed in that from
Sir A. T. Galt:
« 67 LoMBARD ST., LoNDoN, E. C.,
28th Nov'ember, 1883.
"IDEAR SIR ALEXANDER,
I regret to say that we can throw no light
upon the date of the bill for $100,000 to which
you refer in your recent note. The fact is,
although our ledgers are permanently preserved, they are in this case of no use, because a
bill, acceptance of which was refused, would
not appear in them ; while the subsidiary
books, in which such a bill would be recorded hiad been, for the period in question,
destroyed. Nor can Barings, to whoni I have
applied, throw any light on the matter. In
these circumstances I really do riot see what
we can do.
Believe me to be,
Faithfully yours,
SIR

(Signed)
A. GALT, G. C. M. G.

A. G. HARVEY."

The hon. gentleman stated to-day, and
stated it more emphatically a few days
ago, that he was moved wholly by his

public duty. He stated here two or three
days ago, when he gave a notice, which I

42

7e Bank of [SENATE]

Upper Canada.

shall not characterize, that he was not had heard who were to be appointed
moved by malice-that he bore me no Senators ; that of course he and I were
malice.
sure to be appointed, still he would like
to know that the appointments were made.
HoN. MR.
ALEXANDER-Hear! I never applied for a Senatorship, nor did
hear !
I ask in any way directly or indirectly
whether I was likely to be appointed, but
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONI was walking one day in the street when
Parliamentary etiquette requires me to I felt a hand placed upon my shoulder
.accept that statement. Had he not made violently and nervously, I looked around
the statement I would have supposed that and found it was the hon. gentleman from
he bore for me the most intense malice. Woodstock, who said, " Oh, you are to be
His conduct towards me during the last appointed, but I am not." It was the first
few years has been of so ferociously malig- intimation I had of it. I confess that I
nant a character-and so far as I know felt exceedingly sorry for the hon. gentlewithout any cause, as I have never given man, for he looked the picture of despair.
the hon. gentleman any cause for offence I brought him to my office with me, and
-that I cannot understand it. I have I tried to comfort and solace him as well
never done him any injury. on the con- as I could. I told the hon. gentleman
trary, he has always received from me the that I was very sorry (and I was truly
greatest possible kindness.
sorry), and I suggested to him that vacanHON. MR. ALEXANDER-Hear! cies would soon occur. I asked him why
should he not, as he was then, comlhear !
paratively speaking, a young man, run for
a seat in the Commons for one of the conHON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONWe were in Parliament together before Con- stituencies which formed his division for
federation, and we were on, perhaps, the Legislative Council !
rather more than the ordinary terms of
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-And beintimacy.
tray them to serve your government.
HON.
MR. ALEXANDER-Hear !
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONhear !
But the hon. gentleman was not willing to
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONtrust himself with the people. He speaks
The hon. gentleman was, I may say, to-day of the people, for whom he proaggressive in his friendship. I bore with fesses to have a great love, and boasts of
it complacently, and I confess I had a having their confidence, which is, I may
sort of liking for the hon. gentleman, and say, a perfectly unfounded and Indicrous
I felt a good deal of sympathy for him, statement. Why, hon. gentlemen, there
and wherever it was possible for me to do is not a constituency in Ontario ; there is
him an act of kindness I did it.
not a constituency in this Dominion where
At the time of Confederation, when the are to be found two gentlemen who would
Senators were appointed, taken, as you all seriously propose that the hon. member
knoMhey were, from the old Legislative from Woodstock should represent their
Council so far as the Provinces of Ontario constituency ! I have no hesitation in
and Quebec were concerned, strange to saying that-unless they did it as a jokesay I first heard that it was the intention unless they did it as a hoax, like his inof the Government to offer me a Senator- terview of the other day of which we have
ship, from that hon. gentleman.
read a flaming account ! Why, hon. gentlemen, I am assured that for that interHON. MR. ALEXANDER--Question! view questions and answers were written
Question !
by himself ; that he got up a bogus interview at which he had the questions read to
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONhim, and he read the replies, and these
He was in the habit of visiting me very were published broadcast over the country
frequently-sometimes at my office. some- as being the opinions of a Conservative
times at my house-and asking me if I Senator of great experience !
HON. SIR

DAVID MACPHERSON.

The Bank of (FEB. 11, 1885]

Upper Canada.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Bring out ship. He represented it as being of great
the proofs.
importance to him, and I did so. My
hon. friend did not require any urging :
ION. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONhe was well enough disposed towards the
Was stating the course I pursued to- hon. member from Woodstock. He was
Wards the hon. gentleman when he was as well disposed towards him as I was,
left out of the Senate. He then entreated and he gave him the postmastership,
and
me to use my influence with Sir John I suppose the hon. gentleman retained it
Macdonald to have him appointed on the until he became a Senator. But not only
Occasion of the first vacancy. He said it
did he seek my aid in public matters but
was a most serious thing for him. I tried he invoked my good offices to bring about
to 'nake light of it ; I told him that it was a reconciliation between himself and
a fmatter of the utmost indifference to me members of his family living in England.
If I had been left out ; that I could either
have retired from political life altogether
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Oh! Oh !
or could have sought election to the
CoImons for one of the constituencies of Oh ! Disgracetul!
my division. He said the effect on him
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONWould be different, that it wou!d injure
hlm Politically, and that it would injure The hon. gentleman's ox is gored now !
hilm socially, and would be altogether
grievous to him and to his family. I
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-The hon.
promised him that I would use my in- gentleman is repeating private conversafluence with Sir John Macdonald to have tion.
hlm appointed, and I did so. I do not
know whether it had any -influence. I
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONWOuld like to believe that it had not, for The hon. gentleman asked me whether in
after the manner in which the hon. gentle- any of my visits to England I had met a
man has discredited my recommendation certain gentleman (I shall not name him
I Would like to believe that it had no in- unless the hon. member from Woodstock
fluence in sending him to this House. I insists upon it), a certain gentleman who
feel hon. gentlemen that [ ought, figurative- was a member of the London Stock Ex'Y, to humble myself before this House in change. I said I had. He then told me
sackcloth and ashes for having been he was a near relative of his, but that he
instrumental in any way in recommending had lost sight of the gentleman's family,
One who has done so much to derogate of himself and his father and family; that
fror the dignity and position that this they had been connected at one time with
thouse ought to hold in the country, as a house of great eminence in London,
that hon. gentleman has done. Why, only that that house had been overtaken by
Yesterday, in the street, I was asked by a misfortune, and that its members had
'flember of the other House who lives at gone to reside in foreign countries-and,
the same hotel as the hon.
countries with which
:' When is the Alexander circus gentleman, as I understood,have extradition treaties;
coming on England did not
ln Your House ? He is inviting every one but as this gentleman, who was not so
to go, and promises them a great deal of seriously compromised, had returned, and
fun. Now, hon. gentlemen,
you
heard this hon. gentleman prate have had established himself creditably in Lonof
dignity Of this House and the eminencethe don, that he was inclined to believe it
of might be of advantage to himself(the hon.
its members, and yet that is
the manner member from Woodstock) and to his
which he conducts himself, and de- family, to renew his intimacy with this
w
grades the Senate. Before he was
called
to the Senate he was constantly wanting gentleman ; that he was prospering, and
might
to advance the inSmething or other, and he importuned that heof somebe able children.
terests
of his
The next
Me to use what influence
I might have time I went to England I did what the
POssessed with my hon. friend at my
right hon. gentleman asked me to do, and I
(Sir Alex. Campbell) who was
then Post- told his English friend that the hon. gennaster General, to give him a postmaster- tleman was a Senator.

The Bank of [SENATE]
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-And
postmaster.

Upper Canada.

a Bible Society of Toronto, and which

reminds me very much of his pitiable
special pleading on the Irish resolutions.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON His special pleading to-day is just as
-No, the hon. gentleman ceased to be pitiablea Postmaster when he became a Senator;
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
but I said what I could in his behalf, and
as the sequel has shown, much more than rise to a point of order. The hon. gentleI ought to have said in his behalf. man has already spoken. This is not a
Whether the renewal of the intimacy substantive motion, but an enquiry, and
resulted in the advantage to the hon. having spoken once upon it, he has no
gentleman that he anticipated I do not right to speak again.
know ; I merely mention these facts to
HON MR. ALEXANDER-I think
show that I have done nothing to provoke
the attacks of unsurpassed malignity which the House will allow me to reply. The
he has hurled at me ; that on the contrary, hon. gentleman has made very grave
all my acts, whether in regard to puble charges against me.
matters or private affairs, have been of the
HON. MR. PLUMB-The charges are
kindliest character, and I know ofno cause
for the course which he has pursued, and the other way.
which, really, is not consistent, in my
The SPEAKER-A point of order has
opinion, with that responsibility which been raised. The hon. gentleman from
men ought to recognize attaches to their Woodstock has already spoken, and there
words and acts. I will only say a few being no substantive motion before the
words more. The hon. gentleman now House he is not entitled to make a second
poses in this House as the representative speech except by the consent of the
of bankers and merchants. Could there House.
be anything more absurd ? Could there
be anything more ridiculous? Of course,
HON. MR. PLUMB-Before this mathe does not tell me his private thoughts, ter closes I should like to understand
but I arm told that he is lamenting that it thoroughly whether the debt of the Grand
should devolve upon him to eject Sir Trunk Railway Company to the Bank of
John Macdonald from office but that he Upper Canada has ever been settled.
has a missionAlthough I do not couple my hon. friend
with it at all, it would be desirable to know
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Hear! hear! whether that debt, as has been claimed by
the hon. member from Woodstock, was a
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON loss to the public or whether the debt was
-The hon. gentleman does not appear to paid. If my hon. friend the Minister of
understand the distinction there is between the Interior has the information, I should
being laughed with and being laughed at ! like to have a clear statement on that
He now laments that Providence should point.
have made it his mission-these, I underHON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON
stand, are his own words-to eject Sir
John Macdonald from office, and to -What is the question ?
assume the reins of Government as Prime
HON. MR. PLUMB-I should like to
Minister of the Dominion of Canada!
Thanking the House for the patient know whether the charge made by the
hearing they have given me in what is so hon. member from Woodstock, that a
much a personal matter, and one that I debt of £1oo,ooo due by the Grand
need not tell you is exceedingly distaste- Trunk Railway Company to the Bank of
Upper Canada remains unpaid, or whether
ful to me, I resume my seat.
the debt of the Grand Trunk Railway
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I will not Company was paid off?
weary the House, because I do not think
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
I am expected to reply to the special
pleading of the present President of the Government having been concerned in

Sir David [FEB. 11, 1885] .MacPherson'sPortrait.
that question, I caused enquiries to be to lose the difference between those assets
inade in Toronto of a gentleman named and $i,150,000.
Morton, who was one of the book-keepers
of the Bank of Upper Canada at the time.
SIR DAVID MACPHERSON'S
A telegram was sent to make the enquiry,
PORTRAIT.
a
this is the reply: " Morton bas explamed the whole circumstances in conMOTION.
nection with the draft for £1oo,ooo,
drawn by the Grand Trunk Railway
HON. MR. ALEXANDER moved:through the Bank of Upper Canada.
That in the opinion of this House this
This bill, principal and interest, was paid, portrait of the Hlonorable David Lewis Mac.
not by the Government, but by the pherson, late Speaker of the Senate, be not
Grand Trunk Railway themselves. Mr. allowed to remain in the Senate Corridor.
Morton is prepared to substantiate He said : It is assuredly a most disthis."
There is no doubt therefore agreeable and painful duty, that any
about the intention of the hon. gentleman member should require to call attention
1n bringing this question up at this late to so insignificant a matter. It is most
'day The hon. member for Niagara asks distasteful to me to discuss smali matters.
What position the matter stands in now as But we are commanded by the highest
far as the Government is concerned. The authority, to do everything decently and
Government took over all this property by in order. In a well- rdered house one
a statute passed in 1870. At that time should see nothing which can be regarded
there were a great many debts due by the as an infringement of good taste. I have
Bank of Upper Canada to private indi- been accustomed to regard life thus. If a
Viduals. The Government advanced a man's noble, disinterested character during
considerable sum of money to pay those his life, and the services he has rendered
debts, and they were paid off. Since then to mankind are great, and such deserve to
the Governmenthas realized from the assets be remembered after death, the nation
of the bank $352,456. The assets of the will erect a monument to commemorate
bank, at this moment in existence, consist them. It is scarcely seemly for an indiOf a certain number of claims which are in vidual to pronounce his own eulogy.
suit, and the amount of which I understand
This is virtually what that portrait does.
froim the proper officer, the Deputy Min- You cannot find in the whole Dominion a
'ster of Finance, is $12,000 to $14,ooo; man of proper instincts, who does not feel
there are other assets which are not in suit that the placing of such a portrait, of such
frOmn which probably $3o,ooo will be real- dimensions, amidst the other portraits of
ized, making altogether $44,ooo, and the all the distinguished men who have graced
Government will ultimately secure about the Chair of this House, during the last
$150,000 of their debt from the assets of fifty years, is a simple outrage upon
the Bank Their debt at the time the common decency, and bears testimony to
Bank failed was $, i5o,ooo. Everyone sad infirmity of character,-to the hon.
has been paid but the Government. The gentleman's inordinate vanity.
Government was obliged to take over the
Such Speakers as Sir John Beverly
assets, and trustees were appointed for a Robinson, a man of such exalted mind
certain time. With reference to these and acquirements as fitted him to grace
trustees the Government, in a letter which the Bench in England, or even the Wool.hold in my hand, expressed satisfaction sack in the House of Lords; Chief Justice
with their conduct and the thoroughness Sewell, of Quebec, an eminent jurist ; Sir
with which they managed the assets of the Etienne Tache, one of the framers of
bank for the time they were in office, Confederation, and many other such
two years. After that, proceedings were eminent men, were all satisfied to conform
taken fromn time to time by the Minister to one uniform size of painting and frame.
Of Finance with the result which I have But this portrait, if it means anything, is
!nentioned, that $352,ooo has been real- designed to convey to posterity the impresIzed o'ut of the assets, and about $4o,ooo sion that the Speaker inquestion was a more
Or $50,0oo remains to be realized, and exalted character, and rendered greater
that the Government will ultimately stand services to the country than any one of

Sir David

[SENATE]

his predecessors. I can scarcely believe
that the members of this House. who are
so competent to judge what is seemly and
proper, and in order, will not admonish
their friend to substitute, at once, a proper
and becoming portrait, uniform in regard
to dimensions with those of all his illustrious predecessors. I perhaps under-estimate the hon. gentleman's character. It
may be profitable to discuss that so far as
the rules of the House permit us to do,
under this motion. He is a man of large
possessions and wealth. That is a great
virtue in the estimation of some. He has
been a most faithful partizan follower of
the First Minister since 1872,-not before.
I believe Sir John once said that the hon.
gentleman tried to destroy him before that
period. But since then he has done his
master's work faithfully. I myself have
reason to remember some of his handywork. When he attained the object of his
ambition, and became Speaker of this
House, we ail remember his memorable
remark, that " we want no more speeches
now to go to the country."

MacPheron'8 Portrait.

hon. gentleman to order, unless some
member rises in his place and states a
question of order. If the hon. gentleman
insists upon the point of order being
decided I will rule upon it.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
think I must ask that the hon. member
be not allowed to veil an attack upon me
and state that I stopped the reporting of
the Debates of the House, under a notice
of motion about a portrait that hangs in
the corridor. These two matters are as
far apart as the two poles. The hon. gentleman cannot elucidate the important
question he has brought before the House
by any reference to the reporters, but I
wish to state that the assertion he has
made is untrue.

THE SPEAKER-Does the hon. gentleman wish me to rule upon the point
of order ?
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes.

THE SPEAKER-The point of order
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON raised by the Minister of Justice is as to
the relevancy of the hon. member's re-I never said anything of the kind.
marks. It certainly is not relevant for the
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I heard the hon. member to make the remarks cornhon. gentleman say so myself. I remember plained of by the Minister of Justice on
distinctly hearing him say in the corridor the motion which is now before the
" we want no more speeches."
House.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I am sure
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON
-I repeat, I never said anything of the everyone will recognize that if I have
erred it is not from any want of respect
kind.
for the House. They know the esteem in
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-He and which I hold every member of this Chamhis illustrious colleague, Sir Alex. Camp- ber I will only observe that the result of
bell, steadily tried to stop the Official the labors of the hon. gentleman in referReports of the Debates of the Senate, and ence to whom the motion is made, in conthe result of their combined labors and junction with others, and the influences
influence has been that theyhavesucceeded they have used, have completely despretty well in destroying theSenatein public troyed this House. in the estimation of the
estimation.
country. It is my painful duty to add
that as far as I am concerned, the hon.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I rise gentleman has ever pursued a most partito a question of order; what the hon. zan course towards me. The House will
gentleman says is perfectly untrue, and if remember how his conduct in the chair
I sit still under it I hope the House will once led me to transgress the rules and
understand that I do so because of the led to a regular scene in the Senate. Now
obvious excitement under which he labors. the question will be asked: What are we
to do with this work of art, which is well
THE SPEAKER-The House must be executed ? The great magician of the
well aware that it is not for me to call an age-the right hon. gentleman who has
HON. MR.

ALEXANDER.

British [FEB. 11, 18851
recently had the Grand Cross of the Bath
cOnferred upon him-has suggested one
Course, a a meeting of the Privy Council,
Which wa to cut the painting in two, and
put the handsome legs in another frame,
and in this manner the size of the frames
WOuld be uniform with those of former
Speakers. As a humble descendant of
the Celtic race myself, I do think this
Would be very cruel treatment, to cut this
great Celtic chieftain in two. I really
could not vote for that. I would only
make one suggestion-with all respect to
the House-that this beautiful painting
mnight be sent to the National Gallery in
London, or the Pinacothek in Munich,
the Ducal Gallery in Florence, the Vatican,
or the Louvre. I have no doubt that as
a.Work of art it would be much apprecIated at any one of those ; or that the
hon. gentleman in his generosity might
Present it to our Academy of Arts established by His Excellency the late GovernorGeneral.

Medical Acts.

THE SPEAKER-The motion can be
put without a seconder and therefore the
yeas and nays can be taken.

The House divided upon the motion,
which was rejected by the following vote•
CONTENTS:

Hon. Mr. Alexander.
NON-CONTENTS:

Allan,
Almon,

McDonald (C.B.),
McKay,

Archibald,
Arnand,
Baillargeon,
Bellerose,
Benson,
Holduc,
Botsford,
Boucherville, de,
Canpbell (Sir Alex.),
Chaflers,
Chapais,

McKindsey,
McMaster,
McMillan,
Macdonald (B.C.),
MacInnes,
(Burlington),
Miller (Speaker),
Montgomery,
Nelson,
Nortluwood,
Odell,

Clenow,
DeBlois,

O'Donohoe,

Ogilvie,

Dever,
Pelletier,
Dickey,
Plumb,
Power,
EHE SPEAKER-It is moved by the Ferguson,
h
0
r. Alexander, seconded by whom ? Girard,
Robitaille,
Ryan,
There is no rule of the House requiring Gowan,
a seconder, and therefore unless the hon. Grant,
Schultz,
gentleman asks leave to withdraw the Guevremont,
Scott,
Hamilton,
Sullivan,
Motion I shall put it.
Havthorne,
Sutherland,
Ho;wlan,
Trudel,
1ION. MR. ALEXANDER-No.
Kaulbach,
Vidal.-52.
Lacoste,
THE SPEAKER-It is moved by the
Hon. Mr. Alexander:
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONThîat in the opinion of this House this I ask to be excused from voting.
portrait of the Hon. David Lewis Macpherson, late Speaker of the Senate.
be not allowed
Oremain in the Senate Corridor.
BRITISH MEDICAL ACTS.
.QN.
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL - I
thlmk, under the circumstances, and
conSidering the attack which the hon. gentleMan has made, that it would be desirable
to have the yeas and nays recorded, so
that the hon. gentleman can
see his posit.on in this House.
If nothing else will
do it, perhaps it may have the
effect of
soberimg him.

MOTION.
HON. MR. SULLIVAN moved:That an humble Address be presented to.

Ris Excellency the Governor General, praying
Ris Excellency to cause to be laid before this
House, copies of ail correspondence between
the Federal and Ontario Governments and
the Imperial Government, on the subject of

the Imperial Act, 21-22 Victoria, Chapter 90,
THE SPEAKER-Are the yeas and known as the British Medical Act, 1858; the
nays dernanded by two members ? (Yes, Imperial Act, 31-32 Victoria, Chapter 29,
Ves).
known as the British Medical Amendment
MR. ALEXANDER-Can the
yeas and nays be taken on a motion which
as no seconder?
,-,ON.

Act, 1868; the Imperial Act, 41-42 Victoria,
Chapter 33, known as the Dentists' Act, 1878;
and the amendments proposed to be made

thereto, during the present session of the
Imperial Parliament.

Câriminal Law

LSENATE]

Amendment Bill.

from Halifax (Mr. Power) was in his
place, a Bill which was then in his charge,
relating to seduction and inveigling young
women into disreputable houses, was discharged from the Orders of the Day. It
stood upon the paper for the second reading, but on promising that with reference
to one of these matters I would introduce
a Bill during the present session, it was
withdrawn. The one to which I refer was
the inveigling of young women into improper houses. In pursuance of that promise, I
beg to introduce Bill (F) " An Act
further to amend an Act intituled 'An Act
OF respecting offences against the person.'"
SURVEYS
HYDROGRAPHIC
LAKES IN THE NORTH-WEST.
The Bill was read the first time.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
Government has no objection to the
motion which my hon. friend has made,
and I am glad that he has made it, for it
will give him, and those who are associated
with him in the medical profession, the
opportunity of knowng that the views
that they have put forward have been successful, and that the legislation which is
likely to take place in the Imperial Parliament on this subject is such as the medical
profession desire.
The motion was agreed to.

ENQUIRY.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
that the Bill be read the second lime on
HoN. MR. SCHULTZ enquired:
Monday next.
Whether it is the intention of the Government to proceed during the coming suniner,

HoN. MR. POVER-I would like to
ask the Minister of Justice if he proposes
to introduce this year a Bill to codify the
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-A criminal law which he spoke of last session?
survey is going on at this moment at Lake If I remember right he went so far as to
Huron, and the only body of persons who say that he would have a draft of the proare able to conduct such a survey are em- posed code prepared.
pioyed there. So soon as the survey there
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am
shail have made satisfactory progress, the
Government will be able to consider the not yet able to say absolutely whether we
further survey which the hon. gentleman will or not. What we are proposing in
points to ; but in the meantime nothing consolidating the Statutes is to give the law
can be very well done, and certainly as it stands. I suggested that probably
during the present session we should
nothing has been done.
submit to the House for consideration a
Bill founded upon the criminal code which
The Senate adjourned at 5:15 p.m.
they have been endeavoring to introduce
in England. Amendments in that code
were necessary, and we have given some
attention to them, as much as we could,
THE SENATE
amongst other measures. If we get suffiOttawa, Thursday, kbruary 12th, 1885. ciently advanced with the Bill we intend
to introduce it this session, not with a
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three view of having it passed this year, but to
have it distributed and read in order to
o'clock p.m.
take it up next session. I still propose
to go on with that plan, not with the idea
Prayers and routine proceedings
of proposing to pass such a code during
CRIMINAL LAW%' AMENDMENT
the present session but with a view to
BILL.
going on as far as to present it to both
Houses of Parliament towards the end of
the session, and letting it go to the public
FIRST READING.
during the vacation.
H ON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBÉLL-Last
The motion was agreed to.
session, at the time the hon. gentleman

with Hydrographic Surveys of Lakes Winuipeg, Manitoba, and Winnipegosis.

Te Cox

[FEB. 13, 1885]

THE EVANS DIVORCE BILL.

Divorce Bill.

tee of both Houses on the Printing of
Parliament.

FIRST READING.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLION. MR. GOWAN-The Committee There is in the report a recommendation

On Standing Orders and Private Bills
having reported that all the rules of the
House have been complied with in connection with the petition of Alice Elvira
Evans, I beg to introduce Bill (G) "An
Act for the relief of Alice Elvira Evans.>'
The Bill was read the first time on a
division.
The Senate adjourned at 3:30 p. m.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, 1riday, February, 13th, 1885.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
0'clock p.m.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
AN ADJOURNMENT.
HoN. MR. BELLEROSE called the
attention of the House to the fact that the
Government, through the Minister of
Justice, had intimated that it was not their
intention to proceed with the Bill respectIng real property in the North-West
Territories on Monday; that at the request of certain hon. gentlemen, the consideration of the measure was to be postPoned until the end of next week, to allow
members an opportunity to become familiar with the details of it. That being the
case, and there being no other important
Work before this Chamber, and Wednesday
being a statutory holiday, he did not see
Why the House should not adjourn until
Friday next. With the permission of hon.
gentlemen, he would move the suspension
Of the 9th rule, and that when the House
adjourns to-day it do stand adjourned
Until Friday the 2oth inst., at 3 p.m.
The motion was agreed to.

for the expenditure of money, and where
a recommendation of that kind is found
in a report, it is usual and necessary to
allow it to stand until it shall first be
adopted in the House of Commons. I
therefore ask my hon. friend to allow this
report to stand until that is done.
HON. MR. READ moved that the
order of the day be discharged and that
the report be taken into consideration on
Friday next.
The motion was agreed to.

THE (OX

DIVORCE BILL.

REFERRED BACK TO COMMITTEE.
HON. MR. OGILVIE moved that the
72nd rule be suspended in so far as the
same relates to the petition of George
Branford Cox, as recommended in the 4 th
report of the Committee on Standing
Orders and Private Bills. He said-When
I spoke the other day about this Bill I
said that the notice had received its full

publication in the Canada Gazette and

that it was simply short two weeks in the
local paper. Now, the only fault to be
found with it is that it was one week short
in the local paper, and I do not think that
there is anything in that which should
lead the Senate to refuse to adopt the
report.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am
sorry to be unable to agree with my hon.
friend from Montreal, who asks us to
suspend the rule in this particular case.
In reference to an ordinary Bill we suspend
the rules very frequently in compliance
with a recommendation of this kind in the
report of the Committee on Standing
Orders and Private Bills, but in these
divorce cases we are, strictly speaking, a
THE PRINTING OF PARLIAMENT. court, there being no other court competent to discharge that duty in any part
SECOND REPORT.
of the Dominion, and we ought to follow
strictly the rules which have been laid
HON. MR. READ moved the adoption down. Naturally it occurs to my learned
of the second report of the Joint Commit- friend from Montreal, who
is a layman

T'he Cox [SEINATE] Divorce Bill.
that six weeks' notice is just as good as
seven, since the evidence establishes that
the respondent has been served with the
proper papers, and that therefore this
irregularity is of no consequence ; but you

cannot deal with a subject of this kind in
that light way. If you can throw off one
week why not two, and if two why not
three, or four, or five, or the whole notice ?
The only safe course to take is to require
that the rules of the House be rigidly
observed. We do not know what dangers
the party may have been exposed to, or
what may have been the result of the
failure to publish during that one week,
and therefore as the parties theinselves
are to blame for this omission, and as they
might have taken the necessary precaution,
and it is by their own negligence and
default that it occurred, it seems to me
the House should be clear of all blame in
the matter, and should see that their rules,
which were laid down after deliberation,
and for the express purpose of giving all
parties full notice and warning and an
opportunity of coming here, are strictly
observed. We should take extreme care
in granting these divorces. It is one of
the most important decisions which can be
given affecting the relations between man
and wife, and that serious step should not
be taken without the utmost precaution,
and without seeing that every form is
strictly complied with. I hope the day is
long distant when there shall be any relaxation of the rules which protect persons
in the state of matrimony, and that we
shall never reach the condition of affairs
which prevails in the United States, where,
it has been remarked, in some States the
railway trains stop ten minutes for divorces.
Let us adhere to the rules which have been
laid down for safety and which are necessary. I think in a case of this kind, where
the notice is not complete or satisfactory,
and where the indentification is not
thorough, we should exercise extreme care.
I have read those papers again, because I
was anxious to facilitate my hon. friend
in the matter if I could, and it does not
appear to me that this notice, which was
served on Mrs. Cox, is a true copy, or a
copy at all of the notice which appeared in
the Gazette; neither would it be possible, I
think, to prefer satisfactorily an accusation
of perjury or false declaration against the
person who makes the original declaration
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL.

of service, because although I dare say he
served it. his declaration is made before a
notary public in the United States, which
is not provided for in the Statute ; so the
evidence of notice served on the parties is
not satisfactory. That is an additional
reason why we should strictly observe the
rules of the House, which require full
notice, and I think if we depart from them
now we shall be establishing a dangerous
precedent. Another session a member
will have charge of a Bill and the notice
may be two weeks short; he will quote
this case and say, in such a session where
the notice was one week short it was held
to be no serious violation of the rules, and
in this case it was only two weeks short,
and what is the difference ? I hope my
hon. friend will agree with the majority of
the House, as I believe, in thinking that
we should adhere to the rules.
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-I fully agree
with the Minister of Justice that we should
not relax our rules in this case. If we do so
now, we cannot say how far we shall go in
this direction in the future. I cannot see
how any injury can be done to the parties
in this case, because there is ample time
to apply to the Private Bills Committee
again and get justice this session.
I do,
not think this is a case in which the principle de mininius non curat lex applies.
I do not look upon this omission as a
trifle, and I believe that the rules of the
House should be strictly adhered to and
given full effect to.
HON. MR. OGILVIE-I should like
to know whether this petition should be
referred back to the Committee on Standing Orders and Private Bills, or whether I
should move that the order of the day be
discharged, and that it be brought up on
Friday next, the 2oth instant, when we
meet again ?

HON.

SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL--I

think my hon. friend had better move that
the order of the day be discharged, and
this petition referred back to the Committee on Standing Orders and Private
Bills for further consideration.
HON. MR. OGILVIE moved that the
order be discharged and the petition referred back to the Committee
The motion was agreed to.

The Smith

[FEB. 20, 1885j

Divorce Bill.

PETITIONS FOR PRIVATE BILLS. adjournment, because at this period of the
TIME FOR RECEIVING EXTENDED.

session documents are accumulating very
fast, and there should be no delay in
having then dealt with.

HON. MR. DICKEY-I may be excused for reminding the House that the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-They
time for presenting petitions for Private do not need to obtain leave from the
Bills has been limited to the i 9 th inst., House to meet.
the day before we meet again. I observe
in the !-ouse of Commons the time is
THE SPEAKER-The Committees of
limited to the 2oth inst. It will be neces- this House can meet during the adsary to provide for this emergency 'y ex- journiment.
tending the time to the same day, or later.
The Senate adjourned at 4 p.m.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
time for receiving Private Bills has been
enlarged to the 26th, and the time for receiving petitions might be extended to the
saie day.

THE SENATE.
O//aowa, Friday, February 2oth, 1885.

TUH E SPEAKER-You cannot make a
motion of that kind, except on a recomThe SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
mnendation from the Private Bills Committee, without a suspension of the 18th rule. o'clock p. m.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Why
should we suspend the rule since in the
THE SMITH DIVORCE BILL.
House of Commons they have given
notice that they will not extend the time
SECOND READING.
beyond the 20th ? Why should persons
who wish to present petitions for Private
The order of the day having been read
Bills, and who have not done so, be given
for the
any further extension of time ?
Second Reading of Bill (B) for the relief of
Charles Snith, and the Petitioner do attend
HON. MR. DICKEY-Why should at the Bar and be heard by Counsel,
parties vho come here for justice be deTHE SPEAKER said : I have received
prived of an opportunity of presenting
petitions because this House chooses to from the Clerk of the House a telegram
.which I desire to read to the Senate. It
adjourn for a week ?
is as follows :
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
"WoOD VILLE JUNCTION,
that the 18th rule be suspended, and that
" Feby. 19th, 1885.
the tine for receiving petitions for Private EDWARD J. LANGEviN,
Bills be extended to the 26th inst.
Clerk ot the Senate.
The motion was agreed to.
" Have only to-day received copy of Bill
for the relief of Charles Snith. Want the
hearing adjourned for one week. I will
SESSIONS OF COMMITTEES DUR- appear in person or by counsel then.
ING ADJOURNMENT.
" MAHALA MORILDA SEUFELL."
ENQUIRY.

The nane is not properly signed, but I
presume this telegram is from the res-

pondent in this case. I do not suppose
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE--Respect- it will affect the second reading of the Bill
ing the sessions of Joint Committees, it to-day.
Seems to me that some inconvenience
may be caused, unless the Printing CoinHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLrnittee, for example, can sit during
the Where is Woodville Junction ?

52

The Smith

(SENATE]

Divorce Bill.

HON. MR. READ-I beg leave to move
Mr. SPEAKER-I do not know ;
for permission of the House that the
somewhere in Ontario, I believe.
following questions be put to the witHON. MR. READ-I beg to hand in ness :-"
What is your name, place of
the certificate of the Clerk of the Senate residence and occupation."
with respect to this Bill, and ask that it be
The motion was agreed to.
read at the table.
The certificate was read by the Clerk at
THE CLERK having read the question
the table, and is as follows :
at the table,
"1, Edward Joseph Langevin, Clerk of the
THE WITNESS replied "Charles S.
Senate of Canada, hereby certify-Notice of
the day fixed by the order of the Senate, made Gillespie, of the Village of Campbellford,
on Thursday the 5th day of February, 1885, County of Northumberland, hardware
for the second reading of the Bill intituled
'An Act for the relief of Charles Smith,' merchant."
pursuant to the Standing Order of the Senate
HON. MR. READ-I beg leave to move
in that belialf was affixed on the doors of the
Senate throughout a period of fourteen days that the following question be put to the
after the date of the first reading of the said witness--" Look at the paper writing now
Bill and between the said 5th day of February,
A.D., 1885, and the 14th day of February, shown to you marked A, being an Act for
the relief of Charles Smith, and on the
1885.
Given under niy hand, at the Senate paper writing now shown to you marked
Chamber, in the City of Ottawa, in the exhibit B, being the Order of the Senate
Province of Ontario, in the Dominion of Canada, this 20th day oi February, in the year of on Thursday, 5th February, 1885, both
writings being certified by the Clerk of the
Our Lord 1885.
Senate : did you serve copies of both
Signed,
writings with the certificates of the Clerk
E. J. LANGEVIN,
Clerk of the Senate. of the Senate thereon upon Mahala Avilda
Smith, and at what date and at what
HON. MR. READ-I beg to notify the place ? "
House that a witness is in attendance at
the Senate ready to be examined as to the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-In a
service of the notice and of the Bill, and Couit of law the question would be objectI now move that he be heard at the Bar ed to at once as being a leading question :
-of the House.
the question should be-" Did you serve
this paper and if so upon whom ? "
The motion was agreed to.
HON. MR. READ-I followed exactly
MR. SPEAKER ordered that the witness do appear below the Bar of the House. the proccedings as they appear in the
Campbell case.
The witness having appeared at the
Bar, was sworn.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
HON. MR. READ-I beg to ask the House will see that it is important because
witness the following questions :-What is it may be that the witness supposes that
your name, place of residence, and occu- he served the notice upon this particular
woman, and this question being put in
pation ?
this leading way he replies at once "Yes":
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The whereas the question being put to him
proper mode of proceeding is that the properly he might say to himself "I do not
hon. gentleman should ask the permission know whether it was this woman I served
or not " ; and therefore, from that point
of the House to put the question.
of view, it should be asked in the way it
MR. SPEAKER-The regular way is would be put in a court of law, and in
that the hon. gentleman in charge of the courts they know by long experience the
Bill should make a motion that such a advantage of a question being put properquestion be put to the witness, and if the ly, and that leading questions are not
House agrees to it then the question will proper, and that they do lead to p2rverbe read by the Clerk.
sions of the truth.

The Smith

[FEB. 20, 18851

HON. MR POWER-I would call the
attention of the Minister of Justice to one
circumstance in connection with this
matter that does not exist in viva voce
examinations in court. In this case both
questions and answers are put in writing,
and the witness has had time to consider
therm before coming to the Bar of the
House, and therefore the objection of the
hon. gentleman is not quite as strong as it
Would appear at first sight.

Divorce Bill.

Mahala Mavilda, the wife of Charles
Smith, of the Village of Cainpbellford,
County of Northumberland, Province of
Ontario, miller, formerly Mahala Avilda
Zufelt."
The motion was agreed to.
THE WITNESS-The person, Mahala
Mavilda Smith, upon whom I served
copies of the writings marked A and B
respectively, is Mahala Mavilda, the wife
of Charles Smith, of the Village of Campbellford, County of Northumberland, in
the Province of Ontario, miller, formerly
Mahala Mavilda Zufelt, from whom the
said Charles Smith petitions for divorce.

THE WITNESS-I served copies of
the writings now shown to me marked A
and B respectively, with the certificates
thereon of the Clerk of the Senate upon
the said Mahala Alvira Smith, on Tuesday
the 17th February instant, at the residence
HoN. MR.
of Charles Parkin, in the Township of witness be nowREAD-I move that the
permitted to withdraw.
Lambton, County of Victoria, Province
of Ontario. I have known her for twenty
The motion was agreed to.
years past.
HON. MR. READ-I beg to move that
HON. MR. PLUMB-I desire to call the examination of the petitioner in this
the attention of the Senate to the fact that matter at the Bar of the Senate, as well
the name of the respondent is not given generally with regard to any collusion or
correctly in any of the papers. In one connivance between the parties, be for the
it is called Mahilda. In another case it present dispensed with, but that it be an
is called Mavilda, and the real name is instruction to any committee to whom the
Mahala Mavilda.
Bill upon the subject may be referred, to
make such examination.
HON. MR. READ-I beg to mDve
that the following question be put to the
HON. MR. DICKEY-The collusion
or connivance spoken of in the rule is colwitness:lusion or connivance to obtain a separation,
"'State the particular mode in which which is not mentioned in this motion.
YOU effected such service of the writings
A and B respectively on Mahala Avilda
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
Smith."
was distinctly understood in these proThe motion was agreed to.
ceedings that it should appear in the
resolution, or be stated by the hon. memTHE WITNESS-I served the said ber in charge of the Bill, from his place
copies of the said writings A and B on that the petitioner was present and ready
Mahala Mavilda Smith personally by to be examined at the bar, and that fact
handing the same to her, and stating at was taken down in the minutes; and that,
the same time that the paper writings A I think, ought to precede this motion. If
and B were served on her that she might the hon. gentleman will either state in his
oPpose the Divorce if she wished, and to place, or put it in the resolution, that the
let her know the matter was before the petitioner is at the Bar of the Senate ready
Senate.
to be examined, it will be sufficient.
It
also should appear that he is ready to be
HON. MR. READ-I move that the examined in the way pointed out by the
following question be put to the witness:- hon. gentleman from Amherst, that is,
with reference to collusion for the pur«'Is the person Mahala Avilda Smith, pose of obtaining a separation ; the petiUpon whom you served copies of the tioner is to appear before the Bar of the
Writings marked A and B respectively, Senate at the second reading of the Bill,

The Smith

54

SENATE]

to be examined by the Senate generally,
or as to any collusion or connivance
between the parties to obtain a separation.
Now, this motion only says that the petitioner is to appear at the Bar of the Senate
to be examined by the Senate generally,
or as to any collusion or connivance,
leaving out the words " to obtain such
separation."
It certainly ought to be
stated he is at the Bar of the Senate ready
to be examined.
HON. MR.

READ-The petitioner is

at the Bar of the Senate, ready to be examined.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-If
the hon. gentleman will allow me we will
have the motion amended at the table.
I would take this opportunity of saying,
with reference to the remark made by the
hon. gentleman from Niagara(Mr. Plumb),
on looking at the papers I find that
although the name of the respondent has
been mis-pronounced sometimes by the
Clerk and the hon. gentleman, that they
all relate specifically to the same person
whose name is given in the papers and in
the Bill as Mahala Mevilda Zufelt.

The motion was agreed to on a division.
HON. MR. READ-I beg to move that
Bill (B), " An act for the relief of Charles
Smith," be now read the second time.
The motion was agreed to on a division.
HON. MR. READ moved

- That the said Bill be referred to a Select
Connittee, conposed of Hon. Messrs. Wark,
Vidal, MacInnes, (B. C.), Gowan, Clemow,

McKindsey and the mover, to report thereon
- with ail convenient speed, with power to send
for papers, personsand records, and examine
witnesses on oath i and that the exemplification of the proceedings to final judgment in
the High Court of Justice, Ontario, Coinmon
Pleas Division, in the case of Charles Smiith
vs. Charles Parkin, and the further proceedings presented to the Senate on the reading
of the petition of the said Charles Smith, be
referred to the said Comnittee, and that ail
persons summoned to appear before the
Senate in tits matter appear before said Comnittee, and that the said Conmittee have
leave to sit on Saturdays and other nonsitting days.

Divorce Bill.

think that any Senator who has passed his
8oth year should be exempt from such
duty.
HON. MR. ALMON-It is a very unfair
thing that persons asked to serve on the
committee should be appointed by the
member who has charge of the Bill. Of
course he is to a certain extent interested
in the case of his client, and that he should
choose the jury is manifestly unfair. I do
not object to thepersonnel of this committee, still I think the principle is bad. The
committee should be chosen, not by the
party in charge of the Bill, but by the
Speaker of the Senate. I am perfectly
aware that the finding of the committee is
not final ; still if a prejudiced committee
were appointed they might ask some questions that were improper, and omit to ask
others that should be asked, and in that
way submit to the House an unfair view
of the case. I do not think there is any
danger of it being done in this case, but I
think it would be very much better if the
precedent should be established, that such
committees should be appointed by the
Speaker.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I do not
agree with my hon. friend that because a
member introduces a Bill he is thereby in
any way biased in the selection of a
I should not think so.
committee.
Neither do I think that a member would
As
feel himself in any case so biased.
regards the personnel of the committee I
think it is a very good selection, and I
only rise to say that I do no think that a
member being appointed to a committee
would feel that he had any personal interest in it, or that he would take an
extreme view of the matter.
HON. MR. READ-I may state that
I conferred with the Minister of Justice
as to the selection of this committee, and
it may be called his committee and not
mine.
HON. MR. POWER-That of course
removes any objection that my hon.
colleague might have, but I rise for the
purpose of saying that my colleague from

Halifax was quite justified in making the

HON. MR. WARK-I beg to have my statement he did, because

name omitted from the resolution.
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL

in the last

I case, I think, that we had before the

The Smith

[FEB. 20, 1885]

Senate-that is the Nicholson casewith a view of obviating the danger of
any partiality on the part of the committee
It was appointed by his Honor the
Speaker. That I think was the case in
the Nicholson matter.
ION. MR. KAULBACH-Not apPointed by him, but merely referred to him,
but I think in the present case the Speaker
should be relieved from such a duty.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
thought the understanding of the House
Was that the gentleman in charge of the
Bil should confer with the Speaker, but
on mentioning the matter to His Honor
lWith reference to another Bill he informed
Tme that he thought not-that the understanding of the House was that the gentleman in charge of the Bill should confer
"With the Minister of Justice, and therefore
mfy hon. friend came to me and we settled
l1pon this committee.
HON. MR. POWER-I merely rose to
remark that my hon. colleague was justified
in what he said.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
hope my hon. friend from New Brunswick
Will not persist in his objection to serve on
the committee. Although he has attained
the age which he mentions, yet he is young
in vigor, and there are so many of these
-cases coming before the House that I am
afraid he and I and other old men will
have to serve. I hope my hon. friend
Will consent to act.
HON. MR. BOTSFORD-With respect
to the reference which has been made to
a.nember having charge of a Bill of this
kind nominating a committee, I recollect
distinctly that there was a discussion about
it on a former occasion, and I suggested,
to overcome an objection made by the
hon. member from Halifax, that the
Speaker was the proper person who should
nOminate the committee, but of course the
Minister of Justice is quite competent to
Perforn the duty.

Divorce Bill.

55

objection which had been made by some
parties that the member in charge of the
Bill should not have the selection of the
Committee.
THE SPEAKER-I am sorry that my
recollection of the circumstances attending
the occasion to which the hon. gentlemen
have alluded is not in harmony with that
of the hon. gentleman who has just resumed
his seat. I think I myself was the member
who brought the subject to the notice of
the House some years ago and after some
considerable discussion, if my memory
serves me right, it was the unanimous
wish of the Senate that the leader of the
House, who happens to be the Minister
of Justice, should advise with the mover
for the committee, and that the committee
should have his approbation; that is my
recollection. Under any circumstances
the House would hardly expect me,
knowing my views on the question, to
nominate a committee; but apart from
that my recollection is very distinct and I
think it wis the decision of the House
that the Minister of Justice should nominate the committee ard watch the proceedings all through.

HoN. MR. DICKEY-It must be
admitted that there could be no fairer
mode of choosing a committee than that
which bas been adopted in this case, and
had the junior member for Halifax been
aware of the facts he would have been,
probably, content with merely suggesting
that in future cases nomination should not
take place by the member having charge
of the Bill. It was a fair position for him
to assume, and in fact he expressly stated
that he took no exception to the gentlemen
who were appointed in this instance.
Therefore there is really nothing to prevent
the House from acceding to the motion.
HON. MR. ALMON-If I had known
that the Minister of Justice had been consulted in this case I would not have raised
the objection : but suppose we had not
the good fortune to have the Minister of
Justice in this Housë what would be done ?

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
HON. MR. READ-The leader of the
should be happy to give it up.
House could nominate the committee.
1ON. MR. BOTSFORD-I made the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We
suggestion myself in consequence of an could make some other provision. There

56

The Davie [SENATE]

is one thing omitted in the motion to
which I wish to draw attention. I hardly
think myself that it is necessary, but I am
not able to say positively, and therefore I
think the hon. gentleman should follow
precedent. In a case which is before me,
which came up in 1884, of one Graham,
the words "and examine witnesses on
oath " appeared. Those words are omitted
in this motion. I believe the Committee
does not get the power to examine the
witnesses by any delegation by this House,
but by virtue of an Imperial Act of Parliament. I am not quite positive about that,
but I believe so, and perhaps the words
are not necessary, but it is very often dangerous to depart from the regular form.
HON. MR. DICKEY-The 78th rule
provides that the comrnittee shall have
power to examine witnesses under oath.
The rules mention it distinctly ; so I suppose my hon. friend did not think it
necessary to incorporate these words in
his motion.
HON. MR. READ-In 1884 I had
those words included, but when it came
up it was found that the committee had
authority to examine witnesses under oath
without it.

Divorce Bill.

House. He moved that Max Fischacher,
of Boston, Mass., be examined at the Bar
of the House.
The motion was agreed to, and the
witness was sworn and examined at the
Bar as follows:Q. What is your name, place of residence,
and occupation?
A. Max Fischacher, of the City of Boston,
in the State of Massachusetts, one of the
United States of America, (jounseller at Law.
Q. Look on the paper writing now shown
to you, marked "A,' being an Act for the
relief of Amanda Esther Davis, and on the

paper writing now shown to you, marked
" B," being an order of the Senate on Thursday, the 5th February, 1885, both writings
bemng certified by the Clerk of the Senate.
Did you serve copies of these writings with
the certificates thereon of the Clerk of the
Senate upon Joseph DeSola, and on what day
and date and at what place ?
A. I served copies of the writings now
shown to me, marked "A" and " B " respectively, with the certificates thereon respectively, of the Clerk of the Senate, upon
the said Joseph DeSola, whom I have known
for several years, upon Friday, 13th day of
February, instant, at his lodging house in the
City of Boston, in the State of Massachusetts,
and which is known as number two, Rollins
Street, in said City.
Q. State the particular mode in which you
effected such service of the writings "A" and
"B " respectively, on Joseph DeSola ?

A. I served the said copies of the said
writings '-A" and " B" on the said Joseph
POWER-It is better to DeSola, personally, by handing the same to
insert the words ; they cannot do any harm. him, an d I informed him that as I had
IION. MR.

MR. PLUMB-The

rule says
that "witnesses are heard on oath."
It
may be necessary that the authorization
should be made by motion in the House.
HON.

caused the Notice of Application to the Parliament of Canada, on the part of his wife,
for a Bill of divorce to be served upon him,

and as I knew him personally, these papers
were sent to me with the request that I should
serve hin with sanie. I explained the character and purport of the documents to him
THE SPEAKER-My own opinion is and he understood the same.
Q. Is the person, Joseph
that it would be better to adhere to the whom you served copies of DeSola, upon,
the writings
form, and state " examine witnesses on marked "A ' and " B," respectively, Joseph
DeSola, the husband of Anianda Esther
oath."
Davis, of the City ofMontreal, in the Province

The motion was amended accordingly of Quebec, and the person from whom the
petitioner herein is seeking divorce ?
and agreed to on a division.
A. The person, Joseph DeSola, upon whom
I served copies of the writings marked "A"
THE DAVIS DIVORCE BILL.
and " B," respectively, is Joseph DeSola,
the husband of Amanda Esther Davis, the
petitioner in this matter.
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
The said Max Fischacher was directed
HON. MR. OGILVIE presented the to withdraw.
cartificate of the Clerk of the Senate that
notice in the Davis Divorce Case had been
HON. MR. OGILVIE moved:affixed at the door of the Senate for 14
That the examination of the petitioner in
days, as required by the rules of the this matter at the Bar of the Senate as well
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Ofences A gainst [FEB. 20, 1885] Me Person Bill.
generally as in regard to any collusion or Tuesday, and that the Bill be then read
connivance between the parties, be for the the second time.
present dispensed with, but that it be an
1
11struction to any committee whon the Bill
HON. MR. KAULBACH-The motion
4e referred on the subject to make such
exanination.
before the House is the reference, and
that motion should be amended so as to
. HON. MR. KAULBACH-This motion include the words " between the parties
!S
open to the same objection as the one to obtain such separation," in the same
In the last case : the words " for the pur- manner as the motion in the preceding
Pose of obtaining a separation " should be case.
iniserted after £,parties."
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-And Perhaps the best way would be for my hon.
alSO it should be stated that the petitioner friend instead of moving this to say that
iS at the Bar of this House. Perhaps my on Tuesday he will move that the examin!101. friend can say whether the petitioner ation of the petitioner be dispensed with.
Is at the Bar of this House ready to be
HoN. MR. OGILVIE-Very well, I
examined.
will move on Tuesday next that the exHON. MR. OGILVIE-As you see by amination of the witness be dispensed with.
the Bill, the petitioner is a lady. She is
HoN. MR. POWER-My hon. friend
lot here, but she will appear at any time
that the House may name to be examined. will have to give notice that the second
reading is postponed. It seems to me
that one motion would do the whole. If
HON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
n1ot think we should proceed further unless my hon. friend will move that the further
thehon. gentleman moves that her presence proceedings in connection with this petiat the Bar be dispensed with, and the tion and the second reading of the Bill
House is pleased to assent to her being be adjourned until Tuesday, the whole
excused, because the rule is distinct, "the ground will be covered.
petitioner is to appear below the Bar of
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Wethe Senate at the second reading to be
examined by the Senate," and my hon. have got so far in this direction that I
friend should have given notice that he think it will answer all the purposes-my
would ask the House to dispense with the hon. friend should move that the order of
On this
oule occasion. I can see no harm the day be discharged and that the Bill be
read the second time on Tuesdav.
1 Iy hon. friend moving that the rule be
The motion was agreec to and the
dispensed with, and then he may make
second reading of the Bill was accordingly
out Such a case as he can, to get the House
to agree that the presence of this petitioner postponed until Tuesday next.
at the Bar be not required. I must say,
.owever, that I think it would be establish- OFFENCES AGAINST THE PERSON.
BILL.
ing a bad precedent. I have never known
this rule to be dispensed with in any case
SECOND READING.
before; perhaps my hon. friend should
POStpone the second reading of the Bill
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
uintil Monday or Tuesday, when the petithe second reading of Bill (F) " An Act
tioner could be at the Bar ready to be
further to amend an Act intituled 'An
exalined.
Act respectingoffences against the person.""
He said : this is a Bill introduced for the
HN. MR. KAULBACH-The motion purpose of giving effect to an understandsefoe the House might be
allowed to ing which was arrived at in this House
Stand.
last session that I would during the
present session introduce a Bill on this.
HON. MR. OGILVIE moved that the subject; my hon. friend from Halifax
'Otion be allowed to stand over until having charge of a Bill on the subject at

Th
t'

Bank of

(SE N AT E]

Upper Canada.

members of that conspiracy, had the
hearttessness and the daring to charge
you with siander and malignity, when in
discharge of your duty, you endeavored in
the interests of the country to bring them
into court?
Such are the weapons ofdefence usually
had recourse to by men charged with
It is dreadful to think that two
crime.
members of this House, who are at the top
of Canadian society. could be so skilled in
such arts and practices, and that they
should be so hardened in their dark ways,
and have the shameless audacity to make
use
statements on the floor of this
which, if the rules of Parliament permitted,
can only be pronounced to be simply untrue and false, thinking, poor men, that
The Senate adjourned 5 o'clock.
they can thus throw off the charge brought
against them. Before I sit down, I think
that I shahl have no difficulty in satisfying
every member of the House as to the
THE SENATE.
falsity of their statements.
The public interests demand that the
Ottawa, Monday, February 23rd, 1885.

the moment, agreed to withdraw it on that
understanding. The Bill which I now
present to the House deals simply with
the inveigling of young women into bad
houses for illicit purposes. I think perhaps when it comes before the Committee
of the Whole, that I will propose an
amendment for the purpose of making it
still more distinct than it is, an amendment which I have ready, and which I
think the committee when I propose it,
will be willing to adopt. In the meantime I move that the Bill be read the
second time.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time.

House grant me this committee, and if it

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three do so, I have no hesitation in saying that

o'clock p.m.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
THE BANK 0F UPPER CANADA.
MOTON.

I possess evidence which will enable the
country to recover a very large part of the
$I, iOooo due by that old insolvent
bank.
Two niembers of this House, the
Hon. Sir D. L. Macpherson, and the Hon.
W . Alan, who have had most
George
grave and serious charges preferred against
them, in connection with this matter,
topenly deny the truth of the statements
I nade here upon a previous occasion.
If they are innocent, they must be anxious
to see a committee appointed, that they
mhave an o ortunit of refuting such

HON. MR ALEXANDER-moved:That a Conmittee be appointed to enquire
into and report, from tiie to tire, to the
louse, the value of the remSaining Assets of
the Bank of Upper Canada stilr uncollected,
with particulars of' the setlement with debtors
o
oftme baok, since its failfre; atso the balancet
now due by the bank to the coutry, vith charges and estabishing their innocence.
power t.o send for perons, papers and records, If they are fnot the first to cal for the
yeas and nays-if they do fnot vote for a
the said Coniittee to consist of Messieurs:
committee, every member of the House
He said
Before proceeding to show the House cnust feel that before God and man they
that the pnbhic interests loudhy demand must be guihty. On the ioth February,
that this committee shouhd be granted, those two hon. gentlemen adopted the
may I be perr-nitted to ask. hon. grenthe- tactics of their illustrous chieftain, who,
men, what wouhd be your thoughts and in another quarter, in reference to another
feelings if, through a foui conspiracy of1 matter, exclaimed, "these hands are dlean."
Now
position, you had sustained tigh that conservative chieftain bas neyer
men in
pecuniary losses wbich had brought an been accused of the debasing act sf wrongaffectionate wife prematurely to her grave, fully taking any of the public money for
If this conand deprived your children of the kindest his own personal wants.
and best of mothers,-I ask, what would mittee is granted, I sha l have no difficulty
be your feelings if two men that you in proving that the Hon. George W. Allan
know ofyour own knowedgeto be thchief has most wrongflhy evaded the payment
HON. Si

ALEX CAMPBELL

T/e Bank qf [FEB. 23, 1885]
.Of a large amount of money-many thou-

sands of dollars-due by him to
the
People Of this country. I shall have no
dieiculty in shewing that such evasion was
acconplished through the action of the
trustees appointed by the Government,
One of whom was Mr. C. J. Campbell,
brother of the present Minister of Justice.
1 Will not trangress the rules of the House
by reminding it of another questionable
transaction, which once came up here for
discussion. And I further desire to have
an opPortunity, by the appointment
of
8
uch a committee, to shew that the solemn
statements made on the floor of this House
by the present Minister of Justice, namely,
that both principal and interest of those
ýWo sterling drafts of

Upper Canada.

59

MR. ALEXANDER-There
HON.
were two, amounting to nearly $1,ooo,ooo.
I speak from my own knowledge as a
If the
member of that bank board.
Grand Trunk Railway, at a subsequent
period after the bank doors were closed
paid this colossal amount, the shareholders of that unfortunate bank received
no benefit therefrom, and never knew
anything of it. We had no further legal
claim on the Grand Trunk Railway. We

had during 1861-2 effected the settlement

in the manner described.
Now, it is very distasteful to me that I

should have to ask permission to shew the
untruthfulness of the greater part of the
statements of a personal character, so un-

£Ioo,ooo, amount- worthily dragged into the debate, by both

'g to nearly one million dollars, had been parties accused. I will endeavour to be
aid to the bank. I ask the hon. getleman as brief as possible.
if he made that statement ?
First, I never discovered that the
Hon. Sir D. L. Macpherson had been a
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes. member of that bank board until a great
many years aiterwards. He had covered
his track so carefully. I myself, through
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I say that Mr. Galt, then Minister of Finance, had
Such a statement is an erroneous one, and the late lamented and respected Mr.
colculated to mislead the House and the
Ridout relieved of his high position as
Chntry. It was that overwhelming loss cashier, charging him as the guilty party
Which chiefly led to the closing of the
bank doors. The Grand Trunk Railway in regard to those two sterling drafts; and
't at period 1861-2 was in great financial I was astonished to learn one day in
ifficulties. Its plant and stock and eve.iy- Toronto, some 15 years afterwards, from
thing had been mortgaged. The bank a prominent citizen who was in the board
fected a settlement with that embarrassed of 1859, that the said David Lewis Macpherson was the guilty party. From that
,way Company, taking all they could period I accepted no hospitalities at
Inet, namely certain postal bonds, produc- Chestnut Park. He knows that I refused
only an annual revenue
$8000. The House can easily of about by telegram from Woodstock to do so. I
calculate arn not going to annoy the House by dishat such a security capitalized would be, cussing further such matters. As regardtad ny child at a common school can see
that the shareholders of that bank, lost by ing the private letter of Sir Alexander Galt,
will scarcely approve of it
those two sterling drafts about $8oo,ooo. that gentleman here, when we remember
being introduced
that he was one of the contracting comh'-ON SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The pany, who benefitted by the foul transacthe bank such a loss. The
ony gentleman the other day spoke of tion, causing
'O y One sterling draft £10o,0oo.
I whole statement of the hon. gentleman,
.lever heard of more than
from beginning to end, I can only
one.
characterize as one tissue of distorted
bearing painful testimony to a
on. MR. ALEXANDER-It is well facts,
depraved mind. Who ever charged him
$
nhat the amount was nearly with overdrawing his account ? But we
<lraftsŽoo, the proceeds of two distinct charge him with a most heartless and
oo,ooo each.
most wicked act. Does the hon. gentleman remember his legal adviser telling
HO". SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I him in 186o that he had better leave the

never heard of more than one draft.

poard at once, or he might be indicted ?

60

The Bank of [SENATE]

Upper Canada.

DAVID MACPHERSON wrongfully taken by the bank from improper influences. And that wealthy
friend of the president united his forces to
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-And now get me ejected, and we did not speak for
it devolves upon me to make one or two twelve months afterwards.
comments upon the carefully prepared
statement of the Hon. George W. Allan,
HON. MR. GOWAN-I
which, perhaps, he thinks in the holy tion of order. I see by the rise to a ques26th
simplicity of his heart, to be a conscien- this house all personal, sharp orrule of
taxing
tious statement. He has not displayed speeches are forbidden. If this rule
his usual adroitness by confessing, as the means anything I cannot understand the
other hon. gentleman has also done, that house listening to the speech of the hon.
the books of the bank, which were in the member, which seems mostly pointed to
possession of his cousin, Mr. Clarke insulting two hon. gentlemen of this
Gamble, had been destroyed. They had Senate. There must be some good reason
been placed in a basement room on Church for this rule, and I really think the hon.
St., when the sewage came in upon them gentleman's remarks ought not to be perand they became so offensive that they mitted. The hon. member has used lanhad to be destroyed. What a confession guage and insinuations that touch the
of the means had recourse to, to hide and honor of both those hon. gentlemen withconceal the dark deeds of certain men, out one particle of fact, and in a manner
living at the top of society ! They dare and spirit that cannot commend itself to
not burn the books, or they would have any reasonable mind. His whole probeen arraigned on a criminal charge; but ceeding throughout, I feel-and I hope I
they place them in a dirty cellar until they may be excused for saying so-is not a
become offensive, so that they must little out of harmony with the spirit of
destroy them.
They thus think that courtesy which finds its home in the heart
proof cannot be produced as to the of every christian gentleman. I appeal to
debts of certain pirties, and as to the this hon. House to say whether this rule
frauds perpetrated upon the people of this 26 means anything or is to be carried out
country, by the improper compromise of at all ? If it is carried out it is impossible
debts owing them, by men living in such in my mind to conceive a case to which it
mansions as Moss Park. In conclusion, more directly applies than the one now
what shall 1 say of this carefully prepared before us.
statement, of a gentleman who carries
upon all occasions the mante of religion
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-My hearon his shoulders ? I cannot say that in
ing is so affected by age that I have not
the whole of my life of three score and
ten years that I ever heard a tissue of heard the hon. gentleman and I am thereallegations, so much at variance with fore unable to reply to him.
truth. Does he pretend to forget that
THE SPEAKER-The rule to which
from the moment he became president of
that bank, it was one continuous struggle the hon. gentleman calls the attention of
on my part, to eject him and two mem- the House is the 26th. It is a very simple
bers of the board, who always acted in the rule, and now that my attention has been
interests of the debtors, and in the inter- called to it I may say that the hon. gentleests of those who where thrusting upon us man has been out of order from the
bad mortgages ? Does he pretend to beginning of his speech up to the present
f get that along with his wealthy col- time. It is not the one rule merely of
1 tgue on the board, to whom he referred Parliamentary practice that the hon. genin his speech, both combining together, tleman has transgressed, but several rules;
threw me out of the board, somewhere it is not my duty to cail the hon. gentleabout 1863, for one year ? And why did man to order as long as my attention has
that wealthy gentleman combine against not been called to the fact. Now that my
me? Because I referred to a $92,000 attention is directed to it I must tell the
rotten mortgage of his brother-in-law hon. gentleman from Woodstock that the
which had appeared to me to have been personal allusions in which he has been
HON. SIR

-No.

The Bank of [FEB. 23, 1885]

Upper Canada.

ndulging towards two hon. members of remarks before he was interrupted by my

tho Ilouse are out of order.

1
10N
MR. ALEXANDER-Do I
tlnderstand the Speaker to rule me out of
Order ?

THE SPEAKER-I tell

the hon. gentleInan he has been out of order from the
tegining of his remarks up to the present
lIoN. MR. rALEXANDER-Then I
rfay say that if I am debarred in the Parlament of the country from endeavoring
tO Unfold a serious wrong done to the
phPhans and widows and other innocent
ahareholders of the Bank of Upper Canpda, then my only recourse must be to
the
Press, and I must send my remarks
to the
Press Of the country.
THE SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman
will remenber that he has the privilege of
every other member of this House within
the rules of Parliament.
1
0oN. MR. ALEXANDER-Then if I
aurt prevented from going on to
further. I move the resolution of explain
which I
have given notice.

ATHE SPEAKER-It is moved by Mr.
sexander seconded byThere is no
Seconder.
'ON·
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLouthough the hon. gentleman has not
think •a seconder to his motion, I yet
sorn it is desirable that I should give
trIe explanation with reference
tiansaction to which he has calledto the
tion.
was exceedingly glad that attenthe hon.
friendman was called to order by my hon.
roend who has just taken his seat. I did
nOt like to appeal to the House in the way
the hon. gentleman has done, though
enfetlemnbsdntog I
ga
on perfectlY sensible all the time that the
irr gentleman was speaking, of
!rregula course he was pursuing, and the
t was completely out of order, but that
as
acusation was levelled partly against his
my
sO lleague near me, I thought I would
sub it and hear all he had to say. We
bave eard most of what he had to say,
thause Iwas
at le presume from his own language
very near the end of
his

hon. friend from Barrie. I desire only to
offer a few remarks explanatory of
the £1oo,ooo bill of which he has
spoken, remarks which will make as
clear as daylight everything which
occurred with reference to that bill from
its inception to the time of its payment.
The hon. gentleman says now, for the first
time so far as I know, that there were two
bills each of £1oo,ooo, and amounting to
I agree that the whole
$I,ooo,ooo.
amount of the debt due by the Grand
Trunk to the bank was upwards of $ r,ooo,ooo; but there was one bill and not
two.

We have the history of that bill

very much in the public papers and in the
returns which were brought down to Parliament some years ago.

We see there

that there was a dispute between the
Bank of Upper Canada and the Government as to who wasliable for this£1oo,ooo.
We see the inception of the dispute; we
see its termination ; we see its settlement.
The settlement consisted in the dispute
having been abandoned by the bank, and
the £ioo,ooo sterling assumed by them,
and the admission made that they and not
the Government were liable for its payment. These transactions were not altogether during the time of the present Government or altogether during the time of the
Mackenzie administration. They orignated
long before that, and the £1oo,ooo I find
first mentioned by Mr. Holton in 1863,
when he was Minister of Finance. Mr.
Street and Mr. Walbridge, two directors of
the Bank of Upper Canada, and Mr.
Cassels, cashier of the bank, waited upon

Mr. Holton for some settlement of the
amount which they owed the Government. Mr. Holton tells them that the
total amount of indebtedness must be
reduced by the 1st of January next to
$1,486,ooo, including the G. T. R. bill
for

£1ioo,ooo.

They assent to those

terms, and those terms are embodied in
an Order-in-Council on the report of Mr.
Holton, and the first paragraph of the
report adopted by the Governor-General
in Council at the instance of Mr. Holton
(who was not a member of any Government of which Sir John Macdonald and
myself were members, but was a member
of the Government of the late Sandfield
Macdonald who was a reformer), the
first paragraph of the report which the

62

The Bank of [SENATE]

Upper Canada.

Executive Council adopted
Mr.
Holton's report, is as follows :
" That~the bank shall abandon the pretensions it bas heretofore advanced as to its
non-liahilitv for a certain bill of exchiange of
the G. T. Co., endorsed by the bank, and now
held by the Government for £100,000 sterling."

It may be said that that is not clear and
decisive : that this gentleman says the
£1oo,ooo sterling was settled, but he
says he has only a vague recollection of it.
My hon. friend near me had made application to Mr. Hickson, manager of the
Grand Trunk Railway, for the purpose of
Not two bills, the House will preceive, ascertaining if they could tell him ; and up
but one bill.
These gentlemen, after to a day or two ago he had received no
considering that proposition, write to say answer. When this matter was before
that they do abandon all pretension, that this House some days ago he was awaiting
they adopt the Minister's view, and that a reply. He now, fortunately, bas got
the bank will assume and pay that sum of Mr. Hickson's answer. The Grand Trunk
£1oo,ooo sterling. But hon. gentlemen Railway Company also suffered from their
will perhaps be curious to know was that books being destroyed. They were deundertaking carried out ? Did the bank stroyed by fire, and judging by the hon.
ultimately pay the £ioo,ooo sterling, or gentleman's remarks to-day he will say
was the loss sustained by the Government ? that this fire was the work of the hon.
Well, my hon. friend near me, the gentleman from York and my hon. friend
Minister of the Interior, bas been very near me for the purpose of "concealing dark
anxious to know what did become of transactions." I am astonished at the
the
0oo,ooo sterling, and my hon. friend hon. gentleman's boldness and the
from Barrie also took some trouble to recklessness with which he makes these
find it out, and was able to obtain a letter charges. The letter of Mr. Hickson
from a gentleman who had been an officer shows accurately what became of this
of the Bank of Upper Canada, one of the matter, how the bill was paid, and that
few still remaining alive, who filled the the Bank of Upper Canada, so far from
position of inspector at the time some of losing the £1oo,ooo sterling, actually
these disasters befell the bank. In that made money out of it, because they got
letter this gentleman, who was in a position certain postal bonds at 8o which afterto know all about the £ioo,ooo sterling, wards turned out to be worth par, and
more than par, and they not only got
says :The time elapsedis so long since these.thinqs the £oo,ooo and interest, but they made
look place, and there was such a burden of the a profit in the way it was paid, and yet
same kind to look after, that I have now, I the hon. member from Woodstock keeps
ani happy to say, only a vague and general attacking my hon. friend near me with
idea of the whole thing, and without ny own reference to that
bill, although
special books, which I left in the bank for
reference, I should be quite at sea on the he had nothing whatever to do with it
and although he got no portion of the
subject.
The settlement with the Grand Trunk was money. He not only did not defraud the
an after matter and was carried out during bank, he not only did not induce them to
the time Mr. Robert Capels was in charge. I cake the £1oo,ooo sterling
bill, but, whofancy all such matters as you refer to were
You may ever did so, the bank lost nothing by it :
included in that settlement.
reieniber that the Grand Trunk transferred the bank gained by it, and the best evito the bank a large amount of postal service dence of the fact is that which is furnished
bonds besides mortgages, I think, in rolling by Mr. Hickson, the manager of the
stock &c.,
Grand Trunk Railway, who, luckily, bas
and then he adds a paragraph which been able to find the books in which the
struck me very much and I regret exceed- transaction was entered, and that only
ingly that the view which he takes was not within the last week. He says, under
adopted by the hon. member from Wood- date of the 1 th February :
9
stockGRAND TRUNK RAILWAY OF CANADA.
I cannot see what is to be gained by raking
GENERAL MANAGER'S OFFICE,
up this matter. The shareholders of the
MONTREAL, 19th Feb., 1885.
unfortunate bank,-passed away. Those that
remained would rather not be tortured by Dear Sir David,
Since you first wrote to nie on the subject,
having the thing needlessly brougbt before
thein.
I have caused efforts to be made at various

£1oo,ooo

HON. Sin ALEX. CAMPBELL.

fthe Bank of

[FEB. 23, 1885]

ie8 to find som e trace of the transactions
between the Bank of Upper Canada and the
(4rand Trunk Railway which were settled
after the passing of the Grand Trunk Arrangenents AcU in 1862.
Ylesterdav the accountant of the company
81e eded in turning up, aTnongst a number
th books which apparently were saved fron
the fire which destroyed the company's
06ces in 1875, an old journal for 1862, and
fro that I have had extracted the following
baTh debt due from the company to the
bank (includingr an unpaid bill of exchange
for £100,000 ap'parently drawn originally in
aune 1859) was $1,495,830.54.
Interest and
Charges to December 31st, 1862, were added.
ba king the total $1,782,87.3.97, for which the
ik
received Grand Trunk Postal and
itary Service Bonds £181,500,*883,300; a
rhort age on sur plus lands for $1,076.459.46.
Paid ostal and Military Service Bonds were
and the revenue derived fron the Imperial
a tounts
Canadian Governments up to 1878, the
b
varying slightly fromt tirne to tine,
think on the average, producing about
per cent, In 1878 they were converted into
Perpetual 5 per cent. debenture stock of the
The mortgage on the surplus
aodpany.
s carried 4 per cent. interest, which
al s regularly paid up to the date when it was
d
converted into 5 per cent. perpetual
£e 000. stock, the anount issued being
interest on the debenture stock has
been regularly paid, and even in these
br tinies it is selling at 107.
ab ave not been able yet to find any papers
but the settlenent with the Government,
fact5 ain inclined to think that the foregoing
you uPPly you with the information which
desire, and I very nuch regret that I was
,ot in a
position to give them to you earlier.
1 an,
Yours very faithfully,
ai Te

WaYs

J. HICKSON,
General Manager.
reei

You

will

observe

that

the

Upper Canada.

63.

and yet the hon. gentleman has sent broadcast throughout the country his statements, without a tittle of evidence to
support them. He says he did not know
that my hon. friend had been on the
board. What ignorance to confess ! Is
this a thing to bring before the House
when the hon. gentleman does not know
any of the facts, not even that my hon.
friend was on the board ? He was aiming
at succeeding the hon. gentleman from
York as president of the bank, and yet he
knows nothing of the facts, and he ventures to circulate through the country
his accusations against my hon. friend
(Sir David Macpherson) and the hon.
member from York. My hon. friend
from York, as he explained the other
day, was indebted to the bank. He felt
it necessary to enter into this subject on a
former occasion, and the House now
understands it perfectly, and knows exactly
how he stood with reference to it. Many
others were in the same position. The
compromise made with the hon. gentleman was suggested, not by himself, but by
others. He was desirous of paying his
indebtedness in full, as he bas informed
the House. The hon. member from
Woodstock says: " But the brother of the
Minister of Justice was one of the trustees."
Yes, the brother of the Minister of Justice
was one of the trustees. The brother of
the Minister of Justice was accountable to.
the Ministry of the day, and I will read

you a paragraph, which I never saw before
to-day, which will show what the Finance
Minister at that time, Sir John Rose,
thought of him-" He is of opinion that
the steps taken by the trustees since their

Bank

appointment, have been marked with
judgment and descretion." Could anything be more absurd than for the House
to be detained by these bad, malicious
and wicked accusations which are given to
the public at the hands of a mian who
admits that he was not aware of what was.
Ottawa.
going on, and apparently bas not the sense
tthat not only had these gentlemen to know what took place either in the
Iothing to do with the bank taking the bank or in the country. The Government
10o
000sterling, but the bank, so far cannot grant the hon. gentleman the comthe losing, actually gained. They got mittee for which he has asked.

a larger amount in securities than
rteceiv
,e aInount of the debt with interest. This
s
gao ing to there being added to the mortpae 20bonds.
POstal per cent. of the nomninal value of the
The gon. Sir DAVID L. MACPHERSON, K.C.M.
G&c. &c.

whole of

the debt converted

into

Postal bonds and mortgages, which were
HON. MR. GOWAN-I
happened,
unfortunately to.be a shareholder at the.
b erwards turned into five per
henture stock, which debenture cent. de- time of the failure of, the Bank of Upper
stock is
o0 selling at 107. These are the facts, Canada, to a small extent, and I was very.

The Bank of LSENATE]
largely interested in matters in which I
was a trustee, and also many of my friends
were very largely interested in the condition of the bank. I attended every meeting that took place, and I knew, as I
believe every one in the country knew,
that the hon. member from Saugeen was
a director, but we were all anxious because
we felt that unless something was gainedsome large sum was gained from this debt
due by the Grand Trunk Railway-that
we night be in the position of being called
upon to answer under the double liability
clause. Everything was therefore watched,
.and watched closely, and I took a great
deal of pains at the time to inform myself,
as I was, as I said, largely interested for
others. I remember, so far as my memory
can reach back for so many years, the
transactions tolerably well and I remember
distinctly, for it was understood at the
time, that this draft was fully settled, and
fortunately for us settled, because otherwise
we would have been called upon to pay
under the double liability clause. I did
not feel sure of details, and I wrote to a
gentleman whom I know in Toronto, who
has been my broker for years and stands
.as high as any man in the whole Province
of Ontario for probity, and as a well
informed and thorough business man, and
who was at one time, after the failure of
the bank, appointed an inspector. He had
peculiar facilities for gaining thorough
knowledge of all that took place in the
bank. Desiring to see how far my memory
was borne out I wrote to him on the subject. I scarcely expected that a man of
his habits would be likely to speak, unless
he had the books by him, in detail of the
matters I wrote to him upon, but I
did expect, and I received the letter
which the Minister of Justice has read,
and which fully, so far as it went, confirm.ed my own recollection. My recollection
went beyond his, for I remember distinctly that it was spoken of and understood
by those who were seriously interested in
.the condition of the bank, that that bill
was fully and entirely settled. The hon.
gentleman from Woodstock was lately in
my part of the country, and I am very
glad that he was there before he taking
those proceedings, for that part of the
country, the old District of Saugeen, sent
the Minister of the Interior to the Senate,
and there are thousands and thousands of
HON. MR.

GOWAN.

Upper Canada.

people, particularly his own countrymen
in the District of Saugeen, that would
have looked with much disfavor upon the
hon. gentleman who impugned one
whom

they

so

thoroughly

and

so

deservedly respect.
The Highlander
comes of a gallant and noble race.
He
scorns everything that is mean and unmanly.
He scorns insinuations, and I
think theywould have scarcely failed to see
that there is much of what was personal
and unfair in the qttack of the hon. gentleman from Woodstock upon the two
gentlemen that he selected for attack.
I
looked at it with all the calmness I could
command, and the whole of his remarks
seemed to be pointed against these gentlemen, and not for the purpose of serving
the country.
Now the Highlander, as I
said, is a gallant nian and scorns what is
mean ; but he has no astuteness, and I
think he would have failed to distinguish
the position of the hon. gentleman from
Woodstock.
He would fail to perceive
that a gentleman speaking in this House
and elsewhere has two distinct entities :
that is that he could say in this House
what he would not venture to say elsewhere. They would be very apt to resent
it, .not that the hon. gentleman need
feel any alarm about coming to
the Division:
he will be perfectly
safe so far as his person is concerned. The Highlander in Canada is a
peace-loving man, one that respects the law,
and the days of the skein dhu have happily
passed away; but they would feel with me,
and every hon. gentleman in this House
will feel with me that there are wounds
more grievous than the knife can inflict,
when a man conscious of integrity finds his
honor assailed. I regret that this motion
should ever have been brought forward by
a gentleman of culture. I regret the
allusions which he made, allusions which
can here find no response, to speak of
men's large houses, of their equipages and
liveries. Surely he could find no response
in this hon. House to such appeals. In
another arena he would have pointed
them out as bloated aristocrats. Now,
that such arguments should be tolerated
in this House 1 cannot understand.
I do hope, even yet, that the hon. gentleman will withdraw this resolution, which
can serve no good purpose and can in no
way promote the public good. It relates

The Bank of [FER 23,1885]
to mlatters that even upon the simple
ground of expense it would be prePOsterous for any government to consent
tO enquire into, and that enquiry I believe
,and I speak for a large number of
People, my own connections and otherswould be utterly distasteful to them, and
theY would regard it as wholly unnecessary.
1 beg to be excused intruding a word
upon this House. It is not at all necessary
that I should say anything. I would not be
Presumptious enough to say one word in
respect to the standing and high character
of the hon. gentlemen who have been
assailed, but there was one little point that
struck me as-I can scarcely select language sufficiently strong tocharacterize itit struck me as utterly uncalled for. My
hon. friend fron Toronto was sneered at
because le was president of a Bible society.
Well that hon. gentleman is in a position
to distribute books, blessed books, that
teach much that I think the hon. gentle'flan from Woodstock would improve by
studying ; it would amongst other things
teach him that charity that thinketh
no
evil, that vaunteth not itself, neither is
Puffed up.

hon. gentleman, who was then a director,
was present, when a very full and exhaustive statement of the affairs of the bank
was given by the then cashier, Mr. Robert
Cassels. In the course of that statement
Mr. Cassels said, ahhough it was contrary
to the bank charter to make public, or
to tell anything about any man's private
account, yet he had my permission, and I
had requested him to state how my
account at that time stood.
He said
that that account had been reduced
$15,500 since I had been president,
and that it vas continuing to be reduced by payments every three months
with interest, until the time the bank
stopped : that it was at that time reduced
to $25,ooo, and it was upon that amount
the trustees offered to settle for $12,500.
I wish to say with regard to those trustees
that while I think hon. gentlemen will
agree with me that it is unnecessary to
defend the character of one gentlemen
who was referred to here to-day, Mr.
Charles Campbell, because I think that
they will see that he has been attacked
simply because he happens to be the
brother of the Minister of Justice, at the
sa

HON. MR. ALLAN-Ihad not intended
to say anything on this occasion at all,
uecause I should best consult the dignity
of this House and my own self-respect by

Upper Canada.

m

I

cannot hel

roteti-,Qn a

inct

theinsinuationswhichhavebeenthrown
out as to the integrity of two men well
known in Toronto, now passed away, the
late Mr. Peleg Howland and the late Mr.

reframning from making any remarks in re- Peter Patterson.

They were both known

Ply to the hon. gentleman behind me, in Toronto as men of perfect uprightbut towards the end of his speech he inti- ness and integrity, and therefore I desir

rrated that if he could niot make those to take this opportunity of protesting
shnderous charges here he would make against the insinuations which have been
them through the press of the country, thrown out against hem, as if they were
and I presume he will also have his speech in collusion with me for a settlenent of
Pubished in the official reports of the the debt. I also desire to say further that
bebates of this House, and I should re- Mr Clarke Gamble, who was solicitor for
gret if my silence, my not replying to him, the Bank of Upper Canada, under whose
should be construed as an admission of charge the hon. gentleman says the books

any of the charges and insinuations he has were, had nothing to do with them. Those
uttered to-day. I take this opportunity books were in the hands of trustees. I myfor that reason, to give them the fullest self neyer saw, and neyer hadanything
todo
contradiction in order that my contradic- with them from the time the bank failed
tion nay be recorded in the official report. down to the present
moment. I may say
The hon, gentleman has referred in still also, so far as Mr. Gamble himself is conore gross language to-day than that cerned, that he had nothing
whatever to
Whlch he used on a previous occasion to do with the seulement of my
debt. I
lny connection with the bank. I hold in make those statements because I should
ntY
hand a copy of the Globe of June 1865,
Cfth ing a report of the annual meeting
e shareholders, at which
ý.lIIusually large attendance andthere was the be created by the hon. gentleman's reckat which an less insinuations.

66

The Bank of

[SEN ATE]

Upper Canada.

HON. MR. GOWAN-I was present at partner, is an
that meeting and heard what took place. slander.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONI do not intend to trespass on the time of
the House to-day more than to give an
unqualified denial to every statement
which the hon. gentleman has made which
in any way impugns my integrity or honor.
I simply repeat here that I had nothing
whatever to do with the bill to which he
refers-nothing to do with its inception or
settlement. Its settlement appears, from
the evidence produced here to-day, to
have been full and complete, but if it had
not been so, I would not have been responsible, legally or morally, to the extent
of one cent. I never had anything to do
with it, and as I stated here the other day,
I simply accepted a seat upon the Bank
board at the instance of the Government
of the day, to check loans by the
Bank of Upper Canada, and when I found
that I could not do that effectually, I
retired. That was my whole connection
with the bank. The hon. gentleman is
not content with slandering th3se who are
here to defend themselves, but lie insinuates everything that is dishonorable against
gentlemen who are not here. He spoke of
Sir Alexander Galt as having been interested in this bill of exchange-as having
been my partnerHON. MR. ALEXANDER-Every one
knows it.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON
Alex. Gait was ny partner from
-Sir
1852 to 1856, when he and the late
Mr. Holton, who was also my partner at
that time, both retired from the firm.
They both made up their minds that they
would give their attention to public aff airs.
They were very well qualified for that position, and they devoted themselves to
public life for a long time-Sir Alex. Galt
generally in office, Mr. Holton in office
for a time, and then in Opposition.
Both were very active public men,
Mr.
as all who hear me know.
Holton, whoever knew him will say, was
the soul of honor. Sir Alex. Galt is the
same, and to say that he was influenced
as Minister of Finance by anything that
took place years before when he was my

unmitigated

and cruel

HoN. MR. ALEXANDER-I make
no charge-against Sir Alex. Galt.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONI cannot understand any man who is responsible for his words making such a
statement. Is it surprising that men. in
this country, of sensitive feeling, are unwilling to enter into public life when they are
exposed to shafts such as have been
hurled at myself and other gentlemen
here,
and at
some who are not
Is
present to defend themselves ?
it surprising when they are exposed
to the shafts of envious men, of disappointed men, of men who have
been political failures, and of malignant cranks-is it surprising that
they should shrink from public life ? I
shall not trespass longer on the time of
the House. I felt called upon to give an
unqualified denial to all that the hon gentleman said of an injurious character
against myself and against the friends
whom I have named.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I do not think
that this matter ought to pass without
some further consideration. We have
had on two occasions recently the most
extraordinary exhibitions ever scen in this
Chamber. An hon. gentleman, responsible as a member of this House, has
brought before us charges of the gravest
character, and he has repeated those
charges, and I believe he has repeated
them not only on the floor of this House,
but elsewhere, and instead of bringing to
the Senate any sort of evidence on which
to found those charges, he has shown
hiniself to be totally unacquainted with
the transactions upon which he claims
they are based. Although he has been a
director of the banking institution to
which he refers, he has not cven looked
at the minute book of the bank to see who
were the directors who preceded himwho are perfectly well known to have preceded him. All he had to do was to
turn to the books to ascertain, but he
did not then know, and has lately discovered that one of the gentlemen lie has
accused of foul transactions in connection
with the bank had been a member of the

The Bank of

[FEB. 23, 1885]

board. It is one of the most extraordinary Positions I have ever known an hon.
gentleman to place himself in, and yet he
pretends to possess ordinary business intelligence. He went into the board
and undertook, the responsibilities of
a director of that large institution, and
yet with the books before him. which
he does not say had been falsified,
because he had given a high character
to the late Mr. Ridout who was cashier
of the bank, he does not know who were
the directors immediately preceding him.
lie does not know anything of the transactions about which he speaks; he does
lot know as much about them as I do,
though an outsider. I held a large amount
of Stock in the bank, and the family with
Which I am connected had a much larger
interest in it.
I was in London at the
timfie of the failure of the bank, and I
knew that the dishonored bill referred to
had been paid by the Grand Trunk Co.
and paid by postal bonds and other securities, and thiat those bonds were handed
Over to Glyn & Co., and taken by Glyn
& Co. at par in paying the indebtedness
of the bank to that firm.
Therefore nobody could be a sufferer as a shareholder in the bank by that transaction,
except as they nay have been sufferers
through the mismanagement of the
bank,
and if they were sufferers in that way, it
has nothing to do with the statement
Which the hon, gentleman has brought
before us to-day.
It is most painful to
find that anyone could bring forward
charges of this kind, and persist in them
when it has been shown on a late occaSiOn that there was no sort of foundation
for them.
The hon. gentleman owed it
to himself, and he owed it to this House,
if he did not owe it to the gentlemen
whom1 he accused, that he should not
again bring this matter before the Senate,
Or ask hon. members to listen to such
accusations unless he had some foundation
for thenI. The hon. gentleman owed it to
the dignity of this House that he
should
flot have brought before them such grave
charges unless he had investigated
the
Whole matter thoroughly, and was prePared with day and date to justify them.
It was not necessary to ask for a committee, and there is only one hypothesis
UPon which we should hold the
n- gentleman responsible for what
he

Upper Canada.

says and does, and that is a hypothesis
which, of course, it would be improper to
state here ; but upon no other can it be
deemed possible that an hon. gentleman
could have done and said what he has
done and said in connection with his
accusations when they were proved to be
baseless-not only stating that this bill
had renained unpaid (they are the hon.
gentleman's very words) while it has been
proved that there is no such bill outstanding, but making collateral charges, sneering
at the hon. gentleman, and saying that he
was receiving the benefit of the ill-gotten
gains which he had made out of the
unfortunate bank ; that he had corrupted
the cashier and had got himself appointed
a member of the Board of Directors for
the express purpose of doing a certain
fraudulent act. The hon. gentleman thus
attacked says that he was appointed a
director for the express purpose of preventing the Grand Trunk Railway from
obtaining more money from the bank;
that the Government had a large deposit
there, and that the Government wished to
protect itself as it could not withdraw its
deposit without endangering the standing
of the bank, and the next best thing to do
was to place somebody on the board who
would endeavor to protect the interests
of the Government and of the bank by
preventing the Grand Trunk Railway from
getting further advances, and that the hon.
gentleman left the board when he found
that he could not check the bank in
making those advances, and when he
found that a loan rejected at the board
had been discounted by the manager.
The hon. gentleman from Woodstock
should have known that, for if he had
consulted with my brother-in-law, the late
Mr. Street, who cannot be charged with
collusion in regard to any improper tran:actions of the bank, as he was one of the
largest shareholders in it and was never a
borrower, and whose name is certainly
beyond reproach-he could have ascertained the fact.
It is because he was
connected with the bank that I think it
my duty to tell the hon. gentleman from
Woodstock that a man like the late Mr.
Street could have been in no way party to
or privy to any improper transactions in
connection with that institution. His
name was a sufficient guarantee for that,
as he was respected and trusted by every-

68

The Bank of

LSENATE]

body who knew him. I had been the
agent of the bank for the sale of its bills
on Glyn & Co., and I was in London
when the indebtedness of the bank to Glyn
& Co. was settled by Mr. Street and Judge
Galt and Mr. Robert Cassels, and I know
that the settlement that was made
with the Glyns was a most favorable one
for the bank.
I know that the securities,
many of them, that had been received
from the Grand Trunk Railway Company
were handed over to Glyn & Co., who
were the largest creditors except the Government, who could have swept away and
swallowed up the assets if they had chosen
to do so, and thrown a large responsibility
on the shareholders who were subject
to the double liability, that would
have made the failure much more disastrous than it finally turned out to be. And
what is the hon. gentleman doing now?
He is endeavoring to stir up this settlement, and to see whether there is still any
liability resting upon shareholders. He is
doing his best to place himself and the
other shareholders of the bank in the
position to be called upon, if they are liable
-for every shareholder was subject to the
double liability. I think nothing could
have been more inexpedient than to stir
up the transactions connected with the
settlements of the bank. As for my two
hon. friends here, it is not necessary for
me to say anything in vindication of their
position. The silence of this House
when the hon. gentleman from Woodstock
brought up his charges ought to have been
a sufficient rebuke. The silence of this
House on this resolution which has been
upon the notice paper for a week and
received no seconder, ought to have been
a sufficient evidence that the hon. gentleman's position is one of utter isolation
here, and a sufficient expression of the
feeling throughout this House without
forcing upon it such a scene as we have
witnessed to-day. It is a most painful
matter to refer to, and I trust that the hon.
gentleman, if he carries out the threat with
which he closed his speech, that he will
appeal to the country through the press,
will receive from the press the justice
which the malice of his charges deserves.

Upper Canada.

his great legal attainments, his large
experience, and his general high character.
I never had the honor of meeting the hon.
gentleman until I met him in this House,
except at the annual meetings of the Bank
of Upper Canada when that hon. gentleman used to appear with all his means and
might, as a friend and supporter of the
president, Mr. Allan.
HON. MR. GOWAN-I beg to'state
that that is utterly incorrect-utterly and
palpably incorrect, and I appeal to my
hon. friend froni Toronto opposite (Mr.
Allan) to say whether on more than one
occasion I did not press for informationwhether I did not ask in a hostile spirit
for it, because I felt aggrieved-and in a
hostile spirit towards the directors of the
bank ?

HoN. MR. ALEXANDER-The hon.
gentleman and his friends at Barrie paid
pretty dearly for the support and the
proxies which they gave to the hon. member from Toronto-the hon. gentleman
and his friends suffered very severely for it.
As to the remarks of the hon. gentleman
from Niagara I scarcely feel called upon
to reply to them as he was pitchforked
into this House after being rejected by the
people. I like to believe that all the hon.
members of this House represent the
people, but the hon. gentleman from
Niagara does not : he was pitchforked
into this House by his great Chieftain, Sir
John Macdonald. No doubt the House
is heartily sick of the whole subject, and I
never would have referred to those personal
matters if they had not been unworthily
dragged into the debate by the hon. gentleman ; but I conceive it my duty now
to say, and I say it very solemnly and
with very great pain, that the acts and
the conduct of those two hon. gentlemen
remind us of the solemn words addressed
in England by a celebrated Judge, upon
the occasion of his sentencing Sir John
Dean Paul to penal servitude, upon which
occasion he observed " We may well daily
pray to God to lead us not into temptation."

HON. MR. SCOTT-I do not know
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-No hon. whether it is the intention of the hon.

member of this House can approach the gentleman from Woodstock to press the
hon. Senator from Barrie without admitting motion, because I see the committee has
HON. MR. PLUMB.

The Bank of

[FEB. 23, 1885]

Upper Canada.

not been named. However, it is my duty has been Iretty much in the position of
to make a few observations on this occas- an officer of the Finance Department, and
ion, and I think I speak the sentiments of amenable to the Head of the Department
the miembers of this House when I say to render account of the service he was
that there is no hon. gentleman in this performing, and to ask advice and apChamber who would desire to stifle any proval of the policy he was adopting in
inquiry that would be attended with results winding up the affairs of the bank. The
beneficial to the people or in the interests concluding clause of the Act of 1870 is as
Of the sbareholders of the Bank of Upper follows
Canada ; but the question is whether the
"A itatement of what shah have been done
resolution itself is proper, whether, as it is under this Act shal be laid before ParliaWorded it would be proper for this House rnentwithin the flrst 15 lays ofeach Se-sion,
to 1 arn a
ommtte
to namie a commiittee whoe dty it wuldatter the passing thiereof, unitil the affaîrs of
whose duty t wouldM
be to furnish to the public particulars of the said bank are fully wonnd up and settled'
the Settlement with debtors of the bank
J-Iaving been a member of the Cabinet
sice its failure.
After the bank failed it which was chMged with the duties that
caille to Iarlianent for an Act that author- were thrown onuthe Governnent of Canaized the assignaiiient of ail its assets to da under this Act, it may be proper that I
certain trustées.
Those trustees were
ebre observe that during the years from
Mr* Thomias Street, Mr. Robert Cassels, 1874 to 1879 communications were freMr. peter lPatters on, Mr. Hugli C. Barwick quently had with Mr. Gamble with respect
11d Mr. Pelep Howland. All of tremr I to thc dutics which were imposed upon
bieare
since
At that time those pead. and e
hv,
called upon from tine to
yas
trustees were given amp)le power to wind time to close up and comiplete the sales of
UP the affairs of the bank ; they were land and the closing of any open accounts
auithorizcd to nake such compromises in ia order that a final setlement m1ight be
'e'telleiet of dlaims as in their judgment made. I assume as a departiiental. matbest. There was also a clause intro- ter that eas heen continued to be donc
"s
duce(d which prevented the trustees fromusince 1878.I
think that while it might
anything that might be considered en highly iiproper that a committee
d
njurîous to the interests
of the aither b naid with the large po ers
should
Shareholders or of those who preferred proposed under this motion, it would be
aims against the bank, inaswuch as quite in order that the Government should
a certain proport ion of the creditors be called upon to lay before Parliament a
zf the anment a right to apply to statenent of the transactions that have
the Court of Chancery to ca l upon bee osen during the antecedent yearsad
the trustes to account for their conduct speaking without a knowledge whether
bor are shareholder holding 200 shares such a thine has been donc or not. I a
hud t
rigt to cal upon the trustees unable to say whnether statements have
throug the Court of Chancery to explain been regularly furnisied under the Act.
any troposed act, or any act that they
had s erfor cim urtherance of the trusts
in
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMIPBEpr
nl-I
do
they had assued That Act cas not con- not know whether they have been furnishSidered satisfactory, and but little progress ed or not, but we are
ready iuite it.
to do
'va
rode.In 1870 an Act was passed
domch anyt
a transferred to Her
t
Hog;. MR. SCOTTthink in the
MJestY aIl the assets then in the hands !interests of ail concerned those statemlents
nf th trustees of the bank. I assume should be furnis ed to Parliament in acthat a that had occurred anterior to that cordance with the provisions of the Act.
t'In'i "vOuld be quite beyond the province These ougfht to be subject to the fullest
0f any committee that ythis House might inquiries. bWe
know that every other
lanle to make any inquiry into. SI nce departdent of the Government is obliged
1870 the governments of this country to rake a report each year on subjects in
have been charged with the administration which the people outside of the Governof the affairs of the Bank of Upper Canada. ment are largely interested, and I think it
hractcaîîy the gentleman employed in is of the first importance that the attention
Winding Up the affairs of that institution of the Government should be called to

Real Property in [SEN ATE]
this subject, and a statement should be
furnished showing how the assets of the
Bank of Upper Canada have been disposed of.

Hanilton,
Havthorne,
Howlan,
Kanilbach,
Lacoste,
Lewin,

HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-I
quite agree with my hon. friend.
HON. MR. SCOTT-Does the hon.
gentleman know when the last return was
made ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
am not aware of it.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I think a return
should be brought down of the transactions

since the last statement, that would
furnish information for everybody interested. I will propose an amendment
to the motion in the way I suggest if it is
considered necessary.

N.- West Territories? Bill.
Smith,

Sullivan,
Sutherland,

Trudel,
Turner,
Vidal.-49.

REAL PROPERTY IN NORTH-WEST
TERRITORIES BILL.
SECOND READING.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the second reading of Bill (A), "An Act
respecting Real Property in the NorthWest Territories." He said: It is a pleasure to get away from such discussions
as we have been engaged in since the
House met, to one which I hope will be
of some use to the country. The Bill
which is now upon the table proposes to
introduce into the North-West Territories
what is called the Torrens system of land
titles registration.
Introducing such a
systeni, or any system, into the North-

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLThere is no necessity for the anendment , West Territories, of course, has a very
I will sec that the statement is brought large meaning.
It will change what

down.
HoN. MR. SCOTT-On that understanding
ment.

I will not propose any amend-

The House divided
which

was

rejected

on the

on

the

motion
followving

vote
CONTENTS:

Hion. Mr. Alexander.
NoN-CONTENTS:

Almn,
Archibald,

Arnaind,

Hon. Mussrs.
Mciouald (C.B.),
McKay,

McKinsey,

Baillargeon,
McMillan,
Bellerose,
Maciartane.
Benson,
Maepherson
Botsford,
(Sir )avid Lewis),
Boyd,
Miller (Speaker),
Camphell (Sir Alex.), Montgomery,
Nel-on,
Chatters,
Chapais,
Odell,
P>âq uet,
Clemow,

Dever,
Dickey,
Flint,
Girard,
Gowan,
Grant,
Guevreniont,

Pelletier,
Plumb,
Power,
Reesor,
tobitaille,
tyan,
Scott,

HON. MR. SCOTT.

has hitherto been the law over a very large
territory, over the territory extending from
the western boundary of Manitoba to the
eastern boundary of British Columbia,
and all of us look forward to there being
in that country at some future period a
very large population ; so that we are
about to legislate, if the Hcuse should see
fit to adopt this proposition, for what will
be the home of a great people. The
country to which I have referred has,
up to the present time, had for its systen
that which prevails in the Province of
Ontario, and with some little variation
prevails also in the English speaking
provinces of the Dominion, and more or
less in the Province of Quebec. That
systemn was borrowed, I think, in Ontario and in that portion of the Dominion which we call the Maritime Provinces, from the United States of
America. I believe in Ontario we borrowed our svstem of registration fron the
State of New York, and in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia they probably were
led by the sane example to adopt their
systen of registering titles. In Quebec
they had their origin in a different source,
to which I will refer presently. The laws
in force in Ontario were introduced into
the North-West Territories, and are the

Real Property in [FE B. 23, 1885] N.-West Territories Bill. 71
laws which govern the disposition of land
at this moment in that part of the Dominof Canada.
We propose to change them in a very
lImportant respect, and I think, therefore,
before I inform the House of the change
which this Bill will introduce, it will be
desirable that I should, for a
few moments,
refer tothe exact system ofRegistrationlaws
Which prevails in the other Provinces of
the
Dominion at this moment.
In all the
provinces of the old Dominion of Canada
,that is in Nova Scotia, New Brunswick
and Ontario, all the English speaking
provinces-the same system exists, varied
somewhat, by statutory
regulations,
and varied somewhat perhaps by judicial
decisions, but substantially the same
; and
the saine remark could be made with reference to the Province of Prince Edward
Island. In the two first provinces I have
41entioned, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, the ordinary form of conveyance which
We adopt, and which hon. gentlemen
are
familiar with, stands good if registered.
't stands good if not registered as against
any person, save a subsequent grantec
Who has first registered his deed, and
ludicial decisions have grafted upon that
in Nova Scotia and New Brunswick
the additional condition that the new
grantee bas not had notice of the first
deed. That is the state of the law
With reference to registration in Nova
Scotia and New Brunswick. In Prince
Edward Island they have adopted a difterent rule, and have said that the first
registered deed shall take priority
of the
Previous non-registered deed, even if the
grantee had express notice. In Ontario
the law has also distinctly enacted, in so
mIany words, that the grantee in the second
.eed must be without notice of the prevlous One in order to give him the preterence. So that the judicial decisions in
ew Brunswick and Nova Scotia have
mnade the law parallel 'o what express
nrlactments have made it in
Island and in Ontario. InPrince Edward
the Province
'f Quebec they have gone more in the
direction of the system which is called the
Torrens systerm' than we have done in
any
f the English-speaking provinces, because
they have decided that a nonregistered deed is cut out by the sub-equent registered deed, even if the party
has express notice, and they have gone so

far as to decide that a Sheriff's deed registered will cut out a previous non-registered
deed made by the execution-debtor. Some
of the. American cases in which the same
point has come up raise this question:
How can an execution have any effect
against a man's land if the man has
already conveyed it away ? Although the
deed is not registered, there is nothing you
can sell. There is strong reasoning in its
favour, but in a case in Lower Canada,
which has been given to me, they decided
that a deed is not really operative so far as
concerns the execution-creditor until it
bas been registered, and that the title so
far remains in the original grantor that it
can be sold by the Sheriff in the face of
a non-registered deed ; so that they
have gone further than even the Englishspeaking provinces have gone in the
direction in which this Bill points.
Now, that is the state of the law with reference to the registration of deeds in the
provinces in this part of Canada. The title
is conveyed by the execution of the
deed by its being sealed and delivered.
The registration is a necessary precaution
to take against a subsequent grantee,
but it does not effect the question of the
title being conveyed, save when the two
titles come into collision, the one thatof the
grantee of the deed not registered, the other
that of the grantee of the deed registered.
In British Columbia the general belief has
been, and that belief is shown in many
works which I have on my table, anongst
others the work of Mr. à Becket on the
Torrens System, a lecture by Mr. Torrens
who afterwards became Sir Robert
Torrens, that the Torrens system is in
force in British Columbia ; but such is
not the case. I have a report from the
Registrar-General which shows that the
system in British Columbia is not the
Torrens system, and I will explain the
difference : The Torrens system hinges
on this, that a title does not pass until
registration, and that the registration is
the critical moment at which the title
passes from the grantor to the grantee.
That is not the system which is in force
in British Columbia. In that province
the title passes by the execution of the
deed, and there, as in this province, the
registration is only adopted for the purpose of securing the grantee against subsequent deeds ; but the Torrens system is

Real Property in [SEN ATE]

N.- West Territorie8 Bill.

In the
not followed there in that essential par-'of the Province of Quebec.
ticular upon which Sir Robert Torrens North-West Territories they have indwells more strongly than any other-that troduced the condition that a deed
is, that the title passes, not by the execu- to be good in the hands of a registcred
tion of the deed, but by the registration. grantee must be a deed without notice of
Such being the
In British Columbia, the titie passes by the lrevious grant.
the deed, and the registration is a second- state of the law it is proposed to introary matter, for the purpose of taking pre- duce into the North-West Territories the
caution only. Those who advocate the Torrens systeni as one more simple and
Toirens system lay great stress upon the cheap in its working than that which now
fact that the Torrens system does not obtains There are some advantages no
recognize trusts in any way. Now, the doubt in the Torrens system, to wvhich I
British Columbia systein does recognize wil1 allude presently but I an unable to
trusts. The Registrar-general takes great concedetoit thesurpassing credit which the
credit to the system in British Columbia, booksIhave ailudedtogiveitandwhich its
because it does recognize trusts. Then, author attributes to à. I think if aîýybody
the system in British Columbia does not in Ontario or Quebec, New Brunsvick or
adopt the Toriens short forns of convey- Nova Scotia had bcen visiting New South
ance, and the Registrar-General takes Wales or any of the Australian colonies, or
credit for that. le saysthere is nonecessity New Zeaiand, and had been asked what
of adopting short forms, because they have systeni we had at home, he would desmen there who are skilled in conveyan- cribe with considerabie praise our syster
cig, and ,they adopt the Engtish forms of registration, our short forms of conveywith great safety. I do not sec, therefore, ancing and the implied covenants and
that the Torrens systemi is in force in those points which have been introduced
British Columbia, and Sir Robert Torrens by statute fro time to ti e in the severa
a
have
himsf, and Mr. à Becket and M.\tr. Max- provincesand g thich made our syste
of conveyancing and roisration inuch
well, who
a report on the subject, sakes
forthe governimentof "StraitF Settiements," more easy, con veniet, short and econoare ail wrong in giving theTorrens systemcmical than any systnt which these
credit for the good resuots which are gentlemen in Australia and other colclained to have floxd fromd it in British onies have ever had to deal with.
Columbia.
The good resuwts in that pro- Ilaving had experience of the English law,
vince are flot to be atti Lted to the 'l'or- and findintg what difficulties, expense and
rens system, but to on whichb is much inconvenience that systeni intaled, they
more akin to that which we have ourselveawere naturally delighted with the Torrens
in this part of the Dominion :that is, system, because of its sirnlicity and
They contrasted it, not ith
a systeN of registration based on what cheapness.
was originally the AmWerican systeni, or such a systeA as ours, but with the
the systei in force in the original States English syste,
and in the woudisesto
of the Union, and now adopted in alil o which I have referred, the writers seak
them, I believe.
noat the state of constantly, not of such a syste, but of the
is
the law in the different provinces of the Englsh system with its elaborate and
Dominion. In the North-Caest Terri- antique conveyances and th great expense
tories the law of Ontario w'as introduced which the English law entails. '[bey say
Maxoo,
almost verbati , but the law of Ontario is " Here is a piece of land worth
r
aiso the law of the other provinces of and it costs 5a to convey it fconi A
Happily, our forns of conwhich I have spoken-Nova Scotia, New to B."
Brunswick and Ptrince Edward Island, veyance have been much simpler. Our
ompicated the
and almost the
of Quebec-the only baw
registration, howver
difference being with respect to the points titne may have become, is fairly safe
to which I have attempted to draw and convenient, and on the hoe very
I think if I had been
attention, so that really the law which easily worked.
exists in the N rth-West werritories travelling in any of the Australian coloniesmay be said to be that law which is com- that is about the statement and explanamon to the English speaking provinces, tion I would have made of our system in
They were dealin with diffiand which is almost the same as the law Canada.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

-RealProperty in

[FEB. 23, 1885] X.- We,3st TerritoriesBill. T3

Culties arising from the English law, and there running on parallel
unes, the
they were delighted with the suggestion of ordinary system of conveyancing under
Sir Robert Torrens that there was no the English law more or less ternpered by
Occasion for these long forms, and that the local enactments, and the Torrens system.
Passage of land from one person to another So, if you have to do with land granted
Tfight be made as simple as a transfer of prior to 1857, which was about the time
bank stock or the transfer of a ship fron Mr. Torrens began his agitation (although
One person' to another: and he said the his Act was fot passed until 1859 or i86o>
Way to do that is to allow every person you find yourself with the English law,
who has land, if the land has already been and ail the difficulties about titie which
Patented-that is if a patent from the you would expect to accompany their
rown is already existing-to put his system of conveyancing; and if you are
land under the Torrens system if he dealing with lands patented after the
Pleases, but as to those titles which cone passing ofthe Act, you are dealin, vith the
Out after the passing of the Bill to insist up- Torrens system, making everything plain.
On their being placed under the Torrens 1 hear that theAttorney-General ofOntario,
system. If you want to sell land under niy friend Mr. iowat, proposes to introthe Torrens system you make a short duce the Torrens svstern into some parts
menoranduim of the sale. You go to the of Ontario and flot into the whole
Registry office and surrender your certi- province-that he proposes to introduce
fcate of title and memorandum of sale, it into the County of York and into the
and the Registrar issues a new certificate City of Toronto, but fot elsewhere in the
to the vendee and he has the title, and Province of Ontario, and he propcses
this certificate is made good against all the there to allow both systems to run along
World by statute. That is the way the on parallel unes.
It is difficult to
title Passes from hand to hand. If the know hov to deal with such a subject
vendee wvishes to sell he goes batck to
thendewse
osi
ege
ak
where the titles wvbich are outsianding
the Registrar, surrenders his certificate are numerous, and 1 do not venture to
and a new certificate is granted, so that pronounce an opinion upon the course
the tItle passes from person to person. vhich Mr. Mowat has taken.
I have the
Very much in the same way as a bill of greatest possible respect for bis judgment
Sale of a ship, the certificate of ownership and for his knowledge of the law, and for
ng produced, the sale is endorsed on bis earnest disposition to endeavor to do
the certificate of ownership, only in the that which in his judgment is best for the
Case of land the certificate of ownership, country. Happily, so far as this 1i1 is
if the land is sold, is given up and a new% concerned, and so far as the North-West
certificate is granted. That is the Torrens Territories are concerned, we are fot
systern, and it is the system which was driven to the dilemma in which he is
Inltroduced into all the colonies in Austra-, placed. There are so few titles outstandlia, New Zealand, in the Singapore settle- ing now in the North-West
Territories hat
m'ents in the Straits of Malacca, and the I wichout hesitation adopted the plan of
evidence in the works I have referred to is making it compulsory that ail titles were
1
srogln in favor of it. It has worked well in to be placed under the Torrens systcin.
y
regard to cheapness, in regard to se- I obtained returns from the Minister of
curty of title which bas resulted the Interior showing that up to'the Vst
romn it, and in every respect it has july last only tbree hundred titlesbad

giv'en satisfaction to the people, and

en.sudithNohWs Trtre.

as .made land more valuable by dimi- 0f course there were a great many more
nihing the difficulties of transfer, and in Manitoba, but intheTerritoriesthere

s. Made it more useful as being, a!wr
n
ol
eissud.
th SUbe~~ witwbc an one could dieal,
ject not
though with which any
a man learned in the law, very
Safely and securely. The objection seems
to me, with reference to titles which have
been patented anterior to the Act ; they
do not corne under the systemsystems the
OWlers desire it, and the two unless are

ptth31stJlla

oy3o

It was manifestly the best course
to pursue to place ail the titles under the
Torrens system, and that this Bil proposes
to do.
There are other points in this
measure which wil1 necessarily engage the
attention particularly of Bi. is in men
of the House when the the legal Com-

Real Property in

SENATE]

mittee. Amongst them, and which struck
me with considerable doubt-but which
doubt has given way and I am prepared
to argue in support of it-is the nonrecognition of trusts. The Torrens systen does not recognize trusts at all. The
idea I gather from the book which I
have read is that the title must pass absolutely from the person whose name appears
on the book, and if he is under any
obligations to other persons in respect of it
they must rely upon his character, and a special provision for changing trustees which is
provided by the Torrens system ; so that if
I have a trustee and I am not satisfied with
his character in any way I can apply to the
courts and have him changed as often and
whenever I like. The system to which
Mr. Torrens has given his name does not
in any way recognize a trust. It provides
simply that a memorandum shall appear
upon the registry book to the effect that
there shall be no survivorship-I have forgotten the phrase exactly but that is the
meaning-if there are two trustees one
shall not succeed to the whole property on
the death of the other. That is the meaning which is intended and which is given
to it in the books of registry by a simple
entry. Thedeed wewillsuppose to be to two
persons, Smith and Jones. The registry
would say "no survivorship."
That
would prevent any person from buying
except from the two of them, because
he would know that one could not succeed
to the title in the case of the death of
the other, and it would occur to him
then to ascertain whether those persons
were trustees. If they should be trustees
and there is any difficulty about it, or any
other question arises, application can
be made to the court for a caveat,
and this caveat will stop the conveyance
for a month subject to the decree of the
court ; so if any doubt arises iegarding a
trust, or the bonafides of the persons who
hold the title in their name on the books
of the registry office, and propose to sell,
a delay of a month can be obtained by
any one having an interest to inquire into
the circumstances by filing a caveat which
the Judge is authorized to give him. At
the end of that time, if the Judge does
not grant some writ prohibiting hini, the
sale goes on. That point of abolishing all
trusteeships, and all necessity for the
purchaser to look after the trust or the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

N.- We8t Territories Bill.

trustees, is one on which Mr. Torrens and
those who advocate this system lay great
stress. They think it better to let those
who trust and the trustee fight out
their own matters, but to say as
regards the title the course shall be clear,
and it shall go from person to person as
shown by the certificate of ownership
without any necessity for the purchaser to
look after the trust or the trustees.
Then there are two or three other points
to which I shall allude which are not
essential parts of the Torrens system, but
which appear in this Bill and constitute
very important parts of the change which
it is proposed to introduce into the NorthWest Territories. These are parts which
have been engrafted, as it were, on the
Torrens system. One is-and it appears
a startling one at first, although after becoming accustomed to it we lose that
feeling-changing the nane and character
of real estate altogether. The Bill proposes to convert real estate into what
lawyers call chattels real. This would
have startled our forefathers very much,
but we are accustomed to changes, and
on reflection it does not make much
difference whether you call land real estate
or chattel real. The effect is to do away
with a great deal of the law which affects
real property and which is not consistent
with the Torrens system. I am very conversative myself, and it is only by slow
degrees that I have come to think favorably
of this change as I am now endeavoring to
explain to the House. Real estate being
converted into a chattel, varlous things
follow. For instance when a man dies
his land under the existing law goes to his
heirs.
Under the Torrens system it
would not. It would go to his executors,
and then the person entitled by will or by
heirship is obliged to go to the executors
or administrators and get his title from
them. They deal with the chattels real
just the same as with other chattels.
If there is a devise, it is to be followed;
if there is no devise, the property is to be
Distributed according to the Statute of
distributions. I have abstained from reading any of the papers I have before me to
the House, but I have ample information
on this point. The chattel real comes to
the executors or administrators, and then
the heir or devisee gets the property from
them. The law provides if there is a will,

Real Property in [FEB. 23, 1885] Y.- Wet TerritoriesBill. 75
that the chattels go to the executor They there passed an Act in accordance
and the executor gets the certificate with public opinion and feeling on the
Of Ownership in his turn. The title subject, and Judge Hoyles says of it:

WOuld appear first as Mr. Walker's,
then Mr. Walker's executor comes, with a
probate of will and the certificate of ownership which Mr. Walker held, and asks to
be registered. On giving up Mr. Walker's
certificate of ownership and showing letters
Of probate, the executor's name is put
down as the owner of the land. The heir

"By onestroke it swept away prinogeniture,
entails, curtesy dower, and nurnerous other
incidents of land in England, reduced to the
condition of a literary curiosity a large body
of real property law, and by the substitution
of a single and simple tenure for the complex
titles by which land is held in the Mother
Country, it lessened itigation and rendered
simple and easy the proof of titie and the
4oes to the executor and gets a convey- construction of deeds and wills."
ance; he then goes in his turn to the
I may perhaps trouble the House by
registry office, gives up his certificate and reading some of those papers in Committee
gets a new one.
but I will not do it now to embarrass the
Then if there is no will, the chattel ad- consideration of the larger features of the
lninistrator is bound by the Statute of Dis- subject. The Bill also does away with
tributions, which is much the same in all with dower and tenancy by curtesy. All
the Provinces, and which we propose to
these things follow the general principle
introduce into the North-West Territories,
which the Bill lays down, that real estate
and the executor will be bound to dis- shall be no longer real estate, but shall be
tribute the land according to that statute. "chattels,"
and then all the rest follow.
These are important points, and points of I think, myself, that the chief result so far
Very considerable interest, especially to as the improvement goes, is in this: that
1
awyers, one of the first ones I have men- on each occasion of a transfer the title will
tlOned being part of the common system, be made clear. As it is now in all the
that of the abolition of trusts. The land, provinces, I may sell a lot to-day to Mr.
lnstead of going absolutely to the heir
or Walker, and a lawyer investigates the title,
to the devisee, would go of necessity and it may cost a considerable sum of
through the executor or administrator, but money. If Mr. Walker wants to sell it
the executor or administrator would be next year to somebody else the titie is
obliged to carry out the provisions of the again investigated, at further expense, and
Wil1, and would be obliged to convey to so on from transfer to transfer. Under
the heir or to the devisee or
other the Torrens system that investigation is
persons entitled. Then another point done by the officer and the new grantee
Which is introduced into the Bill, and gets a certificate at once that he is the sole
Which is not a part of the common owner, and that is good against ail the
sytem at ail, is the short form of convey- world. Then if he wants to sell he goes
ance. We have had these short forms of to the person who wants to buy who asks,
conveyance for years.
Perhaps before I " Are you the owner ?" He says "Yes,
eave the point about "chattels real," I this is my certificate of ownership." He
ight refer to a very
h'as been expressed strong opinion which produces his certificate and that is the end
on the subject by of ail litigation and dispute ; the title is
'Chef Justice Hoyles, of Newfoundland, perfect and good. Many of the advantages
writes a letter to Mr. George S. which the Bill otherwise offers, I think,
wh0 estead, a gentleman in Toronto, exist in the older provinces of Canada
o thas taken an interest in this subject, already.
Great stress is laid, in works before
t , of feature of the " Real Chattels
It seems they me, on the advantages of short forms of
have taken
et Of Newfoundland.
this step in Newfoundland and conveyance, which are quite common with
n some of the Australian Provinces. I us: that a few words shall have a rneaning
dot gather that they have taken it in given to them, by statute, of a very enail those provinces, though they have in larged character. If you
say, for instance,
ne, and it is vcry much praised by Mr. "and the grantor undertakes to produce
Becket, who writes a work on
the common all deeds," or if you say, " and the grantor
5
Yster generally. In Newfoundland they covenants there are no incumbrances,"
have adopted the system
since 1832. then by a statute in force in Ontario,

Real Propert in
y

[SENATE]

N.- West Territories Bill.

and in some of the lower provinces, a with regard to it. But we propose to take
large meaning is given to them which in- these four registration districts and deal
These districts have been
cludes all kinds of circumstances which with them.
might possibly happen to render the formed by Order-in-Council, and their
covenant useful ; and that advantage we boundaries have been established by
already possess, and it is one which those Order-in-Council with the force of law.
who write upon the Torrens system laud They are called now "districts" but
I think that tbey are întended to, and will no
it for very much indeed.
the system beinig once in force in the doubt, be eventually provinces, and
North-West Territory, it will be found the systern which we are introducing
simple and easily worked; but I would in those districts whicb are to become
not have ventured to ask the House to provinces wiIl, we think, be that which is
take my assertion had I not verified likcly to hc adopted, and must of necessity
my own view by very considerable dis- be adopted (in the first instance at al
cussion with a gentleman who has re- events) by the inhabitants of those dissided in that part of the world for tricts when they do become provinces.
some years as Stipendiary Magistrate, We propose to make each of these disand who is himself a very good law- tricts a registration district. There are
yer.
I refer to Mr. Richardson, who registrars there now who are quite comwas formerly in the Department of Justice. petent to discharge the duties which this
Three
vill impose upon them.
Before taking the responsibility of pre- Bil
senting this measure to the House for of tbern are lawyers, who are quite
consideration, I summoned that gentle- competent to discharge the duty of regisman down from that part of the country, tering tities, inspecting, and giving certifiand we talked over the whole subject, and cates of ownership. We have provided
he quite satisfied me that the system for an appeal from them to the collective
could be worked, and worked easily, in body of Stipendiary Magistrates of the
the North-West Territories; and he said North-West, w-ho are, three of theni, genlot only wvas he persuaded of that, but tnemen of the legal profession, and who
that the Council who governed the North- wrl constitute for practical purposes a
West Territory were of tTat opinion also. very fair Court of Appeal for suc tites
There is, as hon. gentlemen know, a as are likely to come in question for the
Council, comiposed partly of gentlemen next few years. 0f course, in that new
nominated by the Crown, and partly by country, the tities are not likely to be very
elected metbers who enact laws for complex for some time. The gentlemen
the North-West.
A l)roject of this of who I speak as forming the Court of
kind was subiitted to them last year, but Appeal would be Mr. Richardson, formthey were not able to make any great erly a barrister odOntario of good standprogress wvith it for want of time, and for ing, very wel known to many
ion. gentlewant of legal meînbers in the Council, men in this House, and who was once in
alttough Mr. Richardson was there, and the Department of justice, and I think
the consideration of it vas postponed ; those gentlemen w o came in contact witb
but it eticitedastrongexpression of opinion him tere will have formed a bigh opinion
froi the Council tbat a ineastire of tbis of bis apility, as I have donc ; another is
kind could easily be worked in the Nortb- Mr. MacLeod, a gentleman from Ontario,
West Territories.
I have endeavored to and of large experience in the North West
describe the change wbich it would pro- and also a very fair lawyer. he
other is
duce. Now, witb reference to the working a Mr. Rouleau, a gentleman from Quebec,
of tbe systec in the North-West Terri- and who also enjoys a fair reputation as a
tories, we proose to divide the, country lawyer in that province. Thlie titles fot
into four Reistration districts, Assinia being very complicated, for some tie to
boia, Abberta and two districts in Saskatch- come at ahi events, I tink a court so conewan.
The country further to the north, stituted would be, for practical purposes,
towards Peace River, bas fot now any sufficient, and an appeal to tem, so far
white population, and no patents and no as this Bi is concerned, we propose to
transactions in land, and we do not pro- makefinal. Anotherfeatureooft.eTorrens
poseatpresent to make any disposition BiIisthis: thatasnalifineis paid intoHON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL

Real Propertyin

[F B. 23, 18851 N.- TFest Territories Bill. 77

the Treasury in the Province of Australia Value of land included, £1,015,150 £1,451,193

and New Zealand on each transaction, the Certificate of title is0oney going to make an assurance fund,
described in the first instance-or
the Court of Appeal whizh I have described in the second instance-if either
Of them should make a mistake and give
a certificate of ownership to the wrong
rnan, and the right man should be able to
establish that fact, he should have a claim
On that fund. Under the Torrens
systern
the man to whom the certificate
is issued
acquires the title whether a mistake is
made or not, but if a wrong certificate is
given, the person wronged has a claim on
this fund, and in some of the
Australian
cOlonies this fund is a very large
One and the claims upon it have been
nall, and one would infer from that
fact
that the system has worked so
admirably
there that the fund would be hardly necesSary ; but the transactions have been very
large and numerous, involving
large sums
f rmoney. I will only detain the House
fo a moment to mention what the growth
Of the fund has been. By reference to Maxwell's report on the Torrens system of con21yancing by registration of title, at pages
sand 23, you will find a statement
of the
Staff Of the Lands titles and General
Registry Office at A delaide, and an estimate
thh e total expenditure and total revenue,
and thpenditure being stated at £13,211
nu the revenue at £23,ooo. The total
nurnber of transactions at the office, as
appears by reference to page 19 of the
21e report, was 7,334 in 1872, and
e'>494 I 1881. The amount of business
One under transfer of land, Statute of
'C29
Vic. No. 301) in 1881 as comWith 188o was as follows :So that if the registrar--those officers I
have

acations to bring

1880.

an1 Under the Act,

tes ...........
land
acre13Of included,
•. •. . . . .

865
50,764

sued, nuimbers ......
Transters, Mortgages,
Leases, Releases, Surrenders,&c.,numnbers
Registering Proprietors
nuinbers ...........
Other transactions (not
including copies of
documents supplied)
Forms sold ..........
Fees received ........

10,066

13,977

18,015

23,993

311

36

20,234
226
£26579

22,10
369
£34570

,

,

The following statement shews the
nunber of dealings registered under the
Real Property Act of New South Wales
during the years 1876 to 1881, irclusive:
NUMBER OF DEALINGS.
Year.
1876 ..........
1877 .........
1878 ..........
1879 ..........
1880..........
1881 ..........

Numbers.
4,557 ......

5,428......
6,238 ......
6,788 ......
8,725......
11,008 ......

Value.
£2,272,170
3,563,576

4,358,326
5,844,311
8,658,149
9,305,286

HON. MR. BOTSFORD--Who pays
the fine, the grantee or the grantor ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
grantor.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-How
they propose to treat leases ?

do

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
certificate of ownership is made conclusive
against all leases of more than three years.
A lease of three years will be held valid.
The transactions in one of the provinces
of Austrelia are of a very large character.
1881.
The following is a statement showing
the sums réceived on account of registra1256 tion fees in the North-West Territories,
from first of October 1878 to 3rd Decem64,990 ber 1884:-

Real Property in

[SE NATE]

1878
NAMES.

1879

-

1880

1880

W. J. Scott ............... $13 25
E. A. Brisbois ........ .... .....

Totals, .............

....

....

....

Dr. A. Jukes... ..........

....

....

.

$13 25

1883
-

1882

$190 00 $245 00
....

1882
-

--

1881

.....

Alex. Sproat ..............

1881

--

--

1879

,Y.- West Territories -Bill.

1883

....

$393 75

$558 25

1884

1885

$16 50

....

....
.

1884

198 00

....

....

....

181 95

$5 75
273 50

$190 00 $245 00 $558 25 $591 75 $198 45, $279 25
SUMMARY.

Total received by W. J. Scott .....................
"

E. A. Brisbois .....

"

"

Alex. Sproat ...... ...... ........
Dr. A. Jukes ....................

............

Total Receipts ..........
I merely give this statement to show
that the transactions are very snall thus
far in the North-West Territory, and that
they have been very great in New Zealand
ane the Australian colonies. Then I have
to point out to the House also, as regards
sheriff s titles, that the certificate of ownership will be good as against any sheriff's
claim; but the sheriff is obliged, immediately on receipt of the execution, to file
a notice of it, with the Registrar, and then
it comes in and makes an incumbrance,
which hinders or encumbers selling; leases
over three years are excepted. Then in
the Bill there are also exceptions with
reference to certain kinds of transactions
which people are necessarily obliged to
embark in, and these last are Canadian in
their origin. These are the exceptions as
found in the 5 7th clause:
The land inentioned in any certificate of
title granted under this Act, shall, by inplication, and without any special mention in

the certificate of title, unless the contrary is
expressly declared, be subject to(a) Anv subsisting reservations contained
in the original grant of said land from the
Crown ;

(b) Any municipal charges, rates or assessnents for the year current at the date of
such certificate, or which are thereafter imposed on the said land, or which have there-

tofore been imposed for local improvements,
and which are not the due and payable;
(c) Any subsisting right of way or other
easement, howsoever created upon, over or
in respect of said land ;
(d) Any subsisting lease or agreement for
a lease for a period not exceeding three years,

HON.SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

$858 50
558 25

203 75
455 45

..... $2,075 95

where there is actual occupation of said land
under the same ;
(e) Any decrees,order or executions against
or affecting the interest of the registered owner
-in such land, which may be registered and
naintained in force against such registered
owner whilst he so continues the registered
owner ;
(f) All public highways einbraced in the
discription of the lands included in any certificate flil be deemed to be excluded fromn

the certificate;

(g) And any right of appropriation which

nay by statute be vested in any person or
body corporate.

The House will see that although they
are very important, yet that great care is
taken to make clear and not to extend the
exceptions. They are confined to short
periods, to charges which are disposed of
within a very short time, and in that way
the matter is made as secure as possible.
I should mention to the House, before
asking for the second reading of the
measure, that the draft of the Bill is very
much taken from the Bill introduced by
Mr. McCarthy at the last Session of parliament in the other branch of the Legislature.
I have caused to be circulated amongst
the members of the House an index showing and giving easy reference to the various
clauses, and to that I have had appended
a table showing the origin of the different
clauses which the Bill contains, and in that
hon. gentlemen will perceive that the
principal part of this measure is from Mr.
McCarthy's Bill. That Bill was not, I an
informed, prepared by Mr. McCarthy hin-

Private [FEB. 24, 1885]
'elf but by Mr. Beverly Jones and Mr.
Joebert Jones, of Toronto. Mr. Beverly

ones is a gentleman occupying a distin-

guished Position in the conveyancing profession. It was one of these gentlemen who
first gave attention to this subject of late,
n fron them Mr. McCarthy's Bill was
obtained and they are entitled I believe to
trialt
of having drafted that Bill. The
Orige
plan of introducing the Torrens
Yills seas, I believe, suggested by Mr.

sOme years ago at a time when he
o
inthe Government with my hon. friend
.PPosîte.
I desire to give these gentlemen
It for the large share which they have
te n in the preparation of many parts of
the measure which is upon the table. Of
course the main features of it are all taken
from» the wNork of Sir Robert Torrens, and
his is the original merit of introducing the
5
ystemn, though the merit of that even is
doubted, because the substance of the
Scherme was presented in a report to the
nglish House of Commons in 1857. It
as

Bill8.

Prayers and routine proceedings.

PRIVATE BILLS.
TIME FOR RECEIVING EXTENDED.

HON. MR. LACOSTE presented the

eighth report of the Committee on Standing Orders and Private Bills. He said :
by this report the Committee recommends

that the time for the reception of Private
Bills be extended to the 5th March instant,
and I move that this report be now
adopted.
HON. MR. POWER-Before that report is adopted I think there should be
some understanding as to when this process of continually coming up and
asking an extension of time foi receiving

Petitions and xitroducing Private Bills
should cease.

HON. MR. VIDAL-This does not
as May 1857 that Sir Robert Torrens
f'rst Proposed his system tothe Government extend the time for receiving Petitions,
OrNw South Wales. He publishes a but for Bills only.
of thin which he disclaims all knowledge
HON. MR. POWER-I suppose at the
Brit'e report of the Committee of the
next meeting of the Committee we shall
int ish House of Commons, at the time he
t oduced his system, and it would seem have a recommendation for a further extherefore that the idea occurred at the tension of the time for receiving Bills. I
amre tirme to the committee of the House think that it would be a great deal more
sf Commons and Sir Robert Torrens him- to the purpose either to dispense for the
self, because the recommendation
of the session with the rules with respect to PetiSemIittee, and the main features of the tions and Private Bills or to adhere to the
Torrte,.
thin s system are much the same. I rules, or to fix some date beyond which it
re I have explained to you, as far as is is understood that the rules shall not be
oftahonable, the general features and scope relaxed without special cause.
It is
I trust that it will engage simply making an absurdity of our rules
and
.il,
the
proattention of the gentlemen ofthe legal and our procedure to have this process
hear ssion in the House, and that we shall going on week after week.
it
a good deal about it before we pass
It to si
HON. MR. LACOSTE-I may say to
tnelsnext stage. I will in the meanmeove the second reading of the Bill. the hon. member that the extension has

been granted in the other House.
rON. MR. SCOTT moved the adjourn""" Of the debate until Friday next.
HON. MR. POWER-That makes no
The Motion was agreed to.
difference.
The Senate adjourned at
six o'clock.
HoN. MR. LACOSTE-The Committee
THE SENATE.
Te, Tuesday, Febrzuary 24th, 1885.

O'The SPRAKFR took the Chair at three
ClOck p.

of the other House thought proper to
extend the time for receiving Private Bills
to the 5th March, and we are only extending it to the same date.
The motion was agreed to.

Legislation in

[SENATE]

the Senate.

CONSOLIDATION OF DOMINION the leader of the Government, I would
ask to have the motion postponed until
STATUTES.
Thursday week.
MOTION POSTPONED.

HON. MR. POWER-Now that the
hon. gentleman has postponed this matter,
I wish to call his attention and the attention of the House to what strikes me as
being a somewhat serious irregularity in
the notice which he has given. There are
three modes by which a member of this
House can bring his views before Parliainent-he can simply make an enquiry for
information and get an answer from the
Government : he can call attention to a
matter and conclude by an enquiry, and
he can move for papers or a committee or
anything of that sort. Although the hon.
gentleman from Niagara has put his notice
in the form of an enquiry it is really not an
enquiry but a request. The hon. gentleman does not ask for information;
he asks the Government to encourage
a certain course which he suggests ; and
I wish to call the attention of the
House and of that hon. gentleman in
particular to the fact that we have never
had an instance of this kind before,
and it is in the judgment of the House
to say whether it is not irregular, and
whether the proper mode would not
be that the hon. gentleman should call
the attention of the House to the fact that
very few Private Bills are introduced here,
The motion was agreed to and the although we have time to attend to them;
but to ask the Government to do so is
order of the day was discharged.
manifestly irregular.
LEGISLATION IN THE SENATE.
THE SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman
will have time to modify his motion beMOTION POSTPONED.
tween now and the time mentioned, if he
The order of the day having been thinks proper. There is something in the
objection raised by the hon. member from
called:Halifax. As he stated, there are two ways
That he (Mr. Plumb) will ask the Govern- of bringing this up before the House,
ment to encourage the initiation of Private
Bills in this House, with a view to the more either by enquiry or by motion. On a
equal division of the labors of the two branches simple enquiry on a subject, a debate of
in the earlier period of the Session, and that an extended character is not permitted,
lie will also ask the Government to originate but under the practice prevailing in the
in this House as niany measures as the le w House of Lords, which was introduced in
and usages of Parlianient will permit in order
that this House may more adequately fill iLs this branch of the Legislature first by the
hon. Minister of the Interior, the practice
place in the Constitution.
was adopted whereby in giving notice that
HON. MR. PLUMB said: some papers a member would call the attention of the
will have to be prepared in connection Government to a certain subject and ask
with this motion, and by my own desire information thereon, a general discussion
and on the suggestion of my hon. friend was permitted. I have no doubt that that
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
desire to postpone the motion of which I
have given notice that the report of the
Commissioners appointed to consolidate
and revise the Statutes of the Dominion
be referred to a select committee, to consist of the Hon. Messieurs Dickey, Gowan,
Lacoste, Pelletier, Power, Scott, and the
mover, and that the said committee be
empowered to act on behalf of the Senate
in any joint committee of the two Houses
on the same subject should the House of
Commons agree to the creation of such
joint committee. I desire to postpone
that motion for some time, because the
statutes have not been distributed yet very
fairly, and more time I think is desirable
for the consideration of the report which
it is proposed, by the notice of motion, to
refer to a select comnittee ; but I desire
in doing so, to ask the House to allow me
to add some names to the committee.
The names of Mr. Odell, Mr. Trudel,
Mr. Girard, and some others, which, if
the House will permit me, I will hand in
to the Clerk. The idea will be, that I
shall endeavor to get each province represented on the committee.

Winter Conmunication [FE B. 24, 1885] withi P. E. Island.
was the intention of the hon. member from
Niagara, although the enquiry as stated
on the paper is not exactly in the form
Which is customary in this House. Bourinot, in his work on Parliamentary Practice, page 322, says "The nore regular, and now the more
c
practice, is for a member, in cases
1equirng some discussion, to give notice that
he iil eall attention on a future day to a
ublic matter, and make an enquiry of the
nover'nment on the subject. Then it is perfectly legitiniate to discuss the whole question
at length, as the terns of the notice show the
intention of the person who puts it on the
Paper."
Now, i anm not prepared to say that the
terIs of the motion do not give notice of
the Intention of the mover, but I think
it
Would he more in accordance with the
practice of this House, which has been
followed for sonie time, if the hon. member fron Niagara would modify his notice
ln the way indicated.
.ON.
MR. PLUMIB-I have no obJecion whatever to modify this question
l any way in which the object I desire
be attained. I an not at this moment
prepared to refer to any proceedings, but
ththink the notice is in conformity with
e Usage of the House of Lords.
I will
not state that positively, but with the perission of the House, if it is found
is desirable to modify the motion, that it
I certainly an most desirous to do so; and I
h very much obliged to my hon. friend,
e senior memiber for Halifax, for calling
!Y attention to it, and if there be any
rregularity in the notice I shall be glad to
have it corrected.

VINTER COMMUNICATION
WIT H P. E. I.
ENQUIRY.

th tIN. MR. HAYTHORNE-I think
the enquiry of which I have given
ntice is strictlv in conformity with the
ternIs of the rule just laid down
by his
l'Onor the Speaker. It is as follows :eThat lie will call the attention of the
y'te to the insufficiency of the steamship
niai
ern Ligh t " for the performance of the
ton a passenger service between GeorgeSprian
Ietou, more particularly in early
1

an

iIl ask the leader of the Govern-

i n this House whether it is intended to
of theanother vessel on that route, as consort
f Northern Light;" and if so, when?

My reason for making this separate
motion is because I wish to keep this
branch of the subject of communication
with the mainland separate from the other,
which refers to a particular case ; and my
special reason for calling attention to it
to-day is, because I was a witness last
spring of circumstances which, in my view,
involved grave risk to numerous valuable
lives. I may state at once my belief that
the steamer " Northern Light " is in good
condition ; that great pains have been
taken to strengthen all ber weak parts and
put ber in a state of efficiency ; but ber
capacity is small. Although not a very
small vessel, a large part of her space is
occupied by engines and boilers, freight
and luggage. Of course the commander
is not absolutely bound to carry freight;
nevertheless it is carried. The luggage of
a large number of passengers piled on her
deck is no trifling matter. On my return
home from my duties in this House last
spring, I was detained on the mainland
for two or three days awaiting a change of
weather which would enable the "Northern
Light" to come to Pictou. A telegram
informed us that she had left Georgetown
on ber passage, but she was evidently
hindered by adverse winds and the presence
of very considerable quantities of ice in
the straits. Ultimately she arrived safely,
bringing, as it was said, about 100 pasHer mails and what freight
sengers.
she brought were of course soon delivered and every dispatch was made to
enable the vessel to return to the Island
that sane afternoon. She actually effected
the passage, but the point to which I wish
to draw the attention of this House, and
particularly the attention of the Government, is that there were from 75 to 87
passengers on board on her return. I say
75 ; my hon. friend who sits opposite (Mr.
Montgomery) to me says there were 87
passengers on board, but this I have no
hesitation in saying,,that even with the
smaller number and their luggage on
board, and such freight as that vessel was
capable of carrying, there was barely
standing room, to say nothing of sitting
room, or the accommodation which one
expects to find in a passenger steamer. I
leave it to this House, composed of
intelligent and experienced men in all
walks of life, to say whether it is a thing
to be desired or tolerated, that year after

82

Winter Communication

[SENATE]

year the lives of Her Majesty's subjects
should be risked in that way ? It is true
that on the occasion to which I refer that
vessel made her passage in a very few
hours, but circumstances might have
occurred-circumstances had occurred
in previous years-which would have kept
her out in the Gulf, perhaps shut into an
ice field for three or four days ; and I
simply ask what would have become of
that crowd of passengers who had scarcely
standing room on the decks, if such an
event had happened ? Of course it must
be attended with very great suffering and
inconvience to them if nothing else, but
hon. gentlemen who perhaps inay recollect
an accident which occurred in .Ontario in
the suminer time on a river, and how that
accident was attended with frightful loss
of life, may easily conceive how much
greater loss of life would ensue should
such a vessel as the "Northern Light,"
crowded with passengers, be caught for
any length of time in bad weather in an
ice field in the spring. It is for this
reason that I have called the attention of
this House and the Government to this
question ; because I feel that if I failed to
make these circumstances fully known in
my place in this House, I should be responsible for any accident which night occur
from want of rnaking known the facts. I
take it that this is by no means a necessity.
The Government have built a vesse] called
the

" Lansdowne " which was launched

last November, a strong -vcssel, competent for navigating ice-encunbered seas,
and that vesse], as was stated in reply to a
question put by me during lait session,
was to be ready for service last Autumnlast October the leader of the Governiment
stated. No doubt delays fregueutly occur
as to the precise time at which a vessel
can be launched and made ready for
service at sea, and I am not disposed to
find fault because that vessel was not
where they pronised she should be last
Autumn; but I do solemnily appeal to the
Government not to allow a repetition of
such things as I have described, and which
will infallibly occur again this spring under
similar circumstances. I appeal to them
to send the steamer "Lansdown c" to assist
the "Northern Light," for the conveyance
of passengers and their luggage and freight,
as a consort to the "Northern Light."
Hon. gentlemen might suppose that there
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

with P. -E. Island.

was a simple remedy for this by instructing
the captain not to take more than a. certain
number of passengers on board. Well,
that of course would be a remedy, but it
wculd be a vast inconvenience, and it
would be something more, it would be a
cruel thing, because it is within my knowledge that last spring numbers of poor
people were wvaiting for a passage across,

and they had not the means to pay their
expenses if they had been long detained
there. I was informed that some of them
went out and sought work in order to be
able to live while waiting for the arrival of
the "Northern Light," and, therefore,
w-hile taking fewer passengers might be a
remedy for the danger, it would be cruel.,
when the Government have another vessel
fully capable of assisting the " Northern
Light," to detain passengers there.
I
would now ask the question of which I
have given notice.
Hox. MR. KAULBACH-My hon.
friend, as in duty bound, looks after the
interest of the Island from which he
cornes, and he always speaks on this subject with great force. No doubt it is the
duty, of Parlianent, and of the Government in particular, to see that proper security is afforded to life and property. It
is evident however that this crowding of
the steamer with passengers can only
occur in exceptional times, in the spring
when there is a great deal of travel and
traffic across the straits in consequence of
the usual winter stoppage. This exceptionally large traffic can on]y occur for
two or three weeks in the spring and perhaps means could be devised to put on an
additional steamer in the spring to assist
the "Northern Light." I do not think that
there is sufficient passenger and freight
traffic there to employ another steamer for
any extended time during the summer.
Hox. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
know the importance of the question to
which attention has been drawn by the
hon. gentleman from Prince Edward
Island, and I am very anxious that every
satisfaction should be given to him in regard to a subject in which he justly takes
such a deep interest, as indeed do all the
members from Prince Edward Island.
My hon. friend will admit that it is a very
difficult thing to maintain communication

Winter ùommunication [FEB. 24, 1885] with P. E. Island.
between the mainland and the province around the stern so that the steamer can
fron which he comes at all seasons of the neither go astern nor ahead. I have seen the
with
Northern
Year. The Government have endeavored "ine two feetLight" lying on the ice, crew float
had
out of water, after the
to do so in pursuance of the terms upon cleared the ice away from all around to the
which Prince Edward Island entered the de pth of more than 6 feet.
Union. They have endeavored to do so
by m eans of the "Northern Light,"which is
a sbip built expressly for that service
during the time the administration was in
the hands of Mr. Mackenzie. As far as
any representations go, which I can get
frOin the Department of Marine and
Pisberies, the service of the "Northern
Ligt I has not been very unsatisfactory I
thank or ought not to be regarded as
raving been unsatisfactory.
I have a
return showing the dates in each year,
froni 1878 to the present time, when the
"Northern Light" ended her trips and
Wben she resumed them. It is as follows:STOPPED.
STARTED.
an. 16th, '84. Mar. 13th, '84.
an. 5til, '83. Mar. 26th, '83.

F'eb 5t01 '82. Mar. 3lUt, '82.
Jan. 21st, '81. Mar. 30th, '81.

TIME

STOPPED.

56 davs.
80 "
54
68

"

lar10 th, '80. Ap'l. 10th, '80.
31 "
Peb.*18thI,'79. Mar. 25th, '79.
36
Pb. 9th, '78. Mar. 5th, '78.
24 "
Now, with reference to the vessel itSelf, these remarks are made in a paper
Which has been sent to me from the
Depart-nent of Marine and Fisheries, and
gîve the opinion of the officer who forIferly served on the "Northern Light,"
and who is now in the service of the
Departnent here, a Mr. McElhinney :That I am of the opinion that the steamer
work through the
as well as any other
essel of tie saine power that could ~be contructe, and in this I an sustainel by the

can
h Nortiern ofLiglt"strait
heavy ice
the

opinions of tle ofticers exarnined
beln
fore the Committee appointed by tie House
ofrConunons to enquire into the matter of
slam communication between Prince Edward
ten0 ad tie Main land wherein they express
Piirion " tlira no steainsliip eau ho huiît
eapal>10 Of keeping np continuons comn un ication m mid-w iter." Taking the average
tinter,after the first of January,the ice begins
fieldget eavy, the tide and wind shroves tie
becoîand bloèks one tirder the other until it
benam bto 20 feet tick and sticks together

1that it becomnes nearly solid, and in such

arge fields that no steamer could open it ip
what her size or power, and if con"Iatter
so as to run up on tire ice, it would
hold
ny
arr vFeSsel until trozen in soiid, if the
vessel track would remain open the difficurty
Would not be 80 great but tis is not the case,

*hen the ice begins to shove, ilt closes in

I an therefore of the opinion that the
steamer " Northern Light " does the work as
well as any other vessel of the saine power
could.
The hon. gentleman who makes the
motion says why not put on another vessel?
Well these vessels have other duties to
perform. It is truc a vessel has been built
called the "Lansdowne," butthereareagreat
many other duties for that vessel to peiform. She has to take her part in the
lighthouse service all round the coast of
Nova Scotia and New Brunswick and it
would be, as we think, almost impossible
for us to spare her for a continuous service
between the Mainland and Prince Edward
Island, but it is the intention of the
Department to have her ready so that if
anything should happen to the " Northern
Light at any time she could be sent
round there for that duty. With reference
to that portion of the inquiry I have this
memorandum sent to me from the DepartmentIt
h is not the intention of the Governiment
to place another steamer on the route as consort at present, but they have tie steamer
.' Lansdowne ' in reserve, which vessel is
fitted for ice service, and in case of any accident to the ' Northern Light,' would be
available for the service.
" Capt. Finlayson reports that he will try
to cut the ' Nortlhern Light' ont of Georgetown in the begrinning of March, and if she
can then make trips without incurring undue
risks to lite and property every effort will be
made to run tie vessel regularily the remainder of the season.'
Now I am conscious in making this
reply that it does not give my hon. friend
all the satisfaction I could wish, but I
think he must see that it would be very
exacting on the part of that particular
service to insist upon two steamers being
placed there for the purpose of maintaining it, when, under ordinary circumstances
it could be very well donc by the one ship,
which ship appears to bc very well adapted
for the service, and as capable as any vessel of her power to perfori it. Perhaps
the presence now and then of the " Lansdowne " may turn out to be useful, to
supply any deficiency in the service which
may be occasioned by a passing accident

A84 Winter Communication [SENATE]
to the " Northern Light"; or at some
future time it may become necessary, for
anything I can say, to have two vessels,
but in the meantime I an not in a position to say that it is the intention of the
Government to put on an extra steamer.
It is our intention to do the best we can
with the " Northern Light."
HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE-The hon.
gentleman scarcely appreciates the point
of my remarks. The point I wislhed to
make, and which I thought I had made,
was that great risk of life was run every
Spring from the sudden accession of the
number of passengers desiring to pass the
straits, aid if the " Northern Light

"

was

assisted then-it might be for three weeks
or less-that that risk would be obviated.
It seems to me that to hold the " Lansdowne in reserve while the I Northern
Light " is daily passing backward and forward with such a crowd of passengers on
deck as to run great risk of their lives, to
say nothing of inconvenience to passengers themselves, is very poor consolation
to the people of Prince Edward Island.
It is a poor consolation to think that they,
their comfort and convenience and their
lives, should be thought nothing of but
that the " Lansdowne" should bc kept
in reserve while all these risks are being
run. That is the point which I wished to
bring to the notice of the Government,
and having witnessed this risk which was
incurred last Spring, myself, I conceived
that I would be failing in my duty if I did
not call the attention of the House and
the Government to the subject.

with P. E Island.

HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE movedThat an humble Address be presented to
His Excellencv the Governor General, praying His Excellency to cause to be laid before

this House a copy of the instructions given
by the Departmient of Marine to the commander of the " Northern Light."
He said : I have made this motion
with a view to satisfying public opinion in
the Island as well as elswhere on the point.
The general impression is that the instructions supplied to to the commander
of the " Northern Light " are of a character which preveits him running any risk,
and if he does so that it must be at his own
proper peril. The safest way of setting this
matter at rest is to produce a copy of the
instructions, and to that I fancy there can
be no objection.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLThere is no objection to the motion, and
in order to facilitate any action which the
hon. gentleman may desire to take I have
brought down the instructions and will
read them to this House. They are as
follows :
"OTTAWA, 12th Jan.,
1884.
SIR,Relerring to my letter to you of the 14th
Decemdber, 1882, I have again to instruct you
o tuse your own judgeneiit as to when the
" Northern Light " should run, and not to be
governed by directions from any persons, as
the Departnent will hold you responsible for
the safetv of the vessel, and you are to incur
no risk ývhereby the safety of the vessel nay
be endangered by being caught in the ice.
No risk also is to be incurred for the purpose
of carryng over any particular passenger or
passengers, and the Departnent expects that
you will use your judgnent in all matters
aflectiig the running of the boat, and will
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL- hold you responsible for lier safety.
I amn,
There was nothing of that in the notice,
Sir,
and I was not furnished with the necessary
Your nost obedient servant,
The notice says nothing
information.
WILLIAM SMITH,
about the number of passengers crossing
Deputy Minister of Marine
at any particular season of the year. The Capt. A. FINLAYsON,
mention of the early Spring, I thought,
"Northern Light,"
referred to the dangers of navigation at
Pictou, N. S."
that season of the year. Now that the
Ottawa, 16th Jany., 1883.
hon. gentleman has explained that it refers
number of passengers crossing on CAPTAIN FINLAYSON,
to the
Stermer " Northern Light,"
the steamer, I will again direct the attenGeorgetown, Prince Edward Island.
tion of the Minister of Marine and FishTelegran received urging department order
eries to that particular question, and will you run ; responsibility
is with you; expect
endeavour to inform my hon. friend to- you to run no undue risks.
morrow what the reply of the Department
(Signed)
A. W. McLELAN.
is to that.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL,

Vinter Communication [FEB. 24, 1885]

with P. E. Island.

85

Ottawa, 18th Jany., 1883. treated with any discourtesy from the gentieman leading the Government in this
Steamer " Northern Light,"
House-Sir Alex. Campbell; on the conGeorgetown, Prince Edward Island.
trary, I recognize the readiness which inith knowledge of ice yon muist be judge, variahly induces the hon. gentleman to
held responsible for safety of boat, incur
Do undue risks.
TAFINLAYSON,

(Signed)

the questions I have put to him relative to
this important suhject. He has certainly
given mie plain and straiglîtforward
Ottawa, 10th Jany., 1885. answers, but not heing himself responsible
CPTA1N A. FINLAYSON,
for the execution of those answers, it has
Steamship " Northern Light,"
often happened that I and other members
Care Messrs, Noonan & Davies, Pictou.
conncctc with Prince Edward Island
&dvisable make daily round trips when have gone to our homes under the belief
practicable, having regard safety vessel.
WM. SMITH.

(Signed)

WM

SMIT.n

many, or at least sone, of the great

Thedifficultis

we labor under in passng
The mtionwas
ithdawn.fromn
our province to the Mlain-land in the
WINT
winter, and yet wce find after ail that our
WINTER COMMUNICATION WITH expectations have been disappointed, that
PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND.
the larine Iepartment refuses to move,
reinans wn satit
n
year after ye.r, doing
ENQ U I RY.
ltle or nthing of these things winch have
t
,een
deliberately prorised on ie part of
Gover
sent
d'lys ago I gave notice that I would cal the a.bythe of this bv the hon. gentleman,
leaJr
Houe. If it were not
the attention of the Senate to the report that qiany gentlemen are this session occuof the select Coîrî-ittec of the House of yin secats tin this House for the first time,
COwrnons on steam communication in and thatpany others her are not perhaps
wilter and suramer, between Prince Ed- faniliar
with subjEct to wlich I allude,
the
""'rCIIsland and the
dated
it would not m8th
reainland,
be necessary for me to make
April, 1883, and to the evidence appended a féw prelimninary rermarks before going
o;
and would ask the leader of the into the subject genrally. It ay appear
at irfentrom this House whether the strange to sorne
in
hon.gentlenen that a
theretio and whether they intend directed q1uestion of so comiparatively srnail inmportofMinisters has been
eretw,
to give ance-so small a thingwe itself as the
in
Conit to the recommnendations of nthe passage of a strait only dight miles didea fnittee, or to adopt any measures îth siould be of suffi ient importance to bring
%ieýv. to prevent the recurrence of dislis- it tefore a branch, in fact both branches
Sirnilar to that which recently im- of hbis Lerislature, but there ar
oany
perilled the limbs and lives of crews and reasons w y it is of importance, some
Pssengersc and the safety of the mails, in special and sotie such as would apply to
attemptng to cross the Straits of Nor- any other strait under sirilar circu
thumberland between the Capes Traverse staices. There isurst the ordinary obliad Tormentine. I may say, hon. gentie- ation which alnGoveryments lie under to
rie, that the inds of the people in my c onvey the mails of ach province to that
Province are in a state of high excitemnent next adjoining, and to convey w'ith those
Whicer
ten
of the great danger t o mails such passengers as rn it n ecessary
over
entifllow-cnuntrymen and the to travel with them. That is an ordinary
crew and captains of the ice-boats have obligation which I have urged over and
ber eposed upon a recent occasion. I over again in this House, annd it has been
ct awar that
can adduce any new fairly and practicaoly adeitted by the hon.
ve
to
arguments of my own in refrence
t mais question which I have not stated,
Y SaY year after year, for eivht or ten
past, in my place in this House. I
eatlnOt certainly allege that I have been

gentleman opposite, in fact it would be
impossible to deny that obligation without
at once throwing to the winds the ordinary
obligations of all Governments. There is
that obligation, and there is another ore,

86

Winter Communication [SEXN ATE]

if possible, of greater importance ; that
other obligation is that at the time of
the entry of our Province into Confederation with Canada one of the terms which
was made with us was that the Dominion
Government would maintain summer and
winter steam communication between the
Province of Prince Edward Island and the
Mainland,thus putting the Island province
in communication with the Dominion
system of railways. To those railways we
were contributors, but we could not avail
ourselves of the advantages that were
offered by them, and therefore unless some
ready means of access could be obtained
to and from the Mainland, our union with
Canada would be rather in name than in
reality. This question had occupied some
attention before confederation was talked
of, before the railw.ay era was developed
in our province.
I think the first gentleman in Prince Edward Island who
directed public attention to this subject
was the present member tor Queen's
county, Dr. Jenkins.
He then being a
member of the local legislature, about the
year 1867, moved for a committee to
enquire into this matter, and I think that
was the first time the subject is noticed.
Two years later a deputation from the
Government of Canada came down on a
visit to Prince Edward Island with a view
to induce us to enter the Confederation.
That deputation consisted of Sir Leonard
Tilley, Sir Edward Kenny and Sir George
Cartier. It was my duty to receive those
gentlemen.
At that time Confederation
was, I may say, unpalatable to nine-tenths
of the people of Prince Edward Island.
I had interviews principally with Sir
Leonard Tilley, and I told him that in my
opinion the people of Prince Edward
Island could perhaps be draxwn somewhat
towards Canada-perhaps be taught to
review their opinions as to Confederation if
he could accomplish two great improvements in their behalf.
With one of
those I have nothing to say here.
It is not connected with this question :
but the other was the keepng open of
steam communication during winter across
those straits. Accordingly, when a few
months later terms of Unionwere transmitted to the Local Govern ment of Prince
Edward Island, amongst those terms was
to be found what I have just stated to the
Hause, steam communication, winter and
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

with P. E ]eland.

sunmer between the Island and the Mainland. This was one of those terms. It
is true those terms were not accepted at
that time ; but later on-four years latercircumstances had changed in the Island,
and again an effort was made to confderate the Island with Canada. This
time the offer carne from the Island itself,
and again the same condition was introduced. A second attempt was made in
the same year to carry Confederation, and
proved successful, and for the third time
the same clause found its way into those
conditions, and there it stands now; and
I regret to say it stands unfulfilled. Yet
I willingly acknowledge that efforts have
been made, efforts which the hon. leader
of the Government alluded to in the short
address which he made to the House a
few moments ago. I think anvone who
has studied this report of the Committee
of the House of Commons will corne to
the same conclusion that I and many
others have expressed, that daily communication-constant communicationbetween Prince Edward Island and the
Mainland by steam in the winter time is
not always practicable. There are states
and conditions 'f the ice in that strait
which no vessel which has hitherto been
constructed could overcome.
I have
often discussed that question in this
House, and while I have said I have
never felt disposed to insist on the performance by the Government of what I
recognize as an impossibility, still I do
claim from them this-that they should
use every effort in their power to make
that communication as easy and regular
as the circumstances at their disposal
will permit ; and though it be impossible
under certain circumstance to force a
steamship through pack-ice such as resists
the progress of Arctic voyages in polar
regions,-for the same conditions prevail
at certain seasons between Georgetown
and Pictou,-yet it is quite possible to
render the other passage, that between the
two capes, far more easy, far more regular
and safer than it is at present. It is partly
with a view to elucidate this branch of the
subject that the Committee of the House
of Commons was asked for, and any one
who will take the trouble to study the
report of that Committee or even to give
it a very cursory perusal will see that
almost every witness agreed that the

Winter Communication [FEB. 24, 1885]
ordinary boat service could be greatly
'rYprovedat a comparatively small expense;
t4 passage by steamer was practicable
ring a considerable portion of the
Winter : that some days when the strait
was iripassable for those small boats, it
Was Perfectly practicable to navigate it by
teaner, and let me say, hon. gentlemen,
that the chief difficulty to be encountered
'there does not arise from excessive cold
or from the great quantity or density
of
the ice-it is ice that is not solid,
and
large areas of water that interrupts our
Progress, and those are conditions which
certainly a steamer of adequate power and
strelgth ought to find no difficulty in
forcing her way through. It is for that
reason I say that although these original
cOnditions upon which we entered into
Confederation cannot be fulfilled to the
letter by any known powers at present in
existence, yet they can be fulfilled in
spirit at least, and a desire can be
shown on the part of the Government
to do ail that in thern lies to prevent
the recurrence of such disasters as
'hat which happened the other
day and
which placed in jeoparrly many valuable
lives exposed out on the strait,
and other
ives ashore, which were at ail events, if
not sacrificed by it, jeopardised by this
occurrence. We have a right to consider
n a question of this sort not merely the
lives Of the nen who get out there
and inclr risk in the performance of their
duty,
t hose passengers who also in conforrnity with their duty or the pressure
of
business have to cross that strait, but we
have to think of the wives and children
nrid friends of those who are
the anxiety naturally felt by exposed, and,
their fathers, husbands and them while
brothers are
necessarily-I say it advisably-unnecessarily exposed to those great dangers.
SoTmething has been said in. the press of
Prince Edward Island which
I read with
very great regret, which had reference
to
t
he behaviour of
crews of the boats the captains and the
upon that
casio , and I cannot avoid recent octaking this
Pblic occasion to state my impression
that whether there is or not any truth in
those charges-the men
whose characters
tre at stake should seek an investigaln of those charges. From my own
erlowledge of those men such charges are
"tiey foreign to their ordinary conduct

with P. E. Island

and ordinary practice. I have ever found
them-and I have crossed those straits
under various conditions during many
years of my life-able, brave, courageous
men, and excecdingly kind in their conduct to passengers, let them be weak or
strong.
If strong they are glad of
their assistance to help them over
their difficult journey, and if weak
they are ready to draw
them as
long as they require to be drawn, and
I think, myself, it is an unlikely thingit would be altogether at variance with the
character those men have so well established during many years of service, if it
should unhappily prove to be true that
their conduct on that occasion was not
what it ought to have been. I wish to
curtail my remarks as much as possible,
partly because I know that this subject is
threadbareto manymembers of this House.
It is really only from a sense of the great
importance of it to the people of my province, and from the desire to draw from
the leader of the Government a direct
and unmistakable expression of what the
Governrment intend to do to meet those
difficulties. I had before now promises :
I have before me extracts which I
I could refer to of promises which have
been made and which have not been fulfilled. We know very well if it rested
with the hon. gentleman opposite (Sir A.
Campbell) to fulfill those promises, he
would have done so, but unhappily it
rests with another Department not represented in this House. Now, I say if the
head of that Department is unwilling or
incapable of carrying out this necessary
improveinent, let him retire and give
place to somebody else. There are men,
members of the Legislature, supporters of
the Government, who, I feel convinced,
are thoroughly capable of conducting that
Department, and especially of carrying
out the improvements which are required
on those straits to the desired conclusion.
Two years ago, at least, the hon. gentleman opposite, in reply to the solicitation
of the members from Prince Edward
Island, promised on behalf of this Government that shelter should be provided
for the boats which worked this arduous
transit across those straits. Up to that
time those boats, after use, were simply
turned over on the fringe of ice that lies
for miles along the shore, weL, damaged,

88

Winter Comm'unication LSNATE]

heavy, all the sanie, there they lay, and if
they required repairs it had to be done,
at the ordinary winter temperature, out of
doors. If anything else was necessary,
if the boats had to go out the next
day, there they were covered with
ice and snow, double the weight that they
would be if clean and dry. So long as
these boathouses are not provided it is
utterly impossible to create any great
change towards adding to the comfort
and convenience of passengers. Since I
have been here I have received a letter
from a correspondent on the Island who
points out that such an accident as that
which occured not many weeks since
could have been obviated if the boats
were kept under cover, and if every boat
was supplied with such ordinary comforts
and conveniences as would not in weight
altogether amount to as much as one
traveller's trunk.
For example he points
out that a small tent should be carried:
that some simple tools should be carried,
for up to this time it has not been the
practice of these men to carry even an
axe, and should they be met with a fringe
of ice which it is scarcely possible to drag
their boats through, still it has to be done
by the labor and fatigue of the men and
destruction of the boats, whereas a few
strokes of an axe would open a road
for them. Again the same correspondent
writes to me that the boats taken out of
the boathouse could also take with them
somê canned provisions, an oil stove,
and sonie felt foot wrappers to cover
passengers or boatsmen in danger of being
frozen. It must be quite obvious to every
gentleman here that such an improvement
as that is utterly impracticable as long as
the boat, as soon as its immediate use is
over, has to be left on the shore exposed
to the snow and sleet. and whatever
atmospheric changes may happen ; but it
is the simplest and easiest thing in the
world for those improvements to be
carried out if the necessary boathouses
were furnished.
Two years ago those
boathouses were promised us here ; still
last session came round, and it became
my duty to point out to the hon. gentleman opposite that the promises of the
previous year had not been fulfilled. The
answer I then received was that the hon.
Minister thought the boathouses were
built. Now what has occurred since? I
HoN.

MR. HAYTHORNE.

with P. E. J8land.

came down to this very strait some four
weeks ago, and I found no boathouse ; I
found, though, a gang of carpenters working
out of doors with the thermometer many
degrees below zero, in the month of January, preparing to build a boathouse then.
Our province wants something more than
promises; we want performance, and performance we must have. I have no doubt
that the hon. gentleman is prepared to
rise in his place to-day and give me every
satisfaction, and I have no doubt that if he
was in power himself, he would see that
these promises were carried out ; but the
Government as a whole are responsible for
the promises made in their behalf. More
directly 1 charge his colleague who is responsible for the performance of this particular duty, with having neglected it, and
if he does not perform the duties of his
office they, his colleagues, should compel

his retirement, and replace him, or those
who will not do their work, by others who
will, and nothing else will satisfy the people of Prince Edward Island. They are
now in a state of excitement which it is
painful to see. It is a dreadful thing for
men to have their lives exposed in the way
they are, and to know that their interests
are so neglected by the Government of
this country. I say that the excitement of
the people of Prince Edward Island on
this subject, though it may appear strange,
is a reasonable excitement, and the cause
I have pointed
of it must be removed.
out in my place here before now how
it can be removed. I came here two
years ago after attending an indignation
meeting, held a few days before near the
Cape from which I started. At that meeting expression was given to those feelings ;
we members were told that we were doing

nothing to have this grievance redressed.
We said in reply that we were doing everything that could be expected froni men in
our position ; that we had called attention
every year to this unsatisfactory condition
of things, and had received promises and
were disappointed as to their fulfilment,
and that the failure was not our fault.
The result is, that instead of a contented
people, loyal to the Confederation, we
have men continually complaining and
continually using such language as this:.
" Give us those terms of ours to the letter."
They do not stop to inquire whether those
terms are possible or impossible, but they

Winter Communication [FEB. 24, 1885]

1'. E. Island.
P'/

89.

say "Give us those terms of ours to the let- strictly econoical principles,but constructer, or cut us adrift and let us be as we were ted with a view to service, that one great
before Confederation." Is that a desirable cause of comiplaitit as to the interruptions
state of things ? I have called attention whichoccur la tbr passage will beobviated.
before now, in my place in this House, to Other gentlemen who were examined have
that particular phase of the Island's dis- expressed the sane opinion ; and another
content two years ago, and at the very most important point to which I wish
opening of this present Parliament. I most emphaticaly to call the attention of
have left myself but little time, and per- the House and Government, is the recomhaps not much voice either, to call atten- mendation of the Committee that the
tion to some of the contents of this report service shouki be assumed by the Governof the Committee of the Commons. AI- ment; that no, lionger should it be made a.
most every witness who speaks there, matter of come or go or stay at home by
speaks of the possibility of assisting those the captains of the boats at the instigation
boats in the winter season by steamer. of the passengers or crews, but the whole
Mr. Samuel Prowse, a member of the service, including the steam service, should
Island Government, a man of sound com- be under th- control of one individual
mon sense, makes that assertion. Dr. 'selected by the Government, and appointJenkins, a man of very great experience, ed because of bi. icapacity for organization,
who has been crossing the straits from and if such a person can be found the
boyhood up to the present day, and who success of this new attempt, I feel conhas made it a special study, says that vinced, will be atiained at last, because ithe is confident that steam can be will depend to a great extent upon the
brought to assist the boats. Capt. capacity and ability of the individual who
Arthur Irving, a man nearly sixty fills that posiion. That this particular
years of age, whose whole life has been point has been recommended by every
spent in this service, says the same thing; witness who spoke before that Committee
he says not only that steamers can cross is I think tho le ,igest proof which can
occasionally, and would obviate the long be brought forward of its absolute necesdelays which occurs now and then there, sity. I feel that. I have detained the
but says also that the steamer could cross House a very long time. I stated at thea great deal oftener than people generally commencerniti that I had no new facts
suppose. It is an important fact that in and arguments to bring forward, at least
the year that this gentleman was brought but one. I think [ have, in former times,
up from his duties in the straits to give from my place in this House, used every
evidence before the Committee of the argument and pointed to every detail that
House of Commons, he stated that in I have referred to on this occasion, only
that particular season the ice was usually perhaps wilh greater force than I have
light, and his opinion was that up to been able to ekert this afternoon. But
that date, about the middle of March, a the one fact to which I wish to refer is the
steamer could have crossed every day, recent catastrophe. It has led to endanprovided it was a properly constructed -gering the limbs of a number of men,
vessel. Other gentlemen express the some of theii pas;sengers, some boatmen
same opinion. I need not mention the -onlyboatnen, poor men-depending on
opinions given by gentlemen who hold their strength of body and limb for their
seats in this House, and especially that of livelihood-and these men have had their
the hon. gentleman from Charlottetown limbs jeopardized; other men, members
and of the hon. gentleman from Alberton, of Parliament. have had their lives jeoparand my hon. friend who sits opposite me dized, and other events. have happened
-they are here to speak for themselves. in their homes too sacred almost to refer
I myseif appeared before that Committee to even in this House; and I say that
in person, and I also put in, at the request such events as thtese, of such recent occurofthe Committee, my opinion in writing, and rence, ought to nake the Government
there my opinions stand. I see no reason feel that the necessity lies on them to
to withdraw or qualify them, and I maintain remedy the gross neglect which has
that if a proper steamer »is constructed occurred heretofore in this matter. I might
for that purpose-not constructed upon apply to the dc.fatilting Minister, owing to

90

Winter Communication [SENATE]

whose neglect this catastrophe has occurred, the words which Gordon used the
other day away at Khartoum, "You eat,
you drink, you sleep on comfortable beds,
while we fight and struggle against the
inclemency of the weather, the dangers of
the ice and the straits, and yet you let us
go on year after year with this same state
of things prevailing." Let us have no
more of that ; let us have some honest
exertion on the part of the Government to
remedy this great defect.
HON. MR. MACFARLANE-I entirely sympathise with my hon. friend, as I
always have done when we have had these
repeated statements of the great suffering
and loss to which our friends of Prince
Edward Island are subjected, but he seems
to forget what has taken place in the past.
My recollection carries me back to 28
years ago, when the last serious accident,
and a much more disastrous one than that
which occurred recently, took place at the
crossing of the straits. I remember when
two men, young Hazard and a fine old
English gentleman, were frozen to death
on the boat, and two or three others were
so mutilated and damaged that they were
left wrecks. Yet that occurred long before
Confederation, and I have no doubt that
the people of Prince Edward Island felt
that very keenly, and were anxious to make
the service good, safe and efficient. Since
then there has not been a disaster until
recently. I do not know that there has
been a loss of life in this late lamentable
accident, but it is the only one which has
occurred in crossing that strait in this long
period of 28 years. Sufferings have
doubtless been endured, and I have no
-doubt my hon. friend who has just addressed the Senate has been subjected to
great inconvenience. Inconvenience will
be experienced at times in spite of all that
can be done by this Government or any
other Administration for the purpose of
establishing safe communication with
Prince Edward Island.
While this
Dominion is bound to establish efficient
service, and to do all that they possibly
can to maintain open communication
with Prince Edward Island, still when
they have done their utmost difficulties will arise. The " Northern Light "
was a step in advance.
I am glad
to hear my hon. friend doing full justice
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

witk, P. E. I8land.

to it. While-that vessel was not constructed as nautical men believe it should have
been, she was a great improvement. She
has done good work, and very safe and
comfortable passages have been made in
her. She probably was not constructed
large enough to afford accommodation for
the great quantity of freight and passengers
crossing the straits ; it is an indication, I
am glad to say, that the Island is progressing rapidly. My hon. friend seems to
forget that anything has been done ; a
very large sum of money has been expended
in endeavoring to establish a fair and
reasonable communication with the Island.
I believe the Government are still expending a very considerable sum of money in
improving the route by the capes, the
only way, I believe, by which proper communication can be maintained. I have
no doubt when that is done and the railway
is completed on this side,-and I am glad
to know that enterprising gentlemen in
New Brunswick are pressing it forward to
Cape Tormentine ; and the Government
are extending the line on the Island to
Cape Traverse-they will add to the efficiency of the boats. The boats that were
designed I think many years ago, it is
admitted by the men who were engaged in
the work, are boats that can scarcely be
improved upon to-day. I believe those
life-boats are as efficient for the service as
any that could be made. It appears to be
the opinion of those men, whose opinion
my hon. friend has referred to to-day, that
you can combine that steam service with
the boat service, and I am sure the country will never be satisfied until an attempt
is made in that direction. I have no
doubt the Government have had difficulties
in the past to deal with, but when the railways are constructed to the capes they will
endeavor to establish steam communication
with the boat service and do all that can
be done. My hon. friend says, and very
properly, that while the Government of the
day entered into a hard contract to establish
steai communication every day of the
year, it was an impossible contract. They
might as well have said they would take
Prince Edward Island out of the sea and
bring it up and join it to the mainland ;
it would be just as possible to do the one
thing as the other; it is simply an impossibility. I am very glad the hon. gentleman has pressed this matter on the Gov-

Winter Communication [FEB. 24, 18851
-ernment. It is his duty to do so. It is a
duty which he has done effectually, and I
an sure if the service is not properly performed it is not for want of any attention
on the part of my hon friend. It is a
service which ought to be and will be dealt
with. The present means of communication imperil life and property. This is the
'Case for only a few weeks of the year in
the early Spring. The Autumn is not so
bad, because the heavy ice has not been
formed at that season. In the Winter the
Service could be carried on at those points
I have mentioned. The bon. gentleman
has done well in drawing the attention of
the Government and this House to the
Subject, and nothing will give greater satisfaction to the whole country than to
know that good and efficient communication, as far as possible, will be kept up
tith the Island.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-I regret that I
'Was not present at the beginning of the
debate, as I was engaged- about Island
affairs in another place. It is a humiliating
Position for the members of Prince EdWard Island to find themselves in, every
Year pressing their vicws on this Parliamfent ; but it is to this House that all the
Provinces must look, particularly the
'smaller ones.; but from time to time when
we have had to ask hon. gentlemen here
to consider this question, we have felt, as
My hon. friend who sat down a few moIlents ago has said, that we were trespassing on what might be called the good
nature of Parliament.
HON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Not
at all.

HON. MR. HOWLAN-I am led to
that Opinion not only from the remarks I
«
have heard incidentally in this House, but
also from expressions which have found
vent in the press of the country. When
Prince Edward Island accepted the
terms
Of Confederation she did so loyally, and
she has loyally borne her share of the
Public burden. The terms on which she
entered the Union were distinct and
Xrarked, and if the question were askeddO the people of Prince Edward Island
expect those terms to be carried out like
Sa yiock's agreement, they would say, not
a ail. The best evidence that could be

with P. E. J4and.

91

given that no such feeling is entertained
is the fact that for twelve years we have
menorialized Parliament and asked for
Committees to investigate the subject, and
have established beyond doubt in the
mind of every intelligent man the great
necessity that exists for making some
alteration with regard to the means of
Winter communication between the Island
and the mainland. We were willing to
submit the matter to gentlemen from the
other provinces, so that it could be
thoroughly and clearly understood. An
investigation was had and a report was
presented by the gentlemen of the Committee to the members from the Maritime
provinces, and reported to the House.
There was afterwards a memoral in 1883
on the same subject. I myself have called
attention to the subject from time to time
in this House, and explained what the
Island required, and we were told that we
had got a very good boat. I have frequently
pointed out that that boat was never built
or intended for the service ; that it was a
mere accident that the steamer was sent
there ; that she never was fitted for it. if
any proof is wanted of the correctness of
that statement it is to be found in the fact
established this winter, and reported in
one of the Island papers, with regard to
the capability of the boat. Here is a
description of a trip in the Northern Light
by a gentleman well known in Prince
Edward IslandAt daybreak Tuesday morning all were
astir, steam was got up and an attempt was
made to force a passage through the solid
field of ice, which was between seven and
nine inches thick, and extended as far in
every direction as the eye could reach. It
was blowing a severe gale, freezing lard, and
the drifting snow prevented seeing far ahead.
Finding it too slow work to be battering at
the ice with the stem of the boat the stern
was tried, and, strange to say, she steadily
proceeded stern first for between fifteen and
eighteen miles at the rate of about two and a
half miles an hour, being steered by the
hoisting and lowering of the jib as she required.
Now, will any intelligent man tell me
after that, that she is a good boat, or such
a boat as the Government would say
ought to carry out the terms of Confederation ? Here is a fact, that after having
battered the ice with the bow, she turns
her tail to it and moves off at the rate of
two and a half miles an hour !

92

Winter Communication [SENATE]
HON.

with P. E 1sland.

MR. BOTSFORD-Is that re- that the ILansdowne" would take

iable ?
HON. MR HOWLAN-Yes it is reliable.
Here is the man's name to it,
and he gives the number of passengers on
board. It is published in a paper supporting the Government of Prince Edward Island-the Exaniner.
The passengers on board were Mr. A. A.
Bartlett, St. John ; Miss Bartlett, St. John;
Mr. Bartlett, Boston; Mr. F. Morrow, Washington, D.C; Thomas Creighton, P. E. I.;

the
place of the INorthern Light."
The
ILansdowne " was very eficiently bujit,
but for some reason I believe she is fot
able to assist the INorthern Light." k
this going to continue longer? We would
have been justified last year in saying to
the Government: "We wiii fot vait for
that boat; we want you to hire the 'Neptune,' of the Newfoundland sealing fleet,,
to assist the 'Northern Light;' " but we
did fot do that 've waitcd to sec what

Mr. Gibbs, Australia; Mr. Buchanan, P. E.

I.; George E. Mawley, Sumnierside ; Samuel
Stumnibles, Hong Kong ; Miss. Stewart,
Georgetown; Mr. McKenzie and N J. Campbell, Charlottetown.
Those are the names appended to this
statement. That would indicate, at ail
events, that this boat was not sufficient
for the purpose, and I would be very
sorry if the leader of the Government
stated it was not intended to put on
another boat.
If that was his statement
I am very sorry to learn it ; it is not in
accordance with the recommendation of
the gentlemen who composed the Cormittees to which I have referred, or of the
representatives of Prince Edward Island
in either branch of Parliament.
We did
not expect until such time as the Government were clearly satisfied with regard
to the course to be pursued in this matter
that they would act, and we were content to wait.
It is truc there was a
difference of opinion among the Island
menibers thenselves with regard to the
proper course to be pursued, but that
happily has passed away.
The Government are building the railway to Cape
Traverse in accordance with a portion of
the recommendation contained in the report to which I have referred.
The line
from Cape Tormentine to Sackville, about
35 miles, in their judgment-I speak advisedly in the matter-should be owned
by the Governiment, because it would give
theni sole control of the connection between the Prince Edward Island railway
and the Intercolonial Railway.
Then if
the life-boat service was assumed by the
Government, they would have supreme
control.
I ask is there not right and
justice in this demand ? These terms
were promised us at Confederation, and
we have been asking from that time that
they be fulfilled.
We were told last year

fitted out at Halifax to go to the Arctic
next year, and she may not be able to perforr the service next season; therefore
we say put in item in the Estimates to
build a boat next year, and if she is ot
ready in time, hire a Newfoundland sdaler
and put hcr on the route. But on one
point I wish to disabuse thc minds of hon.
gentlemen in this House. I saw, in connection with this subject, the other day
letters from a leading gentleman standing
high in the estimation of the people of the
Maritime provinces, and also fro gentlemen in the upper provinces, with regard
to this service, and the general impression
conveyed by ther is that we have not
donc our duty as fully as we right in
bringing this mater to the attention of
the Governnent. Al I can say, so far
as my knowledge is concerned, is that we
have done so. But we find an article in
the Mail the other day commenting on
those letters and stating that Prince Edward Island bas been weil treated because
there has becn a very large expenditure of
money in the province, much more than
she vas pcrhaps fairly entitled to, and
therefore she should be satisfied. Looking froni thatstandpoint, andarguing from
it, I Say this is fot a maLter of money at al
Itis a question which cannot be considered
fror a money standpoint; but at the same
ime I do say that those staLements,
which I shah read in a few minutes, are
totally incorrect from bcginning to end,
and, as a consequence, the impression is
made on the minds of gentlemen that we
are complaining 'ithout reason. I find
in the Mail of the 9 th instant, it is stated
that we have received about $6,oooooo
since we entered Confederation, and the
items are given. The first one is "railways, $3,466,99o.
The man who put

Winter Communication [FEB. 24, 1885]
down those figures, with all due deference
to him, did not know what he was writing
about, and he must have confused the
figures very materially. The railways of
Prince Edward Island cost about $3,125ooo. When Prince Edward Island entered into the Dominion, she did so with a
pro rata debt of $45 per head, $4,500,000.
Out of that amount the railway was built.
Had we never built the railway we would
have had the money or the interest upon
it. Therefore to put down the amount as
having been expended since we entered
Confederation is wholly inaccurate. So
with regard to the next item, the expenditure for harbors, $580,077. There is
nothing correct about that. He must
have been gathering together all the sums
of money spent on harbors in the Maritime provinces.
HON. MR. BOTSFORD-Hear! hear!
HON. MR. HOWLAN-That is the
only way I can account for it. I do not
know whether the hon. gentleman says
"hear, hear," derisively or not ?

HON. MR. BOTSFORD-Not at all.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-He must have
taken those figures from the appropriations
made for improvements of harbors in the
three provinces altogether.
We have
another item, "Steamers for mail and
Passengers, $162,622."
That item was
Put together in the same way. It is a fact
Well known to those conversant with
Prince Edward Island affairs, that one of
the terms of Union is, that the steam
service for Summer and Winter shall be
Paid by the Dominion of Canada; but
Previous to our entering into Confederation the Prince Edward Island
Steam Navigation Co. had a contract
for the service for ten years.
The sum
given them for the whole of that service
was $1o,ooo a year-$1oo,ooo altogether.
As a consequence there could not have

been any such sum expended, and he
lust have taken the figures for all the
steam service in the Maritime provinces.
. mention this fact in case a wrong
limPression has been conveyed to the
linds of hon. gentlemen by the statements
Published in the Mail. No such amounts
have been expended in Prince Edward

with P. E. Island.

Island since she entered Confederation.
The gentleman who compiled those statistics no doubt found some person laughing
at them, and he undertook to repair the
difficulty, but it was like the blind leading
the blind. lie says that the first statement was wholly inaccurate, and he goes
to work to state what was spent in Prince
Edward Island, and he too gets astray to
the extent of about $3,000,000. That is
the way that incorrect impressions' are
created, and whywe are sometimes obliged
to detain the House in making expianations. We find in Prince Edward Island,
from one end of the country to the other,
at public meetings, party feeling has been
thrown aside, and the people have united
to do something. The misfortunes of this
winter have been pointed to on two or
three occasions in this House. I have
made thirty-one trips across that Gulf. I
have been so fortunate as to have had but
one hard one, and not so serious a trip as
the one described the other day ; but I
say after my experience with the thirty-one
trips, the service is no better now than it
was in 1853, when I first crossed. Now,
that is a disgrace to the Dominion of
Canada, asidc from terms or anything else.
As far as the people of Prince Edward
Island are concerned, as may be seen
from the extracts I have read, it is not
the people of Prince Edward Island alone
who cross the straits; the great majority
are people from the different provinces of
Canada.
HON. MR. MONTGOMERY-Ten to
one.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-Yes, and therefore it is not to be looked at from the
standpont of pounds, shillings and pence.
I do say this, that until another steamer
is built that will be suitable for the winter
service between Georgetown and Pictou,
a vessel of sufficient capacity as described
in that report, and until tug boats are put
on the straits, the people of Prince Edward
Island will not be satisfied, and it is hardly
to be expected that they should be. Therefore, now that the Government have been
shown that there is ground for complaint
in this matter, that there is an evil which
can be remedied, and moreover that the
people of Prince Edward Island have been
patient and considerate in waiting twelve

94

Winter Communication [SENATE]

years to have the terms of Union carried
out, I do hope there will be no longer a
penny wise and pound foolish policy pur
sued-that there will be no longer a
reckoning of the cost, but that the matter
wilI be dealt with in a generous and largeminded spirit, and that we representatives
of Prince Edward Island will never feel it
our duty to again discuss in this House a
question which must be tothemajority,who
do not live in that province, entirely worn
threadbare. I hope the Government will
see their way clear to carry out the views expressed by therepresentatives of the Island,
which I may say are the views of the
whole people of the province. If that is
not done there is no question that further
action will be taken by those people.
When we entered the Unior, I, as a member of the Government, recommended
those terms to the people. At that time
I had left politics and become the collector of customs for the whole Island, at
Charlottetown. I resigned my position
and went out and fought the question,
and, if necessary, may do so again, for as
a public man I am bound by that record.
The other two gentlemen who were delegates with me at the time are not now in
public lite. One of them, unfortunatelya great mnisfortune to us-has been deprived of his position as a public man by
sickness. I say, nevertheless, the people
of Prince Edward Island, although they
wish to press this claim calmly, prudently
and wisely, will not be satisfied until such
an arrangement is made as will carry out
the terms on which they entered the
Confederation.
HoN. MR. POWER-This subject has
been brought before the House a great
many times, as two or three hon. gentlemen have already said, and I think that
my hon. friend who brought the matter
before the House to-day has done so
before. On no occasion has he brought
the question before Parliament, except in
the same way that he has to-day-in a
statesmanlike and dignified manner. My
hon. friend, as everyone who is acquainted with hin knows, speaks only when he
is familiar with the subject with which he
deals-he speaks from a full mind. Today he has spoken with more animation
thin he usually does, because he speaks
with a full heart ; and to-day for the first
HON.

MR. HOWLAN.

with P. E. Iland.

time I have seen my hon. friend evidently
much moved, and he has good reason for
it. I may say this for the hon. gentleman
also, that I have taken the trouble to look
at the report of the Committee to which
he calls attention, and to read some of the
evidence before that Committee, and there
also was evidence of the faithful, painstaking interest of my hon. friend in this
matter. There is a great deal of most
valuable written evidence, chiefly from the
hand of my hon. friend, in that report.
The terms of union of Prince Edward
Island with the Dominion, as has been
stated by two hon. gentlemen, contain the
following provision :
" Efficient steam service for the conveyance
of mails and passengers to be established and
maintained between the Island and the Dominion Winter and Summer, thus placing the
Island in continuous communication with the
Intercolonial Railway and the railway system,
of the Dominion."
It is very true, as has been said by the
hon. gentleman on my left (Mr. Macfarlane), that it is very difficult to carry out
those terms ; but I do not agree with him
in thinking that it is impossible ; and the
attempt should not be given up, at any
rate until it has been proved to be impossible. During the administration of Mr.
Mackenzie, about the year 1876, a steamer
called the " Northern Light " was put on
to maintain mail communication throughout the whole Winter, between the Island
and the mainland. It is well known that
that steamer, although she was a great improvement on the ordinary steamers, was
not successful in keeping up a continuous
communication across the straits. The
hon. gentleman-to whom reference has.
been made just now by my hon. friend
from Alberton-who was for some time
Minister of Marine and Fisheries, declared
from his place in the House of Commons,
in the Session of 1878, that the " Northern
Light " was a complete failure-that she
was a costly plaything, and was, practically, of no service. Other gentlemen in
the House of Commons made similar
statements, and statements of a like
character were made here.
Amongst
others, by the way, I noticed, on looking
at the report of the debate on this subject
in the House of Commons in 1878, that
my hon. friend from Niagara declared
that the " Northern Light " had been a

Winter Communication [FEB. 24, 1885]

with P. -E. Iland.

95

"fhbat instead of being let by contract to pricornplete failure, and that the Government
should abandon the attempt to keep up vate individuals the service at the capes
should be in the future a Government service.
the service by means of that vessel.
2 That a larger number of boats, and an
increased number of men be employed, sufHON. MR. PLUMB-Hear! hear!
ficient to enable daily crossings to be muade
in both directions whenever crossing is
HON. MR. POWER-I will give the practicable.
3
be constructed on each
hon. gentleman the quotation if he wants side That boathouses protecting and repairing
of the straits for
it. I am pleased, as one who supported the boats, and for accommodating the men.
4 That stations for observation and signal
the administration of Mr. Mackenzie, to
hear to-day, after a lapse of seven years, service be adopted for the guidance of the
the leader of the Government in this boats while crossing.
5 That good sized row-boats be provided
House declare that nothing better can be to assist or relieve the ice-boats in open water
done than to keep up the service which stretches.
was initiated by that administration-the
6 Your Comm ittee are also of opinion, from
service of the " Northern Light."
I the evidence before them, that a small screw
think no more thorough vindication of the steamer could be used during a considerable
portion of the winter in connection with the
policy of the Mackenzie Government ice-boats, and could be safe]y docked in the
could be had than that which we had borderice wheu not at work, and recommend
from the Minister of Justice a few moments the Government to take neasures to test by
ago in his reply to the first inquiry of my actual experiment the feasibility of this
hon. friend from Prince Edward Island. project. reference to the summer
7.
communicaIn 1878 it was claimed that more should tion, In
your Committee further recommend,
be done by the Government ; it was stated that in connection with the railway to Cape
by several gentlemen that a continuous Traverse and the branch now in course of
communication by way of the Capes construction on the mainland, piers should be
should be maintained. Those gentlemen constructed at both capes, and a steam ferry
establislhed for the conveyance of the mails
who found such fault with the Mackenzie and passengers in the summer season in acadministration, and who insisted that the cordance with the report of Mr. McLeod, civil
means of communication between the engineer."
Island and the mainland should be imThen they go on to say that they find
proved, came into power, and amongst the Prince Edward Island Navigation
others the gentleman who had found most Company's boats are not altogether what
fault with the "Northern Light " was they ought to be. They have been running
Placed in the position of Minister of for some nineteen years, and something
Marine and Fisheries. Since then be has better should be expected. It will be seen
gone out of office, and another gentleman that the Committee of the House of Comhas taken his place. Five years elapsed, mons, who were unanimous in the matter,
from 1878 to 1883, and no step whatever did not agree with the Minister of justice
was taken by the Government to improve in thinking that nothing more could be
the mode of communication between done than had been done ; and I call
Prince Edward Island and the mainland. attention to the fact that, although that
In 1883 a Committee was appointed in the report was made two years ago, not a single
louse of Commons. This *was not, as I one of the recommendations of the Comulnderstand, the action of the Government, mittee has been complied with. I noticed
it was simply the result of the persistent that there was a disposition on the part of
agitation of the gentlemen who represented some hon. gentlemen to think that the
Prince Edward Island in the two Houses. claims of Prince Edward Island in this
They insisted session after session, and matter were somewhat ridiculous.
Very properly insisted, that something
Should be done to satisfy their people,
HON. MR. ALLAN-Not in this House.
and a Committee was appointed in
1883.
That Committee sat for a number of days.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL -I do
It took a great deal of evidence, and it not remember anything of that kind.
iade a report, to which the evidence is
appended. The Committee reported that
HON. MR. POWER--That was the
certain things should be done
:impression left on my mind. I could

96

Winter Comm

k

[ionl
(8 ENAT E] with P. E1slanbd.

understand, if we were .miniistering the
affairs of this country in t particularly
economical manner, and if nothing of a
very extravagant chara<<r had been done
in the past, that theiîe aould be some
reason for hesitating aboi i expenditure
lei
, tu think that
.involved ; but when wc
.another province contining only from
12,000 to 20,000 peole wais admitted
into union with Canada two years before
Prince Edward Island rame in, and that
this Dominion has been. I will not say
almost bankrupted, but ertainlIy has had
to the
her financial resources s raine
utmost, to enable us to vîibus comfnunication by rail with that province; and when
the gentlemen who are now in power have
always insisted that they ire in honor
bound to keep on spendingî
more money,
.and to.spend it immedi:tely, no matter in
what quantities, so as t inke that communication at the earliesî po'sible date, it
does not lie in the mouthîs of those gentlemen to say to Prince J.iward Island,
times the popwhich contains six or s
ulation of British Cohn:bi that it is
communication
idiculous to ask to have aý
established which woufd

not

cost one-

fiftieth part of the cost of cimnmunication
with British Columbia.
ihe result has
.been that the people (if Prince Edward
Island feel that there has been a breach
of the faith which was pLed to them at
the time of the Union. :md that feeling is
made stronger when they sve the immense
expenditure that bas bce n in dertaken and
which has actually taken pLie under this
Government for the purpoe of keeping the

itir
terms of Union withanote Province,which
they rightly think, is of no more value or
consequence than their own. l'he natural
result is that indicated by ihe hon. gentleman who brought this matter before the
House, and which was îic indicated in a
somewhat less degree by the hon. gentle,man from Alberton, that a feeling is gaining ground in Prince Edward Island-as
it is in the other Maritime Provincesthat as far as they are coinîcerned Confederation was a mistake, and ihat if they
had to do the thing over again they would
not enter into the Union ;aid in a little
while, if this line of ariion is persisted in,
the feeling of the people of Prince Edward
Island will be that they imnsi get out; and
probably if they had made the same dire
ithreats of secession tha t our friends in

HON. MR. POWER.

British Columbia made, they would have
received more justice than they have experienced at the hand of the Government.
Probably bon. gentlemen whose political
views differ from mine, may say that I
speak in this way simply because my
political prejudices lead me to:do so ; but
I can assure bon. gentlemen that that is
not the case. I am not in the habit of
bringing the opinions of ecclesiastical
dignitaries before Parliament, but in
order to show that people 'who do
not sympathize with me politically, and
who are deeply interested in the- welfare
of Prince Edward Island and the Lower
Provinces generally, take the same view
which I do, I shall read a few extracts
from a letter recently published by His
Grace the Archbishop of Halifax. I may
mention that as far as I am aware, the
political leanings of that gentleman in the
past have not been the sa-ne as my own.
Speaking of the disinclination of the
Government to spend money in order to
improve this communication at the capes,
His Grace says:"ience not even the beggarly allowance
for a round trip is theirs.
So.wills the governrment that can spend thousands in inducing
Huns and Goths, and Tartars, to come to
Canada, but cannot spend hundreds; to remunerate Canadians for necessary public
services. The question of winter comunication interests ail the Maritime Provinces.
It was the hope of ipiprovement, in this regard,
that gave the strongest impetus to confieder
ation on the Island. The Dominioragreed
to keep up 'continuous stearn communication with the Mainland.' True, the. ' Northern Light' bas done some good; but no
attempt has been made to improve on lier-a
thing which could easily be done. At the
Capes, where the mails must cross for at least
two or three montha.every winte'r, no attempt
at improvement lias been made. Things are
as they were thirty years .ago. The most
fertile province of the Dominion is lèse cared
for than the Hudson Bay Territory, or the
wilds of the North-West:
"In matters that affect the interest of these
provinces, our representatives sliould be as
one. It is the only way of successfully
counteracting the policy that has denied a
mile of railway to Cape Breton, whilst building hitndreds of miles in the North.West.
Both political parties forgét these provinces,
except in the matter of,taxation. We have
equal rights in-that respect, butin none other."
Now, I think I have already referred to
the fact, that we were likely to find
this feeling in favor of a dissolution of the

Winter Communication [FEB. 24, 1885.]

with P. E. Nland.

91

Union growing in Prince Edward Island% Charlottetown, and I have no doubt that
I think myself that the feeling is beginfling to grow in all the lower provinces,
and I am disposed to believe that if a
Vote were taken in the three lower
provinces on that question, separate from
anything else, there would be a very conSiderable majority of the people in favor
of severing the tie which binds us to the
upper provinces.

ION. MR. BOTSFORD-No, not in
New Brunswick, at all events.

HON. MR. POWER-I have given my
Opinion for what it is worth. The moral
Of that is that the government should not
give the people of Prince Edward Island
aiy reasonable ground for complaint. I
think the government should immediately
take the report of this Committee of
the House of Commons under their
Consideration, and should make every
reasonable and practicable effort to carry
Out the recommendations of the Committee. If they fail then, they will be in
a Position to say that the thng which the
People asked for was impossible and im.
practicable. They are not now in that
Position, and those best qualified to
know, those who gave their evidence before
the Committee think it is practicable,
and that daily communication should
be established by way of the capes. There
iS just one other suggestion which I
venture to submit to the leader of the
Government in this House. Not long ago
there was a good deal of dissatisfaction in
British Columbia.
The Government
selected a gentleman whom we have the
fortune to have in this House, and sent
hIn Out to British Columbia to arrange
the difficulties with that province, and to
Soothe the irritated feelings. of the British
Columbians. That embassy I believe was
entirely successful, or nearly so. We have
heard very little dissatisfaction expressed
since then. Of course, I notice in the
public accounts, as one of the results of
that journey I suppose, an item of more
than $400,ooo expended on the graving
docýk at Esquimalt, and there is a railway
to be built on Vancouver Island. Now I
think the best course that could be pursued
by the friends of Prince Edward Island
would be to induce the Government to
send the same hon. gentleman down to

after spending a few weeks there he would
find out just what is required, and would
see that, at the next Session of Parliamerit
at the latest, the wishes of the people of
Prince Edward Island were carried out in
every respect.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I

did not

intend to take any part in this debate. I
think we must all feel disposed to recognize the earnest efforts which are being
made by the hqn. member from Prince
Edward Island to have this difficulty
solved. I only regret that my hon. friend
who has just sat down has not shown the
same feeling,. His motive seemed to be
the severance of the Union. We know he
has been an anti-confederate all his life,
and now instead of endeavoring to bring
us more into harmony with the Union, all
his argument has been directed to the
severance of the tie that binds the provinces together, to array class against
class and section against section. I say
that everything which the Maritime provinces have received from the Dominion
of Canada has been from the Liberal
Conservative party. My hon. friend knows
that a gentleman from Halifax, who was a
member of the other branch of Parlhament
during Mr. Mackenzie's administration,
and a supporter of that government, was
obliged to say that the Grit party had inch
by inch and step by step opposed the
Maritime provinces in every effoit they
had made to obtain their rights. My hon.
triend knows well that the same gentleman
was finally obliged to return to his home
in Halifax disappointed by the hostility
which the Grit party had shown to every
concession made to the city and province
which he represented. My hon. friend
should be the last member of this Chamber
to say that the Liberal Conservative party
have not treated the Maritime provinces
fairly. Who granted better terms to Nova
Scotia ? Who granted aid to railways in
the Maritime provinces? We know well
that no assistance came from the Grit
party, but on the contrary we find day
by day the Globe and other organs of
that party asserting that the taxation is
largely borne by the Province of Ontario,
an'd that Nova Scotia is getting more than
its share ; that anything more that they
can get must be by direct taxation of

98

Winter Communication [SENATE]

their own people ; that they need
expect nothing from the Grits.
That is
the feeling we find existing everywhere in
the party to which my hon. friend is allied.
I am surprised that he should endeavor to
excite feelings, antagonistic to the existence of the Union. I believe my hon.
friend who has brought up this question
is frank and honest.
He was the first I
believe in this House who spoke in the
interests of Prince Edward Island with regard to the mail service, and he was as
sincere and earnest, and as loud in his
denunciation of the supineness of Mr.
Mackenzie's administration during the
five years they were in office, as he is now
in censuring the present Government.
During all that time he had grievances,
and we know that the " Northern Light "
was pronounced by the members from
that Island as unfit for the service. There
are members in this House to-day from
the Island who believe that she is still unfit for the service, but I am glad to hear
my hon. kiend, who has moved in this
natter, say to-day that under the management of the present government she has
been brought into excellent condition
and is quite efficient for the work.
It
shows that something has been done in
the way of improvement. But besides
that, has not the Government aided largely
in the construction of boathouses for the
protection of passengers and the travelling
public at the straits and the extension of
railways to the capes ? Therefore, although there may be some suspicion of
supineness on the part of the Government,
yet they have done all they felt they
could do, moving as they had to do against
almost insuperable difficulties. The obstacles in the way are so serious that it is
almost impossible to surmount them, and
I doubt very much if a steam vessel could
maintain the communication at all times.
Probably on the day referred to a steam
vessel might have found open water. The
Government instead of leaving this service at the capes open to private competition should take it directly into their own
hands. They have the mail service to
manage, not only in the interests of the
Island, but also in the interests of the
Dominion.
The Government should
have perfect control and management of
the communication between the Island
and the mainland, and it should no longer
HON. MR. KAULBACH.

with P. E. 8land.

be left, as I am surprised to hear it has
been for the last twenty years, to private
enterprise. Certainly there has been an
improvement even in that direction, although my hon. friend alleges that no improvement has been made for thirty
years. Whereas, formerly the mail crossed about once a week, it now crosses
nearly every day-whenever it is possible
to cross. My hon. friend from Prince Edward Island (Mr. Howlan), spoke of a
paper called the Charlottetown Examiner,
as being an authority, but that very paper
told us some time ago that this accident
which occurred-fortunately there has
been no other accident like it for 29 or
30 years-was largely due to the conduct
and neglect of those private parties who
took charge of the passengers and the
mails. That paper stated-and it is a
matter which should be established by a
public inquiry-that the boat started in
the face of a violent north-east storm; that
instead of starting early in the day it was
late when they left the shore ; that they
went out without a compass, without an
axe, without fuel, light or provisions on
board.
They got astray because they
had no compass, and that was largely the
cause of the disaster-bad judgment of
the parties who had charge of the service.
Therefore I say the Government should
take control of it and put some one in
charge capable of conducting the service
properly. It should not be left to the
chance of mismanagement by careless and
irresponsible individuals, since life and
property are imperiled. As I said before,
I hope some improvement rnay yet be
made. As regards the connection between
Georgetown and Pictou, I think the Governnient will see in the spring of the year an
extraordinary increase of traffic on the
opening of navigation when the trade of the
Island will be resumed after having been
obstructed for weeks. There is always a
rush at that season of the year of passengers and freight, and the " Northern
Light " does not furnish sufficient accommodation in the early spring. The result
is, that life and property are endangered
by the over-crowding of the vessel, and the
Governnent might, for a short time in the
spring of every year, aid that service in
the manner indicated by my hon. friend
from Prince Edward Island, until such
time as the trade diminishes to its normal

Winter Communication [FEB, 24, 1885]

with P. L. Island.

99

Condition, when the " Northren Light" I know nothing of the facts and circumltself is sufficient for the service. I do stances, nothing of thé history of the past
flot think that my hon. friend, the Minister -nothing beyond what I have heard here
of Justice expressed the opinion that that this eveuing, but I must say that the
would not be done, but that he said the arguments used and the facts stated, to
subject had not been specifically referred my mmd, make out a very strong and
to by my hon. friend from Prince Edward powerful case-that is if the facts are as
Island, and he was not, therefore, pre- alleged, and I have fot heard them conpared to answer that portion of the ques- tradicted. The right and the duty of the
n I
think we should ail be thankful Government to maintain the service is
as a Nova Scotian ar-to my hon. admitted, and surely the resources of
friend who has moved in this matter, science are not exhausted. I
quite agree
!ecause we ail feel interested in maintain- with the remark which as made by the
111g the communication with the Island. hon. gentleman who spoke last but one,
It il our duty here to see not only that that it is not a question of moneg, it
that
the n'ails are
carried, but that prooerly a question of duty if the facts be
is really
lives are not endangered. My hon. friend as stated. The weaker provinces naturally
beside me (Mr. Power) referred to His and roperly look
this Senate to aid in
-race the Archbishop of Nova Scotia, a securing them their just rights, and perhaps
gentderna for whom I have the highest it is one of the best features in the Conbesteem and respect, but think his letter stitution that they can do so, that they
iS rather extravagant in language, and the hive such a body to appeal to. This idea,
0t1IY solution which His Grace evidently I think it is reasonable to suppose, was in
theilks of for the diffccult, which would the minds of the framers of the ConstituOtherwise be insurountabe, is to buid tion. I do hope and trust that the Gove tunnel under the straits.
eriment will give te case their best cone mnds
tno
h
sideration, that they ail employ the best
MR. POWER-Oh,
nd
talent in the Departent to ascertain
ONl
solution whichBHisGae e
nt Iwhether anything can be done, and if they
theAUBC
thinconstruction of a tunnel -H
from uget find that it is possible, by any expenditure,
Prince to accomplish what forms part of the
edward Isand to the Mainland, and I compact on the admission of this province
believe nve shal neyer have close and
case thatr bestlconbes
i
that
willot
t em oeration,
e-Orltsnuous communication with the Island do
o
ascert
t Dae
in
f
!t
nies something like that isno done.
in these matters, a strange thing that the
c the
di will
a seheme chi-Herical in view into thes reakthat condition atshould be
e fulfilment of ofdeith
ak
and
salnvHavecls
o
Oefinncial condisuon of the Dominion. deayed so liong. I maybe wron , andbe
I
While I have the greatest respect for t
choe
ma
the
armssion ofet dince
tasmum comunian
thin
Ile
because I know litte on the suhject, but

loeer

of th rnished good arguments in support having heard nothing to convince me, I
f the claims of the representatives of cannot think, as I
Prince Edward Island, I cannot help resources of science said before, that the
have been exhausted
had g that I think a portion of his remarks in determining whether this service is
hich stendency to mar that harmony
I do not understand
ofshisCould prevail amongst the members practicable or not.
the compact as requiring the general
Of this Confederation.
He has failed to
interpret correctly the feeling of the peo- government to maintain, every day of the
year and at all times, a communication.
Ple i the crtime proin o the
e
restio provces on the That would be an unreasonable constructe
qnust bn Of continuing the Union. He tion of the agreement, a construction that
ceive th fu
blind if he cannot per- no sane or honest man would contend
Whichat the hostility to Confederation for, but they are entitled to the best
away, and
existed has almost passed accommodation that can be furnished
Ponding that there has been a corres- under the circumstances. I hope I have
favorn
ogrowth of public sentiment in not spoken unduly
on a matter as to
%0Of Union.
the
which I have very little information. I
the only information I have is
itoN. MR. GOWAN-I have
With a great deal of interest to this listened repeat,has been presented
debate. what
here, and my

100

Winter Communication [SENATE]

conclusions are entirely adduced from
what I have listened to with attention from
the beginning to the close of this debate.
What the hon. gentleman opposite me,
and the representatives of Prince Edward
Island have said, very strongly commends
itself to my mind, and if not fairly met, I
think it makes out an unanswerable case.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My
hon. friend from Prince Edward Island
who introduced this subject to the notice
of the House has, I think, just ground for
complaint- ground for complaint, I am
sorry to think, perhaps against myself, although really, as he has almost admitted,
I am not responsible for the non-execution
of the measures which, from time to time,
I have been authorized by the Government to promise in this House. I remember quite distinctly the undertaking wh'.ch
I gave that the boathouses should be
constructed, one on each side of the ferry.
I made that promise with the authority of
the then Minister of Marine and Fisheries,
and as is my constant practice, the very
day the promise was made I wrote to the
Minister of Marine and Fisheries that pursuant to what he had told me I made the
promise, and that I hoped he would keep
it in mind. I afterwards called attention
to it, and there were reasons which were
more or less sound-I can hardly say
sound-which made the delay more or
less excusable. It was thought for a time
that the orders had been given, and that
the boathouses were in course cf construction. When that was ascertained not
to be the case, it was thought better that
the boathouses should not be built until
the railway communication was established
and the exact places where the branch
lines should terminate on each side were
fixed. On the main shore it has not yet
been exactly determined where the railway
is to terminate, and these are the reasons
for the non-performance of the promise I
made on behalf of the Government. The
hon. gentleman made out a very strong
It
case for the necessity of boathouses.
seemed to me that it wculd be a great advantage to have them constructed, and
that they would afford necessary protection for the boats. One can readily understand that boats intended for such a
servi:e should be kept in a way that is incompatible with their being allowed to

HON. MR. GOWAN.

with P. E Island.

remain on the ice upside down. Whether
the excuse I have given is sufficient or not
it is for the House to say, but there is
some reason in the assertion that until
the exact terminus of the railway on this
side is fixed it would be difficult to locate
the best position for the boathouse. On
the Island side the boathouse, so soon as
the railway came down to the shore, was
commenced and a certain degree of proThe hon. gentlegress has been made.
man from Prince Edward Island who
introduced the subject says he saw the
men working at the boathouse with the
thermometer several degrees below zero.
That may be a stupid thing to do, or it
may show the zeal with which the work
is being presecuted-that having neglected
it a very long time the officers, at all
events, were very eager to repair their
previous neglect, and to commence the
work even in the face of that serious
difficuly.
HON. MR. POWER-They commenced
just before the session.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
is an ingenious suggestion, but I do not
think it is one that occurred to the officers
down there It seems to me that the pith
of the recommendations made by the
Committee of the other House, to which
my hon. friend who introduced the subject
has made frequent reference, consists in
their suggestion that the service between
the two capes should be taken out of the
hands of the Post Office Department and
out of the hands of the contractors, and
made a Government service.
I have no
doubt if that was done there would be a
But I think
very great improvement.
hon. gentlemen do not do the Government
quite credit enough when they say that
nothing has been done all these years. It
is something,certainly, to have constructed
the 12 miles of railway which connect the
Prince Edward Island line with Cape
Traverse. It is something also to have
aided in the construction of the 37 miles
of railway which connect the Intercolonial
Railway with Cape Tormentine.
HON. MR. BOTSFORD-The Dominion Government grant no subsidy for that.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELI-It is
a local subsidy-I thought it had been a

Winter Comnmunication

[FEB. 24, 1885]

Dominion subsidy. That portion on the
island, at all events, has been built by the
Government, and with the aid of the
Province of New Brunswick communication between the Intercolonial Railway
and Cape Tormentine is being secured,
and the work has made such progress that
I believe there is every reason to anticipate that during the course of the coming
Surmmer it will be completed, and then, at
all events, we shall have communication
between Prince Edward Island and the
rest of the world, wanting only this ferry
across the straits to be made perfect.
, Now, with reference, in the first place,
to the whole service, it seems to be
undoubtedly admitted by my hon. friend
who introduced the subject, and by the
Committee of the Lower House who rePort the sane thing without contradiction ;
and it appears to be the opinion of the
Archbishop of Halifax, and of the public
generally, that the service cannot be carried
on all days of the year by means of steamboats ; that there is a certain period of
the inter when communication across the
straits by means of a steamer is an imPossibility. That period seems to vary

with P. E. sl8and.

101

of putting provisions, compass, or tools,
or tent, or anything on board of the

vessel-to take it out of the hands of sich
persons, and put it in the hands of the
Government and hold them responsible
for it. That was the first recommendation
of the committee. As to the third recommendation, that boathoùses be constructed
on each side of the straits for protecting and
repairing the boats, and for accommodating
men, the Department has informed me
that the moment the terminus was fixed
on the mainland for the railway to Cape
Tormentine, the boathouse would be
built there, and I trust that the Department will deal more vigorously and
quickly in fulfiling the promises I now
make for them through my mouth than
has been done on former occasions.
With reference to the service across, the
Government have determined to take it
out of the hands of the contractors and
make it a governmental service. The
memorandum which I have from the
Department states that it is also proposed to transfer the winter boat service between the Capes Traverse and
Tormentine from the Post Office Departfrom' 30 to 6o days.
ment to the Marine Department, and it
will after this winter manage this service,
lION. MR. HOWLAN-About 4o days. and- a steamer will probably be placed
there to assist passengers and mails to
1-oN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My cross between the bord ice.
An officer
hon. friend says 4o days. During that of the Marine Department will be
Period, no matter how strong the boat may directed to make observations as to what
be, or how different from the " Northern will be required to
Light" in construction, we could not ex- at the capes efficient. render Ithe crossing
Now, think if that
Pect to perform that service. What steamer is done that the service, so far as it is
could force her way through ice 1o, i i or possible under the physical conditions
12 feet thik ? It may be that
the ice is that exist, will be made as efficient as it
not of so obstructive a character between can be made under those circumstances.
Capes Tormientine and Traverse, and the In the first
place while the boat can run,
Service, as far as the steamer is
concerned,
has been performed with certain efficiency the " Northern Light," that seems to be a
good fair boat for the service, and if not
durîng the time that service could be
forned, but there is a time that per- the " Northern Light," some other boat
the will do the duty. I think
steamboat could not run, aid the recom- under the circumstances my hon. friend,
I have menrnendation of the committee of the other tioned, will find that'there is some excnse
branch of the Legislature refers more
for the non-completion of the boathouse
Particularly to that period, and with
refer- before now. I hope my hon. friend will
ence to that period they recommend that find in that some assurance on the part
certaim steps should be taken
; that the of the Government that we are disposed
work should be taken out of the hands
of to do all in our power to carry out what
contractors and of those boatmen
who we admit to be the pledge that was given
have no responsibility,
and who do not,
8the hon, gentleman from Lunenburg to Prince Edward Island, and so far from
as remarked, take the ordinary precaution there being any disposition on our part to
do as the hon. gentleman from Halifax

102

Winter Commuinication

SENATE]

seemed to think some one of us
had done, to treat it in a light spirit,
we desire to treat it as we ought to treat
it, with a sense of our duty to the country,
and as we ought to treat it-as a very serious and important service to be executed
to the best of our ability, and with such
appliances as we can put there in order to
carry out the spirit of the terms upon
which Prince Edward Island joined her
fortunes to ours ; and in spite of the observations of the hon. gentleman from
Halifax, I trust the general feeling of the
Maritime provinces is with ours, that
this union will long be maintained.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I think
it is my privilege on this occasion to offer
a few explanatory remarks, but I am not
aware that anybody who has followed me
in this debate controverted, or to any
considerable extent disagreed with my remarks. It is, of course, satisfactory to a
certain extent to hear the statement that
has just fallen from the Minister of Justice. I only trust that this statement
will be literally fulfilled.
That is the
difficulty.
Our apprehension is, that
when this session is over, the Ministers
have dispersed, some to British Columbia,
some to Britain, some, perhaps, to the
beautiful cool rivers of New Brunswick,
that tliese important matters which are
now spoken of so confidently will be once
more forgotten. I therefore hope that
the hon. Minister who has just spoken
will make it part of his duty this year to
see that the proper appropriations are
made for this contemplated service, for
we all know that that is the first and most
necessary step of all. I wish to make an
observation or tivo which I intended to
make before, as a reason why this service
is attended with greater danger now than
it was formerly. My hon. friend from
Nova Scotia who followed me in the debate, alluded to the fact that some twentyfive years have elapsed since an accident
has occurred there. Let me explain to
the House the reason of this immunity from
accident for so many years. In the first
place, up to the time of Confederation the
traffic there, as it is stated by one of
the witnesses before the Committee,
Mr. Arthur Irving, was very small
indeed. About once a fortnight there
was a heavy mail, and two boats were
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL

with P. E. sland.

taken then, but in the usual course one
boat sufficed for the traffic. Once a fortnight when the English mail was sent to
Halifax two boats were required, but things
have altered materially in this respect.
Since Confederation there have arisen
several classes of persons who are compelled to cross the straits every winter
who did not cross before. I refer to
members of Parliament, witnesses who are
called upon to give evidence before Parliament, common employes connected
with Parliament and the Civil Service;
lawyers who have business with the
Supreme Court, those make a numerous
and important class of passengers who are
altogether outside and beyond the classes
that traffic used to comprise.
Then
there is the commercial class. During the
period before Confederation the business
of Prince Edward Island was principally
done with Great Britain. That is all
altered now, and the business that was
formerly done with Britain in manutactured
goods, is row, to a great extent, done with
Montreal, and in consequence the course
of trade is changed and the bulk ofthe mails
and the number of passengers is increased.
Those boats are constantly thronged, particularly in the spring and early winter,
with commercial travellers and their heavy
sample chests, which are exceedingly dangerous to carry in a small boat with
passengers; and that is one point on which
the improved system will operate to advantage-because the Government officer in
charge will be responsible, if he allows
dangerously large or heavy trunks to be
carried ; neither ought he to allow a boat
to proceed on its passage without being
properly equipped, and satisfying himself
that the luggage of the passengers is not
heavier than can be safely carried. One
word as to the delay in building the boathouse at Cape Tormentine. I would regret
that any delay should occur, for this reason,
that should there be any delay as to where
the terminus will be it would be a
comparatively easy matter to move the
boathouse even for half a mile if necessary;
but the reason that it should be
built now is that a large number of the
crews come from the Island side, and it
is stated in evidence that when detained
on the Tormentine side they often spend
the whole of their earnings in board-bills.
Now, the existence of this boathouse at

The Davis [FEB. 24, 1885]
the present time at Cape Tormentine
would be of the greatest advantage to
those men, and I do think their case is
Worthy of attention. They go through a
great deal of hard labor, a great deal of
risk, and up to the present they have been
illadequately paid, and these boathouses
would be a great service to them, as they
Would find accommodation in them. I
arn quite conscious of the fact that this
cannot be an interesting subject to many
hon. gentlemen, who have no particular
interest in the Maritime provinces ; but
all rnust feel that it is a question that it is
necessary to bring before Parliament in
the interests of a province with whom
faith has not hitherto been kept by the

Divorce Bill.

103

the Senate, and ready to be examined,»
&c.
It so happened in looking into
another matter recently I found this to
be the practice in England: the Speaker
having been informed by the Clerk that a
certain person was in attendance at the
Bar for examination, the Speaker asked
the House to dispense with the attendance,
and instead of it appearing in the unsatisfactory way that it is in this motion, " the
petitioner being in attendance at the Bar
of the Senate and ready to be examined,»
which is ungrammatical, it would better
appear in the minutes that " the Speaker
having informed the House that the
petitioner is in attendance below the Bar
ready to be examined, it was moved by so
Dominion.
and so, that all examinations in this matter,
as wellgenerally as inregard toany collusion
or connivance between the parties in order
THE DAVIS DIVORCE BILL
to procure the separation,be for the present
dispensed with, and that it be an instrucSECOND READING.
tion to any committee to whom the Bill
The Order of the Day having been on the subject be referred to make such
Called, further consideration of motion examination."
for second reading (Bill C.) for the relief
THE SPEAKER-Does the hon. gentleof Arnanda Esther Davis, and that the
petitioner do attend at the bar, and be man propose that it should be so entered
heard by counsel,
without an amendment to the rules of the
House ?
.ION. MR. READ (in the absence of
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No;
Mr. Ogilvie) moved :
That the examination of the petitioner in I think that would be a change in the
this latter, Amanda Esther Davis, being
rules that it would be for the House
attendance at the Bar of the Senate, in to make.
and
ready to be exanined, lier examination
in
The motion was agreed to on a division.
th 8 IMatter as well generally as in
regard to
y col1lusion or connivance between the
arties, be for the present dispensed with, and
HON. MR. READ moved the second
that it an instruction to any Conmittee to reading of the Bill.
le
ferr the Bill upon the subject may be reThe motion was agreed to and the
to make sucli examnation.
Bill was read the second time.
"ON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
Words 'to obtain such separation
HON. MR. READ moved:
" are
again Omitted in this motion, I suppose
That the said Bill be referred to a Select
Committee composed of the Honorable
accidentally
I drew attention
When this Bill and the other to the fact Messieurs Dickey, Ogilvie, McKay, Carvell,
Bills for Leonard, Archibald, Ferguson, Kaulbach and
.ivorce were here before, and I am at
a Grant, to report thereon with all convenient
lobS to understand why the words "to speed, with power to send for perrons, papers
Obtain such separation " are not used when and records, and to examine witnesses on
the rule requires it. I hope
the Clerk will oath, and that the exemplification of the pro1
10W add those words. I desire to draw ceedings to final judgment in the Superior
Court of Lower Canada, now the Province of
the attention of the House
to a point of Quebec, in the cases of Davis vs. DeSola, prepractice in which I think
a change could seinted to the Senate on the Second reading of
Th Made which would be
advantageous. the Petition of Dame Amanda Esther Davis,
ere notion before the House
be
reads, "the all referred to the said Çonmittee, and that
persons surnmoned to appear before the
Perlon being in attendance at the Bar
of Senate in this matter appear before the said

The Davis [SENATE]

104A

Divorce Bill.

Committee, and that the said Committee have flagrantly violated, have the papers releave to eit on Saturdays and other non- jected.
sitting days.
HON. MR. GOWAN-It has been a
THE SPEAKER-There is another matter of frequent occurrence in courts of
matter to which I wish to direct the law to reject papers submitted by counsel
attention of the Senate : it is the manner when they were not fairly written.
in which some of those papers are placed
in the hands of the House. Some of
HoN. MR. READ-I am glad to have
them are almost illegible, and I think the an opportunity of hearing lawyers comcounsel in charge of those proceedings plain of each others writing.
should be taught that it is not respectful
to this House to send in their papers in TH{E PRINTING OF PARLIAMENT.
such shape.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-With the
permission of the House, I would ask the
mover of this resolution to substitute the
name of some other member for mine on
that committee. It is likely that I shall
be on two or three of those divorce committtes-I shall be on one committee at
least, as I am to move in the matter, and
if this is a protracted case it might not be
got through before the end of the session
if the same members are to serve on several committees. As the Hon. Mr. Dickey
is on this committee, they will have the
advantage of his experience as a lawyer.

SECOND REPORT ADOPTED.

HON. MR. READ moved the adoption
of the second report of the Joint Committee of both Houses on the printing of
Parliament. He said: When this report
was up on the previous occasion, at the

request of the leader of the House, it was
laid over until it was adopted by the
House of Commons. Since then it has
been adopted in the other branch of the
Legislature, tnd I now move that the
report be adopted here.
The motion was agreed to.

The Senate adjourned at 6 o'clock p.m.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
hope my hon. friend will not persist in
asking to be excused from serving on this
committee. He is in the prime and vigor
of life, and if anybody in this House can
THE SENATE
afford to serve on two or three committees
is the hon. gentleman. There will be five O/tawa, Wednesday, February25th, iBy5it
or six of those committees this session,
and though my hon. friend may have
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
charge of another committee, he is quite o'clock
able to cope with two or three.
The motion was agreed to on a division.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
THE SPEAKER-Before proceeding
THE DAVIS DIVORCE CASE.
to the next order of the day, I would like
to ask hon. gentlemen who have charge of FIRST REPORT OF THE SELECT COMMITTEE.
those bills to be good enough to request
the counsel who are conducting these proHON. MR. DICKEY, from the Select
ceedings to send their papers properly Comnittee to whom was referred Bil (C),
engrossed to the House or they run the "An Act for the relief of Amanda Esther
risk of having them thrown out.
Davis," presented their first report.
He
said-The object of this report is to obtain
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I an accurate record of the proceedings of
hope hon. gentlemen will attend to this the comrittee, as has been the practice on
matter, and if the counsel do not comply former occasions, by having the evidence

with their request that the Speaker will, taken in shorthand. As the committee
on some occasion when the rule has been have decided to expedite the business,
MR. READ.

HION.

A Peronal [FEB. 25, 1885]

Explanation.

106

they ask to be permitted to employ a
shorthand writer, and as they desire to
rneet to-morrow, I hope the House will
have no objection in adopting the report
Presently. I therefore move the adoption

THE SPEAKER-The hon. member
would have a right, I think, either with
the doors open or with the doors closed,

Of the roport.

considered a personal matter to bring upthe grievances of outside parties.

to bring up a personal matter relating to
himself, but I cannot see how it can be

The motion was agreed to on a division.
HON.

THE

MR.

ALEXANDER-I

then,.

NORTH SHORE RAILWAY. upon another matter, claim permission of
MOTION FOR RETURN.

the House to make one or two observations. In another quarter I considered it

my duty to make a complaint that within
the last week the messengers of our House,
HON. MR. TRU-DEL moved:
who are very few in number to discharge
"That an humble address be presented to the duty of messengers, have not been,
Eis Excellency the Governor General, pray- available for that duty, and members have
Ing that he will be pleased to cause to be laid not been able to obtain messengers. On
efore this House ail correspondence had
since the lst January, 1884, between the making inquiry I found that two or three
Governnient of Canada and the Government of the messengers out of the four who are
of the Province of Quebec concerning al employed in this House have been com8
urns of noney granted by the Governnient of
Canada to the Province of Quebec, and al] pelled to act as policemen in the corridors.
Claims of the Province of Quebec, by way of I have gone into my committee room to
indeninity on account of the construction of engage in matters of deep public interest,
the North Shore Railway, heretofore called and have rung my bell for half an hour
the Quebec, Montreal, Ottawa and Occi- before it was answered. I then sent for
dental Railway, together with a copy of ail
nIlniorials presented to the Federal Govern- Mr. Dunne, our efficient chief messenger,
rnent during the same period by the Govern- and asked him the cause, and he replied
nient of Qnebec respecting ail clainis or de- that the demands on the messengers were
Inands of indemnity for the same cause."
such-two or three being required to act
as policemen-that there were not mesThe motion was agreed to.
sengers enough to attend to the other
duties of the House. I simply ask if the
A PERSONAL EXPLANATION.
Government of the country are demented ?
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Before the
Orders of the day are called I claim the
permission of the House to offer one or
twO observations on a personal matter.
Very loud complaints have been made by
certain members of the press that within
the last few days on coming to this side of
the building in discharge of their duty as
jOurnalists, they have been ordered out of
thecOrridors of the Senate. The policeman
Who is there placed on duty had received
orders from the Government or from some

HON. SIR ALEX.
Somebody is, certainly.

CAMPBELL-

HON. MR. ALEXANDER.-Are they
suffering from frenzy, or what is the mat-

ter ? Do they mean to say when they are
throwing millions of dollars into the Rocky
Mountains that we cannot have enough
messengers for the use of members ? Do
the Government say when they want policemen for the safety of the Parliament

buildings, that they cannot employ other

parties for that purpose ? When I brought
the matter before the Contingent Com
HON. MR. DICKEY-I have no dis- mittee the hon. gentleman sneered at my
Position to interefere with an hon. member suggestion. Are we, the members of
Wh offers a personal explanation, but I the Upper Chamber, to come here andthink this is purely a domestic matter-a
Stter connected with the internal arrangeHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.-I
nMents of the House, and therefore
it is do not think that this is a personal matter
flot a subject which it is usual to discuss either. If the hon. gentleman has any
il Public.
or has any proceedings
motion to make,

Winter Communication [SENATE]

106

he wishes to ask the House to take, he
should do so by giving notice of motion,
or a demand for papers; but he has noright
.to break out into an attack on the Government, and ask questions which we have
no opportunity to answer, under cover of
a personal explanation.
THE SPEAKER.-The House is ready
on all occasions to indulge an hon. member in making a personal explanation, but
I do not think that a member has a right
to trespass on the indulgence of the House
to bring up matters entirely foreign to
the question under explianation. If there
is any fault to be found with the employment of messengers the first place to bring
up the question is before the Contingent
Accounts Committee, and then, if necessary, before this House by notice of motion.

with P. E. 1sland.

the said Bill, at the same time ; that the said
George Branford Cox do attend this House
on the said twelfth day of March next, in
order to his being examined on the second
reading of the said Bill, if the House shall
think fit, whether there bas or bas not been
any collusion directly or indirectly on his
p art relative to any act of adultery that may
have been coinmitted by his wife, or whether
there be any collusion, directly or indirectly,
between iim and his wife, or any other person
or persons, touching the said Bill of Divorce,
or touching any action at law which may
have been brought by bin against any person for criminal conversation with lier, the
said wife of the said George Branford Cox,
and also whether at the time of the adultery
of which he complains sbe was by deed or
otherwise by his consent living separately
and apart from and released by him, as far as
in him lay, from her conjugal duty, or
whether shewas at the time of such adultery
cohabiting with him, and under the protection and authority of him as her husband.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
HoN. MR. ALEXANDER.-Then I
will refrain from making any remarks such hon. gentleman has again left out the

as I ought to make, and I will simply ask words to which I have called attention
the Government if we are to be told that several times-that this collusion or connivance is for the purpose of procuring a
we can do without messengers ?
divorce, and as I listened to the reading
of the motion those words are not in. The
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLThe hon. gentleman has just been told words are distinctly called for by the rule
that he has no right to make such of the House. I would ask the Clerk to
insert the words omitted from the motion,
speeches, and that he is out of order.
at the table.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Then we
The motion as amended was agreed to
might just as well leave the Chamber and
on a division.
go home.
THE COX DIVORCE BILL

WINTER COMMUNICATION WITH
PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND.

FIRST READING.
AN EXPLANATION.

MR. READ introduced a Bill
for the relief of George Branford Cox.
HON.

The Bill was read the first time.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Before the orders of the day are called, I
desire to complete the explanation which
I offered to the House yesterday in answer
to the question put to me by the hon.

HON. MR. READ moved:
That the said Bill be read a second time gentleman from Prince Edward Island in

on Thursday the twelfth day of March next,
and that notice thereof be affixed on the doors
of this House, and the Senators summoned;
and that the said George Branford Cox rnay
be heard bv his counsel at the second reading
to niake out the truth of the allegations of
the said Bill, and that Emily Cox may have
a copy of the said Bill, and that notice be given
to her of the said second reading, or sufficient
proof adduced of the impossibihty of so doing,
and that she be at liberty to be heard by
,counsel what she may have to offer against

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

reference to the steamer "Northern Light."
That question was that he would call the

attention of this House to the insufficiency
of the steamship " Northern Light" for the
performance of the mail and passenger
service between Georgetown and Pictou,
more particularly in early spring, etc.
The words " particularly in the early
spring" I thought referred to the increased
danger of the navigation of the straits during

Winter Communication [FERB. 25, 1885]
that period, but the hon. gentleman pointed
out in the course of his remarks that what he
referred to was the unusual influx of passengers in the early spring, by which the boat
was overcrowded. I took occasion to ask
the Minister of Marine and Fisheries for
information on this subject, and I ascertained from that gentleman that the greatest number of passengers known to have
been on the " Northern Light" at one passage, as reported by one of her officers who
has been on that service for some years,
is between 8o and 90; and Mr. Smith,
the Deputy Minister, feels quite confident
that the " Northern Light " is capable of
carrying

300

to

400

passengers.

No

whisper of the steamer being unsafe from
Overcrowding has ever before reached the
bepartment.

with P. E. land.

107

Government responsible for it, as they
have been warned of the danger.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
have travelled on the very best boats on
this continent at times, and have been
unable to get a seat. I have travelled on
the boats on the Fall River line of steamers, perhaps the best boats in the world,
and have been unable to obtain a seat. I
have experienced the same difficulty on
our own boats on Lake Ontario, and on
the steamers on the Rhine; yet they were
not considered unsafe on that account.
It is not the duty of the owners of a ship
to provide seats for all the passengers on
deck, or in any part of the steamer, nor
does it follow that the vessel is unsafe or
unseaworthy for want of seats. What would
make a vessel inefficient for the performance of the mail and passenger service
between Georgetown and Pictou would be
if it were unsafe or unseaworthy ; but the
fact that half a dozen or twenty gentlemen
could not obtain seats during the voyage
does not affect the safety of the vessel in
in crossing the straits.

HION. MR. HAYTHORNE-What I
stated yesterday, I stated from my own
Personal observation, and I could support
that statement by the evidence of my hon.
friend opposite (Mr. Howlan), who was
Onthevessel atthe same time,and Isaymost
advisedly that a seat on board the ship at
that time was difficult to be had, and that
I imIyself stood on my feet most of that HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-The hon.
voyage, and only sat down when some gentleman does not seem to remember
iv'i1 person, out of compliment to my that the vessels which he has alluded to
on the lakes of Ontario or on the Rhine,
grey hairs, rose and offered me a seat.
or the Fall River Line have not to conION. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That tend with vast fields of ice, and I would ask
iS frequently the case, that there is no any hon. gentleman of plain common sense
Seat to be had, but that was not the whether a crowd of passengers without
question of the hon. gentleman.
seats on the deck of a vessel could be
safely kept there while she is rolling and
. 0N. MR. HAYTHORNE-Theques- forcing her way through a field of ice
in a storm ?
t'on I put to the hon.

gentleman
tCuld the ship be trusted out in a was,
gulf
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLthat is encumbered with ice in the early
They could go down into the cabin.
$Pling
in stormy weather, when crowded
ith passengers without accommodation ?
'Mlid that be by any possibility
a safe
¡feans of transport ? My object is
bringong the matter forward was to prevent the
'Occurrence of a terrible disaster, which if
it did

Occur the Government might plead
ignorance of the condition of the
and that they were not warned. service,
are warned now, and if they choose They
to let
this natter remain as it has hitherto been,
ar if the vessel is allowed
to go out with
SUch a crowd of passengers as I happened
to SIe on board of her last spring, and an
accident

HON. MR. HOWLAN-There must
be some mistake on the part of the
Duputy Minister of Marine, for the vessel
is totally unfit to carry passengers. I can
speak from my own knowledge of that
fact. There is no accommodation for passengers, and if you take me as a passenger
on that boat, and keep me out of doors
all night, I must have some accommodation; I cannot sleep on the main deck or
in the forechains.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
happens, the public will hold the
is not the point.

Judge [SENATE]

Rigby

HON. MR. HOWLAN-That is the
JUDGE RIGBY.
point, that if the Department makes a
statement that the "Northern Light " has PETITION PRESENTED AND WITHDRAWN
accommodations for 300 passengersit is not
HON. MR. ALMON presented the
in accordance with the facts.
petition of Lewis P. Fairbanks, of Dartmouth, in the County of Halifax, N. S.,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The' praying that the Senate be pleased to
point raised by the hon. gentleman op- direct that proceedings be at once taken
posite (Mr. Haythorne), is whether the to investigate certain charges made against
ship, by reason of the number of pas- the Hon. Samuel G. Rigby, one of Her
sengers it carries, is made unseaworthy. Majesty's Justices of the Supreme Court
Nobody pretends that the vessel has ac- of the Province of Nova Scotia, " so that
commodation for 3oo or 400 passengers. "the same may be established by proof,
Nobody suggests that for a moment. "to the end that the said Samuel G. Rigby
What is stated is that she is not rendered "shall be deprived of all pay and allowunsafe by having 8o passengers on board ; "ances and dismissed from his office as a
that on the contrary, she is able to carry "Judge of the Supreme Court of Nova
three or four hundred without danger- " Scotia, and that the said Samuel G.
not that she has cabin accommodation "Rigby may be ordered and obliged to
for them, but that they would not make "make amends to your petitioner by the
her unseaworthy.
"payment of proper damages for the
"losses sustained by and through his misOFFENCES AGAINST THE PER- "conduct, and that right and justice may
SON BILL.
"otherwise be done in the premises."
He said : In presenting this petition I
IN COMMITTEE.
beg to say that I am not at all responsible
Pursuant to the order of the day, the for the charges made by the petitioner.
House resolved itself into a Committee I have no personal knowledge of them,
of the Whole on Bill (F), " An Act neither am I lawyer enough to know, if
further to amend an Act intituled 'An the charges were true, that they would
Act respecting offences against the per- justify this grave action which Mr. Fairbanks asks the Senate to take. But as I
son.'"
deem it the right of the humblest indiHON. MR. BOTSFORD from the vidual in the land to petition this House,
Committee, reported the Bill with amend- as long as his petition is couched in proper
language, I am willing to present it. I even
ments, which were concurred in.
present petitions in favor of the Scott Act.
BILL INTRODUCED.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
Bill (26), An Act to provide for the ap- petition which my hon. friend has just
pointrment of a Deputy Speaker of the presented makes certain charges which
House of Commons." (Sir Alex. Camp- were communicated to me some time
since, and I have had communication with
bell.)
the judge whose name is mentioned, I
came to the conclusion without doubt,
The Senate adjourned at 4,15 p.m.
difficulty or hesitation, that there was
nothing in the facts alleged-in short, that
they are not facts. It is for my hon. friend
to say whether he thinks proper to put
THE SENATE.
such a petition on record or not.

Otawa, Thursday February 26th, 1885.

HON. MR. ALMON-After what has
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three fallen from my hon. friend, the Minister
of Justice, I beg leave to withdraw the
o'clock.
petition
The petition was accordinglywithdrawn.
Prayers and routine proceedings.

Procedure in
THE

REVENUE FROM
LIQUOR TRADE.

[FEB. 26, 1885]
THE

MOTION.

HON. MR. PLUMB moved
That an humble address be presented to
]is Exellerncy the Governor General, praying
that he will be pleased to order a Return to
this House of the amounts of revenue received
from duties or excise on wine, beer and spirits
for the year ending 31st December, 1884.
He said : It is hardly necessary, I think,
that any remarks should be made on the
subject.
It is difficult to get the inforMation for which- I ask from the Public
Accounts or from any records that we
have, and in view of the movement which
is being made in the country to abolish
the liquor traffic, we certainly ought to
look in the face the position we may be
in With regard to the public revenue.
If
the wishes of those who are petitioning
the House, and of those who support
them are carried out the country is likely
to lose a large amount of revenue. That
nust be supplemented in some way.
If
it comes to be made up by increasing the
tariff, of course it will fall unequally on
the public. The fair way would seem to
be to adopt some system, perhaps, of

direct taxation; but as that has been
found, as far as I know anything about it
where it has been applied in the United
States (and particularly in one of the
States with which I have been the most
faniliar) to fall more heavily on the farming nterest in proportion to the amount
raised than upon any other interest, I
have moved for these returns with the
idea of having the community at large

fairly aware of what will be the position of
the country if the movement which is
now going on should succeed, as it might,
In largely reducing the revenue.
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL-There

is no objection to the address.

Divorce Case8.

109

charge of Divorce Bills to the alteration of
practice which has been suggested by the
Minister of Justice. The procedurewhich
is contemplated in our rules is to be found
in the 77th: "The petitioner is to appear below the Bar of the Senate, at the
second reading, to be examined by the
Senate generally, or as to any collusion or
connivance between the parties to obtain
such separation, unless the Senate think
fit to dispense therewith." Now the form
hitherto adopted in this House has been
to declare in the motion that the witness
is at the Bar of the House ready to be
That was thought by the
examined.
Minister of Justice to be a rather irregular
way of putting it, and he has suggested
that when the time cornes for calling the
petitioner to the Bar it will be intimated
by the gentleman in charge of the Bill
that he is in attendance ; the Speaker
makes a statement to that effect, after
which a motion is madc to dispense with
the presence of the petitioner. The form
suggested by the Minister is this-that
Mr. Speaker inform the House that A. B.,
the petitioner in this case, is in attendance
below the Bar ready to be examined generally or in regard to any collusion or
connivance between the parties to obtain
a separation. Then the gentleman in
charge moves that the attendance of the
petitioner be dispensed with, but that it
be an instruction to the committee to
whom the Bill is referred to examine the
petitioner as to whether there has or has
not been any collusion between the parties to obtain a separation. I think this
course will appear as a more intelligent
and logical proceeding on our Journals,
and I presume the House will have no
hesitation in adopting it. Looking at the
rule, I find that there is no change necessary ; the rule allows ample scope for the
alteration in our practice which is now
proposed.

HON. MR. READ-Might I ask if this
change in our practice is to apply to
cases which have already been brought
PROCEDURE IN DIVORCE CASES. before the Senate ?

The motion was agreed to.

A CHANGE ADOPTED.

THE SPEAKER-That is a matter for

the House to decide.
THE SPEAKER-Before proceeding
to the order of the day, I wish to call the
HON. MR. DICKEY-I
think
attention of hon. gentlemen who have that no change would be should which
made

110

The Terry [SENATE]

would affect cases which have been initiated under the existing rule. However, I
do not think that any difficulty need
occur at all, because, if I understand the
explanation of his Honor the Speaker, it
is merely to apply to the mode of entering
the proceedings on the Journals.

Divorce Bill.

February, 1885, both writings being certified
by the Clerk of the Senate. Did you serve
copies of these writings with the certificates
thereon oi the Clerk of the Senate upon any
person, and if so, upon whon ? A nd on what
day and date, and at what place ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am

glad that this question has been put in the
THE SPEAKER-If we adopt it in
cases which are now before the Senate it
will of course cause a good deal of inconvenience to gentlemen who have their
papers otherwise prepared.

'ALEX. CAMPBELLThere need be no inconvenience of any
moment, I think, because any hon. gertleman in charge of a Divorce Bill has
merely to state that the petitioner is in attendance, and on that the Speaker directs
the petitioner to appear at the Bar to be
examined. The Speaker announces that
the petitioner is at the Bar ready to be
examined, and on that the hon. gentleman
who has charge of the Bill moves that the
attendance of the petitioner be dispensed
with. There will be no inconvenience
whatever.
HON.

SIR

THE SPEAKER-In the cases which
are now before the House I will put the
motion in that way without requiring the
gentleman in charge of these cases to
alter their notices in writing.

THE TERRY DIVORCE BILL.
SECOND READING.

HON. MR. READ moved that Edward

Dillon Sherwood be called to the Bar of
this House to be sworn and examined.
The motion was agreed to.

proper shape, instead of a leading question

such as we had in a case before us a few
days ago, the question now asked is "Did
you serve this paper upon anyone, and if
so when and on whom ?"
A. I served duplicate copies of the writings
now shown to me narked "A" and " B"
respectiveiy, with the certificates therern, respectively, of the Clerk of the Senate, noon
the said Charles Hunter Terry, on Thurstfay,
the nineteenth day of February, A.D. 1885,
at the City of New York, in the State of New
York, one of the United States ofAnierica.
Q. State the particular mode in which you
effected such services?
A. I served the said duplicate copies of the
writings "A" and " B" on the said Charles
Hunter Terrv, personally, by handing the
same to him and leaving the same with him,
and I explained to him the nature and object
of the said papers, and lie fully understood the
nature and object of the said papers, and said
that lie did not care; they, meaning the
petitioner, iigh tgo on, that he was not going

to mieddle with it.

Q. Do von know the said Charles Hunter
Terry and the petitioner, Fairy Enily Jane
Terry ?
A. I know the said Charles Hunter Terry,
and I know the said Fairy Ermily Jane Terry.
I have known the said Charles Hunter Terry
for sorme years.
Q. Is the person Charles Hunter Terry,
upon whon you served copies of the writings

narked "A" and " B," respectively, the same
Charles Hunter Terry who is named in the
said writings respeetively, and who is therein
styled the husband of the said Fairy Emily
Jane Terry ?
A. Yes. He is the same person.
Q. Did you compare the said duplicate
copies of the writings "A" and " B " with the
said writings respectively, and ascertain that
thev were true copies?
A. I did.
The said Edward Dillon Sherwood was
directed to withdraw.

Then Edward Dillon Sherwood was
called to the Bar of the House, and, being
sworn, was examined as follows:Q. What is your name, place of residence
and occupation ?
A. Edward Dillon Sherwood, of the City of
HON. MR. READ-I beg leave toý
Ottawa, in the County of Carleton, Deputy
notify the House that the petitioner in
Sheriff of the County of Carleton.
Q. Look at the paper writing now produced this case is in attendance ready to be exand shown to you, marked " A," intituled : amined.
" An Act for the relief of Fairy Emily Jane
Terry " and at the paper writing now producThe SPEAKER-Let the petitioner
ed and shown to you, marked " B," being an

order of the Senate,,dated the Ilth day of come to the Bar.
HoN. MR. DICKEY.

(The petitioner then

The Smith

[FEB. 27, 1885]

appeared below the Bar.) I beg to inforrm the House that the petitioner in
this case, Fairy Ernily Jane Terry, is in
attendance below the bar ready to be exarnined generally as well as in regard to
arly collusion or connivance between the
parties to obtain a separation.
HON. MR. READ moved

Divorce Bill.

the District of Keewatin."
(Sir Alex.
Campbell).
Bill (8) "An Act respecting the River
St. Clair Railway Bridge and Tunnel
Company." (Mr. Plumb).
The Senate adjourned at 4:05 p.m.

:

That the examination of the said petitioner
at the Bar, be dispensed with, but that it be
8nInstruction to any Select Committee to

THE 'SENATE.

Whom the said Bill *may be referred to ex-

Ottawa, Iriday, February, 27th, 1885.
erally, and also in that particular respect
above referred to. The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
The motion was agreed to on a division. o'clock p. m.
amIeTithe said Fairy Em'ily Jane Terry gen-

HON. MR. READ moved that the Bill
be read the second time.
The motion was agreed to on a division.

Prayers and routine proceedings.

HON. MR. READ moved:
That the Bill be referred to a Select

REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.

THE DAVIS DIVORCE BILL.

HON. MR. DICKEY, from the Select
.On)ittee conposed of the ionorable Mes8eurs Clemow, Flint, Hamilton, MacInnes, Committee, to whom was referred Bill (C),
Xorthwood, Odell, Plumb, Ross and the " An Act for the relief of Amanda Esther
n1over, to report thereon with all convenient Davis," reported the Bill without
any
8peed, vithl pover to send for persons, papers
and records, and examine witnesses on oath, amendment.
ýnd that the exemplification of the proceedIt was ordered that the Bill be taken
hgs In the High Court of Justice of Ontario,
Cfalicery Division, in the case of Fairy Emily into consideration on Monday next.
Jûte Terry vs. Charles Hunter Terry, and the
THE TERRY DIVORCE BILL.
her proceedings presented to the Senate
'o. the reading of the petition of the said
Pairy Enily Jane Terty, be referred to the
FIRST REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE.
eid coninittee, and that all persons
summonea to appear before the Senate
in this matter
HON. MR. ODELL, from the Select
PPear before said committee; and that the
ead Commlriiittee have leave to sit on Satur- Committee, to whom was referred Bill (E),
ays and other non-sitting days.
"An Act for the relief of Fairy Emily Jane
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
constant repetition of "have leave to sit
on Saturdays and other holidays," keeps
.hrowinga doubt on the right
lYittees to sit on those days, and of comit seems
nie that those words had
better be
omYitted.
tHON. MR. READ-Then I will strike
them out.

The motion as amended was agreed to.

Terry," presented their first report. He
said : The Committee in their report
merely ask for permission to employ a
shorthandwriterto take down the-evidence,
which is very important. I move that the
report be adopted presently.
The motion was agreed to on a division.
THE SMITH DIVORCE BILL.
FIRST REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE.

HON. MR. GOWAN, from the Select
Committee to whom was referred Bill (B)
"An Act for the relief of Charles Smith,"
taki (21) " An Act to provide for the presented their first report. He said : It
.8g of a census in the Province of would have been impossible to proceed in
I"'toba, the North-West Territories and this case without obtaining the assistance
BILLS INTRODUCED.

112

The Evan8 [SENATE]

of a stenographer. The Committee were
enabled to get through a large amount of
evidence very quickly by that being done,
and I hope the House will approve of the
1ection of the Committee in that respect.
I move that the report be adopted.
The motion was agreed to on a division.
THE EVANS DIVORCE BILL.
SECOND READING.

Divorce Bill.

" An Act for the relief of Alice Elvira
Evans," and at the paper writing now produced and shown to you, marked "B,"
being an order of the Senate dated the
12th day of February, 1885, both writings
being certified by the Clerk of the Senate.
Did you serve copies of these writings with
the certificates thereon of the Clerk of the
Senate upon any person, and if so upon
whom? And on what day and date, and
at what place ?

The motion was agreed to on a division.
The order of the day having been
called for the second reading of Bill (G)
WITNESS-I served duplicate copies
"An Act for the ielief of Alice Elvira of the paper writings
me,
Evans, and the petitioner do attend at the marked " A " and " B now shown to with
" respectively,
Bar and be heard by counsel,"
the certificates thereon, respectively, of
the Clerk of the Senate, upon the said
HON. MR. GOWAN presented to the Owen Norton
Evans at the cabinet wareHouse the certificate of the Clerk of the rooms of Wilson Bros., in the town of
Senate showing that the rule as to notice Owen Sound, County of Grey, and Prohad been complied with.
vince of Ontario.
THE

SPEAKER-Let the certificate

be read.

HoN. MR. GOWAN moved that the

following question be put to the witness :
State the particular mode in which you
The certificate having been read by the effected such service ?
Clerk,
The motion was agreed to on a division.
HON. MR. GOWAN moved that Myron
Johnson be called to the Bar of the
WITNESS-I served the said dupliHouse to be sworn and examined.
cate copies of the writings "A" and
The motion was agreed to.
" B " on the said Owen Norton Evans,
personally, by reading the sanie over to
THE SPEAKER-Let the witness come him and leaving the same with him, when
to the Bar.
he said "I hope this is the last of it."
MYRON JOHNSON having appeared
HON. MR. GOWAN moved that the
at the Bar was sworn.
following question be put to the witness :
Do you know the said Owen Norton
HON. MR. GOWAN moved that the Evans, and the petitioner Alice Elvira
following question be put to the witness
Evans?
What is your name, place of residence
and occupation ?
The motion was agreed to on a division.

The motion was agreed to on a division.

WITNESS-I know the said Owen
Norton Evans and Alice Elvira Evans.
WITNESS-Myron Johnson, of the I have known then both since they were
City of Toronto, in the County of York children.
and Province of Ontario, manufacturer of
HON. MR. GOWAN moved that the
agricultural implements.
following question be put to the witness :
HON. MR. GOWAN moved that the Is the person, Owen Norton Evans, upon
following question be put to the witness:- whom you served copies of the writings
Look at the paper writing now produced marked "A" and " B " respectively, the
and shown to you, marked "A," intituled same Owen Norton Evans who is named
HON.

MR. GOWAN

The Smith

in the

[FEB. 27, 1885]

Divorce Bill.

113

said writings respectively, and who Stuart Evans, the issue of her marriage
is therein styled the husband of Alice with the said Owen Norton Evens."
lvira Evans ?
HON. MR. GOWAN-If the Hon.
The motion was agreed to on a division.
Minister of Justice will excuse me for one
moment, I intended to call attention to
WITNESS-Yes, he is the same person. that
particular point. I have read over
the Bill, and it is the third clause I think
ION. MR. GOWAN moved that the
following question be put to the witness that makes that provision with respect to
nid you compare the said duplicate the custody of the child. I have informed
Copies of the writings "A" and " B " with the parties who are promoting the Bill that
the said writings, respectively, and ascer- I would be unable to press this clause
upon the House and for these reasons:
tain that they were true copies ?
Hon. gentlemen will know that in respect
The motion was agreed to on a division. to marriage and divorce the legislative
jurisdiction of Parliament is original and
WITNESS-I did.
exclusive. It deals with the subject as
no other court can. It is not so in re.ION. MR. GOWAN moved that the spect to certain incidents and matters
Nvitness be allowed to withdraw.
arising upon divorce. In matters relating,
The motion was agreed to.
for example, to the custody of children,
the disposition of property, and such jurisTHE SPEAKER-Let the witness diction as Parliament has, other courts,
Withdraw. I have now to inform the the ordinary tribunals of the country, unUouse that the petitioner, Alice Elvira doubtedly possess also. And so, whatEvans, is in attendance below the Bar ever may be the view of our powers, I
ready to be examined by the Senate must think, as a matter of convenience
generally, or as to any collusion or conni- and expediency, subjects of this kind
Vance between the 'parties to obtain a should be left to the ordinary courts to
separation.
determine, as they will do, on the wellestablished rules laid down for their guid'-ON. MR. GOWAN moved that the ance. If the practice obtained that Parexanination of the said petitioner in this liament would entertain matters beyond
'natter as well generally, or as to any the range of its exclusive jurisdiction,
Collusion or connivance between the there is no saying to what extent it might
parties to obtain a separation, be for the be carried, and the Senate and Commons
present dispensed
might find their time needlessly
that it be
instruction to any with, butCommittee an in disposing of matters which employed
Select
could be
to
Whom the said Bill may be referred to more deliberately, if not more conveniently
mnake such examination.
and less expensively, determined in the
The motion was agreed to on a division. ordinary courts. With these considerations in view, I would like to withdraw
'TiHE SPEAKER-The petitioner may section 3 of the Bill, which falls within
'Withdraw.
the class of cases to which I refer as
matters upon which the parties interested
l3N. MR. GOWAN moved that the should be relegated to another tribunal.
Said Bill for the relief of Alice Elvira I was aware that the careful eye of the
Evans be now read the second time.
Minister of Justice had discovered this
The motion was agreed to on a division. clause, and I had already spoken of it to
the parties promoting the Bill, and had
fully made up my mind as to the course I
The Bill was then read the second
time. should take, and I believe it harmonizes
with his views also. I would be very glad
ION. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-There if what has passed would elicit some exiS
h
this Bill a clause which provides pression from the Minister
of Justice, not
that "The said Alice Elvira Evans
shail with regard to this particular case, but as
lave the custody of her said child,
William to what he thinks is the practice with
H

114

Deputy Speaker qf

[SENATE]

the Commons Bill.

respect to those matters not necessarily or Government should have chosen this parexclusively within the jurisdiction of ticular time, when the finances of the
country are not in the flourishing condiParliament.
tion in which they have been for the past
four or five years, to appoint an officer
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLWhen the report of the committee comes who is to receive, it is understood, a very
handsome salary. As to the gentleman
up I shall do so.
who is understood to be selected, I can
HON. MR. GOWAN moved that the only congratulate the Government and
Bill, " An Act for the relief of Alice him on the proposed appointment.
Elvira Evans," be referred to a Select
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
Committee, composed of the Hon. Messrs.
Hamilton, Macdonald (B. C.), McKay, was read the second time, and referred to
McMaster, Montgomery, Plumb, Stevens, a Committee of the whole House.
Vidal and the mover, to report thereon
In the Committee,
with all convenient speed, with power to
send for persons, papers and records, and
the further proceedings presented to the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
Senate on the reading of the petition of gentleman from Halifax has called attenthe said Alice Elvira Evans, be referred tion to this expense being incurred at this
to the said Committee, and that all per- particular time. There are reasons why
sons summoned to appear before the this provision should now be nade : the
Senate in this matter, appear before the want of it has long been felt. It is not in
said Committee.
the power of any Speaker to sit continuously from hour to hour for ten to eleven
Carried on a division.
hours without seriously imparing his health,
and those of us who have been in ParliaDEPUTY SPEAKER OF THE
ment for many years (the hon. gentleman
who makes the objection is one of them)
COMMONS BILL.
will, on reflection, recollect instances in
SECOND READING.
which the health of Speakers of the House
of Commons has been injured by being
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved confined for hours at a time to the chair.
the second reading of Bill (6), " An Act The resuilts have been exceedingly preto provide for the appointment of a judicial, and the desire to have some proDeputy Speaker of the House of Com- vision made by which it may no longer be
mons." He said: This Bill is framed on necessary for a Speaker to remain in the
the precedent which bas been set by the chair beyond such reasonable time as is
British Parliament, and I think it will be compatible with his health is, I think, a
found by the House to be such a measure matter which is clear to everybody. The
additional expense at this particular
a they will readily assent to.
moment will certainly not involve any
HON. MR. SCOTT-Does that affect serious consequences to the revenue of
only the Speaker of the House of Com the country. My hon. friend thought it
necessary to call attention to the fact, but
mons ?
I think the difficulty is one which we shall
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That triumph over.
is all.
Hox. MR. SCOTT-There is a statute
HON. MR. POWER-It is hardly pro- already in force, if I recollect properly,
per, I suppose, in one way, that the Senate which enables the Speaker to call any
should undertake to interfere in a matter member of the House to take his place
which peculiarly affects the internal econ- for some time. In what respect does this
o^ny of the House of Commons, but I provision differ from that ?
think that it is somewhat to be regretted
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--The
that, as we have got along now for some
cighteen years without this officer, the present statute provides for a chairman
HON. MR. GOWAN.

Deputy Speaker of [FEB. 27, 1885]

the Comnon8 Bill.

115

being appointed by the Speaker, but the the Bill and to those who are concerned
Speaker must return to the chair during in bringing it into Parliament. ' The hon.
gentleman says that only one Speaker bas
that sitting of the House.
suffered from the long sittings in the chair.
HON. MR. POWER-I do not feel The late Mr. Cockburn, who was a very
altogether convinced by the argument of dear friend of many members of this
the Minister of Justice as to the absolute House, myself amongst them, not only
necessity of this officer. It is true that suffered, but I really believe it was the
the health of one gentleman who filled the cause of his death.
Mr. Anglin may
Position of Speaker of the House of Con- have had a stronger constitution and
mons is generally understood to have suf- happily he escaped, perhaps, the evils that
fered from too assiduous attention to his others suffered from. That Mr. Blanduties.
chet's health was very seriously injured I
have been told by his intimate friends,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Oh! and his appearance indicated it. These
more than one.
are two instances which have occurred
since Confederation. The only other two
HON. MR. POWER-Perhaps, then, it
Mr. Angsince 1867
Is only the health of Conservative Speakers Speakers the present have been Happily
Speaker.
that suffers, because Mr. Anglin, who dis- lin and
Speaker is in the enjoyment
charged the duties of Speaker for a num- the present
of youth and, we hope, good health, but
ber of years very efficiently, and at a time
the confinement bas already inflicted inWhen there were very long sittings of the
jury on him impairing his health, and he
House, as far as I know never suffered in is as anxious that some provision should
his health.
be made as any one could be, and anxious
on his
17ON. MR. ALMON-His temper suf- on account of the injury inflicted
health. The hon. gentleman may, himfered.
self, if he should ever change his position
._HON. MR. POWER-Possibly it did; and fortune favor him, become the
t was severely tried. I think, looking Speaker of the other House, and he will
back over those who hive been Speakers then, notwithstanding his robust health,
before ai-id since Confederation, it does be glad to find that he is not obliged to
flot appear that their lives have been confine himself to the chair for ten or
Shorter than the lives of gentlemen in eleven hours in succession, than which
their station of life usually are. I think nothing could be more unreasonable.
that when one considers that the Speaker
The
HON. MR. ALEXANDER has a-right at present, if he finds sitting in
the chair is becoming too wearisome, to hon. Minister of Justice is in the habit
call a chairman to take his place for an of belittling the senior member for Halihour or two, it does not seem such a fax. I think there is a great deal of force
trying thing, and I think the present time, in what bas been said by that hon. gentlewhen the Speaker is an exceptionally man, but the present Government have a
Young and vigorous man, is not perhaps desire to multiply the offices in the counthe most opportune to ask for a depunv. try, no matter what additional expense
I cOuld understand if a gentleman like t c they may throw on the people.
late Mr. Cockburn, or even Mr. Blanc' et,
HON. MR. GOWAN-It just occurs
Was fIlling the chair, that there would be
rather more reason for doing so.
I can- to me that there is one reason not menflot help feeling that the time for asking tioned, one not of a personal character,
for.this officer is not well chosen, and that, but a good and cogent reason, why a
as in a good many other cases, while there Deputy Speaker should be appointed.
is a good deal to be said in favor of having There are certain objections to the nomiSuch an office, the office is created for the nee of the Speaker taking his place. I
need not go into these, but it must be
mncumbent, and not otherwise.
obvious to every hon. gentleman that no
LON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.-I
man can perform his office properly unless
think the hon. gentleman does injustice to hie is able to give sustained attention to,

The RHatzßleld [SEN ATE] Divorce Bill.
and where she was at that tine residing, and
where she had been residing for several
nonths last past, and told the wie of said
Peter Freyseng that I wanted to see the said
Anna Maria Hatzfeld, whereupon sie the said
Mrs. Frevseng told me the said Anna Maria
HIatzield had gone ont since diiiner, and she
declined to tell nie where she had gone or
the
wlien she would return, and froi
deneanor of the said Mrs. Freyseng and the
fact that I had served the said Auna Maria
Hatzfeld with a notice in this niatter on the
previous Monday at the saie house, and the
further fact that I was detained several
minutes at the door of the said house, before
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE, from being aditted, during which timue I noticed
the Committee, reported the Bill without the window curtain near the door where I
stood being nioved as though sone une was
amendment.
looking out, I was of the opinion then and am
Anna Maria Hatzfeld was
THE HATZFELD DIVORCE BILL. now that the said of her said brother when I
in the said house
was there on the said 20th instant and was
SECOND READING.
evading nie, and believing then as I (o now
that it was impossible to serve lier personally
The order of the day having been I served the said duplicate copies o the said
paper writings now produced and slown to
called for the second reading of Bill (D) for nie mark-d "A"
respectively,
and " B"
the relief of George Louis Emil Hatzfeld, with the certificate thereon respectively of
and the petitioner do attend at the Bar the Clerk of the Senate, upon the said Peter
Freyseng, brother of the said Anna Maria
and be heard by counsel,
Hatzfeld, by handing the sanie to antd leaving
the samne with himu on the said twentieth day
HON. MR. KAULBACH presented the of February, 1885, at the said Citv of Toronto,
certificate of the Clerk of the Senate that and at the saine timie lie said that lie would
the notice of the second reading of the hand the said duplicate copies to his sister,
Bill had been affixed upon the doors of the said Anna Maria Hatzfltd, and I an inMcIttyre,
the Senate for fourteen days. He noved forned and verily believe that Mr.retainted to
of Ottawa, Barrister, bas been
that Julius Winckler be called to the Bar represent the said Anna Maria Hatzfèld beof the House and examined.
fore the Cornnittee of the Senate of Canada
in the natter of the said Bill.
The motion was agreed to on a division.
Q. Look at the paper writing now produced
and shown to you marked " C," being a notice
Then Julius Winckler was called to the over the nane of Osier, Feetzel and Harrison,
Bar of the House, and, being sworn, was solicitors for Georg Louis Enil Hatzfeld, to
Anna Maria Hatzield, of the second reading
examined as follows:in the Honorable the Senate of the Do)inion
Q. What are your name, place of residence, of Canada of a Bill intituled: "An Act for the
" relief of Georg Louis Emil Hatzield," on
and occupation or legal addition?
A. .lulius Winckler, of the City of Hiamil- Thursday, the 26th day of February, instant,
and containing a copy of the motion with
ton, Dominion of Canada, Machinist.
Q. Look at paper writing now produced reference to the second reading of the said
and shown to you, marked "A," intituled Bill passed by the said Honorable House on
"An Act for the relief of Georg Louis Emil the eleventh day of February, instant ; also
Hatzfeld," and at the paper wriîting now pro- containing a copy of the said Bdl. Did you
duced and shown to you, marked "B," being serve a true copy of said paper writing on any
an Order of the Senate dated the lith day o person, and il so, upon whoi ; in what
.February, A.D., 1885, both writings being inanner, 011 what day and date, and at what
certified by the Clerk of the Senate. Did you place ?
A. I served a true duplicate copy of the
serve, or attenpt to serve copies of these
writings, with the certiflcates thereon of the said paper writing now produced and shown
Clerk of the Senate, upon any person, and if to nie narked " C," upon the said Anna
so upon whon and in what nanner, on what Maria Hatzteld by handing the saie to and
leaving the sanie with lier, on Monday, the
date and at what place ?
A. On Friday, the 20th day of February, sixteenth day of February, A. D. 1885, at tne
A.D. 1885, at about 4 o'clock p.m., I called residence of lier brother, Peter Freyseng, in
at nunber 252 Ontario Street, in the City of the City of Toronto, in the Dominion of
Toronto, being the residence of Peter Frey- Canada, being numîber 252 Ontario street, in
seng, brother of said Anna Maria Hatzfeld, said city, and at the timue of such service she

what is going on, and after eight or nine
hours, even four or five hours, of continuous watchfulness, which the Speaker is
obliged to exercise, he is not able to give
that attention which the important business that he is appointed to watch over
should command ; and from that alone,
apart from any effect it ruay have on the
health of the incumbent, it commends
itself to my mind as a wise and proper
measure.

HON. MR. GOWAN

Th'e Hfatzfeld [FEB. 27, 1885]

Divorce Bill.

117

took the said paper writing and I sat down
The said Julius Winckler was directed
beside her and she read the sanie, and wlhen
she hai done readting I asked her if she would to withdraw.
meet Louis, miieaning the said petitioner, in
THE SPEAKER informed the House
Ottawa. on the twenty.sixth instant, and sie
said '. Yes."
that Georg Louis Emil Hatzfeld, the peQ. Do you know, and how long have you titioner in this case, was in attendance beknown
rsonally the said Anna Maria
low the Bar ready to be examined by the
atzfeld?
A I do know, and have known her person- Senate generally, or as to any collusion or
connivance between the parties to obtain
ally, for over fourteen years.
Q. Is the said Anna Maria Hatzfeld the a separation.
Wife of the petitioner, Georg Louis Emil
aatzfeld ?
HON. MR. KAULBACH moved:
A. Yes.
Q. Do von know the petitioner, Georg That the petitioner, Georg Louis Emil
Louis Emil Hatzfeld, personally, and if so,
Hatzfeld, being in attendance at the Bar and
how long?
.
A. Yes, I have known him personally over ready to be exaumined, his exanination in this
matter as well generally as in regard to any
fourteen years.
connivance
the parties
9. of the writings marked said and " B " collusion orseparation be between present disyou
von compare the
duplicate
for the
to obtain a
COpies
"A"
with the said writings respectively, and ascer- pensed with, but that it be an instruction to
any comniîttee to whomn the Bill upon the
tain ttat they were true copies?
subject nay be referred to make such
A. I did.
Q. l)id vou compare the said paper writing examination.
niarked "'C" and the said dupheate copy
With that p-rtion of the paper writing now

roduced and shown to von mîarked " D,"
beinL the Minutes of the Senate of Canada of
Wednesdîav, the lith day of February, 1885,
Priltedi by the Qte-en's Printers, which refers
to t(e saitd Bill, and also the said Bill in.arked
'A ," certified by the Clerk of the Senate?
A. I dlid. ani I fouind both tlie pap.•r writing marked - C " and the dîtplîca1e copy
thereof servel by ne on said Anna Maria
Ratzetid to contain true copies of tlie said
Bill, and ot thait portion of the said Minute,
of the Scnate ut Caiada whici in aiv way

reters to the said Bill or to the second readin'g
thereof.
. HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
witness has answered more than he was
asked by the question. The question was
Whether he had compared the papers, and
did not go on to ask whether they were
true copies or not. The witness, however,
has replied that they were true copies. i
'nerely call attention to the fact that he
has answered more than he was asked.

Q. Did you compare the said duplicate

Copysaid the
the ut

paper writing narked " C " with
Vrnîîî,
" C," and as-lertain that it
A.Idid. p

was a true copy?

Q. I the said Anna Maria Hatzfeld, upon
Who')' You served a copy of the writing marked. c,, and plion whose brother yuu served
copies of lie writings marked " A " and " B,
respeitively the sane Anna Maria Hatzfeld
'1o is named

Gn

in said writings respectively,

ho , therein styled the wile of the said

eorg Louis Emîîil Hatzfeld ?
A. Yes, she is the same person.

The motion was agreed to on a division.
HON. MR. KAULBACH moved the
second reading of the Bill.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
think it my duty to call the attention of
the House to the fact that the papers
which the rule requires to be served upon
the respondent have not been served,
and the excuse which is offered for the
non-service is one for the consideration of
the House.
It would seem that the witness at the Bar went to the residence of
this woman's brother, where on some
previous occasion he had served her with
papers connected with this case, and asked
for her and was told she was not at home;
that from some circumstances mentioned
in his answer, such as the curtains being

pulled back at the window, and from the
fact that she had been there a day or
two before, and from the manner of
the brother, he had reason to believe
that she was in the house at the time he
called. These are the excuses for the
non-compliance with the rule of the
Senate that the service shall be a personal
one. It is for the House to say whether
this constitutes a sufficient proof of the
impossibility of complying with the rule.
In addition to the want of proof of service,
the attempt having failed for reasons
given, my hon. friend puts in affidavits
showing that on a previous occasion this

The Ilatzfeld [SENATE]
respondent had been served personally
with a copy of the Bill in this case and
proceedings in the Senate at one stage of
the Bill. The tact is, therefore, established that she has had personal service of
a copy of the Bill, and so far that is sufficient proof that she is aware of what is
going on.
But she has not h.id the
service required by the 7 6;h rule
which requires that " Notice of such
second reading is to be affixed on
the doors of the House during that
period," that is 14 days, "and a copy
thereof and of the Bill, duly served upon
the party from whom the divorce is
sought."
She has heen served with a
copy of the Bill, because she was personally given a copy of the proceedings of the
Senate upon a certain day, to which a
copy of the Bill was added by the attorneys
repiesenting the petitioner; so she has
had service of a copy of the Bill personally, but she has never had service of the
notice that the Bill would be taken up on
the 26th of this month, or to-day, so that
it might possibly be said on her behalf
that she did not know that these proceedAs against
ings were to go on to-day.
that she has had a copy of the proceedings
of the day that is mentioned, in which
it was said that the second reading
would take place on the 26th ; she has
had a copy of the Bill itself, and we have
proof that an effort was made to serve her
personally. In addition to that I have
sent for the affidavit showing the service
of the petition. That service was persunal. It was served on Anna Maria
Hatzfeld on the 24th November, 1884, at
her residence, 252 Ontario Street, Toronto,
this same place where the attempt was
made the second time to serve ber with a
true copy of the notice, so that on the
a4 th November of last year she knew that
this Bill would be introduced here this
session. Subsequently a copy of the Bill
and the motion that was made that the
Bill would be read the second time yesterday was handed to her personally, and,
in addition to that, an effort has been
made to serve her personally with a
copy of the notice affixed to the
doors. The House, I am inclined
to think, will believe that the efforts
which have been made, coupled with the
facts to which I have alluded, constitute a
sufficient explanation of the non-service,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL

Divorce Bill.

and show sufficiently clearly that she
knows what is going on and that we are
not doing her any injustice in proceeding
with the case. 1 have drawn the attention
of the House.to these facts in order that
hon. gentleman may know that the service
of the notice has not been made personally
as the rule requires and that they may
judge whether a sufficient effort has been
made to serve her personally, and whether
proof has been furnished of the impossibility, (which is a very strong word,) of
complying with the rule. The witness
might have gone the following day, or two
or three times the sane day, and it has not
been established that it was impossible to
serve the respondent with a copy of the
notice; but it is established that she knows
what is going on, and we are not doing
her an injury by proceeding with the case.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-In addition
to that I would call attention to the fact
that the rule, if the Minister of Justice will
refer to it, does not say it must be a personal service; it says it must be served
upon the party.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
means a personal service.
MR. KAULBACH-It says
HON.
it must be served, or if not, the
party has to state the reason why it was
not done. I think my hon. friend will see
that the respondent has been virtually
served with the order, because the paper
is the same paper as is
marked "C
affixed upon the door of the House, only
it has not got the words " It is ordered,"
at the head of it ; nor is it signed by the
Clerk of the House, but every substance
of the order is in it, and also the Bill. I
think if it is read it will satisfy the House
fully that the respondent knew the day
on which this Bill was to be considered,
and, besides that, the witness here swore
that she knew of it being on the door
yesterday, and he knew of his own knowledge that she had employed Mr. M'Intyre
as counsel to appear for her on that day.
The House will see that everythimg has
been done, and that she has had ample
notice, although not personal service of
the notice.
HON. MR. DICKEY-I think the
Minister of Justice was perfectly justified

The Hatzfeld [FEB. 27, 1885]
in calling attention to the rather lax observance of the rule in this case, and I for
one confess that I am alwavs inclined to
Uphold the rules, and as far as possible
to insist upon their strict observance. I
notice from what has just dropped from
My hon. friend who has charge of this Bill,
that in the examination, the witness
testified to being in the presence of the
respondent, called attention to the proCeedings and asked her if she would be
here to meet them, and she said she
Would on the 26th. That gives colour to
the idea that she must have had notice ;
but in regard to the construction of this
'rule, it is after all merely that reasonable
ground should be given to the satisfaction
Of the Senate, to shew that the rule could
lot be strictly complied with ; because to
'nsist upon personal service where personal
service could not be effected, would be an
ImnPossibility, and an absurdity. But I
think that the House will be fairly justified
in readiig that rule 76 in connection with
rule 73, which bears upon the same subject, and applies to the first notice, and
that is, that proof on oath of such service,
Or of the attempts made to effect such
service to the satisfaction of the Senate,
Shall be given. I think that may be a very
fair mode of construing the very strong
Words to which our attention has been
drected by the hon. Minister of Justice.
I think he was not only justified in doing
that as a member of this House, but he is
mlore particularly justified as leader of the
1ouse, in calling attention to all these
flatters wherein he thinks, as I think, that
the rules ought to be adhered to, substantially at all events, if not strictly. But
1 quite agree with him in thinking that
1
lpon the whole the House ought to be
Satisfied with the attempts that have been
Inade here to effect that service under the
Circumstances.
1

HoN. MR. PLUMB-It is evident that

this is one of the most important rules in
the
proceedings in those cases.

It is, I
Pririciple which is laid down has been
largely neglected in other countries where
divorce is, alas, too easily obtainable, and
that a mere form of service, which is
akmost a mockery of the rules, has come
tû be adopted in other countries, and I
thmnk we owe it to ourselves and to moralpresume, known to many that this very

Divorce Bill.

119

ity to see that no such looseness creeps
into the proceedings of the Senate. I
have no doubt that my hon. friend who
has just spoken is right in saying that the
two rules should be read together. The
first proceeding is not required to be ai)
absolute service, but the parties are required to use the utmost diligence in attempting to make that service. Of course
the ends of justice might be frustrated by
the evasion of service by the party who is
respondent in the suit. The second rule
does not seem to be worded exactly like
the first, but I have no doubt that they
are both intended to have the same application. In this case I should imagine
that the first notice having been received
it would be probably safe to infer that the
person interested had been apprised of
the proceedings, and that is really the
great object in making stringent rules, because any person apprised of such proceedings, and having a defence, and having a desire to oppose the divorce, would
have ample opportunity to make enquiry
and exert herself or himself in that direction, if it was desirable to do so.
HON. MR. GOWAN-I quite agree that
in this case it may be said that reasonable
proof has been given that it has come to
the knowledge of the party ; still I cannot
agree to the proposition that the 73rd and
No
7 6th rules ought to be read together.
doubt there must be some object in
the variation of the language ; the 76th
section evidently conte:nplates a personal
service if possible. The words "of the
impossibility of complying with this regulation," are certainly very strong, but 1 do
not think they should be read with the
severity that would be perhaps brought to
bear by some hon. gentlemen upon then
I think the test is this : is there a reasonable ground for presuning, upon the facts
submitted, that it came to the knowledge
of the party intended to be affected by it?
Now, with regard to the distinction between the two rules, one is a mere notice,
and the other is something more than a
mere notice ; it is after the subjection of
this matter before this tribunal. I agree
that there is sufficient to warrant the
belief that it came to this respondent's
notice, and I think it is such proof as
would be received in an ordinary court of

120

The Hatzfeld (8 EN AT E]

justice, of personal service, or equivalent'
to personal service.

.Divorce Bill.
THE SENATE.

Ottawa, Monday, March 2nd, 1885.
The motion was agreed to on a division, and the Bill was read the second
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
time.
o'clock p.m.
HON.
MR.
KAULBACH moved
that the said Bill be referred to a Select
Committee composed of the hon. Messrs.
Botsford, Boyd, Lewin, Macfarlane, Macdonald (B.C.), McLellan, Turner, Montgomery and the mover, to report thereon
with all convenient speed, with power to
send for persons, papers and records, and
examine witnesses on oath, and that all
persons summoned to appear before the
Senate in this matter appear before the
said Committee.

Prayers and routine proceedings.
THE HATZFELD DIVORCE BILL.
FIRST REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE.

HON. MR. KAULBACH, from the
Select CoMmittee to whom was referred
Bill (C) " An Act for the relief of Georg
Louis Hatzfeld," presented their first report. He said: the Committee in their
report simply ask the House for permission to employ a shorthand writer to
HON. MR. GOWAN-I should like take down the evidence in this case. I
to enquire of the hon. gentleman from move the adoption of the report.
Lunenburg whether he has submitted the
names of that comnittee to the Minister
HON. MR. POWER-I do not rise for
of Justice, which, from what took place the purpose of opposing the motion of
the other day, is an essential thing to do. my hon. friend, but to call the attention
of the House to a fact in connection with
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I presume the proceedings of those divorce comit is generally understood, that what had mittees. Some years ago the Senate put
to be done has been done, and I think an end to the publication of the evidence
my hon. friend may presume, unless it is taken before divorce committees. Hon.
questioned by the Minister of Justice, gentlemen who have been in the House
that the names have been submitted.
for some years will remember that previous to 1878 the evidence taken before a
HON. MR. GOWAN.-I am not aware divorce committee was printed and diswhether the hon. gentleman was present tributed freely both in and outside of Paron the occasion I refer to, and for that liament. TheHouseinterfered in 1878, and
reason I made the suggestion.
put an end to that system. I have observed
-and the hon. gentleman from Hamilton
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL(Mr. Turner) has also expressed a strong
There is one phrase in the motion which opinion about the matter, which agrees
is not necessary, and that is the words with my own-that reporters for various
' and examine witnesses under oath." The newspapers come into the committee
power to examine witnesses under oath is rooms where those investigations are
not given by resolution of the Senate ; it being held, and where evidence of a
already exists by statute, and therefore character that should not be made public
these words had better be omitted from is being taken, and report that evithe motion.
dence for the purpose of publishing it
throughout the country. It seems to me
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I was quite that if the Senate will not allow its own
aware that the power existed by statute, officers to have this evidence printed and
but following the precedent already estab- circulated, that it should not allow the
lished, I did not wish to omit these words. press to do the same thing, by which the
publicity would be much greater than any
The motion was agreed to on a division. that could be given to the documents of
this House. I feel that it is, to a certain
The Senate adjourned at 5-15 p.m.
extent. my duty to call the attention of

HON. MR. GOWAN.

The Hatzfeld

[MARCIH. 2, 1885.]

the Senate to the matter. It is a matter, I
should say, in the discretion of each
Of those committees to decide that strangers shall not - be allowed to report the
Proceedings; and if the committee so
decide, it will be sufficient.

HON.

.Divorce Bill.

HON. MR. GOWAN-I

121
quite

agree

with what has fallen from my hon. friend
from Halifax; I think it is exceedingly unwise to minister to the vicious taste for

this prurient matter. I assume it would
be in the power of a committee, acting
through its chairman, to prevent any reMR. KAULBACH-I think my port other than that of the official reporter

hon. friend is wrong in stating that the
House in 1878 put an end to the distribution of divorce evidence. I think it was
left to the committees to say in their
discretion whether the evidence is of such
a character that it shall not appear in
the Minutes ; and I think it is only in
'iese where the evidence is extremely
Offensive that it should not appear in the
Minutes. I think every hon. member
should be invested with the evidence in

from being made, and I certainly would
feel disposed myself to

exercise

that

power, if we possess it, to exclude all
persons except those who are immediately
concerned in the matter, especially when
both petitioner and respondent are represented by counsel.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
remedy, as the hon. gentleman who has

made the complaint has said, is within

cascs that he has to decide upon, and if the committee itself ; no person has a
he does not read it it will be his fault, right to attend the meetings of the comand not the fault of the committee. I mittee, except a member of this House,
think that in a case of such importance as and if the committee see fit, with referthe dissolution of the martimonial tie ence to the character of the evidence, or
every hon. gentleman should have réad for any other reason, to exclude the pubthe evidence before being called upon to lic, they have the right to do so.
vote on the Bill to which it relates.
THE SPEAKER -Rule
95 is the
rule.

HON. brought
has been MR. TURNER-As my I name
into this matter, may
HON. MR. DICKEY-I would take the
Say that while I quite agree with Mr. responsibility of stating on my own behalf,
bower in what he has said as to the desira- as chairman of divorce committees on
bitY of keeping those things from the several occasions that in the one instance
hublic, we, as members of those comm
ittees, in which I have acted as chairman, during
have a very unpleasant duty to perform. the present session I was careful to observe
ev -day we had a lady before us giving that there was no newspaper reporter
ence, and I felt that she was placed in present. On former occasions, after the
ley delicate and painful position, and I adoption of the rule embodying the sense
think, ofn this occasion, though a young
of the Senate that publicity should not be
taernber on the committee, I ought
to given to those details which we thought

lae said something to make her position
less unpleasant She gave her evidence
aery nicely, and very correctly
no doubt,
in she had to give it under embarrass-

were not fit to put upon our journals, I

took the responsibility of intimating that
no reporter would be allowed to be present.
I took that action because I thought it
l me rcuimstances, on account of the large would be within the spirit of the rule laid
*h er of persons present. In cases down by the Senate for the guidance of
there there are ladies to be examined I the House. Therefore I quite agree with
think it desirable that there should be
as what has fallen from the first Ministerthat

on y Persons present as possible-in fact it lies entirely in the discretion of the
he the Court itself. We all understand committee to exclude the public from
co
female coming before a divorce their meetings. I do not think there is
CofnlIittee must feel ber situation most any necessity, after the suggestion of the
tonfortable and embarrassing, and I hon. gentleman opposite, that a motion
to r 'that anything the committee can do should be made; that it should be left in
an eeve her from that publicity would be the discretion of the committee, because
act of real kindness.
we all know, and as we have been told

122

Deputy Speaker of LSENATE]

from the chair, there is a rule which places
it in the discretion of the committee.

th Commons Bil.

THE EVANS DIVORCE BILL
FIRST REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE.

THE

SPEAKER-I will read the rule.

HoN. MR. GOWAN presented the first
report of the committee to whom was re" No persons, unless demanded to attend,
are to enter at any meeting of a committee of ferred Bill (G), " An Act for the Relief of
Alice Elvira Evans," and moved its
the Senate or at any conference."
adoption.
HON. MR. POWER-My object has
been attained. I simplywished to call the
The motion was agreed to on a division,
attention of the gentlemen composing the
committees to the fact that newspaper DEPUTY SPEAKER OF THE COMMONS BILL.
reporters did attend those committees to
report the evidence. I happened to look
THIRD READING.
in for a moment this morning during the
sitting of one committee, and there were
two reporters engaged in reporting the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the third reading of Bill (26), "An Act to
proceedings for the press.
provide for the appointment of a Deputy
HoN. MR. PLUMB-I think the hon. Speaker of the House of Commons."
gentleman is to be commended for having
drawn the attention of the Senate to this
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-It is with
matter. There is no doubt that all those very great reluctance that I feel impelled
cases are very painful subjects, affecting from a sense of public duty, to make one
either one side or the other, or affecting or two observations with regard to this
innocent parties connected with those who Bill. When the hon. gentleman from
are bringing the cases before the Senate, and Halifax (Mr. Power) on the second readI thinik it is the duty of every hon. member ing of the Bill, called the attention of the
who is acting on those committees to do House to it, I did not feel to the full exhis best to prevent anything from trans- tent the importance of the measure. Now,
piring which could perrnanently affect if the object of the Bill which I hold in
innocent parties. It certainly is most my hand were merely that when the
desirable that, as far as possible, the rule Speaker in another quarter should at any
should be observed that no one should be time feel wearied, he might call upon the
present at those examinations except those chairman of a.committee of that House, or
who are engaged as counsel, the reporters upon any member of the House, to take
employed by the committee, and those the chair while he rested, there could be
who are immediately interested either as no objection to it; but when we know, as
petitioner or respondent, and the members a fact, that it is proposed to name a gen,of the Senate, who have a right to be tleman permanently as the Deputy Speaker
there to hear the proceedings. We have of the Ilouse with a salary of $2,ooo a
a great many cases of divorce to consider year, I say that although it is a very small
this year, and I trust that as far as possible matter to oppose, I feel inipelled to appeal
these rules will be observed. I have not to the House on this subject. One would
been on a divorce committee until this year, suppose from the way in which the prebut I am on two of them now, and it cer- sent Government conduct public affairs,
tainly will be in accordance with my feel- that the country was in a highly prosperings that all evidence of an improper ous state. When I look around and hear
character shall be suppressed in the man- of an ex-Minister of the Crown far away
ner aiready provided, and as far as possi- from his own home, almost crushed by
ble public curiosity shall be restrained commercial engagements ; when I further
from making those painful scenes a place meet merchants of the country who tell
of resort, and publishing the proceedings me honestlythat it is exceedingly difficult to
-through the press.
make their livelihood out of trade ; when

Rule 95 says:-

I look around and see large manufactur-

The motion was agreed to on a division. ing industrics unsuccessfl-(No, no.)HoN. MR. DICKEY.

Cenl8U8 of [MARCH. 2, 1885]

Xanitoba Bill.

123

I may nanie cotton manufactories-some which we arrived in the process of nego-

Of Managers of whom are in this very
the
Ouse-men of the greatest enterprise,
those health is impaired because, with
the closest management and the experience
f years, they cannot command success.
Atnd, when in addition to all this, we
meet
superannuatstreet
edthe orners of everyprime of life
clerks, men in the
superannuated upon salaries of $2,ooo a year
Wîih successors appointed to them, we can
Only assume that the present Government
are lUtterly reckless with regard to the
Public expenditure. I have great reluctance in making those remarks because
the Speaker of the present House is an
hOd Personal friend of mine for whom
I
have the highest respect, but it ill becomes
h Government because that
taPpens to be the son-in-law of gentleman
the Minister of the Interior to make this unnecesay appointment.
It only shows the
«ger of bringing into the Government
0f the country selfish men who care not
lvhat they spend to advance their own
Petsolial ends. We have read on former
clasions of $1,500 being wasted upon
eley glasses-champagne glasses and
eech rubbish of life-money used for
exercisi.
improper
s
ine (iIers like my hon. influences, while
friend behind me
legi Flint) are praying the House to
y; ate against such evils. And yet the
chaister of the Interior wasted $i,500 on
curmPagne glasses for his own objects
and
thposes. The time has arrived when, if
the enate wish to retain the respect of
Country, they must begin to
astravagance even in such small check
(as well
fslarge) matters. With
the embarassments
popuat this moment by our
industrious
rPlat i'
we should not permit this
ess waste of the public money.
aThe motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the third time and passed.
0

IENSUS OF MANITOBA BILL.
SECOND READING.

theON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
Aint second reading of Bill (21) " An
provide for the taking of a census
eth
Trovince of Manitoba, the North-

Wat.,,rritories and the District of KeeH-e said : One of the terms at

tiation with Manitoba required an additional census to be tiken in that province.
It is for the purpose of enabling us to
arrange the subsidies more promptly than
is the case with other provinces; and the
expediency of that step became very
obvious in consequence of the rapidly
augmenting population of Manitoba, increasing there much more rapidly than
in any other of the provinces of the
Dominion. Therefore it was but fair that
the subsidy paid Manitoba should be' considered more frequeutly than we consider
the same subject with reference to the
other provinces. The Bill before the
House has for its object the giving the
necessary powers to take that census.
HON. MR. POWER-The Minister in
introducing the Bill did not favor us with
any lengthened description of its character ; but I gather fron the report of
the debate on this Bill in another place,
that the Government are persisting in a system which is very far behind the age,
indeed, of taking the census on the de
jure and not the de facto system. The
object of the Government and the country
in taking the census of Manitoba and the
North-West Te!rritories is to find out how
many people are there-not how many
have been there, or how many may think of
returning there, but how many are there ;
and it seems to me that now is a good
time for the Government to change the
system which they have heretofore
adopted. Everyone knows how the census is taken under the de jure system.
In addition to the people who happen to be
residing in the district where the enumerator is at work at the time the census
is taken, who are all that should be
enum.erated-all who were enumerated in
England or the United States when the
census was taken in those countries
-we get in this country also those who
are not there, but who it is thought
may return. The enumerator goes to the
head of a family and he finds there are two
sons absent, it may be in British Columbia
or Dakota or somewhere else in the United
States, and the old people hope that some
day or other these sons will come back, and
the enumerator wants to know if the sons
have gone away for good or if they are
expected back. As a matter of course

124A

Censu8 of

[SENATE]

the parents say they expect the sons to
come back ; and those sons who have been
absent for years and as to whose return
there is the greatest uncertainty, are
enumerated as being residents of Canada,
as making up part of the population of
Canada, or in this case the North-West
Territories, at the time the census was
taken. That portion of the Dominion
will be entitled to receive a subsidy and I
presume representation in the other
branich of Parliament based, not upon the
population that is in the country, but
upon the population that is in the country,
together with another section of population
which is somewhere else. Under that system the sane person may be enumerated two
or three times. In the cases I have spoken
of the sons may be enumerated in Manitoba, and if a census is being taken in
British Columbia at the same time, they
may be enumerated there if they happen
to have crossed over, I think that the
Minister of Justice, who the other day introduced a Bill here with respect to the
system of land registration and titles to
land, giving us the very latest improvements in that respect, ought to keep on in
the good reform career that he has begun
and let us have something a little more
modern than the system of census taking
that has been adopted by the Government.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
system which my hon. friend advocates is
no doubt one which leads to greater
accuracy than the one which is in force in
this country, but it requires a very large
staff, and is much more expensive, and
is almost impossible of execution in a
sparsely settled country such as Canada.
It is all very well to say that you should
take the actual population on a certain
day. That is the effort that is made. It
is not the intention of the enumerators or
the Minister or anyone to take the name
of any single person in the population
twice. It is the intention of all parties to
get at the population just as it exists on a
certain day, and the question is, how that
is best to be done, considering the way
in which the country is settled, and considering the amount of expenditure which
it is reasonable to apply to such a work.
In England they have inspectors and other
officers, who are scattered all over the
country, and the population being dense,
HON. MR.

POWER.

M{anitoba Bill.

they are enabled to ascertain directly, by
employing a sufficient number of persons,
what the population is on a given day, in
every place all over the kingdom. It
would be impossible for us to do that in
Canada with any staff that is at all reasonahle. We cannot have a person go the
same day to each house all over the
Dominion, or, as we are speaking now of
this particular Bill, all over the Province
of Manitoba. It would be impossible.
Look at how the Province of Manitoba is
settled. Perhaps the settlers are miles
apart; perhaps the greatest nuniber of
them, taking an average, would be from
half a mile to a mile apart. How would
it be possible to take the census of a
population like that, on a given day?
You are obliged to give an ofdicer a district, and he is required to go over that
district as rapidly as he can, and find out
who were in the houses on a certain day,
say ist of August. He does the best he
can, and he may make mistakes such as
the hon. member for Halifax indicates,
but it is not intended that a person shall
be put down who is not there. It is not
intended, as he phrases it, that a person
in British Columbia shall be counted.
The object is to get at the number of the
population with such reasonable expenditure as the country can afford. I say it
would be almost a physical impossibility
to take the course which the hon. gentleman suggests, without such an expenditure
as I am sure Parliament will not sanction ;
and you niust adopt the next best planthe system in force in this country. It is
in force in the United States, and must be,
necessarily, in all sparsely settled countries
where you cannot have an officer at every
man's house at the same instant of time.
HoN. MR. POWER-I never proposed
that such an expense should be incurred.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That

is the only way to carry out the system.
HON.

MR.

POWER-As

it is, the

paper is left by the enumerator to be filled
up ; and it is just as easy for the people tO'
fill it up with the number who are there
on a certain day as to fill it up with the
names of those who are not there at the
time, but are expected back.

Censu8 of [MARCH 2, 1885]

.ManitobaBill.

125

. ION. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That divisions of the country-" their
popu18 lot the fault of the mode of taking the lation and the classification thereof as
cenus-it is the fault of the person regards age, sex, social condition,
religion,
Inaking

the return.

education, race, occupation and otherwise." That would include of course the
Indians, and the classification would show
whether they are Indians or whites. And
so, with regard to the language of the Bill,
I think it would include the Indians.

"ON. MR. POWER-If the Governent have no objections to getting those
are
Census is m the country at the time the
taken and no others, why
do
they object so strenuously to have any
poision put in the Bill that would
limit
HON. MR. OGILVIE-I do not like
the census to the people who
are in the to take up the valuable time of the House,
Country at the
time ?
but I wish to say something about the
question the hon. gentleman from Halifax
IoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Be- refers to-the papers Deing left for a
Cuse there is a provision of
that kind in census to be taken. He asks vhy do they
the Bill already.
not get them filled up now? I can tell
him-and I am not talking from hearsay ;
lioN. MR. GIRARD-It seems
to me I speak from personal experience, not
that the question of domicile
should be going by railway,
COnsidered. The North West Territories last summer overbut travelling during
six hundred miles
e yet in a peculiar position. People are through that country, sometimes on horseanoth ly travelling from one place to back for miles, sometimes on wheels, and
Sometimes it will happen that sometimes on foot, just as I could do ita f
'ak leaves in the Spring to go to more than three-quarters of the huts,
y
fsota or Minnesota
ishing expedition, and on a hunting or houses, lodges, tents or whatever they
when the census were, if one went into them any time
b$ken perhaps they have
not returned, of the day he would find nobody
Three-fourths is not what it
ey never at any time renounce there.
th
Tir right to be known as British subjects. should be ; not one in ten is more
t e, un der such circumstances, it seems like the fact. The people are out at work
th me that they should not be deprived of all day. You may go into a house : there
cen rgt of being enumerated in the is seldom lock and key on the doors ; you
I should like to inquire of the can go and help yourself ; there is seldom
sus.
respern ent what the intention is with any fault found with you for going in to
tePect to the Indians ? I no not know if get something to eat ; but you cannot have
ihey are to be included in
the census,
t sem-s to me the occasion would but the census taken in any way at all that I
be a can see, by having the papers left or by
the one to ascertain their condition in going to an extraordinary expense. In
ca b erritories, their number, and what most cases where a man runs a farm he
race. e done for the improvement of the has a hired man, as they call hini, at work.
rhich e do not see anything in the Bill They go out and work all day, taking some
if proyexcludes them, but I do not know cooked food with them, and do not return
Of the Islon is made for the enumeration until night ; they are at home at
Indian tribes.
night, but you cannot always take
the census at night. To take it in the
th
think the SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I mode spoken of by the hon. member
•o
enu the. Bill makes provision for the from Halifax, would cost a larger sum of
knU eration of the Indians. I do not money than most people dream of. In
1
n w what the intention of the Minister
travelling over that country I have gone
!Bil
In framing the rules under the miles between one house and another,
",der regard to Indians, but certainly and a distance of five or ten miles is quite
th
opulat.he Words of the Bill the Indian common ; it is not uncommon at all to go
is to blon would be included. The census a distance of even fifteen miles before
acertaie taken in such a manner as to reaching a house. A friend of mine went
Cray
with the utmost possible ac- with me to the house of an important
acy
regard to the various territorial establishment, the
Halifax Ranche Com•e

126

Census of

[SENATE]

pany's place. We found when we got
there a woman and two or three children.
There was not a man to be seen, and they
had no idea where the bands of horses
and cattle were ; but by driving ten or
fifteen miles we found them at last. You
can only find the men in their houses at
night, and I do not see how you could
improve on the system which has been
adopted.
HoN. MR. PLUMB-I think it must
have been observed by those who heard
the opening remarks which led to this
debate, that there seems to be a good
deal of sensitiveness on the part of some
gentlemen lest there should be a full
statement of the population of the NorthWest Territories. There seenis to be a
desire, instead of giving those Territories
the benefit of their population, to restrict
them in some way. It is part of a system
which seems to prevail in some quarters
to minify as far as possible the population
and resources of the Dominion. I do
not accuse rny hon. friend of entertaining
such a feeling, but it may be in the
air, and ;t may have impressed itself on
his mind. If the hon. gentleman had
read the Bill he would have seen that as
large safe uards have been put about it as
well could be. We have to depend on the
honesty of the census-takers and the
enumerators, and they have to depend
largely on the information that is given
them. People who give false information
are subject to a fine. It is impossible for
any census enumerator, except he goes into
a house and takes down the names of the
actual people who are presented to him then
and there, to be certain of his information,
and lie cannot know then that they do not
personate others, and he may in that way
be cheated. It is impossible, on any
other principle that I can see, to get any
more correct returns than can be obtained
by the system adopted in this Bill. Provision is made for leaving a paper at each
house where the enumerator cannot find
anyone to answer. What would the hon.
gentleman have ? What does he propose?
How would he improve on that ? In a
sparse population is it expected that the
enumerator, if he goes to a house and
finds the head of that house absent, shall
go again and again until he finds him at
home ?
HON. MR. OGILVIE.

-ManitobaBill.

HoN. MR. POWER-Oh, no.

HON. MR. PLUMB-Well, I cannot
imagine any other way by which it can be
done to meet the hon. gentleman's view.
It is Drovided here that a man shall not
give false information and that the enumerators are tobe checked byother officiais.
I have not that distrust in the integrity of
the people employed for this purpose that
my hon. friend entertains, not having any
idea that there is to be a conspiracy
in the North-West for the purpose of
getting a larger subsidy and larger representation in the lower House, as my hon.
friend has suggested. Part of his statement was that there is a feeling in the
North-West which will lead people, who
are appointed under oath, to falsify their
returns for what will be no possible benefit
to themselves. I do not believe in the
perversity of human nature, although in
the fall of Adam we are ail more or less
corrupt ; but I believe under this systern
the census will be fairly taken. I observe
in the Bill that provision is made for what
my hon. friend the Senator from Manitoba
referred to-that the race, as well as the
occupation, of each individual shall be
given, so that, consequently, there is no
exception made of the Indian population,
I presume. I fully sympathize with the
hon. gentleman in every respect in bis
desire that that portion of our population
which is under tutelage, in charge of the
Government, shall be in every way protected, that their interests shall be
looked after, and that as far as possible
they shall be advanced in their condition;
and I trust that at some other time that
subject may be gone into and more fullY
discussed in this House.
HoN. MR. SUTHERLAND-I have
but one remark to make in reply to the
speech of the hon. gentleman from Hahifax. He spoke of a number of persons
going to Dakota or British Columbia. I
have no doubt that the hon. gentleman
has been informed that such was the case.
AIl of us who have been reading the
public papers from Manitoba and elsewhere' have seen statements made that
there were many people leaving Manitoba
for Dakota and other states of the Union.
Now, the fact is, I can assure this hon.
House from my own knowledge-and I

River St. Clair R'y, etc., [MARC H 2, 1885] Company's Bill
think my information is correct-that
'tstead of our young men going over to
Dakota we have numbers more coming
frorn Dakota into our own territory-- two
to one. As far as going to British Colullnbia is concerned, of course we hope
very shortly that facilities may be afforded
for doing so, but they do not exist yet,
a'Id they are not likely to exist for some
timTe to corne. I did not intend to say
anything on that subiect.
I merely rose
tO refer to this one point, as I know that
there is a certain class of people in this
Country who have gone too far in naking
the Public believe that a great many of our
settlers are leaving Manitoba and the
North-West and settling in Dakota and
Minnesota, whereas the fact is quite the
there;
evrse. There may be a few going
btI have correct information in saying
that a number of those who went
away
very much discontented have returned
Wthn the space of six months
to this
country.

b 1ON. MR. GOWAN-Whatever may
th the relative merits of the two systems,
the census has been taken over every part

127

HoN. MR. KAULBACH-My hon.
friend says " Oh, no," but he knows that
the leaders of the Opposition have made
big speeches in Montreal and elsewhere
to show that the country is being depopulated, and everyone knows that much injury has been done to the North-West
Territories and to our great national undertaking by the reports which have been
circulated by men who cannot really have
the welfare of the Dominion at heart.
Articles have been published by the press.
which supports them, denouncing that
country and the Canadian Pacific Railway. Instead of helping to build up the
country, they are using every means to.
decry it. It would seem as if the party
with which my hon. friend is connected
cannot prosper without endeavoring to
show that the country is being ruined.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time.
RIVER ST. CLAIR RAILWAY
BRIDGE AND TUNNEL
COMPANY'S BILL.
SECOND READING.

Of the Dominion exce t Monitoba ono

ysten,

and if a different one is adopted
bethlanitoba, the value for comparison
that province and
theen theprovincesof of the Dominion
toulOther census
wouldnshort
thjflkfobepscsd
Thrfe
that the one the whole system is changed,
ee , unless which prevailed in taking the
census in
nother provinces should be
a u
hould be
ovne
9PPlied tont
Jnst to that province.
thatpoxice.bridge

HON. MR. PLUMB moved the second
reading of Bil (8), "An Act respecting
the River St. Clair Railway Bridge and
Tunnel Company." He said:-This is a
Bi which provides for an extension
of the time for the commencement and

The River St. Clair Railway Bridge and
1
Tunnel Company were incorporated for
the purpose of building a raîlway
and atunnel to connect the

State of
nON. MR. KAULBACH-I have n Province of Ontario with thc construct
The authority to
Michigan.
ftb
rn
a'r~nv
b)oogneae u
h
the bridge was repealed in the 45th year
havery glad to hear the remarks which
ct th 7o;er
herpeal was flot to
itob eenmadebymlyhon. friendfrom Manit has(bMr. Sutherland), because, no doubt
poicy
b th f te paty
~.conferred to construct, maintain and
Pit.leen to the Government party in op-aig
the policy of the
h tne
ne h *rvr
n
con on
to decry that
fo ntry, and represent it as a place not fit the time for the completion of that work
fr people to lv
.
pae
was extended to the I 7th May, 1885, for
reseople tolive in. They have been commencing and the 17th May, 1888 for
M anitbentig that the people are leaving completing the said work. The petitioners
stead ofa and the North-West ; and indva
doing what they can to aid in the
uejvel o ong oftte
cnt
di h company, beg that an Act may be passed
cryient
of that country, they are de- for the extension of the time for the comg the Canadian Pacific Railway.
mencement and completion of the work
for three years and the Act. respectively
lio' Mc. POWER-Oh, no.
from the passing of six years

128

The Davi8 [SENATE]

Divorce Bill.

The motion was agreed to, and the Bill caution should be exercised by the members of this House before passing such a
was read the second time.
measure. I for one would require very
strong evidence before consenting to the
THE DAVIS DIVORCE BILL.
rupture of the marriage tie. It is very
unsatisfactoryin this case that the evidence
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ADOPTED.
should be in the hands of only a few
HON. MR. DICKEY moved the adop- members of this House. Probably not
tion of the report of thte committee to one-third of them have read the.evidence.
whom was referred Bill (C), " An Act for Of course they heard the statement of my
the relief of Anianda Esther Davis." He hon. friend and myself; yet in a matter
said . The House will readily understand of this kind, when we are dealing with
my diffidence in rising to make this motion. such sacred rights, I think some better
I was in hopes that they would allow the mode should be adopted to give every
hon. member who had charge of the Bill member of the Senate access to the
to move the ado[tion of the report. It is evidence. Of course it is presented in a
an unpleasant duty to make this motion, book, but I should like to see it in the
because the report of the committee leads Journals of the House, if it could be done
to the dissolution of the marriage. At the without giving publicity to the details outsame time, I am free to say if there ever side. No judge in any case, even a matter
was a case in which adultery should form of pounds, shillings and pence, would dethe ground for a dissolution of such a cide without reading the evidence; and I
union it is the one which is now before think, in a matter of such great importance
the Senate. It was truly a sad case. as this, every member should be in a posiBesides instances of cruelty of the most tion to read the evidence before giving
unnatural character between husband and his vote upon the Bill. Whenever there is
wife, adultery and desertion, there were the slightest evidence which might be conother grounds which would have been sidered objectionable to ordinary readers,
sufficient to warrant the committee in it is put into a book by the committee,
reporting in favor of a dissolution of the and very few members have access to it.
union. We had evidence so ample and In this case I do not think there are a
so full of unpleasant details that we deem- dozen members in this Chamber who have
ed it improper to be put upon the journals seen the evidence; and I contend that in
of the House-evidence shewing that even a matter of such importance, it should be
before the usual honeymoon had passed before every member who cares to see it.
away, the respondent, by his own admis- The report was made on Friday last, and
sion to a friend who testified under oath now, at the very next meeting of the
(a disinterested man, a detective from House, we are asked to decide the case.
Montreal), that he had broken his marriage I think the time is too short and, at all
events, that there should be some delay
vow. We have the clearest evidenceevidence of two of the participants and before asking the House to take this step;
outside evidence besides-that for a period time should be given for every member to
of a year an a half, at all events, the form his own conclusions on the evidence
respondent was living in open violation that has been adduced.
of the moral law, in a brothel in Boston,
I therefore
with a notorious woman.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
not agree with the remarks of the hon.
move the adoption of the report.
member from Lunenburg. The evidence
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-I do not on which the committee have decided
rise to oppose the report of the committee, this case has been on the table of this
but to confirm all that has been said by House. 'The only thing that can be said.
my hon. friend from Amherst. This is a about it is that it has not been printed.
very important matter, as all these divorce From the remarks which have been made
-cases are, and it is left to us as the highest by the hon. member from Amherst, the
tribunal in the land to deal with it. To chairman of the committee, the evigrant a divorce is to break more than a dence is not of such a character that it
civil contract, and I think that great would make it desirable that it should be

HON. MR. PLUMB.

The Davis [MARCH 2, 1885.]
Printed or that it should appear on the
Minutes of the House. When the Senate
adopted the present practice it was for the
Purpose of avoiding the inconvenience,
and the injury to public morals and public
eelig, of having these stories told at the
ar of the House and circu]ated through
the country. It was for the very purpose
9f having this necessary duty discharged
Ina manner more congenial to the public
elig and to our own feelings that this
Plan of having committees was adopted;
but if we follow the suggestions now made
by the hon. member froin Lunenburg we
should do away with all the good that
we
have accomplished. Instead of an invest gation of this character being confined to
the committee and listened to only by
hose gentlemen whose duty it is to see
whether there is sufficient ground to warrant them in reporting in favor of the Bill
it would be
th.t, louse in print placed on the table of
is
and circulated everyithere. My hon. friend could not prevent
Itgoing to the public. We have no control
Over the ien who print the papers, and the
tvidence would be circulated all over and
the good wehope toacconplish by appointt g Select committees would be lost. As
t is now, we have the report of
the coinrYttee whose members are chosen by the
'bouse; for the most part, I think I may
ay in. every case, the chairman of the
'ommtteeis a professional man. In this
particular instance the hon. gentleman
omeAherst who, as we all know, stands
eservedly high in his profession, was the
inairmIan. We can in this case, or in fact
th the face of any committee dealing with
decie Subjects, assume that when they
of th e on a case, and when no member
0f -hat Committee rises to throw a doubt
On its decision-when it is their unanimous
foclusion-when we are told that the
dctubebîcited place the question beyond a
and when they are facts which the
cht,
thinkr an of the committee does not
can alproper to mention even, surely we
cm alow in such a case the report
of the
tblittee to go, without laying on the
evid Of the House, or having printed
toaence which cannot possibly do good
Yarone, which may do a great deal of
for tO Youthful minds, and the necessity
Which can be obviated by any gentleran h0 takes a keen interest in the matter
ading the manuscript for himself.
If

J

-DivorceBill.

129

the hon. gentleman from Lunenberg
desired he could have read the manuscript,
and thus have obtained all the information,
but we have the unanimous conclusion of
the committee, and we have the opinion of
the chairman, which I think ought to be
sufficient.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I may explain that I was a member of that committee, and therefore do not require to
read the evidence myself, and, I may add,
I fully endorse the conclusion at which
the committee arrived. I do not wish to
give the evidence to the public as we had
it in the committee, but at the same time
I think when every member of this
Chamber is a judge of that evidence, we
should not be required to take the report
of the committee as conclusive without
seeing the evidence for ourselves. In a
case of appeal from a judge to an appellate court the judges would not be guided
by the decision of the lower court, but
every member of the bench would read
the evidence and satisfy himself as to the
merits of the case ; and surely a similar
course ought to be followed in matters of
such grave importance as the severance of
the marriage tie. I believe we are going
very far when we take it upon ourselves
to separate people who are joined together
in holy matrimony, and that we should
before doing so, have an opportunity of
examining the evidence carefully and
giving our votes with a full knowledge of
the question at issue. The report is
made on one day, it is taken up the next
and probably the Clerk of the House only
brings it in with him when he comes ; I
do not believe half a dozen gentlemen
outside of the committee have seen the
evidence since it passed into the hands of
the Clerk. While I highly approve of the
decision of the committee, I think in a
matter of such importance as this there
should be a longer delay before the House
is asked to adopt the report, and every
gentleman should have an opportunity to
read the evidence before forming his
opinion.
HON. MR. ALMON-I think there
would be a great deal in what the leader
of the Government has said on this subject if the committee were the sole judges,
but they are not. I have no wish to hear

130

Rus/h Lake and [SENATE]

the evidence. I have never listened to
a divorce case unless when I have had
the misfortune to be one of the jury. In
the Nicholson case I was a member ofthe
committee, and there was a great difference of opinion among us. I was in the
minority and very strongly impressed with
the correctness of my views. Now, if I
am asked to vote on a question which I
know nothing about, I may be voting for
something which, if I understood it, I
might not approve of. The hon. leader
of the House says that the evidence is on
the Table of the House, and I have an
opportunity to see it. I was not aware of
that fact and have not seen it. In this
case i shall certainly decline to vote as I
have not seen the evidence, and I should
be doing a very wrong thing to vote on
the question on which I have no information except from hearsay.
The motion was agreed to on a division.
THE PRINTING OF PARLIAMENT.
THIRD AND FOURTH REPORTS OF THE
COMMITTEE ADOPTED.

HoN. MR. READ moved that the
third and fourth reports of the Committee
of both Houses on the Printing of Parliament be adopted.
The motion was agreed to.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (9), "An Act respecting the Canada
Southern Company and Erie & Niagara
Railway Company." (Mr. Plumb).
THE HATZFELD DIVORCE BILL.
PETITION AND

MOTION

HON. MR. BOTSFORD presented the

Saskatchewmn Co.
THE SENATE.

Ottawa, Tuesday, larchi 3rd, 1885.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
o'clock p.m.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
RUSH LAKE AND SASKATCHEWAN RAILWAY AND NAVIGATION COMPANY.
PETITION

PRESENTED.

HON. MR. DICKEY-I beg to pre
sent the petition of Thomas W. Scoble,
for himself and others, for leave to bring
up a petition for an Act to incorporate
the Rush Lake and Saskatchewan Railway
and Navigation Company notwithstanding
the expiry of the time for bringing up
petitions for Private Bills. The petitioners seem to have been acting under
the apprehension that exists in a good
many quarters that under the 5 6th rule
there is no necessity for the presentation
of a petition here for a Bill coming to this
House from the other Chamber.
I
believe there are some doubts about it,
but in deference to the feeling of members
of the Senate on the subject, the promoters
of the Bill now beg to present a petition
asking leave to bring up a petition here
for the legislation which they desire.
They had some difficulty in obtaining the
signatures of all the parti2s, and some of
them reside in the North-West Territories,
and the result has been that they were not
able to get the petition here within the
time fixed by our rules. Their object
simply is to ask by this petition for leave
to be permitted to present a petition for
the Bill. With the leave of the House I
present the petition and move that it be
now read and received.

petition of Anna Maria Hatzfeld praying
that by order of the Senate she may be
supplied with means by her husband to
maintain her just defence in opposition to
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
the petition of her said husband for divorce.
seems to me there is no doubt that there
The petition was received.
should be a petition to both Houses with
reference to every Private Bill. I think
HoN. MR. BOTSFORD moved that that that is the true construction of our
said petition be referred to the Select rules and the practice of Parlianent. I
Committee to whom was referred the Bill see no objection to this petition, the object
for the relief of Georg Emil Louis Hatzfeld. of which is to ask leave to bring up a
The motion was agreed to.
petition in respect to the passage of this
The Senate adjourned at 4:40 p.m.
Bil.
HoN. MR. ALMON.

The Industries and [MA ROI 3, 1885]
IoN. MR. DICKEY-This application

«was made on the practice of last year in
the case of the Netherlands Company. I
have taken the same course now that was
followed then. In the discussion which
took place on that occasion the question
came up as to the propriety, or rather the
necessity of a petition being presented to
this Hlouse. I did not raise that question
then in any way, nor do I now: I merely
ask to have that petition read. It will
then go before the Committee on Standing
Orders and Private Bills, and they will
report whether, in their opinion, the
petition should be presented.
The motion was agreed to.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (1), " An Act to amend the Act to
incorporate the Sisters of Charity of the
North-West Territories." (Mr. Girard).
THE INDUSTRIES AND MANUFACTURES OF CANADA
INQUIRY.

LION, MR. MACDONALD rose to cail

attention to the report of the Commission

ISsued by the Government last year to
enquire into the effect of the Tariff
of
1879, on the Industries and Manufactures
Of the country, and ask the Government
whether the report will be furnished to
MCrnbers of the Senate and a certain
1uml)ber to the country.
He said :
't rnay not be generally known that a
ornission was issued last year by the
Government to collect statistics relative
to the manufactories and industries of the
Country, and to enquire into the effects of
the tariff of 1879 on these industries.
I have therefore assumed the responsity of bringing the most salient features
'In e report to the notice of the House,
nd through this House to the notice of
the country. I consider it a report of
too Imuch importance not to be made as
Public as possible, and too important to
e PIgeon-holed and lost to the country.
1 have also thought it weIl to bring
forward this report, as unfavorable statemnents are frequently made of the condition Of the country, its trade and manufacures; for whether the country is in
Prosperity or adversity, there are always

.Manf'rs oJ Canada. 131

persons to be found amongst its citizens,
who, from exigency of party, or other
insignificant causes, are unpatriotic enough
and always too ready to decry the countrynot content with a legitimate criticism of
the policy of the Government of the day,
of which no one could complain. Such
persons resort to every means to injure
the country and decry the conditions
attached to the very soil itself which cannot be altered by any policy. They
injure it in the eyes of intending immigrants, of capitalists, and commercial men
abroad ; they declare taxation to be higher
than in the United States, the cost of
living to be greater than formerly, work to
be scarce, and wages low. Whereas the
facts are that flour and bread, tea and
sugar, never were cheaper than now.
American flour coming in at $275 duty
paid-a fair amount of labor is to be had,
and wages are higher than they have been
for a number of years as I will show
presently.
One of the gentlemen who makes those
assertions, the ex-Minister of Finance, admitted at a meeting held last December
in Montreal, where he delivered a long
and able address from his stand-point,
that had he not been over-ruled by the
Cabinet, he himself would have increased the taxation in 1876; and I daresay
that gentleman is very sorry he was not
It
allowed to carry out his pioposal.
may be true that taxation has increased,
which is a natural consequence of the
expanse of the Dominior, the wider area
to be governed and the increased construction of national works. As all our
ills are attributed to our fiscal system, let
us-compare taxation in free-trade England
with that of protectionist Canada. Taking
the population of England at 35,000,000
and the taxation about £89,000,000-

equal to about $11 per head.

I will take

the population of Canada at 4,500,000,

and the revenue at $35,ooo,ooo-equal to
about $7.75, a différence in favor of
Canada of $3.25 per head. I will take
the United States, with a population of
50,000,000, and the taxation at $398,287,

581, this will be equal to $7.96 per head,
being 21 cents per head higher than in
Canada-so that Canada bears a very
favorable comparison with these two
Anglo-Saxon nations, England and the
United States, in the matter of taxation.

132

The Industrie8 and [SENATE]

.Man 'rs ofJ Canada.

In order herefore to counteract the and retain the home market for the manuevil effects of such representations, not facturer and farmer, and that free of extra
The people had
founded on facts, I think hon. gentlemen cost to the consumer.
will agree with me that the actual condi- confidence also that the great public works
tion of our industries and manufactories of the country would be carried on with a
should be made known far and near; tha. determination and courage which wouid be
the expansion of our internal trade, the crowned with a succcssfui completion.
increase in production, the increase of inWhen the present system of moderate
vested capital, the increase in the number protection was introduced many were
of persons employed in industrial pursuits, doubtful as to its successful working, and
the increase in wages, and the correspond many predicted failure, but the Governing increase in the savings of the people ment, through good report and cvii report,
should be made as public as possible; held to its purpose steadil, and the report,
and I venture to say that the report of hon. gentlemen, to which 1 have directed
the Commission will be found highly sat- your attention more than justifies the
isfactory to all who wish the country well. expectation of the Government and ParHon. gentlemen will remember the un- liament which framed the tariff Of 1879.
fortunate condition of this country from
The Liberal party in -Jarliament, and
1874 to 1879. No doubt that period is out of Parliament, year after year conpainfully fixed in the minds of many per- demned the present fiscal system, and by
sons. The stagnation in trade-factories taunts and challenges maintained that the
running half time and some entirely closed; voice of the country was against the
bankrupt:ies day after day; strong, able Government and the National Policy. In
men and women demanding work and the face of such assertions and challenges
begging for bread ; when soup kitchens the Government did fot hait or wavcr,
had to be established, and bread dis- but with a courage wbich must be admired.
pensed at the corners of the streets :and with an abiding faith in its policy
those were dark days. But I do not pro- went to the country a year hefore the
pose to hold the Liberal Administration, statutory expiry of the fifth Parliament,
which was in power during that period, the result being a triumpbant rcturn to
entirely accountable for such a lamentible power of the Conservative party, and its
position of affairs, as there were circum- lolicy sustained by the country, whilst
stances unfavorable to general prosperity many of its prominent opposers were left
over which it had no control ; but it at home high and dry. At this stage, then,
can very properly be held responsible for after such an endorsation, Our present
making no efforts to improve matters-for fiscal system becomes as much the achaving no wise, well-defined policy with cepted policy of the whole country as it is
During its first
regard to the commerce and great public that of the Government.
works of the country
It can justly be period of trial the Government was cercharged with borrowing largely, and ac- tainly responsible for its operation, but
cumulating deficits, and with wasteful ex- after a trial of three years, the country
was given the op)ortunity to uphold or
penditure on useless works.
For such acts of omission and com- condemn, and by upholding it in s0 un
mission the Liberal Government will mistakable a manner the Government
always be held responsible by this country. vas to a great extent relieved of its first
But with the change of administration responsibility. I do fot pretend to say
in 1878-9, and the inauguration of the that we have no poor and unemployed
present fiscal system, came the dawn of a persons now. Such an unfortunate class

new era; the country seemed to rise with
.a bound from its despondency ; the cloud
of depression rolled back ; confidence
was restored ; capital formerly shrinking
from investment was liberated and placed
freely in productive enterprises in the
belief that the coun'ry was ruled with a
firm hand, and that reasonable efforts
wouldbemadeto promote manufactures
HON. MR.

MACDONALD.

there will be in every country however
prosperous, but there can be no comparison between the condition of the people
i the period from 1874 to 1879 under
the Liberal Government, when the country
was fot prosperous, and the period fron
1879 to 1884 under the Conservative
Government when the country was
prosperous.

The Industrnes and [MARCII 3, 1885] Rlanuf'r8 of Canada. 133
The money expended on the public
Works of the country has such a direct
bearing on the consumption of our productions that I may be pardoned for
briefly alluding to that subject.
Many persons assert that importations
Of mnerchandise enrich a country ; I am
lOt going to combat that assertion now,
but it will be apparent if such is the effect,
with regard to merchandise, the circulating Power and benefits of which are limited, what must be the benefit of im-

Some of the newspapers of the Liberal
Party have endeavoured to impugn the
accuracy of the report, and to neutralize
its effect in the country; but they have
fot been able to place their finger on any
one figure, or group of figures, and say
this is wrong, or that is wrong.
So that
the figures which I will place before the
House mav be taken as a reliable stateitsnefec inrkthec countryt condition
ment of the absolute ;o buttehhv
of the
industries to which they refer

Porting

THE FOUNDRY
mUINESS.
1 Foundres.-Of tese 45 furnih ur
33 oeinot started prior to 1879, and 12 cointottwhic they refer.as
iinenced operations since that ine. This class
inclideg tue mangfacture of stoves, furnaces,
ornaisental iron work, sirs, pipes, hollow
hare, car wheels, Ialleable iron work, carmoage, saddfery and builders' hardware, a d
ail kinds of castUngs
Prod't
Capt'l
Fct's H'ds W'gs
Factonries
1878.. 33 1,804 $ 697,100 $1,962,400 1,865,500
Saine facthries
1884.. 33 2,907 1,186,900 3,484,200 2,913,000
New fa,tories

large

sums

Its great circulating

of money

with

poer, judiciousl

'ýl11Sinustie
lboe
'national wcalth, it rust be a great boon
-circulates freely and reaches ail classes,
Stilllulating production and manufacture,
Providing work for al], from the highest
The expenditure of large sums of money
on Our lpublic works, is not for our inset
in
the frthelate requirements,
rce a far-reaching policy, having for
uf
it Oujct the preparing and fitting of this
large1country (by opening land
and
cOsrnunitio throughout its length water
and
breadth~
an9nvrosohrwy)
o
reTh

1884.. 12
frIncrease
and knvai

the large population wmith whch it is destined to be peuied ; and the
roney irPOrted or borrowed for such purposes may
justly be left for repayment to people yet
Ucoknon and to thousands yet unor
brnay at sone future time partake o
teits
be
ui
wt
We have in this country, hon. gentleunen, what is wanting in Europe viz
Millions of acres of fertile land, free and at
fr andca
andonacr offrile lad
1owý
cuPatin nominal prices, ready for ocWe do not, viz. millions of a teeming

389

157,400

528,000

274,5W0

of 1884
overi878 12 1,492
647,200 2,049,800 1,3262,000
It will bc noticed that the rate of inr
e -33 29
1,8,0
3 4
2 3 ,000
cres
cent. The average5r7e, in 1878 were
$38636, andin 1884$40794, an increase
of $21.58 per hand. The production has
ivesed in a
647,20r
ratio
1,322,0um
brease in n
ha
er aoithants i
ns ofe
ber of hands, showing that by means of
better appliaaces and facilities brought
into use by reason of the larger /rade to
.an produces more now
done, each

thrplus Population anxious to improve
In this line of business there is some
eir condition.
And one of the most
competition yet, but upon the whole the
nPortant duties devolving on our Governnment is to bring those two elements the trade is in a satisfactory condition.
tOgether.
And as the land cannot be
FURNITURE FACTORIES.
taken to the population, the population

eust be broug htto the land.

This subject

theServes every attention at the khands of
e administration.
I Wdl now give a brief outline of the
te
statistc n
o .taken from the report of the
Theission to which I have referred :~
Tat commissioners were not able from
nt .of time to go over the whole of the
TOinion so that the report falls short of
the actual c
o
th culcondition of things.

2. Furniture Faclories.-

Statistics were

obtained fron 43 of these, of which nunber
30 were in existence prior to 1879, and 13
have started since. This class includes the
nianufacture of general lines of furniture, and
mattresses aud upholstering work.
Fet's H'ds. W'g's. Prod't
Cap'l.
Factories
1878... 30 1.325$462,20 $1,198,600 81,378,500
Same factories
1884... 30 1,753 652,000 1,779,500 1,533,300

lhe Indu8tries and

13A

Fct's H'ds. W'g's.
Prod't
New fact orie s
1884... 13
379 148,700
452000
Increase
of 1884
over '78 13
807 339,300 1,032,900

[SENATE]
Cap'l.

Manuf 'r8 of Canada.
IMPLEMENT FACTORIES.

4. A gricu)tural implements.-Figures were
137,000 obtained from 57 of these works, 39 of which
were established prior to 1879. and 18 since.
Under this head there is included the manu291,800 facture of self-binders, reapers, mowers, horse
rakes,
scrapers,
The hands employed in this trade have rollers, seeders, harrows, ploughs, threshing
cultivators, fanning mills,
increased by nearly 61 per cent, The machines, and general harvesting machinery.
average wages in 1878 amounted to
Fct's. H'ds. Wages. Product. Capital.
$348.83, and in 1884 to $370.73, an Factories,
1878... 39 1,718 $670,900 $2,627,000 $2,290,000
increase of $21.90.
There is also an
increased production per hand in this Same factor i e s
business owing to the improved plant and
1884... 39 2,700 1,076,800 4,757,000 3,750,000
New facmachinery used in the manufacture of
torie
articles of furniture. There is some com- 1884...s, 18 519 197,500 671,500
608,500
petition still in this business with the Increase
of 1884
United States owing to discriminating
over '78 18 1,501 603,400 2,801,500 2,068,500

freight rates.

The number of hands employed has increased 87 per cent. The wages averaged

MACIINERY.

3. Maufacturers of Machinery.-Of these, in 1878 $390.51,

figures were furnished bv 63 firms, of which
53 were started prior to 1878, and 10 since
that date. All the descriptions of machinerv
are included in this class ; engines of ail
kinds,

sawmill,

wood-workirg,

flour-mill,

hydraulic, iron-working, knitting, boot an d
shoe, sewing machines, and boilers, where the
building of these is united with engine work.
Where boilers alone are made they are classed

in with manufactures of iron.

and in 1884 $395-86,

an increase of $5.35. As accounting for
this small increase of wages when compared with other branches of the iron
trade, it may be stated that much more of
this kind of work is now being done by
machinery than was fornerly the case.
Owing to the largely increased demand,
greater facilities for turning out the work
had to be provided, and in this way an
unskilled man is now doing with a
machine what a skilled mechanic formerly
did by hand. That this is the true explanation is also found by analyzing the
figures of production, when it will be seen
that the output has increased over 1o6

Fet's. H'ds. W'g's. Prod't.
Cap'l.
Factories,
1878 ... 53 2,093 $755,400 $2,231,300 $2,273,500
Same factories,
1884... 53 3,334 1,241,800 3,593, 700 3,185,500
New factories,
1884... 10 357 145,700
351,600
294,000 per cent., or $1.57 per hand, showing con-

Incr ease

of 1884
over '78 10 1,598

clusively that machine work must have
632,00

1,714,000 1,206,000 largely replaced the hand work of former

The hands employed in this branch of
manufacture have increased 76 per cent.
The wages, which in 1878 averaged
$360.91, had risen in 1884 to an average
In
of $376.18, an increase of $15.27.
special lines of machinery there is yet
some competition from the United States,
but in the general lines the trade may be
said to be entirely in the hands of Canadian manufacturers.
Some firms are
doing an export trade to a limited extent
with South American countries. In sewing machines there is a steadily increasing
trade, and a branch of the Singer Manufacturing Company has been established
in Montreal, giving employment to a
large number of artizans.
HoN. MR. MACDONALD.

years. The large increase in the capital
invested also points in the same direction.
In the older provinces the market for
these implements is monopolized by the
home manufacturer, but in the NorthWest, in spite of the recent increase of
duty, there is still some United States
competition.
1BON

MANUFAcTURES.

5. Miscellaneous manufactures of iron.-:-

Statistics were obtained from 64 of this class,
of which num ber 43 were in existence prior
to 1819, and 21 have been started since.
This class includes rolling mille, manufacturers of iails, iron bridges, edge tools, iron

punips, hammers, machine knives. axles,
tiles, saws, taps and dies, safes, scales, cutIery, springs, bolts and nuts, screws, garden

and land harvesting tools, boilers, etc.

The Industrie8 and [MARCH 3, 1885] .anuf 'r8
Fct's. H'ds W'g's.

Prod't.

Pactories

8.

43 1,910

$ 679,700 $2,459,600

Cap'l.
$2,464,500

tories

1443acle
tor ie s

1t4..21

2,801 1,094,400 3,901,700 3.294,500

1,162
Of 1884
over'78 21 2,053

519,800 2,306,300

887,700

'934,500 3,748,400 1,717,700

The number of hands employed in this
elass has increased by 107 per cent., while
the average of wages has advanced from
$355.86 in 1878, to 407.31 in 1884, an
increase of $51.45. The foreign competi.
tonlO in axIes, and garden and harvest
tools, has been very keen, owing to the
fact that prison labor is employed in their
n'anfufacture in the state prisons of New
York, Michigan, Ohio and Iowa ; and
Canadian manufacturers think that some
steps should be taken to keep the production of this class of foreign labor from
entering into competition with the product

qf Canada. 135

which were in existence prior to 1879, and
ten have started since that date.
Fet's. H'ds. W'g's.
Prod't.
Factorie s
. 10 611 $134,500 $ 579,500
1878..
Same fac
torie
1884.. 10 1,118 '258,500 1,066,500
New fac
torie
1884.. 10 625 138,500
687,000
Increas e
of 188 4
over '7 10 1,132 262,500 1,174,000
8

Cap'L.
502,000
788,000
444,000
730,000

The number of hands employod in this
class of work has increased by 185 per
cent., and the wages, which in 1878
averaged $220.13, in 1884 were $227.82,

an increase of $7.69.
Before the change in the fiscal policy
these goods were largely imported from
Great Britain, but advantage was soon
taken of the opportunity then given to
make these articles in Canada, and a
wonderful increase in the output here was
ofthe toil of honest artizans in this country. the immediate result. The importations
were soon stopped, and it took but a short
time to ascertain that the production had
TOBACCO AND CIGARS.
gone beyond the consuming power, but
016. Manufactures of Tobacco andCigars.experience will rectify that evil.
froitlese establishments figures were obtained
toin 21, 15 of these having been started prior
to 1879 and six since.
LEATHER, BRUSHES AND BROOMS.
8. Manufactures of Leather, Brushes and
Brooms, and Rope.-In this class figures
S18.
15 1,165 $234,800 $1,009,000 $456,500 were obtained froin 25 factories, 18 of which
%Iefacwere in existence prior to 1879, and 7 have
torie S
started since that date. The class includes
15 1,939 369,300 1,437,500 525,500 the manufacture of brushes. broorns, leather
beiting, trunks, rope, buggy tops, cari clothtories
1
ing and leather.
.8'e 6
172 49,500
206,000 36,000
of 1884
Fet's.H'ds. W'g's. Prod't.
Cap'l.
Over '78 6
946 184,000
634,500 105,000 Factorie
1878,.. . 18 550 $139,500 $928,000 $590,000
The number of hands in this class has Same fac
Itlcreased by 81 per cent.,
torie s
and the wages,
1884..,
whc in 1874 averaged $20154, had New fac. 18 1,204 311,000 1,951,000 865,000
torie
ý¡creased to $198.38 in 1884, an apparent
1884..,
7 213 51,300
203,000 102,000
scarerence Of $3. 16. There were, however, Incre ase
of 1884
to obt y enough of these factories visited
over'78 7 867 222,800
1,226,00
377,000
state 0 f trade
ain
a a thoroughly correct idea of the
and wages prevailing.
P

c.et's.

actoies

H'ds. W'g's.

Prod't.

Cap'l.

-

s

.

It
The number of hands in this class has
flaY be that in this business a smaller class
increased 157 per cent.
corrcor is coming into use, and if this is a
'difre t surmise it would account for the
THE WOOLLEN INDUSTRY.
frence.
9.
TUE KNITTING INDUSTRY.

Woollen Factories.-Of these figures

were obtained fron

started prior to

54, 35 of which were

1879 and 19 bince that date.

4ainfrtting Factories-Statisticswere ob- This class includes ail kinds of woollen
r 0md
1 twenty of tiese industries, ten of fabrics, yarna, carpets and dress goods.
1

136

The Industries and [SEN ATE]

Fet's.H'ds. W'g's. Prod't.
Cap'l.
Factories
1878... 35 1,790 $429,350 $2,022,400 $1,900,000
Same factories
1884... 35 2,275 584,600 2,960,600 2,353,000
New factories
1884... 19 1,138 268,800 1,270,500
933,500
Incr'se of
'84 over
1878... 19 1,623 404,050 2,108,900 1,386,500

Xanuf'rs of Canada.

time promised to attain considerable proportions was the export of buggies and
carriages to Australia, but owing to the
very heavy freight rates it has dwindled
away to comparative insignificance.
CONFECTIONERY, ETC.

11.Confectionery and Biscuit Manufactur-

ing.-Nineteen of these works furnished statistics, of which nuniber seventeen were
The employees in this class of manu- started prior to 1879, and two have been
facture have increased at the rate of 91 established since.
per cent., while the wages would appear to
Fet's H'ds W'g's
Prod't
Cap'l
have changed very little. In 1878 the Factories,
1878 ... 17 715 $195,200 $1,715,500 $646,500
average was $239.86, and in 1884, $244.Same fac18, an increase of $4.32.
tories,
Previous to 1879 there was a very large
1884... 17 1,072 300,500 2,603,300 975,000
New facimportation of these goods from England,
t o ries,
and the competition from there is still
1884... 2
37
8,600
74,000
24,000
felt to a limited extent, but experience is I n c rease
of 1884
rapidly enabling Canadian manufacturers
over '78 2 394 113,900
961,800 352,500>
to competesuccessfullywith these Englishmade goods.
The number of hands finding employment in this branch of manufacture has
0. Miscellaneous Manufacturesof Wood- increased by 55 per cent. The wages
Figures were obtained fron 29 establishinents, averaged
$273 in 1878 and $278.71 in
of which 17 were started prior to 1879 and 12
since that date. The class includes picture 1884, an increase of $5.71.
franes, show cases and waggons, baby and
BOOTS AND SHOE'S.
toy carriages, carriage wood work, carriages,
cars, spooTs, bobbins, snaths and lasts.
Fet's. H'ds. W'g's.' Prod't. Cap'l.
Factories,
1878... 17 966 8318,250 81,487,000 8807,500
Same factories, '84 17 1,085 420,100 1,980,300 1,091,100
New factories '84 12 340 116,200
414,000 260,000
Increase
of'84over
'78 ...... 12 651) 218,050
907,300 535,600

The hands employed have increased at
the rate of 68 per cent.
One firm was
met with in this class who manufacture
snaths, and who previous to 1879 was
located in Vermont, from which state they
shipped their goods into Canada.
After
the change was made in the tariff they
removed their works to Canada, and are
now supplying the trade at prices 33 '3
per cent. lower than when their goods
were sent in from the United States.
A
firm included in this class has recently
commenced the manufacture of canoes,
and are making such beautiful and
finished articles that they are in demand
in England and the United States, to
which countries quite a number have
been exported.
A trade which at one
HON. MR. MACDONALD.

12. Boot and Shoe Factories.-Sixty factories furnish statistics in this class, forty of

which were started prior to 1879, and twenty
have been established since. The class includes the manufacture of all grades of boots
and shoes and.parts thereof.
Fet's. H'ds. W'g's.
Factories,
1878... 40
Sane fact o r ies,
1881... 40
New factories,
1884... 20
I n crease,
of 1884
over '78 20

Prod't.

Cap'l.

5,119 $1,358,700 $5,919,000 $2,544,000
6,606 1,791,600 7,693,000 3,009,500
1,719

503,300 2,061,000

378,50W

3,206

936,200 3,835,000

844,000

The hands employed in this industry
have increased by 62 per cent. The wages
in 1878 averaged $265.42, and in 1884
the average was $275.66, an increase of
$10.24.
The history of the boot and shoe manufacturing industry in Canada is an
interesting one. Previous to 1859 the
trade was supplied principally by United
States manufacturers. In that year the
duty was raised from 12é/2 to 25 per cent.
This measure of protection wonderfully

The Indu8tries and [MARCH 3, 1885] -Kanuf'rs Canada. 137
of
stimulated the growth of the manufacture
in Canada, and from that time forward
the progress has been steady ; each year
has witnessed a larger output than its predecessor in the medium and coarse grades
of work. The trade in the finer lines was
still done by the United States dealers,
and it has been only during the last two
6r three years that any considerable
quantity of these lines have been pro
duced in Canada. Now the gross impor
tations are an inconsiderable portion of
the consumption, and, were it not for the
fact that prices to Canadian dealers are
mlluch below the regular price on the
other side of the boundary line, this
Would be cut off altogether.
METALS AND TINWARE.

13. Miscellaneous Manutactures of Metals.

n this class 33 industries furnish figures;
1 f these were started prior to 1879, and 15
since. The class comprises the manufacture
Wire goods, chandeliers, silver-plated ware,
pins, spring beds, brass works, lanterns,
Pre5ýeed ami
stamped
Watch cases, lightning tinware, bird cages,
rods, rivets and type.
.Pet's.
p tones,
S78. ac- 18
aa .

H'ds. W'g's.

Prod't.

Cap'l.

990 $310,400_$1,092,000 $ 795,000

tories,

18 8 -.. 18 1,274 408,600
tories
1884...' 15 522 190,200
of 1884
Ovee '78 15 807 288,400

1,503,500 1,032,000
762,500

419,000

1,174,000

656,000

from the United States, now purchase
these plates in Canada.
THE MANUFACTURE

14. MiscellaneousManufacturesof Paper.Twenty-six industries furnishpd statistics in

this class, of which number 14 are old estabished, and 12 were started since 1878. The
class includes paper and pulp mills, the manufacture of paper bags and boxes and wall
paper.
- Fet's. H'ds. Wg's. Prod't. Cap'l.
Factories,
1878 ... 14 697 $246,500 $1,338,000 $1,215,500
Same factories,
1884 ... 14 9121- 346,500 1,777,500 1,368,500
New fact ories,
1884 ... 12 640 .188,200 1,137,000 793,000
Incre a s e
of 1884
over'78. 12 855 .288,200 1,576,500 943,000

The increased number of hands employed amounts to 122 per cent. No
comparison

duc'Plies a considerable portion of the pro, and employs quite a number of
the
foreands. Spice packages, which were
madet.ly imported filled, are n:w being
Iade in Canada. A New York firm who
reegaged, in putting up sardines in
chan runswick and who, previous to the
ange
the
ated tin i plates tariff, imported the decor-

can be

made

between the

wages of the two periods, as the rates vary
so much between the men employed in

paper and pulp mills and the small help
engaged in the manufacture of paper
boxes and bags, and the growth in the
different lines not being uniform.
In the manufacture of paper the foreign
competition now felt is from Great Britain
and Germany, while in wall paper and
paper boxes it is from the United States.
The manufacturers of wall paper particularly complain of the unfair competition
wichpl

Tlhe increased number of hands in this
class reaches 81 per cent. As the kind of
he.p employed in the various industries of
this class is very similar, the contrast in
wages for the two periods is given. In
878 the average wages amounted to
313.63, and in 1884 it was $333.42, an
Ircrease of $19.69.
ln the manufacture of stamped tinware
Considerable progress has been made
during the past six years. Deep stamped
ware, which has been added in that time,

OF PAPER.

thep

have to fight

Papners which

are sold in the United States at 14 cents
have been sold off in Canada at 5Y2 cents
in order to close out lines. This industry
has grown considerably during the past
few years, and the papers now being produced in Canada are so tasteful in design
and beautiful in colours that many of the
patterns might almost be styled works of
art.
A fine new mill has this year started
operations at St. Jerome, at which writing
paper is being made. This is the first
home attempt made to supply the Dominion with that class of paper, the consumption of which is very large, and has
hitherto been entirely supplied from outside sources.

MUsICAL

INsTRUMENTs.

15. Manufacture of Musical Instruments.-

used in making the boxes In this class 23
industries furnish figures,

138

The Industries and (SBNATE]

Manuf'r8 of Canada.

twelve of tLem being started prior to 1879, felt, cloth and straw hats and caps, corsets,
-aud eleveu since that year. The class em- suspenders, gloves and mitts, shirts, collars
braces the manufacture of pianos and organs and cuifs, furs, hoopskirts, etc.
and parts thereof.
Fet's. H'ds. W'g's. Prod't. Cap'l.
Fet's. Hd's. W'g's. Prod't. Cap'l. Factories
1878... 37 3,602 $ 812,800 $4,217,500 $2,977,500
Factories,
Sane fac1878... 12
289 $120,700 $345,000 8159,500
tories
Same fac1884... 37 5,674 1,307,000 ' 6,641,000 3,973,000
tories,
New fac1884... 12
956
447,700 1,397,000 647.500 tories
New fac456,000
1884... 24 1,165 246,400 1,327,700
tories,
I ncrease
291
134,900 424,000 152,500 of 1884
1884... 11
Incre ase
over 78 24 3,237 740,600 3,751,200 1,451,500
of 1884
958 461,900 1,476,000 640,500
over '78 11

The increase in the numher of hands
in this class has reached the marvellous
figure of 331 per cent., while the wages
also show a gratifying increase, having
risen from $417.64 in 1878 to $467.20 in
1884, a difference of $49-56.
This trade received great impetus from
the increase made in the duties in 1879,
and it has continued to grow and prosper
up to the present date. No other industry
The men who
better deserves success.
were the pioneers of the trade in Canada
struggled bravely to overcome the disadvantageous position in which they were
,placed. They invested their money and
spent the best years of their lives in an
endeavor to promote the growth of this
branch of manufacture, meeting with but
indifferent and almost disheartening reNow, owing to the wise fiscal
sults.
policy prevailing, they are reaping to some
extent the benefits which they so earnestly
but ineffectually strove to obtain before
1879. The industry is one which largely
.benefits the country, as it employs very
few hands who are not skilled mechanics,
.and mechanics who receive the highest
average rate of wages of any class of operatives in the Dominion. If the Government had no other result to point to as an
.effect of the change of tariff than that
achieved in this industry, it would ii itself
be a lasting monument to the wisdom and
foresight of the people in approving, and
the Ministry in adopting, the policy of
encouraging native manufactures.
CLOTHING, ETC.

The increase in the number of hands
employed is within a fraction of 90 per
cent.
The woollen clothing used in Canada
was largely imported from Great Britain
up to 1879; and even since that date the
importations have continued, to sonie
extent, in the lower grades of goods, but
Canadian manufacturers are rapidly occupying the ground. In gloves and mitts
there is some European competition still
felt.
In furs all the finer goods are now
made in Canada, but in the lower priced
goods there is some competition from the
poorly paid labor countries of Europe.
GENERAL

INDUSTRIES.

17. General Miscellaneous Industries.Sixtv-five factories furnish statisticq in this
class, of which nunber 32 were started prior
to 1879, and 33 have been established since.

This class necessarily includes a wide range
of manufactures, the principal ones being
sugar refining, silk, clocks, whips, wringers,
eniery wheels, gunpowder, buttons, preserved
fruits, paints and varnishes, glass and pottery,
nattresses, oil cloth, window shades, cork
cutting, rubber clothing, jute, spices, etc.
Fet's.iH'ds. Wages. Product.
Factories
1878... 32 1,164$W332,900 $1,848,300
Same factories
1884... 32 2,143-647,800 3,255,000
New f actories
1881... 33 1,410 473,400 8,306,500
Increase
of 1884
over'78 33 2,389 -788,300 9,713,200

Capital.
$1,491,500
1,993.000
2,129,500
2,631,000

The number of hands in this class has
increased by 213 per cent.

Amongst the most important industries
16. Manufacturers of Clothing.-Sixty-one in this class is the manufacture of silk.
industries furnish figures in this class, of The one factory engaged in this industry
whicl number 37 were established prior to
trebled its capacity since 1879, and is
1879 and 24 have started sincq. The class is has
now doing the great bulk of the Canadial
an extensive one, and includes the manufacture of woollen and cotton clothing, silk, trade in the lines which they manufacture,
HON. MR. MACDONALD.

Tle Indu8trie8 and [MARCH 3, 1885] fanuf'r8 of Canada.. 139
viz threads and ribbons. One factory
was started a few years ago for the manufacture of piece goods, but, unfortunatelv,
-he venture did not prove a success. It
's expected, however, that another attempt
In this direction will be made in a very
short time, and, it is hoped, with
more
satisfactory results.
The button factories are turning their
attention to exports, and one nrm in this
"le succeeded in disposing of $12,000
Worth of their goods in the United Staces
du ing the first six months
of 1884.
he sugar refineries employ a large
ýunber of the hands in this class, and it

IS Owing to their figures being in this sectiOl that the production is so large. The
Prices of both raw and refined sugars
were
at the date of the visit to those industries,
September last, lower than had been the
e in any previous year since 1852.
THE COTTON TRADE.

i8.Cotton Factories.-Thenunber firnish"I statistics is 17. 4 of which were in existence
Rincr to 1879, and 13 have been established
S . Ft's. H'dg. .W'g's. Product. Capital.
1878ns,
facn 4 1,361 $276,000 $1,151,000 $1,800,000
ories
T-

4 2,126

445,000

1,872,000

'3,350,000

502,500 2,530,000

3,448,000

3,140 671,500 3,251,000

4,998,000

tories
ncrea .13

2,375

of 1884

er'8-13
Trh .

th e increase in the number of hands in
Wages ss bas reached 210 per cent. The
0 2 in 1884. $202.79 in
2 1Ai 8averaged Increase, $7.49 1878, and
per head.
Aere
vthe
'Werev - factories in Ontario and Quebec

,each 1-sited, and statistics obtained from

Tahe of them, with but one exception.
that hanager of the Dundas mill explained
authority to give any
,e
had
Agr
itos with no
reference
WithOut the consent of to the industry
the directors, and
'ate
0f these were easily seen and the
O
tepare
enquiry in order to
edPare cIosing the had
the report
arrived, this mill
learn to be left out.
Frorn what was
horweed through local sources, it may,
theVer, be said that this will not affect
ittlecneral result, as there bas been but
eIttange in this mill since 1878. The
ut of work turned out, and the

number of hands employed, were probably
about the same in 1884 as in 1878.
It will be noticed at a glance what a remarkable difference exists in this class of
industry between the two periods.
Although for the past year or 18 months
cotton manufacturing\ has been in a depressed condition, and mills have in but
few cases worked the whole of their
machinery or employed a full staff of
operatives, there is still no comparison
possible between the years 1878 and 1884.
In spite of the fact that some mills
were closed down for a portion of the
year of 1884; in spite of the fact that
some of their machinery is standing idledespite all the drawbacks which the trade
bas had to contend against-there were employed in that year in this industry, in the
factories of Ontario and Quebec-leaving
out of sight the large mills in the Maritime
Provinces-3,140 more operatives than
found work in 1878.
And, moreover,
although the hands employed have been
working in, but to many cases on short
time, and although by reason of the improved machinery now in use a smaller
and cheaper class of labor can be employed, the figures show that the average
wages paid was higher by $7.50 in 1884
than in 1878. May it not, therefore, with
confidence be asserted that the object of
the Government bas been fully achieved,
that work has been more plentiful and
wages higher, even in this industry, than
was the case previous to the change of
tariff?
Many lines of cotton goods are now
being produced in Canada which were
not made prior to 1879, and amongst the
most important of these is printed goods.
The year 1884 witnessed the production
of the first piece of printed cotton ever
made in Canada, and, very appropriately,
the presses were first made to revolve on
the natal day of the Dominion.
These figures show that the last years
have witnessed a marvellous growth in all
branches of Canadian manufactures.
That, during the progress of that growth,
errors of judgment have occurred, caused
by want of experience it would be idle to
deny. But the requisite experience is
being rapidly acquired, and may be depended upon to prevent similar errors in
the future. It has been somewhere stated that no articles are now manufactured

140

The Industr2es and

[SENATE]

Manuf're of Canada.

Increase
1884
1878.
in Canada which were not made here
725
258
of factories
467
prior to the change of tariff. Even if No. of hands..
34,552
77,346
42,794
No.
this were true it would be no argument Yearly wages .$13,833,733 $24,396,165 $10,562,432
against the fiscal policy, as it has been Capital invested ......... 37,819,931 67,293,373 29,473,442
proved that the effect of the change has Yearly output 49,966,282 102,870,166 52,906,884
been to so largely extend the operations
The increases have therefore been as
of the old-established industries that for follows by per centage :
every operative engaged in manufacturing
pursuits in 1878 two are so employed now; No. of Hands increased,.......... 80.74 per cent.
Yearly wages
.......... 76.35
but the statement has not even the merit Capital invested "
.......... 77.96
Yearly output
"...........105.90
"
of truthfulness, as the following list of
articles now made in Canada which were
The year just closed could hardly be
not made here in 1878, will show :-Iron considered the most favorable time for
bridge building, sugar refining, cotton the Government to select to obtain statisprinting, rice hulling, and the manufacture tics with reference to the general manuof cutlery, emery wheels, pins, clocks, hair facturing trade of the Dominion. The
cloth, enamelled oil cloths, jute, felt goods, depression which exists in all commercial
organ reeds, writing paper, silver table- countries, which is felt so severely in
ware, organ and piano key boards, Brit- Great Britain and the United States, was
tannia metal works, cashmere and other certain to have some effect in Canada.
dress goods, glucose, steel and many lines The years 1882 and 1883 were probably
of textiles in both cotton and wool. One the most successful periods ever experior two works which were in operation in enced in the history of this country.
1878 and are now closed down, were met Every class of industry, every branch of
with, the largest of which was the bolt business was kept going to its utmost
works at the Humber river. As an offset capacity, but by the end of 1883 a falling
to these, some works were visited which off became apparent, and from that time
are just starting up, and could therefore until the fall of 1884 a retrogression took
furnish no statistics. Amongst these maybe place, which it is now firmly believed has
mentioned the RubberWorks and Sugar and been stopped. A much more hopeful
Syrup Refinery at Toronto, Rosconi Wol- feeling prevails at the present time, and
len and Cotton Manufacturing Company with the care and caution which good
at Acton Vale, Quebec ; wincey mill at business men are expected to exhibit called
Brantford ; paper and pulp mill at Sorel ; into play in trade matters, a successful, if
and the Taylor Manufacturing Company not a brilliant, season may be looked
at Montreal.
These works together forward to for 1885. That this success
would probably employ over 300 hands, will spread itself over the manufacturing
and with a few others in like position industries there is every reason to believe.
would fully offset any little loss there may Stocks have been very much depleted, and
be in factories which were in operation in manufacturers are therefore in a position
1878, and are now closed down.
to secure the benefit of the first wave of
The report of the commissioner for the the commercial revival. They are now in
Maritime Provinces is equally interesting. a position to supply the wants of the
But it will be impossible to give more people in most branches of industry. The
than the results:articles produced by the artizans of Canada
of manufacture are
Increase in the various lines
1884.
1878.
No. of hands,......
14,925
21,813
6.888 fully equal to the products of the industrial
Yearly wages, 8.. 5,658,833 7,484,365 1,825,531 establishments in any part of the world.
Capital invested...11,659,430 18,868,273 7,208,842 The mechanical appliances provided by
Yearly output .... 15,832,182 25,603,066 9,770,884
Industries visited.
1,034
1,410
376 the factory owners of the Dominion are
the best that the skill of man has devised,
The following is a summary of the re- and there is, therefore, every reason tO
sults of the investigations of the two com- stand firmly by the policy which has en'
missioners, covering their examinations of abled this skill and this machinery to be
the provinces of Ontario, Quebec, New brought into active use in Canada. If
Brunswick, Prince Edward Island and that policy is sustained, the future prospects
Nova Scotia.
of the manufacturing interests are assured ;
HON. MR. MACDONALD.

T/w Industrie8 and [MARCH 3, 1885] Jlanuf'rs of Canada. 141
periods of dullness, as weil as of extraorinary activity, nav reasonably be anticipated, but t«le gneral result must be
Upward and onward. Take away that
reasonable, and, in our trade position,
necessary, neasure of protection which is
now enjoyed, and the effect must be an
'nstant and utter obliteration of a very
large Portion of the capital now engaged
in that pursuit, and disaster, distress, and
mTisery to laboring classes.
lion. gentlemen, niy own belief is that
co Government, Liberal or Conservative
Ca' recede from the present fiscal system,
ýhich has called into existence so many
othustries, unless on a reciprocal basis with
er countriesto
witho country can affordown be free trade
internal resthout overtaxing its
our.es
rngland is supposed to approach nearer
shee·trade than any other country, but that
ts
so is an entire falacy. I will be able
to show that customs duties levied by
England are in excess per capita of
that
levied in the thoroughly protectionist
group
' European nations, comprising AustroIlngary, Russia, Germany and France.
First,
ÂUtro4-Iungar

of ......... 37,786,346, collects £ 2,950,000
.ussian EmPire, with a
lire, with a
PoPulation of..
l"ance, witha
o ation of.

e nited King._

Ho,. MR. POWER-Does my hon.
friend think that the condition of those
countries is better than that of England ?
HON. MR. MACDONALD--I am not
drawing any comparison of the kind. I
am endeavoring to show that no country
can afford to adopt a policy of free trade
except on a reciprocal basis with other
countries. I am showing that England,
which is supposed to be a free trade country, taxes her people more than the people
of protected countries are taxed.
These i odd millions of customs duties
levied by free trade England are as
follows :-

On tobacco there was levied in
1881 ...... ... .. ........... £8,658,947
On tea there was levied in 1881....
....
"
"
On spirits

3,865,720

On wine

"

"

....

4,443,607
1,376,219

On coffee

"

"

....

200,251

On other articles-such as cocoa,

chicory, dried fruit, beer and
ale, plate, and playing cards..

ith a ppl9
ujlatijon of..

duties half as much again as the Frenchman, nearly three times as much as the
German, more than five times as much as
the Russian, and more than six times as
much as the Austrian.

Total ................

665,722

£19,210,466

83,659,351

"

45,234,061

"

Now, taking the total declared values of
the imports of each article, and the total
9,349,000 duties levied thereon, we find that the
13,096,000 duties levied in that free-import country
were as follows

"

19,210,000

37,321,186

with
Population of..a 35,003,789

8,887,000

Per Cent.

On wine, a luxury, at the rate of ......
3-7
Every one
41
......
"
otectionist. of theseis countries is rank On coffee,
There
not one of them On tea, the solace of the middle classes,
at the rate of ...... ...... ........
36-6
a larger
\ t has Kingdom population than the On spirits, at the rate ot ...... .....
222-2
United
of Great Britain and
And on tobacco, not a luxury, at the
Ireland t yet8there is not one
of them that
rate of. .. ...... ...... ........ 310-9
jeces anything like so much from its subIn the face of such figures I fail to see,
las jncustoms duties as free trade Engagai, which levies nearly half as much and hon. gentlemen will fail to see, how
as Gn as France, more than twice as much England can claim to be a free trade
ritierany, more than twice as much as country. Such being the case, I have
as sia, and nearly seven times as much proved my assertion that no country can
thissutria. She alone levies as much in afford to be free-trade, excepting on a basis
tIerihape from her citizens as Russia and of reciprocity.
her, though they have nearly
fouir n t
HON. MR. SCOTT-The hon. gentlePut itimes as many people to pay it. To
subjt n another way, every single British man who has just sat down put a question
ect is taxed on his imports by customs on the paper:-

142

The Industries and [SENATE]

That lie will call attention to the Report of
the Commission issued by the Government
last year to enquire into the effect of the tariff
of 1879, on the industries and manufactures
of the Country, and will ask the Government
whether the report will be furnished to members of the Senate and a certain number to
the country.
Instead of putting his question the hon.
gentleman has given us the report itself.
As I was entering the Chamber I asked
whether the report was out, and I was

told that it was not.

I asked Mr. Bot-

terell, and he said that it was not printed.
The bon. gentlemen has evidently got
advance sheets of the report, because a
great part of his speech has been merely
reading the report, and after hearing it
once I suppose none of us will consider it
worth our while to read it over again. It
certainly is a most unparliamentary proceeding for a member of the House to be
furnished with advance sheets.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My
hon. friend is mistaken ; the hon. member
bas not been furnished with advanced
sheets.

Manuf'rs of Canada.

He is taking the 1House at a disadvantage.
I will not inflict the Senate with my conmentaries on the bon. gentleman's remarks. I am iather warned by the
empty benches around me that if I should
attempt to follow him I would run the
risk of the House being counted out.
But I cannot allow all the bon. gentleman's statements to go unchallerged lest
it should be supposed that they are unanswerable. His speech must have been
painful to those who have put rmoney into
those new industries to which he has
referred. They must have felt rather uncomfortable to hear the eulogy he pronounced upon the National Policy. One
would suppose to hear him that those
industries were in the most flourishing
condition. I can only account for the
hon. gentleman's remarks by the fact that
he has not been in the country for some
time and is unacquainted with the true
condition of affairs throughout the Dominion. He bas been in England, or the
Continent, during the last year and evidently he bas not read the Canadian
papers or kept himself posted as to the
value of stocks in the country. He bas
taken up a one-sided report made by gentlemen delegated and named for the pur-

HoN. MR. SCOTT -- How does the
bon. Senator have possession of the report
pose of putting a roseate hue on the fiscal
then ?
policy of the country. I am not in a
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do position to contradict the figures furnished
not know that any Senator has it. The by the hon. gentleman, because I have
figures appeared in the Montreal Gazette not, nor bas any other gentleman that I
am aware of except himself, had an opa few days ago.
portunity to analyze them. I have howHON. MR. MACDONALD-I have no ever, seen scraps from different newsadvantage over other memabers of the papers published in towns where it bas
House. The report came down in the been reported that there bas been an inHouse of Commons about a week ago. crease in the manufactories-statements
Directly I saw that it was down I went challenging the correctness of the asserover and read the report there in the tion and showing that the report is garbrough, and every member of this House led and purely one-sided, that it is got Up
had as good an opportunity as I had to for certain purposes and is wholly unreliget it.
able. But, as I said just now, the hol.

gentleman made some of his frierds, at
HON. MR. SCOTT-The hon. gentle- all events, feel uncomfortable when he

man bas the report in the rough ?
HON. MR. MACDONALD-Yes.
HON. MR. SCOTT-Then I suppose
now that we have had the report read to

us here there is no necessity for printing
it. It will appear in the hon. gentleman's
speech in the official report of the debates.
HoN. MR. SCOTT.

spoke in such a laudatory way of the neW
factories. Taking up the journal of Coin
merce of February 27th, I find the stocks
of some of the most favored industries
quoted as follows : The Canada Cotton
Company's stock stands at 25 cents in the
dollar; the Dundas Cotton Factory, 3
cents in the dollar; the Hudon Cotton
Factory, a large concern with a capital Of

TÀe Indu8trie8 and [MARC [ 3, 1885] 3lanuf 'rs of Canada. 143:.
$ 2 ,000,ooo, stands a little higher, 65 and
something in the dollar. My hon. friend
referred to the industries of Nova Scotia;
his remarks must have agitated some of
n'Y friends here that I know have put a
little money into some of those industries.
IIere is one of those industries, the Nova
Scotia Sugar Refinery ; I find its stock
quoted at 25 cents in the dollar. What
has become of the other 75 cents? I will
not go through the whole list, but it is
quite clear that the hon. gentleman has
nlot read the pitiable accounts of operatives
Put on half-time, of employes put on half
Wages. of mechanics out of employment
from one end of Canada to the other. A
vast meeting was held in Toronto the
Other day to beg and implore the local
GOernment to go on there with public
buildings because artizans in this country
could lot get work anywhere to keep their
families from starving.
Soup kitchens
have been established in different parts
of
the country; I notice there is one in the
0urishing city of London. And this is
1 e Opportune time that the hon. gentleian takes for lauding the fiscal policy
Which was to bring prosperity by Act of
Parliament ! By increasing the taxation
te cou.ntry some fifteen
.f
twenty
fiOs more we were told thatorwe were
ail to get rich. The hon. gentleman
has
fot looked deep enough into the
secret of
Oir success and prosperity during the last
whe -Years It is an easy matter to see
ere it cornes from. It is no secret ; it
cornes from sources that are open to every
dan to examine.
I will not go into
tils
because the House is, I am sure,
ed Of figures, but I will give our exports
!nr the five years from 1875 to
1879
18Csive, and the five years from 188o to
r884 inclusive.
The gross exports, in
eri numbers, during the former periocd
ero $385,00,0 and during the latter
$
$477,ooo,ooo,
difference of
$92,o 000. Does thea hon. gentleman
1idertake to say that the National Policy
duentitled to any credit for the increase
haring the latter period ? No one who
for a correct view of the subject can say
lated b Ornent that our exports were stimuYear by the National Policy. Take the
the 1879 for instance.
We sold to
United States and England that
fia $13,7oo,ooo worth of wood cut
our forests.
In the year 1882 we

sold nearly $25,ooo,ooo worth of the
same products, nerly 12 million of dollars
more. Will any one tell me for a moment
that our National Policyhad anythingwhatever to do with that increase ? I pay the
House a higher compliment than to suppose for one moment that such a proposition could in the slightest degree be
entertained by anyone here. In 1879 we
sold of animals $14,737,oo0
worth ; in
1882 we sold $21,400,000 worth, an
increase of nearly $7,ooo,ooo. Did the
National Policy induce the people of
England to consume more of our mutton
and beef that year? Take our agricultural
products ; the export in 1879 was $25,9oo,ooo; in 1882 it had risen to ý35,500,ooo, an increase of nearly $1o,ooo,ooo.
No one imagines for a moment that the
National Policy brought about this increased export.
But where are our
manufactures during these years? At a
stand still. You take the manufactures
during the last twelve years in Canada
and you will find there is scarcely a
variation of a million of dollars in any one
year. I do not >think in any year they
came up to five millions of dollars ; but
they have varied between three and four
millions. The increase in the manufactures of the country which the hon.
gentleman has pointed out, and which I
admit is the necessary and natural growth
of any country, was perfectly natural; it
was the result of our people having a large
surplus of money. and of some one
hundred millions in foreign gold being
brought into the country. That is a large
sum for a young country like Canada. It
was due to these facts, and to the fact
that our people were seduced by the
Government into the belief that we could
produce great prosperity by multiplying

the manufactures over the country, and
led to put their money into new industries,
and that money has been swept away.
Who of us that have invested our money
in stocks of that kind would not be glad
to have our money back again ? I doubt
very much if the largest portion of us
would not very gladly get it back. I know
there are a great many gentlemen within
the range of my voice who feel that they
would be rich to-day but for the National
Policy. I say there never was so infamous
and disgraceful a tariff established in any

1AA4

Te Industrie8 and [SENATE]

.Manuf'reof Canada.

country, never one which discriminated so Customs Department he can appeal to
the courts of law. After a given number
unfairly.
of days be bas a right to go into the
HON. MR. PLUMB-Hear! hear!
courts ; and it is for thern to say whether
the goods he is entering should come
HoN. MR. SCOTT-The hon. gentle. under one item of the tariff or under
man says hear! hear! It is quite proper another; and the sooner we come to that
to say bear! hear ! because what I say I condition of affairs the nearer we will
can emphatically prove if I chose to go approach to dealing justly with all classes
into it-that this tariff was adopted for of people. To say that a person who
the purpose of favoring the few at the ex- votes for the Government should get his
pense of the many ; and that that has goods in under a lower duty than one who
been the result of its adoption.
That is opposes the Governrnent is exceedingly
the effect of all tariffs unless the duties unfair.
are very carefully distributed, and unless
HON. MR SMITH-That is not the
the industries of the country are most
That is case.
carefully and properly watched.
sure to be the effect, not alone in this
country but in all countries-I an speakHON. MR. SCOTT-It is true.
ing now on the broad principle of all
tariffs.
The tariff of the United States
HON. MR. SMITH-I am sure the
has been as great a curse to that country hon. gentleman is mistaken.
as ours bas been to Canada. We can ail
point out where it has operated to enrich
HON. MR. SCOTT-As I stand here
a few wealthy people and impoverish the it is true, and I can prove it.
many,
Ours follows, in a smaller way,
the tariff in that country, and I repeat that
HON. MR. SMITH-Name any inthat is the effect which is produced by all stance.
Duties, to be fair, should be
tariffs.
equally levied on ail classes of the people;
HON. MR. SCOTT-I can do so, but
but our tariff benefits the few as a rule. It
I will mention it
was framed very largely at the instance of I will not give it here.
to the hon. gentleman if he likes.
the friends of the Government. In putting a tariff of that kind in force you canHON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL-If
not make it operate fairly or justly. Take
the interpretation of the tariff at our anything of the kind has happened it is an
Custom Houses al] over the country ; we accident. The hon. gentleman cannot
know the Department, as a rule, stands by accuse us of an intention to do an
its officers ; and what is the consequence? unjust act.
You do not find the ruling at any two
HON. MR. SCOTT-I say the sooner
A man who
ports in the country alike.
imports his machinery, or whatever it may we have a law by which the decision will
be, at one point pays under a tariff different be ultimately rendered by an independent
I tribunal the better it will be for the country.
from that enforced at another point.
say this, and I can prove it, Facts have I do not say that the members of the
come under my own individual knowledge, Government will misconstrue anything
and I speak whereof I know when I make that designedly, but my hon. friend knows that
statement. I say therefore thatatariffwhich the invariable rule is to stand by the
admits of such abuses is an infamous thing officers of the Department, and they
for the country to adopt.
One of the interpret the tariff in a manner that is
first laws that ought to be enacted in this favorable to the Government. If a person
country in order that this unfair and is known to be friendly with those in high
unjust tariff might operate with some places, to have friends at the seat of
degree of reason and fairness, would be Government, the chances are that he is
one embodying the principle which pre- dealt with on a good deal more generous
vails in the United States, where if a principles than one who is known to be
party is dissatisfied with the ruling of the hostile.
HON. MR.

SCOTT.

The Indutries and [MARCIH 3, 1885] -Manuf'r8 Canada. 145
of
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
not think my hon. friend means to make
that charge against the Government. His
statement is that friends of the Government
get in their goods at one duty and
QPPonents of the Government at another
duty. I an sure he does not mean to
charge us with that.

puts the question on a higher basis so
that it should not be in the power of any
man to make such an imputation-in,
order to take away the possibility of such
a charge being made-the sooner a law
is put on the statute book that there shall
be a reference in all those cases of dispute
to some independent tribunal, one of the
courts of this country, the better it will be
HON. MR SCOTT-I speak fro>n my in the interests of the people.
"n information when I say that I know
articles have been entered at one port at
HON. MR. SMITH--Why did you not
One duty and under one classification, and put in on while you were in power?
the sane kind of articles have been entered
at another port under a different duty and
HON. MR. SCOTT-It was a great
a different classification.
mistake that it was not done, and if I ever
have anything to do with a government
5 HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That again I will endeavor to have it done.
1 a very different thing from the charge
the hon. gentleman made in the first
place.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The same things
happened under your Government.
HON. MR. SCOTT-The goods were
the same in every particular, and yet they
HON. MR. SCOTT-They may have.
Were subjected to different rates of duty I am not defending them if they did
at different ports.
happen. My attention was not called to
the subject before. If it had been I should
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-1 have been just as anxious and determined
have known that to happen between two that the Government of which I was a
conservatives.
Sometimes those things member should remove from itself the
aPpen from want of knowledge on the possibility of such a charge being made,
Part Of the officer. It sometimes happens, as I am now, because I think it is highly
vith reference to sugar for instance,
that improper that any government should be
it is classified as one kind at Montreal and vested with the arbitrary power of fnally
a different kind at Toronto. I happen to deciding such cases.
be on the Treasury Board
where those
things are often discussed. Such things
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-What
ao Occur, I admit, but that they occur as we quarrel with the hon. gentleman for is
agaimst reformers and in favor of con- the assertion that the present Government
servatives, is something which
the hon. have favored their friends in these decisgentleman I an sure will hardly venture ions. My hon. friend I am sure does not
to assert.
persist in that ?

H
-ON. MR. SCOTT-I say they have
HON. MR. PLUMB-Would the hon.
r-curred and they have not. been reme- gentleman allow me to ask whether that
died. I did not propose to bring
that is not inseparable from the ad valorem
point out im this debate. It is just an system, whether that did not prevail
under
diident of rests with this kind, where the the tarif which existed while he was in
scretiDn a tariff of the Minister
to say power as it does now ? The tarif has
ho" the tariff shall be construed. It is a been aliered but the principle has remaintionstrous proposition that the interpreta ed the same, and in the United States the
tin ef a tariff so oppressive should be left same differences occur-they must occur
ery in the discretion of the head of the everywhere, because it is left to the dishipare
who acts invariably through cretion of the Customs Department to
his ubordinates or gives a hint through settle such matters where there are ad
Seaordinates' how the tarif is to be valorern duties. These questions must
Perated I say it is a great misfortune,
come up for decision all the time. Of
think the sooner this Government course I am sure the
hon. gentleman does
K

146

The Industries and LSENATE]

.Manuf'r8of Canada.

not mean to say that this system is in- same way and which require as keen and
tended to be administered for party pur- even-handed an appreciation of the English
language as the ordinary statutes do.
poses.
Therefore I say there is no defence where
HON. MR. SCOTT-Oh no. I do not under the complicated tariff that we are
say anything of that sort. I do not deny inflicted with, the final decision is left with
that it occurred under the late Govern- the head of the Department, and no
ment, but where the duty was generally Government ought for one moment to
17 z per cent., it was less likely to occur interfere with the ultimate reference of all
and less likely to create that aggravation those disputes to an independent tribunal.
of which I speak than where the duty is Their own honor and integrity are at
stake. It is not to be supposed that the
35 per cent.
Government are going to truckle to their
HON. MR. PLUMB-There were much own followers because they are supporters
higher duties than 17 % per cent. before of the party in power; but the imputation
the present Government came into power. is made, and I do not think the Government ought to be put in that position.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I have a case in Therefore this Government should willingly
my mind which I will give to the Minister undertake to make the change. I am not
of Justice. I do not desire to make any making a charge against anyone, but I say
personal accusation against anyone ; on it is an incident of the system. I could
the contrary, I acquit any member of the point out facts from my own knowledge
Government of personally doing anything but I do not want to make a public
improper, or being a party to it, but I do scandal of such things. I have had
say that it is an incident of our system occasion to see that the system is one
that the friends of the Government have which cannot be defended ; that in a
more influence in matters of that kind matter where two persons have a difference
than their opponents. I can mention a of opinion as to the wording of a statute
case to my hon. friend where goods were it should not be referred to the head of
purchased by five different parties from the Department, whose natural inclination
one man. They went to two or three is to give it that interpretation which will
different points in Canada, and the same yield the largest revenue to the country.
class went to another point where another Now let me ask you if I draw up a statute
here and some dispute arises as to the
and a different duty was imposed.
interpretation of it, should a court of law
HON. MR. SMITH-The appraiser take my interpretation ? Not at all; they
take their own interpretation. They say :
might have made a mistake.
" You may have interpreted it that way,
HON. MR. SCOTT-We will not dis- but you have no right to assume that in
cuss it ; there is no defending a thing of passing that law Parliament meant anythat kind. It is indefensible. My hon. thing of the kind."
friend would not defend it himself.
HoN. MR. PLUMB-Are not these
HON. MR. SMITH-There is nu such differences among experts, and I would
thing except it occurs by mistake or want like to ask the hon. gentleman whether he
of judgment on the part of the appraiser. supposes that an appeal could be made
to judges on the bench to decide the
HON. MR. SCOTT-That is what I difference between fabrics in silk or cotton
say, and a competent tribunal would where a dispute arises ? It is not the
remedy any injustice. Redress could be construction of a statute as I understand,
obtained and there would be no favor to but a question as to the value of goods
ask ; all would be on the same level before which are subject to an ad valorem duty.
an independent tribunal. We insist upon That is a matter that cannot be settled by
courts of law interpreting the most simple the courts I should say.
statutes that we pass here, and yet we
refuse to submit to the courts of law
HoN. MR. SCOTT-The hon. gentlematters which affect our pockets in the man has just taken one class of goods
HON. MR. PLUMB.

Tte industries and [MARCH 3, 1885] Manuf'rs of Canada. 147
Where the evidence of experts is of value.
Now the particular case I have in view is
n1ot a question tor experts at all; experts
have nothing whatever to do with it.
IIowever, that is al aside from the mark,
and I an sorry we have been driven into
that line of argument, but it is necessarily
one of the extreme weaknesses of the tariff
that an elaborate tariff like this cannot be
lnterpreted fairly and justly, where it is
left to the head of the Department to
decide. Now, when I branched off on
that unpleasant topic, I was drawing attention to the comparision between the exports
for the five years ending with 1879,
and the five vears ending with 1884. I
showed that in the latter period the exports
amounted to $92,ooo,ooo more than the
exports during the five years of depression
when Mr. Mackenzie was in power; and
1 Was asking the House was it not plain
that the increase of $92,ooo,ooo was due
to Other causes than the National Policy ?
N0 one can for a moment deny that the
'iIcrease was due to other causes, more
Particularly when I have given the
exports for 1879 and 1882, showing
What the difference of $31,ooo,ooo arose
from, and those figures speak volumes
and give a complete answer to the question. If a man sells the products of his
farrn this year to the amount of a thousand
dollars, when he was in the habit of selling
only $6oo in a former year, does it not
fhllow that he has made $400 more than
he had made the year before ? So it is
with the people in a body. We sold in
th82 $31,ooo,ooo more of the products of
the country than we sold in 1879 ; and
that 's the source of the increased prosPerity, and it was in no sense due to
the
ational Policy. That policy was rather
th ercumbrance on it, because it ncreased
the eost of production, and lessened
the
Profits arising from those industries. No
one can say that the National Policy increased Our agricultural products. On
the contrary, one of the grand features of
hO new Policy was that we were to have a
allme Market ; that we were to consume
at ur grain in this country ; that all our
«ttle were to be eaten up by
tives ernployed in our factories. the operaNo one
Can say that when we sold seven or eight
'thlhons of dollars worth more of animals
n
the former year the National
0ley had anything to do with it. It did

not help the United States to buy our
lumber one year better than the other.
There wasacondition of things in the United
States that was very similar to our own.
The removal of the depression was general; it was not Iimited to Canada or the
United States, but prevailed over the
greater part of the world. When prosperity began we were able to stand the
National Policy. We could not have
stood it if it had not been for that change
in the condition of other nations, and we
enjoyed prosperity in spite of the National
Pcticy. What was the consequence ?
Paradoxical as it may seem, with heavier
duties we actually bought more abroad
than before : we bought more cotton and
woollen goods and high-priced machinery
Now, is not that
than in former years.
strange? Supposing that anyone in 1879
had said: " I prophesy we will buy more
cotton and other articles in 1882 than we
ever bought before,"would not Sir Leonard
Tilly have said: "That man is an idiot.
If I increase the tariff from 17Y to 35
per cent., how are the people to buy more
abroad "? We were to be our own consumers ; the farmers were to have their
grain and cattle sold at home and not
abroad. Our operatives were in some way
to eat more. I don't know how it was to
be accomplished, but this home market
was to be furnished. It was assumed that
we had no home market before ; that the
people did not buy from our farmers, but
bought somewhere else. Strange to say,
the population of the country has not increased in the ratio that it ought, under
that happy condition of things that was
to arise.
On the contrary, I am afraid
the population has been rather slow in its
growth, as compared with former periods
in this country. Immigration is no doubt
an important element, but relatively to
the growth in former days, the population
has not increased in the last five years as
one would expect with the improved condition of affairs. Since 1879, by the lifting
of the cloud of depression and the ability
of other nations to buy our products and
pay for them higher prices, we were better
able to bear the great burden that was then
put upon us. Even in many of our manufactures which are most highly favored,
notwithstanding the high tariff, we were
actually buying more abroad than we were

.The Industrie8 and [SENATE]

14A8

.Manuf 'r of Canada.

I have just picked up a Hamilton up our tariff, and by excluding foreign
manufactures, we were going to increase
our irports.
That was what was
talked of; we were to exclude foreign
HON. MR. PLUMB-Which paper?
manufactures ; Canada was not to be
HON. MR. SCOTT-The Hamilton any longer a slaughter market; people were
Times. The authority may not be good not to be allowed to come in here and sell
in the eyes of the hon. gentleman, but I at low prices. Everyone remembers how
The our people were told between 1876 and
give the figures which it turnishes.
hon. gentleman knows that Hamilton is 1878 that they were being ruined by
the centre of the sewing machine trade. Canada being made a slaughter market.
There are more manufacturing establish- The great mass of the people were being
ments there than anywhere else in Canada. beneflted by it ; they were getting their
In 1877, with a tarriff of 17/, per cent., goods cheaper than they otherwise could.
we imported 5,281 machines; in 1884, Why should we in Canada be obliged to tax
with a tarifi of 31 per cent., we imported ourselves in order to maintain a handful
Apparently that was of industries simply because they were
12,259 machines.
the effect of the tariff. Under the reason- Canadian ? We have to go abroad for a
ing which was used in favor of the National great many things; why should we be
Policy, we should have imported fewer required to pay a few people for their
sewing machines rather than more of labor, for working up the material in
them ; but it only shows that we were able Canada? Why should we pay double
to buy abroad, and that the people were prices in order to have those goods manubetter able to bear this heavy burden. factured in the Dominion ? In the eyes
Apart from the increased trade of the of some gentlemen it may be very patric>untry, we had $ioo,ooo,ooo in gold otic to do so, but I do not think it is wise.
brought into the country, and that enabled I have always maintained that you canThe effect of the not protect a country like Canada where
us to do a great deal.
National Policy was not, and has not been, 90 per cent of our wealth is produced by
We still industries that are entirely outside of the
to force us all to buy at home.
continue to buy abroad.
How is that paternal influence of any Government.
proved ? In the very best possible way. They are well known-the fisheries, the
We have to provide a revenue of $35,000- forests, the animals and the agricultural
If the effect of the National Policy products. Now, take any of those indusooo.
had been what its advocates predicted it tries, and do you think it is fair or reasonwould be, we could not have raised any able that for patriotic purposes the
such revenue. The intention was to have 90 per cent. of the people engaged in
Canada for the Canadians; we were to them should be burdened to maintain the
build up a Chinese wall; we were to have other 1o per cent.-that they should tax
no dealings with the outside world, and themselves to get the goods made in
the presumption was that if a high duty Canada at larger prices than they can be
was imposed on any article we were not obtained for elsewhere? Do you think
going to buy it abroad. No one can gain- that that sort of logic would be appreciasay that. Now what was the effect ? Our t ad by the masses of the people of this
imports during the five years from 1875 to country ? Not ai all, because we do flot
1879 inclusive, amounted to $482,000,000, profess to get everything in Canada; we
on which we paid a duty of $66,ooo,ooo. have to bu) very largely abroad.
It
Our imports during the five years from would be very different if we had such a
188o to 1884 amounted to $507,000,000, diversity of climate that we could produce
on which we paid a duty of $97,ooo;ooo. everything-if like the Chinese we did not
Now .s not that a very extraordinary desire to trade with the outside world.
result ? We imported more and we paid But with our notions our trade should
in the latter period of five years $31,ooo- prevail all over the globe.
We are
ooo more duty than in the former. That anxious to stimulate it in every direction
has been the effect of the National Policy. and very properly too ; it is not alone
It certainly was an effect that was unlooked humanizing ; it is not alone making us
for. No one dreamed that by putting cosmopolite, widening the views of our

before.
paper-

HoN. MR. SCOTT.

The Indu8tries and [MAIRCH 3, 1885]

AManf'r8 of Canada. 149P

People, but it does good every way. We election in which the party who represented
i Canada profess to be at all events, the protectionists went to the wall and a
in advance of the rest of the world man who a year or two before that was
We do not consider that we are second to not knownany people on the face of the earth. We
claim that we have a country which is
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
quite able to compete with the rest of the one side is as protectionist as the other.
World, and all that we ask is a fair field
and no favor. I trust that the day is not
HON. MR. PLUMB-Protection was
far distant when the people of Canada not an issue.
will appreciate the principle to which I
have referred, that the 90 per cent of
HON. MR. SCOTT-Read the figures
Our population should not be taxed in of the parties in the United States, and
order that the other ten per cent should you will find that by far the largest number
be engaged in manufacturing articles in of protectionists are Republican. I grant
this country which could be got cheaper that there are some on the Democratic
elsewhere. I say every man should work side. I repeat, the nation is the laughing
at some trade which will bring wealth net stock of the world. They are coining
only to the individual but to the people every year $27,000,000 simply to put the
mi aggregate ; the inistake which the coins in a vault for no earthly purpose ;
the
National Policy made was to stimulate a they are utterly worthless. They cannot
few industries. People who were making spend the money at home, and it will not
mfoney in other ways were induced to be taken abroad. As Mr. Cleveland has
take their money out of legitimate enter- pointed out, they are destroying their gold
prises in which they were getting 6, 7 and basis. I take it that is one effect of
8 per cent. ; they were told that they the wrong system in the United States, a
WOuld get from 10 to 12 per cent. and for result which is sure to follow from a high
the first years it looked like it. Naturally tariff.
The protectionists are working
they drew their money from the legitimate together, each one who is interested in
enterprises in which it was absorbed, and some special branch of industry helping
put it into new ventures, and what has others, in order that the industries of both
been the consequence? The wrecking may be sustained. The hon. gentleman
that I have pointed out with respect to from Niagara understands that question
the cotton trade. I have no report before too fully to for one moment justify the
Ime, but I sent to the library for the insane notion that the United States have
Journal of Commetce, and I have shown of keeping on the statute book a law
the rates at which stocks are quoted. We which compels them every year to coin
were told by the Finance Minister that $27,000,000 or $28,ooo,ooo that are not
those who engaged in those industries worth 100 cents, not worth more than 95
would reap a fortune ; that at all events cents in the dollar-coin that no one will
for seven years to come they might put take. Would any other country in the
ail they money they chose into such world stand that ? I do not believe any
ventures. I say that was rash and
foolish,
but I do not regret the result, because other nation would. Nothing but the
I wonderful resources of the Unted States
think in the history of a young country it and their extraordinary recuperative power
Wl1 do good. All countries like individuals enables them to stand it. We are imitathave to be educated, and this will
provE ing thein to some extent, perhaps not
the very best educator. The adoption olF carrying the folly so far as that, but our prosPOhy will lead people to reflect, or tective policy is entirely in that direction,
themselves whether it is wise and creating monopolies and enacting laws
Prudent that a certain large proportion oif which are designed tomake the rich richer.
the Population should be taxed for the It cannot be carried out in Canada. It
benefit of the few. We have
seen the has recoiled, and it has been found that
System carried out for the last twent)7 we are not numerous enough to stand it.
Years in the United States, and they have We have 4,500,000 of people with a
Somel the laughing stock of the world frontier of nearly 5,000 miles extending
withstanding the decision of the las t Ifrom one ocean to the other, and we can-

150

The Industries and [SENATE]

not undertake to trade with each otherswap jack-knives-and grow rich. It cannot be done. I say it is a good thing in
this country that this high tariff has been
introduced, because when people have
been pinched properly by it they will comprehend what the functions of a Government are-that their duty is to make laws
that affect ail industries equally. It is no
part of the duty of a Government to declare
that one man's industry shall be favored
at the expense of another man's. We
We
should ail be put on an equal basis.
should not be called upon to pay more
than our fair and just proportion to the
revenue of the country or to contribute
taxes beyond our fair and equal share.
Before ten years go over our people will
have fully understood this question. I
can readily comprehend that after five
years of depression this cry, or any cry,
would have been taken up by the people
and would have been carried through just
But this cry had to
as triumphantly.
sustain it in the first two or three years
the unexampled prosperity which dawned
on this country from causes which the
Government were flies on the wheel either
to contribute to or to prevent. No man
will venture to controvert what I say, that
the increased sales we got for the products
of our forests or the products of our farms
were due in no sense to the National
Policy. No one will presune to say that
they were.
It was owing to foreign
countries being able to buy our products.
Will the United States this coming year
buy as largely of our lumber as they did
in 1882 ? I am sorry to say that they will
not ; that the condition of affairs in that
country does not exist that would enable
them to do so. There is not that plethora
of money that there was in 1882, when we
sold so inuch of our lumber to them.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Is the hon. gentleman aware that the rate of interest in
New York has been for the last year not
more than one and a half per cent. ?
HON. MR. SCOTT-I am aware of it,
and it confirms my argument. It is not
the want of money ; I was told by a gentleman last week, who has good reason to
know, that there is abundance of money
in New York to be had at two per cent.
We know that the United States' three per

HoN. MR. SCOTT.

3anuf'rs qf Canada.

cents are at par, and that four per cents
are away above par; and it is with a knowledge of this fact that I make the statement, that in consequence of the overgrowth of industries in the United States
from 1879 to 1883, there will uîfortunately
be a lull for two or three years which will
injuriously react upon Canada.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentleman used the term "no plethora of money."

HON. Mr. SCOTT-You cannot go
there and borrow it unless you give United
States bonds, or equally good security.
You will find every kind of stock in the
United States has been going down
rapidly ; that men who hold large stocks
have lost millions of dollars by the reduction in values that has taken place. Will
you tell me that money can be had in the
United States to build a railway ? Not a
dollar. In 1882 I think 12,000 miles of
railway were built in the United States ;
in 1884 it had fallen to 4,000 miles ; in
1885 I do not believe there will be 2,000

miles of railway built. There will be no
money put in circulation, and the effect
on Canada will be that we will not sell as
largely to that country as we have sold to
them in the past. The hon. gentleman
spoke of the prices of food in Canada; at
one time it was high for the farmer; at
another it was low for the operative. The
National Policy, among other things, was
to give us a home market. Where is the
home market to-day-down, down, with
the bottom knocked out of it. The farmers,
before the introduction of railways even,
got more for their grain than they are getting now. The best wheat in the world is
down to 63 cents a bushel. Is that a condition of things that we can look upon with
anything like gratification ? Are we to be
told that that is one of the successful
results of the National Policy? I say it is
a most fortunate thing ; it shows how
utterly futile it is to expect by Act of
Parliament, to give fictitious values to anything. Our products depend for their
value on the prices which prevail in the
markets of the world. We cannot stimulate them, because we produce more than
we consume. The tariff is utterly uselessworse than useless because it has stopped
trade. Has it not had the effect of send1ing many a vessel across the Atlantic fron

The Indu8tries and [MARCH 3, 1885] 3fanuf 'rs of Canada. 151
Our Own seaports empty because they down by the sea should have some benefit

COuld not get American grain for a cargo ? from their coal mines.
bhis question of grinding in bond, and
bringing goods into Canada for re-exportaHON. MR. POWER-Hear, hear!
tion
has been surrounded by so many
checks and safeguards that the trade had
gone elsewhere.
Trade will not be
shackled, and if you shackle it you will
'Ose it. There is not a protectionist in
Montreal that will not tell you that the
National Policy has been damaging to him.
Then, this attempt to equalize the duties
on flour and wheat-the miller paying so
rfuch on grain-what has it led to ? It
bas just shown how utterly impossible
it
bas been for the Government to reconcile
Interests of that kind and to place on each
1-an his fair proportion of taxes. We had
a deputation of millers coming to the
overnment the other day who said
CHlere they are importing flour into

Canada; we cannot compete with the

nited States ; we must have protection."
I read the papers right I see that there
Was another deputation asking that the
duty on flour be put up. It was
found
relatively that the duty on flour was not
equal to the duty on wheat, that there was
SOmne 15 cents a bushel on wheat and 50
cents on flour, and it took so many more

bushels of wheat than that basis, and as a
.Onsequence American flour was coming

gllto

Canada and the deputation

asked
for redress.
It is an instance of
the inextricable mess you get
into
When you attempt to impose duties
of that sort, because I say you cannot so
adjust thein that the tariff
shall bear
equally on all. However honest
tentio may be, however desirous your inyou may
bat all these industries shall be taxed
a an equitable basis, I say you cannot
aiomPlish it-the thing is utterly imposSible. But the effect of the tariff has been
to rob ihe City of Montreal
of a large
tyd. -- We know that the export trade of
contreal has not kept up as
it should,
i0flidering what we have done for the
rrovenent of the St. Lawrence, and
iur large subsidies to steamships-con'dering all the advantages they
have of

HON. MR. SCOTT-My hon. friend
from Halifax says hear, hear ! Unfortunately they have not got the benefit of it ;
we have been paying it into the Dominion
treasury at the following rate :-

In 1880 .............. $505,61o
" 1881.............. 641,177
1882 .............. 705,288
1883 .. ........... 930,966
I have not got the figures for 1884, but

I believe they are increasing in the same
ratio, and we up in Ontario, who cannot
buy our coal in the Lower Provinces
because the distance is too great, and the
freights are more than we can stand, may
just as well shut up all the factories in this
Province in order that Nova Scotia coal
may be protected. There is no favor in
saying to our manufacturers, " you will be
protected on your manufactures up to 30
per cent.," when at the same t;me you
put a tax on their raw material equivalent
to the 30 per cent. protection. We know
that coal is one of the bases of manufactures-that you cannot manufacture without coal, and coal should be free of duty.
Then this duty has not helped our neighbors
down by the sea.
HON. MR. POWER-Oh yes it has, a
little.
HON. MR. SCOTT-Has it done so

to the extent that we should be called
upon to pay here in round numbers a sum
of a million of dollars a year in order that
Nova Scotians may sell their coal a little
more cheaply.
HON. MR. POWER-I do not say that,
but it serves the coal interest somewhat.
HON. MR. SCOTT-That we should
starve some of our manufacturing interests
in Ontario by making them pay so much
more on coal ?

Xrf
mity to Liverpool and a cheaper mode

been nstruction, and all that, thev have not
Thee1 ing

HON MR. ARCHIBALD-The duty
pace with the vessels outside. on coal has built up our mining industry.
tld there is another question : we are
the chatWe are to pay 50 or 6o cents on
HON. MR. SCOTT-If you do not
the coal we
use, in order that our neighbors
take the duty off coal you may as well shut

152

Tke Indu8tries and [SENATE]

Mlanuf'rs of Canada.

statements present to us? In the short
period since this Government came into
power the controllable public expenditure
has jumped from $6,500,ooo to $1 io0o,000 per annum. Everything else of course
is in proportion, and ail those items that
are called ordinary expenliture for civil
$823,000 to
government, springs fror
over a milion of dollars ; 1 cannot quote
the figures exactly, as I have not got thern
by me. I ask my hon. friend opposite if
HON. MR. READ-You may as well the increase of a few clerks in one of the
public departments, from the growth of
pay it on coal as on tea.
an outside province, warrants the enorHoN. MR. SCOTT-I suppose we are mous increase in this expenditure? My
bound to pay it on something, but that hon. friend knows very well that if it had
up our industries in Ontario. Would it
not be much cheaper for us to take
out of our treasury a half a million of
dollars and distribute it among the two or
three coal mining companies down in
Nova Scotia, than to crush the life out of
our industries by a heavy duty on coal?
My hon. friend from Belleville laughs, but
we are paying a million of dollars in duties
on coal.

opens up another and a very wide branch
of the subject. However I will utilize
that by pointing significantly to what the
result of it all is. The hon. gentlemen
from Belleville says you may as well put
the tax on coal as on tea. Now what is
the effect of this increase of our imports

taken place under the previous Government, how he would have reproached the
Administration with being guilty of extravagance, and wasting the moneys of the
people ; how he would have told me that
it was not possible that the increased
number of clerks was necessary ; that

that has given us this large "surplus," or there was no possible justification for an

call it what you please ? What has it led
to ? Our country has very few more people in it to-day than it had in 1877-78.
At all events, the increase in the number

increased expenditure like that. When
the hon. gentleman looks at the figures he
will find that our increase in the five years
that we were in office, was not 3 per

is not such as to warrant the astounding cent. of the increase that has taken place

increase in the public expenditure that we
have just been looking at. I find in the
Public Accounts placed before us this
session, that taking the ordinary expendi-

under the present Governrent.

I have

not the figures before me now, and I

do not wish to quote them inaccurately, but if my memory serves me right,

ture in the year 1877-78, the controllable what is called the controllable expenditure
expenditure by the Government was six of the Government was certainly not one

and a half millions of dollars. Last year
it had risen to the enormrous sum of
$i1,o:o,ooo.
I ask is there a country on
the face of the globe where there has been
such an extraordinary growth of extravagance exhibited ? I ask if there is on the
whole of this globe any other country than
Canada that could have quietly sat by
while its taxes were increased so enormously and so unduly, or where so little

million of dollars greater when the Government, of which I was a member, went
out of power, than it was when we came
into office.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON
Because it was an era of deficits.
HON. MR. SCO1T-It was an era of

is given in return for it ? It is a question
that cannot be too often asked, and it is
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONa question that ought to be asked of every I increased the public debt.
man in this country whether he thinks
that is a healthy condition of things, that
HON. MR. SCOTT-The public debt
owing to the tariff which has been put in has sprung up from $175,000,000 in round
force in a period of great prosperity in this numbers, in 1878 to $242,500,000, in

country, and which resulted in giving to the round numbers, in 1884.
Government the expenditure of such large
sums of money, that expenditure has folHON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONlowed, as a matter of course, in the devel- The people had to be taxed to pay the
opment of the extravagance that these two the deficits, of course.
HON. MR.

SCOTT.

The Industries and [MARCiH 3, 1885] Manuf'r8 of Canada. 163
}loN, MR. SCOTT-The hon. gentlernan knows where the surpluses come
froM ; they have come from the taxes paid
by the people. The Government deserves
nO Credit for a surplus ; the surpluses
Were not created by them; they did not
cOrne frorm. the Government.
gentleman opposite finds fault The hon.
with the
Finance Minister of 1877 because he did
ýOt do something to relieve the depres81
0· What could he have done more
than Put up the taxes, as my hon. friends
OPPOsite have done ?
the
gentleman mean to tell Doesthat hon.
me
if the
innce Minister in 1877-78 had made the
rIf a 30 per cent. tariff, he would have
got a revenue ?
fON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON-

e have not then the
sh ould could been reduced. expenditure
•
MR SCOTT-During our adfntration is the only tirne in the history
this cOUntry, or of any other country

et I know of, where the expenditure

Whs Put down-the only instance in the
lhistory of Canada where the exyeariture was reduced in subsequent
years as compared with antecedent
years,
'%ld the Public Accounts show it.
1 1ON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONof thould have been reduced to the amount
e revenue.

far as•' MR. SCOTT-I grant you as
sthe deveIopment of the public
he country is concerned that is
not
1aioa question that enters into the calculiu¡*, Ut our expenditures for the adougtration of ordinary public affairs
It n
t to jump up to such a figure as
Year O because we happen to get a good
two.
c fin or pe to -No nation in the world
its
be successful in handling
ta bances if that sort of policy prevailstat beca,,
great ecuse we had two or three years of
tean success, we should squander our
become extravagant in our
pensdit
an n ures. What would you think of
three vidual who, because he had two or
ness 8 s ears of prosperity in his busi' OUId discount the future and live
thel
that

means? Would you not say
Wnnas fool ? It is not possible
a
linterrupted prosperity will continue;
is

cycles of depression are sure to come.
Will the hon. gentleman tell me that the
prosperity that existed from 188o to 1883
is to be continued ? That there is no
pinch now, and that 1884 is to be compared to 1883, or that he can by any policy
except by reducing the taxes bring up
1884-85 to the level of 1883-84 ? I challenge him to do it by any legislative act,
and if he can and will do it then he is
entitled to the thanks of the people of this
country.
If by the enactment of a
statute he can bring wealth and prosperity
to the people of Canada, he should
not allow this depression to prevail.
Why does not the Government introduce
a measure to-day to give employment to
the people all over this Dominion-to
give a home market---to give our farmers
more than 6o cents a bushel for their
grain? Are the hon. gentlemen opposite
acting fairly by the people of this country ?
Is it in accordance with the pledges they
made in 1878 that they should withhold
those halcyon days that were promised
when by a mere act of Parliament prosperity can be secured to the people of this
Dominion? 1 was often told by the hon.
gentleman opposite when I was on the
treasury benches, " Oh you do not do anything." But what could we do? We
ought to have hoisted ourselves with our
own boot straps ; we ought to have traded
jack knives across the House; we ought
to have done something; anything we
could have done to avert the depression
in trade would have been just as logical,
and just as common sense as the illustrations I have just given. You cannot make
a nation rich by Act of Parliament. You
can reduce its burdens; you an make it
a cheap country to live in ; you can develop its trade and its natural wealth by
wise legislation, and the wealth of this
country is its agriculture. You can do all
that, but I say the moment you begin to
tinker with the trade laws of the country,
and thereby tax any industry and make it
pay more than its legitimate share of the
burdens of the people, that instant you
depart from a sound principle that ought
always to prevail in a free and enlightened
country.
I should perhaps apologize to the House
for having detained them so long, and for
the warmth with which I have spoken on
this subject, but I will convince my hon.

16 A

The Industries and [SEN ATE]

friend that inadvertently the gross and
glaring case to which I have referred did
happen, and I spoke with a full knowledge
I had of it, but I totally acquit the Government of being influenced by any such
improper motive.

lanuf're of Canada.

possession of. It would have been good
taste, to say the least, to have deferred
this debate until that report came down
and was in possession of members of the
House.

HON. MR. MACONALD, (B.C.)-If
ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am the hon. gentleman has not got the report
quite sure that is what my hon. friend it is his own fault. It was open to every
meant by his remark.
hon. gentleman of this House as it was to
It was laid on the table of the
me.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I say it is an inci- House of Commons openly, and if the
dent of the system, and the sooner we hon. gentleman did not look at the report
change the tribunal and make it an inde- there is no one to blame for it but himself.
pendent court, and allow parties who are
dissatisfied with the decision of the
HON. MR. SCOTT-I assume that
Government on a matter of that kind to the proper place to get the report is
go to the court any pay the costs, just as through official channels, and as I came
other litigants do, the better it will be for in those doors I sent a page to Mr.
the country. It is the way they do in the Botterell for a copy of it, and I enquired
United States. You can appeal from the at the post office for a copy, and could
decision of a Department if you are not not get it at either place, and I was at a
satisfied with it, and you can go to the disadvantage in speaking on a subject that
courts of the country, and that I think is I had no opportunity of analyzing.
the proper system.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLHON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONThe report was presented to the House of
With the permission of the House, I wish Commons, and it was sent to the Joint
to move the adjournment of the debate. Committee on Printing, and the hon.
I am quite aware that it is not in order to gentleman had no greater advantage 1in
move an adjournment of a debate upon a seeing it than any other member of this
notice of this kind, but as this debate bas House could have had.
In adbecome a very interesting one, and the dition to that no member of the Governhon. gentleman from British Columbia ment in this House bas seen it. I have
bas made a very interesting and important not myself seen it, and the hon. Ministe
statement on the subject, with the consent of the Interior bas not seen it, and further,
of the House, I will move that the debate all those statistics that are quoted by the
be adjourned until to-morrow.
hon. gentleman from British Columbia
appeared in the Montreal Gazette a few
HON. MR. SCOTT-I hope that the days ago-I saw them there myself.
Government will see that the members
of this House are put in possession of the
THE SPEAKER-As this is the first
report. It is scarcely fair to the rest of time since I have occupied the chair of
us, and it is highly improper that any this House that a motion for an adjournhon. Senator should get possession of a ment of a debate on a notice of this kild
public document to which other members bas been made, I think it well to call the
have not the same access.
attention of the House to the fact that if
the question of order had been raised as
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-He to motion I should have ruled against it.
bas not got it from the Government ; he A regular motion cannot be made to adbas read it from a newspaper.
journ a debate on such a subject as that
now before the House, that is on a simple
HON. MR. SCOTT-The hon. gentle- inquiry ; and therefore it would be wel
man knows that the bon. member from for hon. gentlemen who have subjects tO
British Columbia bas read from an official bring before the House which will involve
report of this country, that no other a long debate, to bring them in the shape
Senator, as far as I am aware, bas got of a regular motion.
HON. SIR

HON. MR. SCOTT.

ThJe Davi8 [MARCH 3,1885.]
"ON.
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
like to ask the Speaker
considered this point : that if he has
there is a
dbate m accordance with the rules of the
ouSe, and that there is a debate in
accordance with the practice of the House
f Lords, there being a notice and inquiry;
dthere being a debate, among the incients Of debate must be a motion to
adjOurn.

would

THE SPEAKER-I think the Minister
will find that in the House of
*rds inquiries such as those are not even
entered on the journals, and there must
a foundation in that way for a motion
. is kind, and there is no
foundation

oJustice

igt

r

tis

case.

This system of discussinquiry with the

questions upon an
5otice prefixed
0 to this House
hithe Interior,
Bprevails

was, I
by the
and is
in the

think, introduced
hon. the Minister
after the practice
House of Lords.
r Ourinot's volume on " Parliamentary
etice," in reference to that question, a
0
Oedw be found on page 322. I have
ied the question and I quite agree
nto
the authority quoted here
er -enator Macpherson (subsequently S peak(188S7 nnenced the practice, Senate De ates
8 nate 313, 375, Ib. (1879) 76, 71. In the
to run thle discussion is somietimies permitted
hieh over several days on such an inquiry,
deba te 1s not cistomary in the Lords, since a
*Journied.0, a mere question canniot be ad1

ONs M R. PLUMB-I
ask the question whether, would like to
in bringing forbe e
n nquiry of this kind, it may not
.honcded the part of the member
on
0otinîtroduced it, by a motion without

IJ1E SPEAKER-In

this case

the

thuse has allowed the motion, but I
theght it proper to bring to the notice of
.of th1nt that in connection with inquiries
knd we are falling somewhat out of
Therharnentary practice.
motion was agreed to.

DAVIS DIVORCE BILL.
THIRD READING.
k1014 READ, in the absence of
.
ey, moved the third reading
of

-DivorceBill.

155

Bill (C), "An Act for the relief of Amanda
Esther Davis."
HON. MR. ALMON-I object to this
motion being put, and the members being
compelled to vote for it until the proceedings before the committee are before this
House, so that every person can make
himself familiar with the evidence. As I
mentioned before, there is no need of its
being published in the blue books. If it
is put into the notes of the proceedings of
the Senate, and given to each member of
the House, say one or two days after the
evidence is taken before the committee,
then each person who is compelled to
vote on it can make himself familiar with
the facts presented to the committee, and
vote according to his appreciation of them.
I am not going to delegate my conscience
to any seven men who may form a committee. I want to form the opinion myself
on the merits of the case. I think that
story about the indecency of the evidence
is all bosh. If it is indecent to put in
print, it is indecent to listen to. I have
not been present before at any of the
committees where these matters have been
brought up, and where, if I wished, I might
have heard the evidence. When I first
came here the first vote that was taken in
the House was on the Campbell case, and
I asked leave, as I knew nothing about
the case, to be excused from voting on it.
I was excused. After the question was
disposed of I went to the Library, and I
asked the late Mr. Todd to give me the
report of the trial, which I read, and to
my mind-although I differ from the majority who voted on the Bill-a clearer
case of adultery was never made out
against a woman than in that case, and
when I came in and said that that was my
opinion, I was told that it was not the
case ; that he was an ugly, cross-grained
looking man. That did not convince me,
however, that his wife had not committed
adultery, though it did seem to convince
the committee and the House. Unless
the evidence in this case is placed before
the House, I will decline to vote on the
Bill. If it is not printed what will they
do in the Lower House? The Bill has
to be passed through the House, of Commons, and is this one report to be sent
down there to be looked at by the 21o
members who have to pass upon it? Is

156

The Daviâ [SENATE]

that justice ? Is that the way that such
an important proceeding as the severance
of the " sacred tie " of marriage (as my
hon. friend from Lunenburg terms it)
should be decided ? I think not. I
think you will all agree with me that more
publicity should be given to the proceedings, both for our own sakes and for the
sake of the members cf the Commons
who have also to decide on this question.

Divorce Bill.

mode which the hon. gentleman suggests
is adopted, it will lead to another evil Of
great magnitude. Perhaps it would be
better to allow the third reading of the
Bill to stand over for a while.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I am verl
glad to find that the hon. Minister O
Justice seems to have changed his vie*'
since yesterday. The other day when I
suggested that the evidence should be
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLprinted, I was told that I had a keen taste
There is certainly some force in the re- for such literature.
marks which have fallen from the hon.
gentleman froin Halifax, but the question
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL---Not
is between two inconverniences. It is cer- by me.
tainly inconvenient that those proceedings
should be printed and distributed ; at the
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I undersame time it is necessary that hon. mem- stood the hon. gentleman to say so.
bers who have the responsibility of deciding the case should have full information.
Hon. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL Not
The evidence cannot be printed without for a moment-the hon. gentleman
the facts being spread abroad, and the mistaken.
only point on which I differ from the hon.
gentleman is, that it cannot be printed
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
without injury to the morals of the people was read the third tiie and passed on a
who read those proceedings-particularly division.
the young.
Hon. MR. READ moved that a In'
HON. MR. ALMON-I do not want sage be sent to the House of Comn10'
the proceedings published where it will go by one of the Masters in Chancery to
abroad in the country. No man who communicate to that House the evidence
publishes a decent newspaper will put taken before the Select Committee to
anything into its columns that is revolting whom was referred the said Bill, and to
to the feelings of his readers ; because, request that the said evidence may bc
putting its morals aside, it will injure the returned.
circulation of the paper.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Before the motiO0
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The is carried I might be allowed to say OI"
proceedings do appear on the table of the word pertinent to this question. Aftef
House. My hon. friend, or any other attention was called to the rule of the
member, if he desires to become familiar House, we in the committee to-day e'
with the subject will find there the evi- cluded all persons except the counsel al'
dence. Perhaps it may be a little incon- those who were called as witnesses.
venient to become acquainted with it in would like to call the attention of t
that way in so short a time, but two or House to the fact that it would be u
three weeks might be allowed to elapse possible for us to carry out that Or
between the presentation of the report of unless there is some one placed at the
the committee and the third reading of the door of the committee room. We cou
Bill, and that might answer the purpose. not get a messenger there until we
It seems to me, that as between the two, that half through the work, and it is not a ve"t
might be the better course. I admit pleasant thing for the chairman to have to
there is great force in the remark that a ask strangers to retire. During the 111
member ought not to be called upon to vestigation four gentlemen from the Ou
vote on such a measure until he has suffi- of Commons came in, and it strikes to
cient time to make himself acquainted that those members who have to pass UP
with the facts of the case, while if the those Bills, will find it a serious cause
HoN. MR. ALMON.

Greater [MARC H 4, 1885] Canada.

157

r0tPlaint if they are excluded from the tenth report of the Committee~on Standlh itte room. It seems to me we are ing Orders and Private Bills,
throwing a difficulty in the way of passing
ose Bills when they are
The motion was agreed to.
ofaes, by excluding members ofmeritorious
the House
O
omTimons from hearing the proceedings.
HON. MR. READ moved that the
report be taken into further consideration
UON MR. KAULBACH-The com- o Friday next.
nattee have the remedy in their own
The motion was agreed to.

N.SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-They
rueexercise their own judgment. The
adrniis that the committee has power to
t or refuse admittance.

GREATER CANADA.
INQUIRY.
HON.

DR.

SCHULTZ--I desire to

h SPEAKER-It rests altogether

inquire :
thte comnmittee.
Whether the Government intends that
e motion was agreed to.
Greater Canada, comprising the two Provinces and four Territories lying betveen the
Lake of the Woods and the Pacific Ocean
The Senate adjourned at 6:05. p.m.
which contain our greatest forests, richest
mines and largest wheat belt, shall have representation in the Cabinet of the Dominion
at an early date ?
THE SENATE.
With the permission of hon. gentlemen I desire to explain that I have called
Wa, Wednesday, March 4th, 1885. that portion of the Dominion to which

reference is made in this inquiry " Greater

,'
SPEAKER took the Chair at three Canada," not only because of its geographiclOck
p.E.

Prayers and routine proceedings.

cal extent, but that it is great in the possession of those conditions which form a

nation's wealth.

It is " Greater Canada "

in that it has the greatest extent of coast

?RIVATE BILLS COMMITTEE.

line, the greatest number of miles of river
and lake navigation, the greatest extent

NINTH AND TENTH REPORTS.

stad'
Se

of coniferous forest, the greatest coal measures, and the greatest extent of arable and
MR. READ-(as acting chair- grazing lands ; and, if hon. gentlemen are
ror the Select Committee on not satisfied that I have been justified in
orders and Private Bills pre- the selection of this name, I may go

mnth report. He moved that
the Said e p
S9th
report be adopted, and that the
the
of this House be suspended
erein reconmended.

further and add that great as are the conditions of national progress in the wealth of

forest, mine and land which our explorers,
surveyors and geologists have revealed to
us, yet there is reason to believe that, in
tion was agreed to.
parts yet beyond their investigations, we
have resources in some sense still greater
a ï, R. READ-(as acting chair- than those which I have mentioned. They
Stad '01 the Select Committee on who have sought the shores of the Arctic
11dt'tt Orders and Private Bills pre- Sea by land and river expeditions to its
'4'eir tenth report.
borders, when in search of the solution of

that great geographical problem of the first
. MR. BOTSFORD moved that half of this century, an open north-west paseIldedt rule of this House be sus- sage by sea, have incidentally recorded facts
Petitio
0 far as it relates to the of the greatest present value to us, and a per4al1 Of pany, Huron & Ontario Ship usal of the journals of Sir John Franklin,
the
as recommended by the of Richardson, Hearne, Simpson and
thel

158

Greater [SENATE]

others will reward the Canadian reader
with the most interesting information. One
described a river, from the banks of which
native copper protruded ; another mentions the pitching of the expedition boats
where thousands of tons of asphaltum
could be had with ease. Others speak of
amber and of indications of all the precious
metals and some of the precious stones,
and I have myself seen specimens of crude
sulphur as little mixed with earth as that
which is shipped from the ports of Sicily ;
so that I feel that I am justified in using
the term " Greater Canada."
Now, hon. gentlemen, it is this belief
which impels me to mention these claims
for consideration while making this inquiry. I can easily understand that
reasons may be given for the fact that up
to this time the section referred to has
been unrepresented in the Ministry. As
far as Older Canada was concerned, these
were outlying regions, with which there
was only " theoretical political bond, and
to where access could only be had through
a foreign country ; they had vexed local
questions to settle which might be supposed to interest them to a greater extent
than those of the general policy of the
Dominion, and they had no direct trade
or communication with Older Canada, and
hence the bond of union was as vague and
uncertain as was that of the United States
with California, Oregon, and the Territories
of Idaho and Wyoming before the Union
Pacific Railway was built. Once this
giant bond was completed, California, which
refused the national currency and used
only gold coin, and whose sympathies
were very lax with the war then in progress, became one of the most loyal states
of the Union; and so it will be with us,
for hon. gentlemen will find that when
Greater Canada is bound to us by such a
bond as I have described, dissatistaction
and threats will cease, and when the last
rail shall have been laid, the last spike
driven, which binds together in bands of
steel this Canada of ours from sea to sea,
then and then only will there be that complete union of interest, political, social and
commercial, which is so necessary to build

up a nation; and I hope to hear in
answer to my question that the Government have under consideration the celebration of that auspicious event by granting to the Prairie and Western Provinces
HON. DR. SCHULTZ.

znada.

representation in the Cabinet, and to the
Territories that representation in the Senate
and Commons to which their populatiorl
their great resources and their vigorous and
successful work of pioneering so well,
entitle them.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLBefore replying to the question which mY
hon. friend has put, I hope he will allowr
me to offer him my congratulations upon
the recovery of his health and strength. .I
am sure every member of the House la
glad to hear his voice amongst us, and 1s
equally glad to find that he is strong
enough to make the inquiry which he has
favored us with. I am not able to give
my hon. friend a catagorical reply to his
question, which is, whether this greater
Canada is to have representation in the
Cabinet at an early day ? That is a point
I am sure that he does not expect the
Ministry can, through my mouth, answer
just now. The question, to use an ordinarY
phrase, is "under consideration," and
must, I fear, remain under considerationl
for some time to come. I take the
opportunity to say that I do not concur
with him in expressing his conviction that
every province of the Dominion should be
represented in the Cabinet. I do nOt
think that that would be a practicable
course for àny Ministry to follow. I think
rather, on the contrary, we should look tO'
the Cabinet being made up in the future
with less regard to provinces than we have
been obliged to pay in the past. It is very
desirable that the Cabinet should consist
of the leading men in the country; whether
they come from the Province of Manitoba
or the Province of British Columbia is Of
course a matter of sorne consequence, but
a matter of less importance. Then, 1
think if there were representatives on the
same scale as at present from all the
provinces of the Dominion, we would fird
the Cabinet unnecessarily and inconve?i'
ently large. The Cabinet must be kept 111
such bounds that it shall remain a consultative committee. I am quite sure verl
many committees of this House charged
with important Bills, or important con'
siderations, feel that they could give better
attention and more thorough, cornplete
and satisfactory attention to them if the
numbers were not quite so large as we are
obliged to make them, owing to other

H,
Ab8ence of .Ministers [MARCI
circumstances; so that I do not think the
Point which my hon. friend thinks we
should aim at is really one which, in the
nterests of the country, is to be attained.
Mention it in order that I might not be
COnsidered as dissenting from or assenting
tthe suggestion which my hon. friend
m ade. The larger or greater Canada
Odoubt at some time or other will be
represented in the Cabinet.
A"SENCE OF MINISTERS
THE CAPITAL.

FROM

MOTION.
lON. MR. POWER moved:-

IIfhat an

humble Address be presented to
ti
Excellencv the Governor-General; pray19 that he will cause to be laid Lefore th~is
aeUse a Return showing with the utmost
uracy practicable the number Governd'reing Which each member of the of days
WJ at Ottawa, between the first day of
as
thene and the first day of December in each of
aryears 1883 and ~1884, together with the
eo Plesent. dates when each such member was
rlesar
sin other words, I move for information
ha tow the members of the Government
thin been discharging their duties. I
ovit the duty of the members
of the
tinernment to attend regularly and conth usY to their official work ; that is, all
aSe ernembers of the Government who
(.aried. My hon. friend from Toronto
Unde rmith) of course does not come
Wh that category. I know of no reason
work 1should not inquire as to how the
1
Of the Administration is being done.
tio'n think hon. gentlemen will questhe
PrInciple which I lay down, that
atte ndebers of the Government should
Ild regularly and continuously to their
a right n the first place the country has
ho.aht entrusts
ahars It to the best services of the men
with the conduct
of its
Mrania and whorn it pays handsomely for
to o
g0
those affairs. That is one way
those seat it. The country has a right to
r4enbe "Vices; and in the next place, the
the trs of the Government who accept
ud reposed in thern by the country
h
Daid b receive the salaries which are
eience t he country, are bound in con-

It i

t give their best services in return.

Worthyerfectly true that the laborer is
' is hire!

I think the members

1885]

from the Capital.

159ý

of the Government should have respectable salaries; and I am somewhat of the
opinion, if the system of giving members
of the Government retiring allowances,
which prevails in England, were introduced here, that it might have advantages. I understand that in England
where a member has served for a certain number of years he is entitled to
a retiring allowance.
I should not
oppose the introduction of a somewhat
similar system here, within reasonable limits of course. But if the laborer
is worthy of his hire, on the other hand
the converse is true; and if the salary is
received, the country is entitled to the
services, and the services should be given ;
and the salary should not be taken where
the services are not performed. Now,
before leaving this particular part of my
subject, I wish to say that some gentlemen have thought the resolution which I
have moved is not a becoming or proper
one. It may be that my sense of delicacy
is not as keen as that of some other hon.
gentlemen, but I know of no reason why
the information should not be given ; I
do not see that the position of a member
of the Government is, in this particular
matter at any rate, very different from the
position of a member of either House.
Now, before a member of this House, or
of the House of Commons, is entitled to
receive the comparatively small pay which
he gets for attending to his Parliamentary
duties, he is obliged to make a declaration
showing the number of days he has at.
tended, and every day that he has been
absent leads to a deduction from the
amount he receives. It is a perfectly
sound and proper principle, and there is
no hesitation about making an inquiry
into that matter. Every member is obliged
to make a declaration ; and members are
further governed by returns kept by the
Clerk of this House. I am not sure
whether there is a statement made by the
Clerk of the other House or not. The
directors of bank boards are dealt with in
the same way. Now, I fail to see any
reason why gentlemen selected to govern
this country, and who are paid for so doing, should not be treated in the same way
as members of Parliament and directors of
banks. If there is any reason why they
should be dealt with differently, I shall be
informed before the debate goes any fur-

160

Ab8ence of ALiniter

[SENATE]

ther ; I am not now aware of any such
reason. That is, looking at the matter
from one point of view. It is a simple
question of employer and employed; and
looked at from that point of view, it is
most advisable that the members of
the Government should devote their
whole time to the service of the country,
allowing, of course, a reasonable time for
relaxation-that is understood.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Hear! hear!

HON. MR. POWER-I think the hon.
gentleman from Niagara will find that I
arn never very unreasonable.
HON. MR. PLUMB-How much time
would you give thern ?
HON. MR. POWER-Like every one
who is obliged to work hard, I think the
members of the Government are entitled
to reasonable relaxation. There is another
reason why it is most desirable that members of the Government should be here
attending to their duties. The Minister
of Justice, a few minutes ago, indicated
one view of the position of a Government, that they are a Committee of Parliament. Now, I think that is probably a
correct constitutional view to take. Parliament cannot sit all the year ; it cannot
attend to all the details of business; and
it delegates all its duties during the recess
to the Governrment, and, during the session
of Parliament, it leaves to thern the disposal of the details of business which
it cannot conveniently attend to. I know
that there are other people who take the
view that instead of being a Committee of
Parliament the Government are the masters of Parliament. That is a view which
seems to prevail to some extent, at the
present time. In any case the Government profess themselves to be, and they
are, constitutionally, the servants of the
people, the stewards of the people; and
as such they have very important duties,
which it is of the greatest consequence to
the country that they should perform. I
shall endeavor, imperfectly I have no
doubt, and at the same time as briefly as
I can, to indicate what I believe to be the
duties of the members of the Government
during the recess of Parliarnent, the duties
which renders their presence here at the

HON.

MR.

POWER.

from the Captal.

seat of Governrnent necessary. I think
tha.t they come under four heads.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Make
it five.
HON. MR. POWER-Perhaps the hon.
gentleman is able to suggest a fifth, but I
propose to make it four. In the first place,
it is their duty to attend to the every-day,
ordinary work of their offices, including,
perhaps, in a particular manner, attending
to the cases of persons who have business
with the different Departments ; and when
one thinks what a Department of the Government of Canada is, one will begin tO
realize how very important a duty this one
is. Every one of these Departments of the
Government of Canada has a sphere which
reaches from Cape Breton to British
Columbia. All over these provinces things
are occurring every few days which require
to be dealt with by the Department.
There are persons in every one of these
provinces who , at some time or other
during the year-in the case of sone
Departments, every month - have business
of consequence to transact at Ottawa. It
is true of all the Departments, that there
are persons in every province of the
Dominion who have business to transact
with then in matters of great consequence
to themselves, and in some cases in matters of considerable consequence to the
public. The importance of this duty of
the Minister becomes more manifest when
we rermember that during the session Of
Parliament the Minister, as a general thing,
is to too much occupied with the business
of the session to pay very much attentiofl
to other matters ; and then when we re
member, that as a general rule, a subordinate officer in a Department will nOt
undertake to decide fnally any matter Of
consequence in the absence of the
Minister, we see how necessary it is that
the Minister should be here, and that he
should be here of course as continuously
as possible. The second great reason for
the presence of each Minister in his
office is, that his presence there stimulates
his subordinates to discharge their dutie
faithfully and thor ughly, and it also pr"vides for a proper supervision of the work
It is a matter O
of the Department.
common experience that when the head
of any business, no matter what it may be,

A bsence of Mini8ters [MARLCH 4, 18851 from the Capital.

161

is absent, his subordinates, even though some time previous to the meeting of
hey May be fairly good and faithful and
Industrious men, are apt to relax their
efforts ; and things happen in the absence
of the head of any business, which would
not happen if he were present ; things
which should not be done are done, and
things which should be done, are left undone. There is this to be considered too:
take the cases of clerks in the public DePartnents here ; a clerk gets a small
salary, possibly $500, or $Soo or $1,ooo.
If this clerk, who gets this
small
sees the Minister, who is getting salary,
a salary
o $8,oo, and possibly is not a man of
niuch better education or greater natural
abihity than himself, absenting
himself
from his office, is it not a natural
thing
that the clerk should come
to the conCIUSIOf,

" well

if it is no harm for the

Monster to be away, it is rath r less harm
or me to neglect my duties ?" And the
atural tendency of the absence of the
Ilnister is to render his subordinates
neg1gent in the discharge of their
.uties.
There is another reason which
Is connected with the oie that I have just
gIven ; and that is when the Minister rerTaIns here at the seat of government and
attends to the duties of his office, he is
enabled in a comparatively short time to
become familiar with those duties, and to
a derstand the working of his Department,
itsin that way he becomcs master of all
it
tmportant details, and ceases to be
at the mnercy of his subordinates, which is
t rfost important thing.
In addition to
that .the Ninister who is familiar
with the
of his Department is able to
atrw C5
nswer for it in Parliament in a satisfactory
Way, .I
have nothing to say about the
binsters who are in this House;
that on, gentlemen must remember
two Or e have had, within the last
three sessions, rather melancholy
work tions .of want of familiarity
with the
WOrkif their Departments on the
part of
certain Ministers when
called upon to
nente for their Departments in Parlia
fourth important reason why
the •Ihe
be he mbers of the Government should
the ere during the recess is in order that
for
ay prepare the work for Parliament
an idlch session. It seems to me that, in
deal Govrn
have al, Governmenteach Minister should
ehe the ineasures which affect his own
lart ent submitted to his colleagues at

Parliament, and have thern approved of
by them before Parliament meets ; and
that all measures of a general character,
which require the consideration of the
Government at large should have been
fully considered by the Government
during the recess, and should be ready
to be submitted to Parliament when it
meets ; and unless this course is followed
little is to be gained by summoning Parliament at an early day ; and, no matter if
we are summoned at New Year, we are
likely to be found at Ottawa, like winter,
" lingering in the lap of May," as we
generally have been. As I said before, I
never dreamed, speaking as I have done,
of suggesting that Ministers were not
entitled to reasonable vacation just as
other people who have important work to
do.; but I have this to say, if Ministers
are not satisfied with receiving the salaries
they now get, and with reasonable vacations, there are numbers of people in this
country, good staunch conservatives too,
who would be ready to take their places.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Some
Grits also would be ready to take their
places.
HON. MR. POWER-Not just now.
I think at all events there should always
be a quorum of Ministers at the seat of
Government.
That is perfectly clear.
Having said so much on the abstract
question of the importance of having
ministers at the Capital outside of the session, I shall venture to say something as to
the way in which the Ministry of the day
attend to their duties here ; and I shall say,
as a sort of preliminary remark, that, on
looking at the Public Accounts, I see that
every one of the Ministers bas drawn his
full salary for the year ending July, 1884,
and amongst the rest Sir Charles Tupper,
who was absent from the country for about
half the year which ended at that time;
and I notice too that most of the Ministers
have drawn respectable sums for travelling
expenses and telegraphing, and some of
them very considerable sums for cab hire.
That being the fa:t as to the way in which
Ministers have taken the money of the
country, what is the character of their
attention to their duties ? I have not
made-because I don't know that it de-

182

Absence of Ministers [SENATE]

volves upon a member of Parliament to
investigate the thing for himself-I have
not made any very special inquiries into
that matter. I merely take my information from what I occasionally see in the
newspapers as to the movements of
Minsters. Now, I find that the Minister
of Iriland Revenue and the Minister of
Justice have given very little reasonable
ground for complaint in this respect-that,
as a rule, those Ministers are at their
places here and prepared to attend to
their duties. The Minister of Public
Works and the Minister of Customs, when
absent from the city, I believe, as a rule,
are away on public business-[ think it
proper to state that.
But I may
say this, with respect to the Minister of Public Works, that as the Public
Accounts shew, he has, I suppose in
some degree owing to his travels over the
different provinces, put the country to very
great expense during the last two years
for the erection of public buildings, some
of which were necessary, and some of
which were not necessary ; and I think it
will be found that most of those buildings
have been put up in places where they
would do the most good politically. The
Premier, without whom, as a rule, the
Government do nothing of any consequence, is not one of those who are remarkable for constant attendance at the
seat of Government. As far as I can
gather, he seems to have divided the recess of Parliament between Ottawa, Rivieredu-Loup and European travel. The only
result that I know of to the country
from the right hon. gentleman's visit to
Europe this year-last year, I understand
that the right hon. gentleman went chiefly
onaccount ofhis health, which wasvery much
improved-the only result that I know to
have followed from his visit of this year
is the change of a " K " into a "G " in
the affix to the right hon. gentleman's
name. Whether that result will be looked
upon by the people of the country, many
of whom, under the beneficent system introduced by that right hon. gentleman
and his colleagues, are now working on
short time and receiving very small wages
-whetherthat result willbe lookedupon as
sa isfactory is questionable. I think that
perhaps the right hon. gentleman felt
some question about it himself, because,
I see that, shortly after his return, when in
HON. MR. POWER.

from the Capital.

Montreal a number of unemployec
workingmen were anxious to see him, the
Premier did not care to meet then and
discuss matters with them. They might
have asked unpleasant questions of that
sort.
HON. MR. PLUMB-That statement
was disproved in all the papers of the day,
and the hon. gentleman ought to know it.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Still the
event took place.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The event did
not take place.
HON. MR. ALMON-Will the hon.
genteman be good enough to state where
he saw the statement made ?
HON. MR. POWER-I have seen the
statement made in a number of places,
and I have never seen it contradicted.
HoN. MR. PLUMB-I beg the hon.
gentleman's pardon ; it has been contradicted, and contradicted several times.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Will the
hon. gentleman be good enough to nale
the journals in which the contradiction
appeared, because I have seen the statement in two or three leading papers, and
I have not seen the contradiction ?
HoN. MR. POWER-I have heard the
statement made at places where there Was
ample opportunity to contradict it. 1
heard the statement made the other evening in the House of Commons, and th'e
right hon. gentleman did not contradict it.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Perhaps he Was
not there at the time.
HON. MR. POWER-I did not notice
whether he was or not, but there were others
there who could have contradicted it if it
were not true I do not propose tO saY
much about the hon. gentleman who latelY
filled the office of Minister of Railways
have already adverted to the fact that
while he drew a full year's salary he was

Absence of Mini8ter8 [MARCII 4, 1885] from the Capital.
absent from the country half the year. He
is not now a member of the Government,
and it is not necessary to say more on the
subject. Then the Minister of Agriculture
has been absent from the seat of Governnient a great deal ; and at the present
ail e there is no Minister of Agriculture at
, 1 understand.
HoN. MR. PLUMB-How could he be
absent then ?
1ON. MR. POWER.-I think that
When the Minister of the Interior, who
las been a great advocate of
econoaloY, finds that the country can get
along without two or three Ministers he
li
advocate reducing the
number.
ar co mend that suggestion to him,
a fe he was a great advocate of economy
anew Years since. The Minister of Fine was absent from Ottawa a good deal.
ite hOn. gentleman went to England,
Wt Understood in connection with a
as
toEF. It does not appear that his visit
th tgland was of any special value to
atecountry, because the loan was ultiitely, as I understand, taken-as far as
't 'as taken at all-by the agents of the
ne nion that the Minister should not
lecessary Government, and it was
go to
andgl'fLt
to attain that end.

"' IMR. PLUMB-Did the former
pnance Minister go to England for that
Pupose ?

Pi

nov

fl

R. POWER-We are dealing
hth the present Government and not
te previous Administration.
io R. PLUMB-I am just asking
forrnation ?

t4leon dMR. POWER-If the hon. gen-

able t oes not know, perhaps he will be
haptO get the information : the thing
ýened a good many years ago.

is IoN Si

AI EX. CAMPBELL-That
enter mnan's ox.

t1R. POWER-The hon. gentlee
ore n the other side of the House can
grhe the ox on this side of the House
jhe the time comes ; it is not my duty.
the hon. gentlenan who
sits beside

163

the Minister of Justice, the Minister of
the Interior, was also absent during
a very large portion of the recess. I am
glad to see that his journey to England,
like that of the Premier, has been fruitful
in honors to hin, if it has not been fruitful
of blessings to those who have business
with his Department. I must say I think
the honors conferred upon him are a very
fitting end to a very successful career.
But I wish to call attention to one fact in
connection with the Department of the
Interior ; that, unless I am misinformed,
the deputy head has been absent from
Ottawa during a portion of the time
that the Minister was absent, and
that aggravates the objection to the
Minister's absence. That is a Department
which has a great deal of important
business to do, and I think it is unfortunate
that the deputy Minister should be absent
at the same time that the Head is. Of
course it is true that the deputy was in a
place where he was able perhaps to do as
much good as if he had been here.
Now we have this fact, that during the
year which has just passed four Ministers
have been in England. The country has
lost their services at home here, and as far
as I can see the Dominion has gained nothing by their preser-ce in England, although
it has had in most cases, to pay their travelling expenses in addition to their salaries. I
think, hon. gentlemen, that this is a matter that deserves the attention of this
House and of the public in a special manner, for this reason, that when we were
called upon a few years ago to vote a
large salary, to add considerably to the
permanent cost of carrying out the Government of this country by providing a
salary for a High Commissioner and contingencies for that officer, it was distinctly
understood that the appointment of that
official was to render those continual visits
of Ministers to England unnecessary ;
that we would save as much money by
having a High Commissioner in London,
thereby rendering those visits unnecessary,
as the appointment of a High Commissioner would cost.
But, as a fact,
since the appointment of a High Commissioner, the visits of Ministers to England have rather increased, which is
a matter for grave censure on the part
of Parliament. So far as this absence of
the Ministers from the seat of Govern-

164

Absence of Minister

[SENATE]

ment is concerned, if mv information is
correct, during the greater part of the
period indicated in the resolution which I
have the honor of laying before the House,
there bas not been a quorum of the
Cabinet at Ottawa. One of the results of
those absences of Ministers from their
Departments is that there are complaints
arising in all parts of the Dominion,
owing to the delay, difficulty and expense
attending the transaction of any business
liere at Ottawa, with the -Governmient at
large or with any Department of it.

from the Capital.

quorum of the Government at Ottawa to
transact business.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is
truc of this Government also.

HON. MR. POWER-Not so true.
Then the Government in this particular
matter form a striking contrast with the
different local governments throughout
the Dominion
If any man who bas business to transact with one of the local
governments cornes to the capital of the
province, he bas no difficulty, as a rule,
in fnding the Government or the member
HON. MR. MACDONALD, (B.C.)Will the hon. gentleman name one single of the Government he wishcs to sec, and
his business is transacted cheaply and
case ?
expeditiously.
HON. MR. POWER-I can name cases,
HON. MR. PLUMB-How do you
but I do not propose to do so. The hon.
Have you transacted business
gentleman will have an opportunity if he know?
wishes, by and by, to contradict what I say. with them all ?
I make the statement, and I know what I
HON. MR. POWER-I have had al
am talking about, which perhaps is more
than can be said of certain hon. gentlemen. opportunity of knowing how business is
Now in this respect the present Adminis- donc with a couple of local governments,
tration at Ottawa compare very unfavor- at any rate. It seems to me it is perfectly
ably with their predecessors. Whatever absurd that a Government like the present
might be said as to Mr. Nlackenzie's Administration at Ottawa, which neglects
manner of receiving visitors--taking the its own legitimate business, should try tO
Premier by himself- whether bis manner grasp jurisdiction over matters which
to visitors Nas quite as agrecable as the belong to the different provinces,and which
manner of the present Premier, there was the provincial governments attend to in.a
one thing, he was always to be found in more satistactory way. The result of this
his office, and he was ready to give an interference bas been just what one would
answer to people who had business expect.
with him.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-That is e"'
tirely foreign to the question before us.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Ex
cept when he went to England.
HON. MR. POWER--Perhaps I a
not in the habit of keeping as strictlY to
HON. MR. POWER-He only went the liie of my argument as the hon. gerl
once.
tleman from Lunenburg ; but I must bc
excused, as I have not his logical in '
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMP'ELL-He The countrv has suffered a serious 1o5
went twice.
from the neglect of the work of supervisoD
of the different Departments ; and as the
HON. MR. POWER-If he did he went cases I propose to refer to are matters 0
on business, and there were results ap- public notoriety, I will, to gratify my hol
parent from his visit to England.
friend from British Columbia, give r
stances in which the country has suffere
HON. MR. P'LUNIB---What were they? from that neglect. The first matter is ol
which was referred to at considerabe
HON. MR. POWER--l'his was truc length in this House the other day-th
about the Mackenzie Administration; that mail service between the Mainland aup
there was always, or mostly always, a i Prince Edward Island. Under the A
HON. MR. POWER.

Aimence of Mini8ters [MARCI 4, 1885] fron the Capital.
lnistration of Mr. Mackenzie the gentleinsen hO support the present Government
ser -d that the system under which that
steewas carried on then was most unsiesfactory, and should be altered ; but
tho years were allowed to elapse after
anyse gentlemen came into power before

thi step whatever was taken to remedy
yalSunsatisfactory
state of things.

Two

Yeago~a committee of the House of
latteons was appointed to consider the
deal ; sat for a long time ; took a great

16&

concur in the award. Sir Charles Tupper,
the then Minister of Railways and Canals,
declared that it was his intention to
appeal from the award of the arbitrators.
Unfortunately Sir Charles Tupper left the
country shortly after Parliament rose last
year, and owing to that fact, and to the
fact that it took some time for the new
Minister to become familiar with the
duties of the office, the appeal was not
taken, and $395,ooo was lost to the
country.

d e f evidence; considered that evi-

U tce carefully, and made a report ; and
fro tdathe e piration of about two years
been ta ate of that report no step had
t n
en to carry out the recommendaJusticf the report ; and the Minister of'

his

e, when the matter was brought to
ga notice here, answered, as far as I could
looker that the thing had been overNow, clearly, if the Minister of
arie
. gre and Fisheries, instead of spending
at Portion of the summer before last
,lot ho, had been in Ottawa, he would
ave overlooked this matter ; and the
of Who we were told were at work out
belors this winter with the thermometer

he bzero building boathouses, would
Year been at work at the same season the

Sureefore. Another matter that has
Meired from want of supervision by the
genter is immigration. I see that the

nan wVho lately acted as Minister of

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
hon. gentleman is mistaken as to what Sir
Charles Tupper said in that connection.
Sir Charles Tupper did not state that he
would appeal from the award, but that he
would take advice as to whether the Government should appeal or not.
He did
take advice, and owing to the advice he
received, he did not take the appeal.
HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentleman has contradicted me before, and I
shall at another time satisfy myself as to
the exact language used by Sir Charles
Tupper on that occasion.
It is not the
first time that the hon. Minister has contradicted me, and it has turned out afterwards that he was in error and not I.
Although I accept his contradiction now,
I do it subject to the reservation I have
made.

that hture has stated in another place
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It so
etain does not propose to bring in a
borers
s of immigrants any longer- happened that in this case it was my
gration and mechanics; that the immi- advice that was sought.
COU
Of that class is
to be
taged. The objection notthat classento
of
HON. MR. POWER-In that case I
it rs was just as great two years ago shall withdraw what I said.
bee
w and if that gentleman had
eartatening to the duties of his DeHON. MR. PLUMB-I think it shows
... dentI Presume those immigrants that the hon. gentleman is dealing with a
Within tot have come who have come subject that he knows nothing about.

couple of years.
If We the last evidence in the legislation
the ave had
fatriiiarit st few years that a want of
orthWY with the requirements of the
le r. est has led to errors of considerlthen thent in dealing with that country.
e nnect ere is the Section B contract in
Iays adn With the Department of RailPart fld Canals. The contractors for
awardethe Work on that section were
that e G95,oo for extras. It appeared
overnent arbitrator did not

HON. MR. POWER-If the Opposition

of to-day were to conduct their opposition
in the same spirit in which the opposition of
a few years ago was conducted in this
House, I should turn around and say that

the hon. Minister was to blame, and that
there was something wrong about the
transaction ; but that is not the kind of

argument that we believe in using.
Section B has been disposed of; but I
cannot help thinking that, even though I

166

Absence of Minister8

[SEN ATE] from the Capital.

was wrong as to the appeal, if the work of
the Departmnent had been properly -supervised those contractors never should have
got so large a sun as they did, and that it
would have been much betterforthe Government not to have altered, as they did
alter, the original contract with a view of
making the work cost less. It would have
been cheaper for the country to have
built a more expensive road, and we should
have had a better road, and would not have
had to pay any more for it.
I an quite
uninformed on the next matter, except as
I see it in the Public Accounts, and it is
something as to which I presume the
Minister of Interior, if he was here at the
time the money was paid, would have made
a very close inquiry. In the Public Accounts
brought down this session I find the sum
of $2,ooo paid on account of Fort Frances

Lock, to Mr. Hugh Sutherland.
I remember that in the session of 1879, in
reply to a question fron the hon. gentleman who is now Minister of the Interior,
the leader of the Government in this
House stated that they did not propose
to spend anything more on the Fort
Frances Lock, and he intimated that the
account was closed. That is what I
gathered from what he said. I want to
know now how it has happened that after
a lapse of five years we find $2,000 more
paid to a gentleman who was very harshly
spoken of by the hon. gentleman opposite,
in the days when Mr. Mackenzie was in
power.
I do not suppose that there is
any connection between the payment of
that sum, unexpected to some of us at any
rate, and the fact that the gentleman who
received it, years ago opposed the Government but has recently sustained them.

HON. MR POWER-I am shewing the
reasons why this resolution should pass,
and why it is in the interest of the country
that the heads of the various Departments
should be more attentive to their duties.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I beg tO
call the attention of the Chair to the fact
that it is contrary to the dignity of this
House that the hon. gentleman from
Halifax cannot rise to address this Chamuber without five or six Ministerial members
constantly interrupting him. If such a
system is to be introduced and continued
there can be no order or dignity in the
debates of this House.
HON. MR. POWER-It will be remenbered by most hon. gentlemen, I presurne,
that, in the days when the Governmnent
themselves had charge of the Canadian
Pacific Railway, their chief engineer laid
down as a postulate that for a transcontinental railway which was expected to carry
freight, no grade over 52 feet in the mile
should be tolerated. If I am not mistakel
the late Minister of Railways, from his
place in the House of Commons, endorsed Mr. Fleming's views on that matter,
If that was a sound principle, and I think
it was, that for a railway that was expected
to transport any considerable quantity Of
freight, no grade materially exceeding 52
feet in the mile should be allowed, then it
was the duty of the Government to see
that when the road was being constructed
by a company no such grade should be
permitted. What is the fact ? The fact
is that the Govern-nent have accepted
from the Pacific Railway Company, the
location of the road through the Selkirk
Range where there is a grade of 240 feet
to the mile.

HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONDo I understand the hon. gentleman to
say that the payment was made through
HON. MR. PLUMB-There is no such
the Department of the Interior ?
grade, and no such acceptance.

HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentleman has contradicted me before without
reason, and I have no hesitation in sayiiu
that he has nowcontradicted me on chance,
and that he is mistaken ; and I tell the
hon. gentleman, from the best authority
the authority of engineers familiar with
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentle- the work-that there are grades between
man ought to ask for an explanation on a Kicking Horse Pass and Kamloops, o
notice of inquiry.
240 feet to the mile.
HON. MR. POWER-No, but I presume that the payment would not be
made without the close scrutiny of the
hon. gentleman as a member of the Government, and that some explanation
would be given by him.

HON. MR. TOWER.

Absence of

Xinisters

[MARC H A, 1885] from the Capital.

167

HON MR. PLUMB-And I tell the
HON. MR. PLUMB-It is evident that
on. gentleman there is no such grade on the hon. gentleman from Halifax is travelthe road, and I have been over it.
ling out of the record, and that he is
introducing statements here which will go
before the public, and which hon. gentleHON. MR. MACDONALD, (B.C.)The hon, gentleman from Halifax is out of men have no opportunity to answer. I
order, and is travelling entirely beyond his think the hon. member has no right,
record, in going into a discussion of the under cover of the resolution which he has
ublhe works of the country, whereas his brought in, and which is of a specific
"Otice of inquiry is, as to the absence of character, to make a general speech, and
Ministers.
particularly one of the character that he is
now making. He is making statements
of the gravest
importance,
which
TIHE SPEAKER-I do not think the can have no special reference to
the
n. gentleman from Halifax is quite in
Order in the remarks he is now making, question as to whether the Ministers were
on the notice of motion before the House. in Ottawa at one time or at another, and I
think the House ought not to be called
HON. MR. POWER-I have the great'et deference for the Speaker's rulings on
been oints as this, but it has not hitherto
the habit to confine a gentleman
hisen sPeaking, strictly to the subject of
h otion, in a debate of this kind. We
e in this position: my resolution is
h staintially to the effect that Ministers
the ld be more attentive to their duties
e e than they have been. I am pointing
fr cases where the country has suffered
from their inattention, and I think that is
ciently germane to the notice on the
paper, to let it pass. We of the Opposition
not a baker's dozen in this House, and
it shardly
fair--it is certainly not generous
to trY to enforce rules of order against
a way in which they are not enforced
a4ainst mfembers of the majority.
h hN. MR. MACDONALD, (B. C.)On. gentleman knows very well that
-ane
squoted in this way cannot be
s5wered at the time, and
therefore it is
tjust to the members of the Government
Squote figures on a motion of this kind
beout notice by which members would
th Prepared to answer them, and I call for
"rer.lg the Chair on a question of
of

hon

MR. POWER-What was the
Whehentleman's position yesterday, then,
Us
,e as usg figures which
en a Position to answer none of
?

ae

R. MACDONALD, (B. C.)-I
a specific notice of motion.

upon to submit to it.
- HON. MR. POWER-The Speaker has
ruled, and the hon. gentleman has made
his point.
THE SPEAKER-With regard to the
point raised by the hon. member from
British Columbia, I cannot recede from
the ruling that I have made, though I
quite agree with the hon. gentleman from
Halifax when he says that there has been
generally a great deal of latitude allowed
in debates on a motion of this kind; but
when my attention is called to the point
of order I am bound to decide it according to my view of strict Parliamentary
practice.

HON. MR. POWER-Fortunately the
rules of Parliament afford other means of
bringing this matter to the notice of the
House, and I shall take the opportunity
to bring this and other matters before the
House on another occasion. My hon.
friend behind me (Mr. Macdonald) who
is so sensitive on this point-the route of
the Canadian Pacific Railway through
British Columbia-will allow me to mention three or four other matters which I
had proposed to deal with. The next
after the one I was just speaking on was

the road north of Lake Superior; the next
was the Algoma branch of the Canadian
Pacific Railway, and then there was the

contractzd road in British Columbia in
the hands of the Government. Another
result of this non-attendance of Ministers
to their official duties, is the ignorance
which has been shown, in another place

168

Absence of fini8ter8

[SENATE]

fron the Capital.

more especially, of the business of their discuss them ; so that really the work of
Departments. Ministers have there con- this House, towards the end of the sesfessed that they were unaware of things of sion, becomes a mere burlesque on legisthe greatest importance occurring in their lation. I think, if on this account alone,
own Departments. Then, a thing which it is most important that the Governperhaps comes home to us in this House ment should be in their places during the

more forcibly than others, is the way in
which the work of the session is affected
by the conduct of the Ministers. Every
member of this House knows that with
the exception of an occasional measure
which is introduced by the Minister of
Justice, Governnent measures are never
ready for introduction during the early
part of the session. Measures dealing
with matters of great importance, which it
is the duty of the Governr.ent to prepare
and have ready for the meeting of Parliament, are not ready, and they are left after
Parliament has met, to committees of
Parliament to deal with ; and, as a matter
of course the work is done by those committees in a hurried, crude and imperfect
way. For instance, there was the License
Bill, a most important measure dealing with
a great many interests, and treading upon
very delicate ground. That Bill was left
to be dealt with by a committee, and the
result has naturally been a great deal of
trouble and confusion since it went into
operation. The same course has been
adopted this session in respect to another
most important matter ; that is the question of insolvency, and I presume the
same resuLt will follow. While the Government are trying to grasp jurisdiction
which belongs to other governments,
they abdicate their functions and delegate
them to Committees of Parliament whose
duty it really is not to do this work ;
while some of the measures introduced by
the Government themselves, owing to the
hurried way in which they have been prepared, are not very much better than
those which come from the committees.
Every hon. gentleman knows what our
experience has been in this House :
that we are here for a month or six weeks
doing nothing-practically doing nothing
at all-and, at the end of the session,
when the weather becomes oppressively
warm, and when members are worn out
with remaining in these buildings, and
spending so much time in their comparatively unwholesome atmosphere, important measures are rushed through at railway speed, and we are not given time to
HON. MR.

POWER.

recess to prepare measures which they
propose to lay before Parliament, so that
they could be dealt with at leisure, and
with attention, at an earlier period in the
session. It seems to me that this House
should assert its own dignity in connection with this matter. On different occasions hon. gentlemen have stated in
their places that, if this condition of things
recurred another year, they would stand
on the rights of this House and refuse
to pass legislation in that hurried way
in which the Government insist on having it done ; and I do not know that

any member here has

taken stronger

ground on that point than the hon. gen-

tleman who now fills the chair.

I have

tried to put my views on this subject be-

fore the House in as temperate and as
reasonable a way as I could. I have tried
to point out that as regards the present
Governnent the regular work of the Department is to a considerable extent
neglected ; that there is not that supervision of the public expenditure going on
in the Departments which there should
be, and last and most important, that
there is no proper preparation of the work
of legislation for each session. I think on
these grounds the Governmeiit deserve a
certain amount of condemnation ; and
I repeat again, that the public have
a right to know how their stewards discharge their duties in return for the salaries which they receive ; and I may add,
as bearing on the propriety of the motion,
that when Mr. Mackenzie's AdministratiOn
was in power the newspapers of hon. gen-

tlemen opposite raised a tremendous outcry if any of the Ministers were absent for
any time from Ottawa. I beg to move
the resolution of which I have givenl

notice.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
motion which the hon. gentleman has
made is, I think, unworthy of being presented to the House and quite unworthY
of adoption. The measure of the work Of
public men, Ministers of the Crown, i5
not to be gauged by the number of hours

Abèlence of 3liniter8 [MARCH 4, 1885.] from the Capital.
that they attend at their offices, but by the
result which they accomplish ; and if the
hon. gentleman, himself, and his friends,
are dissatisfied with the result which the
Present Government has accomplished,
why do they not propose a motion of want
of confidence in the other House instead
of seeking in this way for impossible returns with reference to the action of each
individual member of the Government?
IflenbersoftheGovernment-occupying,
as they do, high positions-are not to be
trusted by the country with the disposition
Of their time, if they are not to say for
themiselves how many hours they find it
lecessary to give to the public service,
they are not worthy of being in office and
should be displaced. The only points
which I think it expedient to contradict
In the statements which the hon. gentleman
!las Made, not that it is of any importance
111
reality, but because the uncontradicted
'sertions might wound the feelings of
those who are concerned, are these : In
the first place there is no member of the
Covernilent who has been here so constantly and who bas attended to his duties
asressiduously as the Minister of Agriculre. The hon, gentleman says that there
eMinister of Agriculture. Mi. Pope
tinister of Agriculture, and no member
fthe Government has been here so conStanty as he has been. The other allusion
ref e hon. gentleman which I desire to
heu e- is that to Sir Chas. Tupper-that
here as been drawing a salary while not
gere to attend to his duty. The hon.
Chntleman, I think, must know that Sir
as. upper while drawing his salary as
dutilteSr of Railways, was discharging the
aneof High Commissioner in
thouwas not drawing his salary England
as such,
beeugh if he had done so he would have
recei entitled to more than he actually
ansived. That, I think, is a sufficient
I merely
nenti'r to that statement.
perso onthese two cases to save any
unplesant feeling on the part of
thes
hone gentlemen. I do not object to the
he Plgentleman drawing any conclusions
whcheases with reference to the way in
but
Ministers discharge their duties,
we oobject to asking for a return which,
dese ield to it, would bring upon us the
ied contempt of everybody.
I am
ged to resist the motion of the hon.

169-

gentleman and to express my hope that
the House will not vote for the address.
HoN. MR. ALEXANDER-The style
of reply to which we have just listened
from the Minister of Justice is very
characteristic of that hon. gentleman, and
it is a style which we have listened to not
only during the present session, but in
former meetings of the Parliament of this
country. I regret that he has not a little
more self-respect and respect for the
House. The motion of the hon member
from Halifax is a very proper one, and
one which is called for, if we listen to the
voice of the people of this country. The
hon. gentleman thinks that the Senate will
laugh and will endorse, perhaps by a smile,.
the frivolous remarks which he bas just
made upon this motion. I can only say
to the members of this House that if they
endorse them by laughing and by the
semblance of acquiescence the people of
this country will not and do not endorse
such a reply, nor are they of the opinion
that the members of the Executive in this
country are discharging their duties as
responsible men. He says that the hon.
gentleman speaks like a schoolmaster.
The hon. member from Halifax is speaking
the voice of the people as I know it to be
-the voice of the people and the voice of
the Press of this country. We cannot take
up the leading journals of Toronto and
other cities without finding comments
upon Ministers being absent from their
duties and from their offices on many
occasions.
Now with regard to the
question of Ministers being absent from
the Capital, the people of this country are
of the opinion that they are too much
away from their offices.
Gentlemen
residing in the North-West frequently come
to Ottawa only to find that the Minister of
the Interior is absent in Englarnd for his
own pleasure,'perhaps for his health. If
it was his health that led him there I do
not desire to make any remark, because
when the health of any member of the
Government fails there is a proper sympathy for him, but if he goes for personal

objects of his own, whether to receive
positions of honor from the Throne or
to travel on the Rhine-whether to
go to watering places on the Rhine,
such as Homburg, and Baden-Baden,
which I know well-knew forty years

170

Absence of Ministers [SENATE]

ago-if that is the object, then I say such
men are sadly derelict to their duties as
members of the Government. As the
hon. member from Halifax very truly said,
the Ministers of the Crown are paid high
salaries-enormously high salaries for a
country like this. They would not be
high salaries if they did their duty as responsible men faithfully ; if they endeavored to organize their respective Departments, to see that their clerks did their
duty, shared in those duties, and bad not
their offices full with a greater number of
clerks than they required. I remember
one instance of a Minister of the Crown
who is not very far distant from me now,
proceeding to British Columbia on a public mission, and the hon. gentleman, of
course knighted by the Queen, cannot
travel without his private secretary upon a
long mission to British Columbia ; and
what was the object of that mission ? The
object was ostensibly to settle some grievances in the province. I believe several
members of this House, as well as myself,
saw a most extraordinary telegraphic despatch in the daily Mail of Toronto, containing words used by the Minister of
Justice when he visited British Columbia.
He told the people of that province that
he came all the way there in order to satisfy them with regard to their grievances,
and he begged to assure them-so the
telegraphic despatch in the MJail saidthat they should have the Island Railway
(after we had voted nearly $70,ooo,ooo for
constructing the main line of railway from
Montreal to the Pacific)-that they should
have their Island Railway because Sir John
Macdonald never could forget that they
returned him by acclamation when he was
rejected by the electors at Kingston.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
statenent did appear in the papers, but it
was an untrue and incorrect statement of
,what occurred.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I am glad
to hear that the hon. gentleman contradicts it.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I did
not contradict it to satisfy you.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I hope he
did not say such a thing, for the sake of
HON. MR. ALEXANDER.

from the- Capital.

his own honor. For a Minister of the
Crown to make such a corrupt statement,
that an expenditure should take place of
$750,000

to repay

a constituency

for

returning a man who had been rejected
by an Ontario constituency-could there
be a more dishonest sentiment, and one
more unworthy of a member of Parliament
or a Minister of the Crown. I am sorry
that my hon. friend from New Westminster (Mr. McInnes) is not in his place ; he
and other members from British Columbia
bore testimony to the fact that there never
was anything more unwise and uncalled
for than the vote that was given last session
of $7 50,000 for the Island Railway, which
is nothing but a job, a job of the blackest
character. I hope the project will never
be carried out. That was the object for
which the hon. gentleman went to British
Columbia, for which a large amount of
money was expended, that he niight go
there simply to carry out an unholy
purpose. I cannot use milder terns to
characterize it. I will not comment upon
the late mission of the first Minister of
le has served
the Crown to England.
the country during a very long life and
has displayed very great ability. He has
done many wise things in his time, and he
was in former days very much respected.
I only wish as an old conservative, as one
who was born a conservative and will die
a conservative, that I could have the same
respect for that hon. gentleman now that
I had in former days. From his recent
acts, his recent ways and his whole parliamentary course latterly, which has such a
semblance of recklessness and abandonment of principle, he has forfeited the
respect of the people. Look at the coinplications that are now coming up. Look
at the delegations that are coming tO
Ottawa-but I am transgressing the rules
of the House in referring on a motion
like this to his utter abandonment of all
principle and prudence. With regard tO
the Minister of the Interior, I expect
nothing at his hands on any mission but
that he consults his own convenience,
luxury and pleasure. He goes to England;
I do not know whether the expense of his
mission to England will be charged in the
Public Accounts ; it would be a very
dreadful thing if it is.

Absence of Mini8ters [M ARCil 4, 1885]
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON
-Before making the insinuation the hon.
gentlemian should have looked at the
Public Accounts.
He knows very well
that the expenses of my trip to England
a.re not charged in the Public Accounts.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I have only
asked the question.

from the Capital.

171

so corrupt that he does not scruple to call
upon his supporters to silence an opponent!
HON. MR. MACDONALD-I call the
hon. gentleman to order ; he is using very
improper language, of a personal character.
HON.

MR.

PLUMB-It

does not

amount to anything ; let him go on.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON
-The hon. gentleman has insinuated that
THE SPEAKER-The hon. gentlethey were-insinuated it in the most man from Woodstock will please confine
cOwardly way.
himself to the motion.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER.-I hope
the louse will adopt this motion (laughter).
Hon, gentlemen laugh. I generally stand
alone on such questions in the House.
Either I must be very wrong or the rest of
the House are; but I may be permitted to
Say that if I have had the House against
rne On three or four occasions lately I have
the country at my back. I could read
letters from four or five counties stating
that I should go on in the course I have
been Pursuing no matter with what contumnely I am treated by the Senate. I know
that three-fourths of -the members have
a strong attachment to the first Minister
of the Crown; but I can tell this House
tha if Sir John Macdonald were taken
he Government would be broken up like
a rope of sand. It is attachment to Sir
John Macdonald-long party attachment
to hi Personally-that keeps the party
t0gether. I do not say that there are not
sore honorable members in the GovernIent,

HON MR. ALEXANDER-I generally have the good fortune to say all that
I desire to say before being called to
order. My hon. friend (Mr. Gowan) was
so kind upon a recent occasion as to let
me go on until I had delivered nine-tenths
of my speech.
I have no expe:tation
that my remarks made to-day will have
any effect on this body composed, though
it is, of the most estimable men in the
country.
I know that the considerations
of party, and their old attachment to Sir
John Macdonald, influence them powerfully. The leader of the Opposition
(Mr. Scott) I perceive
is in his
place .
I take this opportunity of observing that there is no more servile
follower of Sir John Macdonald than he
has proved himself to be. He generally
prevents the hon. member from Halifax
(Mr. Power) from giving expression to the
opinions of the people, and may truly be
said to be a fraud upon his party. I am
not going to impute motives ; I have no
right to impute motives, but when the
Government are scattering money broadcast in a reckless manner we never hear
his voice raised against it.
When I am
trying to unearth corruption and crime in
the country does he ever raise his voice
to help me ? Does he ever lend his
assistance to correct great public evils?
No, he is always ready to throw his influence in with the leaders of the GovernHe takes the shilling from Mr.
ment.
Mowat who employs him as prosecutor
for the Crown ; but as I once told Mr,
Mowat--and I tell himself now, he is
little better than a fraud on the party.

such as Mr. Carling, Mr. Pope,
Mrt Caron and Mr. Costigan, but as for
dae two leaders in this House they act
Thely as if they were irresponsible men.
oti "on. Minister of Justice, when I gave
IJace of a motion affairs of the into the
nagement of the to inquire Bank of
heer Canada actually gave notice that
(1ould prevent me from speaking.
tO God to what has the Senate come,
al 0 a menber of Parliament is not to he
emwed to address the House ! Is he
D>cof ing lost to all sense of responsibility?
poes he think that he can depend long
ton a colplacent and amiable
thigo so far as to prevent
majority,
a member of
ur ody speaking on a public question ?
by f the ilouse will not degrade itself
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I may
wig a corrupt Minister, a Minister be permitted, as seconder of the motion,

172

Absence of Ministers [SENATE]

fimn the Capital.

plaint in Lunenberg was that he did not
manage to come there ; the people
would like to have seen him. If he should
come down next year-as I hope he will
-we trust that he will visit that part of
the province. I know the whole country
is anxious that the members of the Government should make themselves personally acquainted with the industries and
wants of the people. And if there is anything the Ministry deserve censure for it
is for keeping themselves too close to the
Capital during the recess of Parliament
when they should be making themselves
familiar with every part of the Dominion.
We find a Minister going to British Colunibia, and as the result the province is
benefitted by his visit. We have an
earnest of what a Minister going down to
Nova Scotia can do, and we hope his
visit to that quarter will be renewed. I
do not believe there has heen a want of a
quorum at any time at the Capital, but
that Ministers should remain at Ottawa
all the time to look after their deputies is
a suggestion that does not appear to be
worthy of my hon. friend from Halifax.
He generally takes a higher view of the
duties of members of the Government, and also of the capacity of
the deputy Ministers. Surely he does
not imagine that Ministers should remain here to watch their subordinates
and see that their routine work is attended
to properly.
I say the Ministers can
attend to their duties whether at Ottawa or
not. I am sure that everyone feels that the
Dominion has been honored by the leader
of our Government going across the
I hope he will take a trip to
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-I am very Atlantic.
glad to find that now, since the seconder England every year ; his visits there have
of the motion has asked that it be with- done immense good to the country.
drawn, it has nobody in the House to When he is honored the country is
endorse it except the hon. member for honored. I hope that every member of
Woodstock. Anything which has his en- the Government will, as frequently as
dorsation is not likely to meet the approval possible, pay such visits, and thus strengthof the House, and I am sure that the sen- en the feeling in favor of federation. I
timents which have been expressed by am glad to find that there is no sentiment
the mover of the resolution do not find in this Chamber in support of my hon,
an echo in this Chamber. I merely rise friend's motion, and that the only member
to say that as far as the Ministry are who has expressed himself in favor of it is
concerned I believe the regret of the the hon. member from Woodstock, who
country is that they do not take more has exposed himself to ridicule and stands
holidays. The complaint in Nova Scotia alone. His remarks are such as no man,
is that they do not come down there having a judicial mind and giving proper
oftener. We had a visit from the Minis attention to his legislative duties, would
ter of Justice last summer, and the com. venture to utter in this House.

to say a few words. It is a fact that I
was appealed to by my hon. friend from
Halifax for that purpose, and I gave permission that my name should be used as
seconder. Perhaps if I had studied the
question a little more closely, I might
have acted differently, but as it stands
now, the hon. gentleman froi Halifax,
having had full opportunity to ventilate
his views on this question, and the Minister
ofJustice on the opposite side of the House
having announced that the Government
cannot agree to it, perhaps the wisest
thing the hon. gentleman could do would
be to ask the House for leave to withdraw his motion. That is the course I
would ask hini to adopt. I would sit
down now, but that I wish to state my appreciation of the courtesy and candor
with which I have been treated by the
Minister of Justice in bringing forward
matters affecting my own province, and
to say that the result of the debate alluded
to by the hon. gentleman from Halifax,
was made known to my province by telegraph, and already has appeared a recognition in the Opposition press of the readiness with which the leader of the Government in this House answered my question on a recent occasion, and expressing
their thanks to him for so doing. This
being so, I do not feel inclined to cast
any measure of reproach upon the hon.
gentleman ; I could not do so, and for
that reason amongst others, I would seriously suggest to my hon. friend from
Halifax, the propriety of asking permission to withdraw his motion.

HON. MR.

HAYTHORNE.

Real P-operty, N.- Wet [M ARCLI 4, 1885J
HON. MR. MACDONALD-I thought
When the hon. member from Halifax
Placed this notice on the paper that he
had discovered some wonderful mare's
nest, and that the country had been
suffering because some important business
had been left undone ; but he has failed
Utterly and entirely to point to one single
instance in which the Government have,
neglected their duty.
His speech, strip-,
Ped of matters which were entirely foreign'
to it regarding payments to railways and
Other things, really contains nothing. I
was surprised when I saw this motion on
the paper ; but I am no longer surprised;
t s worthy of the member who made it.
am glad that he bas found no one to
second it. It is a most snivelling, inquisitorial motion, and worthy the man who
Made it.
lIN. MR. POWER-As the mover of
the resolution, I have a right to say a few
Words. I do not propose to trouble the
hOuse with any reply to the remarks that
ave just fallen from the hon. gentleman
behnd me (Mr. Macdonald). I do not
think they deserve any reply ; and I
do
tkot propose to say anything in answer to
what the hon. member from Lunenburg
has said ; but I do think, in justice to mySelf, that I should say a few words in reply
10 what the Minister of Justice bas thought
Proper to state. He said that my proper
'Course was to move a vote of want of
Confidence,

Territorie8 Bill.

173

every member of this House has to make
a declaration as to the number of days he
bas been present in Parliament, and it is
not felt that bis honour is attacked, or
that there is anything contemptible or
mean about it ; and I fail to see that there
would be anything derogatory to the
dignity and honor of a member of the
Government in making a statement of the
number of days he was present at the seat
of Government.
I think that the resolution I have put on the paper is a
perfectly proper and reasonable one for
the reasons which I gave when moving it;
but as after the declaration of the Minister
of Justice, it is quite clear that the motion
will not carry. there is no special object in
pushing it to a vote ;and as t he seconder
has already expressed bis desire to withdrav it, I am perfectly satisfied, and I
therefore ask leave to withdraw the motion.
The motion was withdrawn.
REAL PROPERTY, NORTH-WEST
TERRITORIES BILL
DEBATE CONTINUED.

The order of the day having been called
for resuming the debate on Sir Alex.
Campbell's motion for the second reading
of Bill (A), "An Act respecting real
property in the North-West Territbries."

HON. MR. SCOTT said: As no hon.
gentleman seemed disposed to continue

h. ~.SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Or the discussion on this Bill, it seened to
H
s friends in the other House, I said.
fall to my lot to move the adjournment of
the debate on the previous occasion. I
HoN. MR. POWER-When the Gov- had no definite object in doing so, as I
mrnînent have a majority of two-thirds, had no matured opinion on the subject
'noving a vote of want of confidence is that I thought worthy of giving to the
tnerely an absurdity and a waste
of time. House. It is a measure of very great imWhen the bon. gentleman's party
were in portance, and is one that ought to be very
POwer that was not the course they well considered before one commits himadopted. They did not move
votes of self to the proposed change in our law
want Of confidence in the other House, intenied by this Bill, and much less to
1It they attacked the Government in this advise others to adopt a principle which is
Theuse persistently and in all sorts of ways. entirely new to our system.
I have
e hon. gentleman considers this
anre6ection on the dignity of the motion observed that the Minister of Justice, in
Govern- introducing this measure and giving us
in the course of the the full explanations that he furnished, did
Tnerk Hemtimatedfew
erks he made a
minutes before I not himself seem very earnest or very
oegan to speak that the Government were enthusiastic in the opinions which he
asI said
a Committee of Parliament.
Now, expressed as to its superiority over the
at the beginning of my remarks, system of land transfer already in existence

174

Real Property, N.- We8t LSENATE] Territorie8 Bill.

in the North-West. I rather gathered the advantages which the new system of
from his observations that they were a land transfer offered over the old one, and
reflex of the opinions of people behind I can readily understand why they became
him. I know that those who have taken enthusiastic in its adoption. But the state
up this project are very enthusiastic over of things that existed in Australia does not
it, and are deeply in earnest ; in fact I exist in Canada. We in this provinceknow of no other subject that is taken up and I have no doubt the observations I
in such earnest by the advocates of it, make are equally applicable to the pro
and what their motive is, or what the vinces down by the sea-having control
object is, has not been very fully discussed. of our own affairs, very quickly discovered
We know that in Australia, when it was that there was a more simple and common
introduced there, it met with signal favor; sense way of dealing with this question of
but we know the condition of the Aus- real property than the way in which it
tralian colonies with regard to land titles was dealt with in the Mother Country,
was entirely different from the condi- and from time to time in the Province of
We know that the Ontario, and no doubt in the lower protion of Canada.
Australian colonies were at first settled vinces also, laws have been introduced
by active, vigorous, earnest, determined simplifying the transfer of property, and
men, who in the first place went enabling us to expess by our deeds, exacout there attracted by the discovery of tly what we wanted to do. The policy of
gold, and who afterwards were induced to this country was entirely averse to entails
remain there by other advantages than the or the locking up of property as it is lockmere digging and delving for the precious ed up in the Mother Country, and the
metals, but they carried with them when feeling of the people of Canada has been
they went there a system of land transfer altogether against it. The value of our
that is in no degree akin to ours. We lands was not sufficient to warrant us in
know that the system of land tenure in adopting the system in the Mother CounEngland is extremely complicated. It try. It was a necessary concomitant of
arose out of the old feudal system, and the British constitution that entails should
was unsuited to the requirements of a new prevail in England, and that the broad
country, and changes in the law in the lands held by the aristocracy, should be
Mother Country have been extremely handed down to their heirs and descendslow. It was quite natural, when the ants from one generation to another. If
Australian colonies introduced the system it were not so-if the House of Lords
of land tenure which they carried with were not the representative class of the
them across the broad waters to that new vast areas of land in Ireland, England and
country that it should have failed, as it Scotland-I assume that the agitation of
was wholly unsuited to their condition. It to-day, which has not become a very imwas very expensive, and subject to entail portant, but which has some force, and is
and trusts which were wholly out of place discussed very vigorously in the press,
in a country where land had not attained would meet with very much greater resisany special value ; where there was tance than it does. In Canada, more
enough of it for every man who chose to particularly in Ontario, where we have
acquire it; where they were enabled to dealt with this subject of simplifying the
take it up, not in the restricted way it is transfer of real property, we have done so?
in this country, but by thousands and tens in such a way as really, in my judgment,
of thousands of acres, and it was quite to largely dispense with the necessity of innatural that they should look for some troducing at the present time any new prinmore simple system for dealing with this ciple. Weare, however, consideringthis prinquestion than the one which was neces- ciple, not as affecting ourselves, because I
sarily the outgrowth of their connection do n't suppose there is any hon. gentlewith England. They therefore went ex- men here personally dealing with it, as
actly to the opposite extreme, and put owners of land in the North-West. We
land down to the level of stock, under are dealing with the North-West as part
what is known as the Torrens system, and of the unsettled domain of Canada, and
permitted real property to be dealt with as if this system can be introduced at all, in
chattels. They at once became alive to my judgment it is only in that country
HON. MR. SCOTT.

Real Property,N.- West [MABCH 4, 1885] Territorie8 Bill.
at Present, because there land is not
111 way committed to any principle of
any
tenure, and as I understand from the
Minister of Justice in his remarks on the
introduction of this Bill it is as yet held
altogether by the Crown. As a matter of
fact only three hundred patents have been
'sSUed in that country, and therefore if the
ýYten is to be tested at all I quite concur
ln the view that the North-West Territories
afford the very best opportunity for trying
the experiment. Some observations were
Made in the hon. gentleman's comments
On the Bill that there was a probability of
Mr. Mowat bringing in a Bill to apply the
Torrens system to a portion of Ontariothe City of Toronto and the County of
rf York. I have not myself seen any
reference to it, that it was in contemplaton* I should myself very much doubt
it, because I do not see the necessity for
in this province. The conditions under
Which land is held in Canada, in Ontario
particularly are so simple, and so easily
Controlled, that unless we are prepared to
adopt the principle which is laid down in
the mfleasure before us, there would be no
for ect i introducing the system simply
transfhe purpose of lessening the cost of
With er or enabling us to deal more freely
are lands, for so far as deeds or mortgages
as concerned we now shorten them quite
Itich as they would be shortened under
bhs Bill, because we make a single word
Wa legal interpretation mean what otherPor twould be cxpressed in 20 or 30 words.
of che mere purpose of reducing the cost
eal onveyancing I cannot see that any
bject is to be gained by this Bill.
"ON SIR DAVID MACPHERSON

There is the cost of searches.

MR. SCOTT-I think the main
pr ect for us to consider is whether the
IacPle itself is a sound one. If we
as apt the principle, then the Bill follows,
LION.

tsatter of course, and the details of

regard easure are necessary. I do not
db thern as being in any degree
ersom-e. I think they are very clear,
once expressive and very simple, if you
ther Onut Yourself to the principle ; and
andt ore in the discussion of the subject
rathe 1i 1 should limit my observations
t u of te prnciple of the measure than
its details. It was interesting to

176

us, of course, that the Minister of Justice,
who introduced this measure, should have
given us the history of it, and given us the
general scope of the Bill-apart entirely
from the principle,-but I think it will be
infinitely better in dealing with it on the
second reading if we confine ourselves
purely to the principle, because, in my
judgment, that is the important matter
for the House now to consider, and it
may be broadly stated that we are
introducing a new principle under our
constitution so far as land is concerned.
By converting land from real estate into
chattels real, we take from it all the
incidents thataccrue to lands, and put them,
in the same catagory we do our stocks.
Land under this Bill, this measure being
in operation, is regarded as a chattel, and
transferred from hand to hand with nearly
as much facility as stocks of an incorporated or chartered company. We have
therefore in the first instance to consider
whether we are prepared to take that step.
-whether it is in the interests of the
great mass of the people that they should
have this form of transferring their land,
that it should be attended with as little
ceremony as the parting with a horse or a
cow or a bill of goods, or a certain amount
of bank stock ? We know very well that
one of the important considerations
in dealing with real estate-I am speaking
now of improved real estate-is the feeling
that a man's wife has about it. She is an
element that has to be considered, and
therefore it has to be discussed, and
cannot be done hastily. If this Bill is
passed dower is abolished ; a man deals
with his estate just as he does with
stocks. - His wife has no voice in the
transaction.
I think myself there
are very great advantages in surrounding
the transfer of real estate with certain
forms and ceremonies, with certain checks
at all events, that cannot be dealt with
hastily. The new system presents this
peculiar feature, that to an improvident
man it gives him a wonderful facility for
hypothecating his property for a loan.
We know now with what readiness speculative men go into the market ; and if they
have stocks they put them up and pledge
them for money, and very often ducks
and drakes are made with the proceeds.
If a man can *take his land certificate,
which really does not occupy more space

176

Real Property, N.- [West

[SEN ATE]

Territories Bill.

than an ordinary bank note-if he can that must follow. We permit· the banks
take that memorandum into a broker's to make advances on warehouse receipts
office, or into a loan companies' office and and cargoes of wheat and all sorts of persay " here is my property ; it is worth sonal property, in bulk and character
$10,ooo, and I want a loan of $6,ooo or quite equal and in many cases largely in
$7,ooo on it ; will you give it to me ?" It excess of the value of the property that
may or it may n t be a very good thing would be represented by those certificates
He may known as registered certificates of real esfor that man to get the loan.
make excellent use of the money, but he tate, and in my humble judgnent that is
may he doing it on the spur of the really the first question that meets ore in
If we
moment ; whereas if he had to mortgage the consideration of this Bill.
his property, and give an abstract of title think that it is in the interest of any part
,and consult his wife and neighbors, as is of this Dominion that the character with
frequently the case, it is questionable which land heretofore bas been invested
whether the loan would be carried out. I should be entirely removed, and that it
think myself many a transaction of this should be reduced to the basis of the perkind bas been nipped in the bud by a sonal chattel that a mian can deal vith
In dealing with and put in his breast pocket and go
man sleeping over it.
property under this condition of things, abroad and pledge it or dispose of it or
he need not sleep over it, and opportu- deal with it in any way he likes-if theY
nities for borrowing money on property are prepared to take that plunge, then we
are abundant. We know there is a vast should adopt this Bill. I may perhaps
arnount of money in the country waiting be drawing a too highly colored viev of
investment in every direction, and with the effects of this measure, although I can
proper securities here is a capital opportu- scarcely plead guilty to this charge, benity for those who have money to lend to cause, as the only result of the introducIn commit- tion of a measure of this kind, in the
those who want to borrow.
ting ourselves to a principle of this kind, North-West, I suppose it would have this
it is for each hon. gentleman to decide advantage, that land there bas not attained
for himself whether it is a sound one. It to the value it has in the older provinces
is not one of which I should express any of the Dominion, and at all events for
very strong opinion ; it is an opinion we the next quarter of a century the lands in
can all of us better arrive at fron our the North-West will pass from hand tO
own judgment, and from our know- hand rather more frequently than they do
ledge of the present condition of things, in the older provinces in the Dominionand how we think the proposed sys- It is rather an incident of our civilization
ten would best work.
The people that when men go into a new country and
that this Bill would best suit are those hold lands for a limited time, they seerll
who have money to loan and those who to like to sell out and remove to a newer
That seems to be the tendency in
want to borrow, and if we pass this Bill one.
the question is would it be fair to the the North-Western States and in our own
The pioneers sell out and
banks of the country ? Now, we will get North-West.
real estate down on a level with stocks ; go further west. This of course would
why should not we alter our lav and favor that feeling. At present a man can,
permit banks to advance money on certi- by drawing a very short paper, give a deed
ficates of this kind? We did permit to A for life and to B, if he survives A, tO
banks to advance money on the stocks of be his heir after A, for both to enjoy it in
other banks, but we put a stop to that to their respective lives. That is not an 1n'
check the spirit of banking institutions common case where a father, having itwhich tended in the direction of unlimited provident sons, wishes to give them a
speculation, and I say if we are to adopt certain amount of money to enjoy the use
this principle, then I thmnk it follows, as of during their life-time ; to prevent thern
a natural sequence, that we must permit from disposing of it he gives them a life
banks to be placed on a par with loan interest in the property, and fixes the fflal
It is not
societies and with individuals who have limitation at the lifetime of B.
money to lend out on real estate security. an uncommon thing, and is in s 0 nie
I think that is the natural consequence instances a very useful dispositionf
HON. MR. SCOTT.

Reai Property,N.- West [MARCH 4, 1885] Territories Bill.
Property. Under the condition of things
£ontenplated by the measure, that would
b tquite impossible. Then, in dealing
Wîth real estate under a will, a man cannot deal with his property as we have been
accustoned to regard real estate in the
Past. .He miay now devise trusts; he may
lmt it to his wife for life, with remainder
to ulmarried daughters, and finally to his
on the son of his son; but his will
Or
vould be perfectly valueless with this law
'n OPeration, because he distinctly says, no
Matter what devise is made in the will, the
lad ml ust go absolutely to the devisee, and
the executor can absolutely take the
Property in defiance of the man's own will
Or direction. Whether that a wise or
prudent course is for hon. isgentlemen
lhermselves to consider. Whether they
withld like their own properties to be dealt
Wlth in that way under the disposition
they WOuld like to see made of devises is
matter that every member is the best
i;lge of in his own individual case. The
nl has just the advantages that I will
reatcall attention to-that affords very
great facility for the transferit of property.
t
as iakes the transfer of property as cheap
ut is Possible to make it ;
it gives to the
Purcha
lOan aser or mortgagee who desires to
ance loney on it the undoubted assurentethat the titie is good, and it is a Bill
that y in the interest of the purchaser in
the hlense, because, wholly irrespective of
he gistory of the property, the moment
e fets this certificate from the Registrar
pcs that
the eproperty. he is the absolute owner of
We a l know that at present, even with our
peo rate yet simple system of registration,
deedl feel a little nervous
about special
the titantecedent to the one which gives
theref e to the latest purchaser, and
the ore there is that natural feeling on
likel art of the purchaser that he. would
he 1se e some law enacted under which
in Old be really sure that he could not
My"Y way be divested of his property.
tlusin experience has led me to the conn çOn that under the system prevailing
also v rio, and in the Maritime Provinces
title aery few cases occur in which the
an Ca
be traced
nth texpense, and with a reasonable
if there are clouds
the cttle that it is desirable to remove,
ey for ts have adopted just such machinSWhat is called quieting
titles, as,

171

with some degree of diligence and a small
amount of expense, enables the purchaser
to place himself in a position as absolute
owner. Of course it costs something, and
it is attended with some little delay and
trouble. Whether you think that the advantages to be gained by quick transference, of absolute title and facilities for
dealing with the subject overbear the other
view, is a matter for this House now to
consider. Those are the main features in
connection with it. I do not think it is
necessary for me at this hour to go into
the details of the Bill. The Minister of
Justice explained it very fully to the
House, and I thought it better at this particular stage to draw attention to the principie of the Bill rather than to the incidents
that would grow out of it, because if we
are prepared to adopt the principle, then I
think it is a very good measure. If the
House is of opinion that the introduction
of that system is advisable ; that it is
suited to our special civilization, then the
Bill is in other respects fairly good, with
some few changes-not very many.
Where I see that it is likely to do harm
is in the affording too great facilities to us
to part with our property and encumber it
with mortgages. I can readily understand
how, with the moneyed class, this Bill is
held in high favor, but I feel that if we
introduce this measure-of course I am
speaking generally, and perhaps my observations are out of place inasmuch as the
North-West is comparatively in an unadvanced position now-it should be within
the power of the banks to advance on
certificates of that kind as much as it is
the privilege of a loan company to lend
money on real estate ; because we at once

place land in the same catagory with
merchandise and stocks, and if a bank can
advance on warehouse receipts and stocks,
there is no reason why they should not
advance on certificates of this character.
I can quite understand why Australia,
from having an expensive and cumbrous
system of land transfer, should rush into
the other extreme when they came to
reform it, and we all know that lands there,
outside of the principal cities have not
been so valuable in that sense. The
acquisition of lands there was less limited
than with us, because their country was so
very large, and the principle of the
Torrens system being one which was

178

Can. Southern RR..Co.

[SENATE] Erie& Nia. 1.R. Co'8 Bill.

highly in favor with those who had money
to loan, they naturally became strong advocates of the Bill, while the outside public
knew very little about it. In this country
it has not been a subject that has been
much discussed in the newspapers. As
to the great mass of the people, they know
nothing about it. They suppose that those
who represent public opinion will see that
no hasty change is made that will entirely
revolutionize the principles on which we
have been accustomed to deal with lands
in the past. I think myself it is a very
great plunge, and should not at the present
time like to see it adopted in Ontario. I
have no objection to its introduction in the
North-West and giving it a fair trial there,
because the time is not very far distant
when we will be investing that country with
power to pass laws for itself; and then
when that time comes they can themselves
reverse the principles that are laid down
here, if it fails to work satisfactorily, and
can revert to the old system, so that no
serious injury can be done. To that extent I see no objection to the trial being
made, inasmuch as lands, for the next
quarter of a century at all events, will
freely change hands there, and it may be
desirable to give all reasonable facilities
for such transfers. It must be recollected,
however, that we at once ignore the rights
of the wife to have any voice in ber
husband's estate. That right is taken
away, and the man deals with his property
just as he does with his chattels. In
Ontario we have made some encroachment
on the dower law ; that is, dower does
not exist on wild lands-lands that a.e
uncultivated.

sonal estate, and real property becoming
personal estate under this measure she
would still get a third, and if the husband
died she would not be so badly off in that
respect as she would be if he sold the
land in his lifetime. -If he dies, under
this law his real estate merges into personalty, and the wife gets her proportion out
of it as personal estate, and is not thereby damaged to the same extent as if he
had parted with his real estate before his
death. It seems rather a paradoxical
position that the wife's dower is governed
entirely by the fact whether her husband
deals with it in his lifetime. These are
points that strike me in looking at the
Bill that ought to be carefully considered.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON
moved the adjournment of the debate un-

til to-morrow.

The motion was agreed to.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (J), " An Act to comprise in one
Act a limitation of the share and loan
capital of the Hamilton Provident and
Loan Society."-(Mr. Turner.)
CANADA SOUTHERN R. R. CO. &
ERIE & NIAGARA R. R.
CO'S. BILL.
SECOND

READING.

HON. MR. PLUMB moved the second
reading of Bill (9) "An Act respecting the
Canada Southern Railway Co. & Erie &
Niagara Railway Co." He said the object of the Bill was merely for an extension
of the time allowed for the construction of
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLDower runs during the lifetime of the some parts of the line of the Canada
Southern Railway Company.
wife ?
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
HON. MR. SCOTT-The wife must was read the second time.
join in the dower unless it is shown that
The Senate adjourned at 6 o'clock p.n11
the land is wholly uncultivated. The wife
can be very much more readily barred than
she formerly could.
THE SENATE.
HON. MR. PLUMB-She inherits the
Ottawa, Thursday, Marci 5t/, 18 95.
sanie as in personal estate at death.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
HON. MR. SCOTT-Yes, and that
element of it is preserved in this Bill. o'clock p.m.
She would now get one-third of the per
Prayers and routine proceedings.
HON. MR. SCOTT

Real Property [MARCIH 5, 1885]
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (K), "An Act respecting explosive
substances."-(Sir Alex. Campbell.)
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS
THE SENATE.

IN

INQUIRY POSTPONED.

The order of the day having been
called :That he (Hon. Mr. Plumb) will call attentIOn to the desirability of encouraging the
Initiation of Private Bills in this House, vith
a yiew to the more equal division of the labors
of the two branches in the earlier period of the
Session, and that he will also inquire of the
Governmlent if it be riot deened advisable to
originate in this House as nany measures as
the law and usage of Parliament wil] permit
Order that this House may more adequatelv
f1l its place in the Constitution.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL said:
I would ask my hon. friend to let this
fiotion stand for a few days. I am endeavoring to get some statistics with reference
to the work that has been done in this
flouse since Confederation, which state"uent i think will be found useful in the
debate that is likely to arise on my hon.
friend's motion. I will therefore ask him
to let his inquiry stand until Thursday next.
t t The motion was accordingly allowed
Stand.

AL

PROPERTY NORTH-WEST
TERRITORIES BILL
ON SECOND READING CoNTINUED.

SIR DAVID MACPHERSON
rsumled the debate on the motion for
the

second reading of Bill (A) "An
Act
espectng real property in the NorthWest t'erritories." He said
: the Bill before tle House is one which I feel could
benlore ably discussed by members of
but egal Profession than by any layman,
inasmich as it is intended to affect
entîusively the territory which is at preSent under my administration,
I feel
subed upon to say a few words on the
te.
We ail know that the origin of
land e of transfer of real estate in EngtirnesS that it is descended from feudal
, and was intended for the creation

N. W. Territories.

179

of large estates in the hands of rich and
powerful families, the intention really
being to keep these families together and
prevent their becoming extinct or impoverished. Great estates were placed in
their hands; they were surrounded by
every safeguard that tended to secure
them to the family, and so it remains to a
very great extent to the present time in
England. I fancy it would be almost impossible to obtain an indefeasible title to
any of the estates of the great families in
that country. The tendency however,
even in England, is to simplify and
cheapen the transfer of land, to make
land like other property, easy of exchange
from hand to hand, and to enable men of
moderate means as well as the very
wealthy not only to obtain the land but
to be able to dispose of it without great
expense if they desired so to do. Now
it is attended with very great expenseenormous expense. Every sale that takes
place involves the necessity for a thorough
search, and no lawyer of eminence is willing to certify to a title being perfect without
examining it himself. The consequence
is that in the case of every sale search has
to be made really from the beginning, and
a transfer is attended with enormous expense. I remember, soon after the Irish
Encumbered Estates Bill became law, I
happened to be travelling in Ireland and
met a gentleman who had just returned
from Dublin, where through the Encumbered Estates Court he purchased a property for which he received a Parliamentary
title. The titie was on one sheet of paper,
and declared that he held the property
under a certain Act of Parliament ; it was
of course indefeasible. He told me that
until that Act was passed it would have
been almost impossible for him to obtain
an indefeasible title, that the costs would
have been so enormous he could not have
thought of purchasing the property. I
was much struck on that occasion with the
desirability of the transfer of land being
made simple and economical. Our system
in Ontario and in some of the other provinces-in ail the provinces except Quebec
-is engrafted on the English system, and
although very much simplified still some
of its inconvenient features and expensive
ones remain to this day. When we had
a law of primogeniture in Ontario as we
had down to the time when the late Hon.

180

Real Property [SEN ATE]

Robert Baldwin was in office (for it was
he who repealed that Act, and he did it
reluctantly; he himself was opposed to
repealing it, but he was pressed by his
political supporters and followers and he
did repeal it) the simplifying forms of land
transfer would have come in very properly
then, and no doubt it has been simplified
since then very materially in Ontario ; but
still, as I have already said, some inconvenient and expensive features remain upon
the statute book. That of search is the
one that is most inconvenient and the
most costly.
If we were instituting a
systern of transfer in Ontario, for instance,
now for the first time no hon. gentleman
would say that we would adopt the
We
one which is now in operation.
would certainly devise one very much
more simple-one I fancy as nearly like
that which my hon. friend the Minister of
Justice his introduced, and which now
stands for the second reading, as can be
conceived ; but I am quite ready to admit that a good deal of inconvenience
would attend the changing of the system
where it is like that of Ontario, or the one
in Ontario itself-the change would be
attended with inconvenience now that it
has been in operation for so long a time.
The North-West Territories are practically, in that respect, a tabula rasa.
Comparatively few patents have been issued, and the people are just in a position
to get the full advantage of the most
simple and economical system that can
be devised, and one under which the
titles to the land are the clearest and are
perfectly indefeasible, as they would be
under the Bill now before this House. In
introducing it into the North-West Territories we would not be altogether trying
an experiment. The system has been in
operation in a number of colonies, as was
very fully explained by the hon. Minister
of Justice, and it has, in those colonies,
been attended with very great success,
which means that it has given very great
satisfaction to the people of those colonies,
and I imagine that nothing could induce
them to part with it. In the North-West
there are no great estates. On the contrary the estates, if I may su catl them,
-more
strictly speaking, farms-are
small. The Government' is not allowed
by law to sell more than one section of
six hundred and forty acres of agricult-

HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON.

N. W. Territories.

ural land to any one person, and every
alternate section is open free to homesteaders, with the privilege of pre-emption.
There cannot be a country more favurably situated for receiving this system
than that is, and that country is one that
requires such a system as this, to a greater
extent than is required in the older provinces. Most of the people are men of
very limited means. They are chiefly
homesteaders, men who are really unable
to purchase land, and therefore naturally availed themselves of the lands
were offered to them free
which
By the time
by the government.
they have earned their patent at the
end of three years they have acquired
Their
a good deal of property.
land as a rule is very productive, and they
have probably reaped one very large crop
if the seasons are favorable, one large crop
and one medium crop-according to the
That
area they place under cultivation.
puts them in possession of a moderate
amount of money. but not as much as they
require. and not as much as most of them desire to enable them to improve their land,
to improve their buildings, and to improve
their pre-emption lots ; and, furthermore,
if they have children to enable them to
set them up on farms also. It is therefore very desirable that they should be
able to borrow money on the most favorable terms. That they cannot do unless
they can offer land to which they hold an
If they go with the
indefeasible title.
title having a blot on it, it takes very much
from the value of the land and makes it
difficult to borrow, or prevents borrowing
altogether, and in other cases under the
existing system they must employ a lawyer
to make the necessary search into the title
of the land to enable them to borrow
upon it. They cannot do that for less
than five or ten dollars.
I can assure
hon. gentlemen that every five dollars to
the homesteaders in the North-West is an
important item, and it is our duty as far
as we can to render their business and
their living as economical to them as it is
possible for us to do. The country is
sparsely settled and will be so for many
It will not pay professional men
years.
to settle in the country except in towns
and villages, and therefore even to go to a
lawyer may be very costly to a settler, and
under this system, getting his patent

Real Property [MARCH 5, 1885]

N. W. Territories.

181

direct from the Crown, and probably with fidence in their husbands, and even if they
Only one or two transfers, perhaps with no. have not, and the husband is a dissipated
transfer, he would have little difficulty in man, be generally induces his wife to bar
transferring his land as security to who- ber dower. I remember, a good many
ever he might desire to borrow money years ago when I lived in Montreal, my
from, if that should be his desire.
He wife was selling a piece of property, and
will have no difficulty in having that according to tbe law of Lower Canada
done, practically at no cost. But it is not then, and I suppose it is the same now,
only in the case of borrowing money. the wife on sucb occasions bas to be exThere is a very numerous class of what amined by a judge apart from ber busband
may be termed pioneers in the North- as to whetber tbere bas been any coercion
West-men who delight in breaking up on his part to compel ber to seil. I
the land, making improvements upon it accompanied my wife to tbe residence
and then obtaining their patents and of the late Chief justice Valliere de
selling out at an advance to some one St. Real, one of the most brilliant
who desires more of the comforts of life, jurists tbat ever sat on the Bench of
and therefore prefers giving a fair price for Lower Canada, or any otber Bencb. I
land, a considerable area of which is under dare say there are French Canadian genCultivation, to undertaking the breaking tlemen in this House who remember the
in Of tbe land bimself. In these cases it Hon. Valliere de St. Real.
After we
il Very desirable that the pioneer s
fould shown into his room e asked me to
were
be- enabled to dispose of bis land readily retire, and when I returned he said "Well,
and without expense. It is the desire of sir, this lady says you have not, by ir
the People in the North-West Territory usage or cocrcion compelled ber to exethat tbey sbould bave the advantage of cute this deed. I did flot suppose you
this sYstem. They are quite alive to its yad, but this is one of te remaining
alue. and it vas introduced in the Nortb- fictions of our law." My hon. friend has
West' Council last summer at tbe last also said that if this Act was passed, that
session of that Council, and I dare say wherever it was enforced there could be
that if they had had a member of the no objection to allowing banks to lend
Council wbo bad been as well fitted to money on lands. I do flot agree with my
PrePare tbat Bill as my bon. friend the bon. friend in tbat. I do flot see that the
Minister of Justice is, tbey would bave mode of transfer bas anytbing to do witb,
passed it into lawa; but they did not feel or affects in any way the bankable carac
that that was the case, and they would be ter-if I
may describe it-of lad.
w
goratefft to the ParCiaheent of the
Jomun10On tbey would give tbem sucS a meaif
HON. MR. SCOTT-It becomes a
lune as my bon. friend bas laid before us personal chattel then and goes to the exThe hon, gentleman from Ottawa spoke ecutor and administrator, tBat il the disYesterday of the great facisity it afforded tinction.
fOitthe transfer of land witbout tbe interentOr the
of
andhives of the owners.
My
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONson friend bas bad a very large experience The reason for preventing banks from
be the Practice of lawan4 I doubt very lending on real estate is not because of
anuch ifhe as known of many instances the uncertainty of the tite, but because of
Whepeo tb wife succeeded in preventing the inconvertibility of tbe sccurity. No
ter husand from hortgaging is land or matter how it may be transferred fro
h
sehiin t if so disposed.
hand to hand it will neyer be as readily
jelThere May be cases in wicb she sub- convertible as wbat we now know as
bWCted to unkind treatment and coercion, personal securities. It is because of the
sessI fancy she rarely in the end. prevents inconvertihilitv of and that
banks are
t'Sa disping of it. I do not myse f at- probibited from lending money upon it
tach nuch importance to that for tbe Banks are autborized to take deposits
reason I have given, that I do fnot think from corporations and individuals, and
aes Succeed in preventing teir husbands they are also allowed to issue notes which
rn disposing of the land when doing so pass from band to band, and are redee even unwise. As a rule they bave con- able on demand. Now it is necessary

182

Real Property [SENATE]

that they should be required to keep their
assets in a readily convertible form, otherwise serious inconvenience would arise,
and land will not be any more readily
convertible into cash if transferred under
this Bill than it would be if transferred
I understood
under the present system.
my hon. friend also to say that it was a
very great departure from the present
usage to declare that land shall be a chattel
real. Is it not possible to do that, and is
it not done under the laws of Ontario ?
Are not executors and trustees empowered
to convert land into chattels real, or at all
events is not a testator competent to
declare that his real estate which passes
to his executors and trustees shall be
dealt with by them as chattels real ?
HON. MR. SCOTT-If he chooses to
do it he may do it ; but in this case the
law does it for him whether he likes it or
not.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONStill it is possible to do it under the existing law.
HON. MR. SCOTT-Clearly so.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONThat is all I contend.

HON. MR. ODELL-I would like to
ask the Minister of the Interior what the
effect of this law is to be upon homesteads?
If I arn right the object of granting homesteads is to make provision for a family,
and I think the hon. gentleman alluded
partly to that very point in the remarks
which he bas made, and I should like to
know from him what the effect of this is
to be upon the homestead proprietors as
they at present stand ? There is another
point which he bas just alluded to, and
that is the giving to executors the absolute
title of the land, and in case of anything
happening to that executor-if he gets into
difficulty and becomes bankrupt-this title
would go to bis assignees or trustees as the
case may be, and it appears to me that
there is in that way a difficulty in making
land a chattel real. The question I would
like answered particularly is what effect
this measure will have upon the homestead proprietors ?
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON.

N. W. Territories.

HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON
-This Bill if it becomes law would have
no effect whatever upon the homesteads
or upon the homesteader, except to facilitate the transfer of lands by him when it
became his. A homesteader does not own
bis land and cannot dispose of it, or agree
to dispose of it under the law, until he has
resided upon it three years and obtained
a patent for it. When he obtains a patent
for it his land is just as the land ot the
bon. gentleman's or mine is; it is his to
do what he likes with it.
HON. MR. PLUMB-As this matter
bas been dealt with by the Minister of the
Interior from the standpoint of a layman,
and as the tramer of the Act was himself
a layman, I suppose I may venture to
look at it from that point of view. This
Bill seems to make a sweeping change in
the method of conveying land, and in the
methods under whicb land is devised.
From what I learn of the Bill some of
the great and sweeping changes are, first
that land is converted by it into personal
estate ; that in deeds no words of limitation are necessary ; that no devise shail
be valid until the land is conveyed by the
executor-by the personal representative
of the devisor to the devisee. It passes in
the first instance to the executor of the will.
The right of dower is abolished; there is no
estate by courtesy. In a conveyance to
husband and wife, the grantees are to hold
separately, and in case of the demise of
either one or the other the estate does
not necessarily go to the other person
who has the title, and in it there is a
condition by which a husband or wife
That
may convey without a trustee.
appears to be a very gcod provision. A
married woman shal have the rights of a
femme sole. Now, the chief reason which
seems to be urged for departing so largely
from the usages which have governed all
the traditions of those who have inherited
English law, is the expensiveness of making transfers and searches. It seems to
me that it would do away very largely
with the cost of searches, and it would do
away also with much of the argument for
making an entirely new departure with
respect to real property if searches could
be registered, so that when a search is
once made it remains up to the date of
that search as a valid examination of title,

Real Property [MARCH 5, 1885]

N. W. Territories.

183

and will not be necessary in every case to and it seems to me, while it may be desir-

lake a search de novo. It would save an
enormous amount of expense, and it would
obviate one of the principal difficulties
which have been urged against the existifg system by hon. gentlemen who have
-argued in favor of the Bill.
Uox-.

would

MR. HOWLAN-One lawyer
not take another lawyer's search.

lON. MR. PLUMB--He could be made
Otake it by law. I do not agree with my
aon. friend as to the fact that there is not
aver considerable objection to the proVis, 0 that a wife need not join in a conon,
eyance with her husband ; I believe that
many cases the existing law saves
I
f'ihiiljes from utter destruction and destiton. I believe that in cases where men
ke dissipated, extravagant, or otherwise
squander their properties, the resolute
Conlduct of the wife, who is not necessarily

Coltrolled by her husband, may save the
lfary ruin. Although
from
may
Minjo separation, they may livethere terms
on
Which nay enable her to assert herself
for
her Own rights and the rights of her children. and I believe it is a very serious
Matter to decide that the husband shall
have the sole control of the homestead
on
hich they live. It strikes me as one of the
teings Most objectionable things in the systh• It is true, as my hon. friend has stated,
that the North-West is a new country; that
Ie are going in there for the first time to
establish a new system; but those who
have gone there are for the greater part
ho have been accustomed to the
rul
els hwhich govern the transfer of land
telehere in this country. They will
have
to learn this new system.
Every man has
theear it, and I believe that nine-tenths of
Pll
w beoPle whotomake conveyances there,
thli ke unable
the ind, without proceed under an Act of
advice. It is not by any
11 ns a thing that a layman can grasp
likel ndately, and which those who are
bto
noty be imnediately affected by t will
Willing to take the hazards of
givin
cogsu tor taking a consequence without
.lo, . ng legal authority. It would be a
es tme before the settlers in the North.Mit become accustomed to an Act
could
ideas so entirely contrary to all their
t al' to all they have been taught, and
that they have been accustomed to;

able to put it upon trial in some respects,
that it has not all the advantages which
have been claimed for it. I think I may
venture to say that my hon. friend who
introduced the Bill told us that he was a
slow convert. He told us that he did not
by any means fall in love with it at first
sight; but perhaps after further investigation and examination of it in detail,
it may be explained to us in such a
way as to obviate some of those difficulties that seem to be at the outset
apparent, and which certainly weigh on
my mind, and without which I should
not have ventured to make the remarks
which I do, except that I knew the Act
itself was the work of a layman, and that
it really affects the interests of laymen very
much more than it affects the interests of
the legal profession.
As to the examination to which my hon. friend the Minister
of the Interior has referred, of the wife
apart from the husband, that is practiced,
I believe, under all systems of convyance. Certainly it is the case in the
United States.
HoN. MR. SCOTT-It is abolished
now in Ontario. The wife executes with
the husband if she likes, or without.
HON. MR. PLUMB-In most of the
States she is examined apart from the husband to see whether she executes urder
coercion, and that system still exists in the
Maritime Provinces, I am informed. I do
not know what effect it will have on homesteads. In many of the States of the Union
there has been a constant tendency to
simplify the forms of conveyance.
In
one of the States with which I am familiar,
no seal is necessary. The mere words of
transfer are all that is necessary. The
transfer is made as simple as possible, and
the intention is made known without resorting to the words convey, transfer, demise, &c. The old forms are done away
with, and a mortgage is executed in the
same way, and the discharge of a mortgage
is simple; and none of those are under
seal. Some simplification of the mode of
conveyance like that would be an advantage. As hon. gentlemen can see, there
can be no great difficulty about searches
of titles in the North-West, because in
all those cases they go back immedi-

184A

Real Property [SEN ATE]

ately to the patent from the Crown,
and it seems to me that would be
all that is necessary to meet the case.
This is a cumbersome Act, one of great
detail; I do not know how many sections
there are in it, but there is an enormous
amount of special provision at the end by
way of appendices for forms, and it really
seems that it is as difficult to adopt this
and carry it into practice as it would be
to go on with the old system and simplify
the forms of transfer as much as can be
without striking at the principle which has
governed until now the laws relating to
the transfer of lands. I make these remarks on the general tenor with the utmost diffidence, and I presume this Act,
will receive a ver) thorough examination
in committee, and that gentlemen of the
legal profession, who of course understand its provisions far better than any
laymen, will examine it section by section ; but as the principle of the Bill
is now under discussion. I felt it due
to myself to express the impression
which had been conveyed to me by
the remarks made thus far in regard
to it. I confess that I am not yet a convert to so sweeping a change in all that
we have been accustomed to consider as
the law governing real estate and the
transfer of real estate. I certainly do not
feel prepared to say that I consider it will
be a move in the right direction, in this
country particularly, to place it on a par
with moveable property and chattels, and
to facilitate the transfer of it to such an
extent that, according to the statement of
my hon. friend, it may be conveyed from
one to another as easily as bank stock.
HON. MR. TRUDEL-A member of
this House, belonging to the legal profession, from the Province of Quebec, I was
intormed, intended to give not only his
views, but what I conceive to be the views
of the legal profession of our province on
this important matter. As I do not see
him in his place, and as I believe that our
views ought to be put before the House,
though I have hardly had time to look at
the Bill and read it, I will offer a few
observations upon the measure. And first
I may say that I consider this Bill is a
most important one, and the draft of it
which is put before the House is the result
of very considerable work as far as I can
HON. MR. PLUMB.

N. IF. Territories.

see. I do not hesitate to say that the
hon. Minister of Justice and those who
took part in the preparation of this law
are entitled to a great deal of credit ; and
the clear and able exposition which was
made here by the hon. Minister of Justice
was most interesting,-it certainly interested me very much,-and I think he
deserves great credit for it. Still, while I
am ready to admit that the country might
benefit to a large extent by adopting
certain provisions of this measure, I desire
to say that I do not conceive that thisHouse should admit the principles on
which it is based. If I understand it
properly, there is in this Bill the matter of
two different measures, and in my humble
judgment they should be brought separately before the House. There is a very
good registration law, but at the same time
there are radical changes or principles or
legislation which are not a necessary part
of a registration law, and whose effect in
my opinion, would not be beneficial to
the country. My hon. friend who has
just spoken has pointed out some features
of the Bill which deal with very important
rights. I go a little further and say that
in my opinion it destroys altogether what
constitute the main foundations of a
community. and I would be surprised
if they should meet with the approval of
this House, which ought to represent
the conservative element in the country ;
and when I say conservative element I dO"
not mean it in a political or a party point
of view. The main duty of this House is
to check the excesses of enthusiasts and
the innovations coming up from the
popular branch, and I think it is to be
regretted that such principles as we find
in this Bill should be laid down and
adopted and imposed upon the countrY
by the Upper House. I said a moment
ago I find in this Bill the materials of twO
different laws. As far as I can see al'
that constitutes the registration of deeds
forms a system which may very well be
adopted ; but the moment the principle
of mortgages or encumbrances on property
is admitted, I do not see why we should
do away with encumbrances of another
nature which have been considered for
centuries necessary as safeguards of families
and for the welfare of the community at
large. The adoption of this Bill to r'y
mind destroys the main foundations of the

Real Property [MARCU 5, 1885]
community. The hon. Minister of Justice
said It was with some hesitation he had
been brought to adopt some principles
of
this measure-I am a little astonished
that he has been converted, and I think
that after a short examination he will come
to the conclusion that some of the main
Provisions, at all events, should be struck
out Of the Bill. I do not think that we
Should so easily dispose of laws and the
8
estem of laws which have governed the
vilized world for eight or nine centuries,
of thhich in my judgment are at the root
e prosperity and strength of the most
t ebrated nations of the world. Some
to or three years ago I had the advantage
'f meetmg a very remarkable economist
theO had passed part of his life in England,
a Unted States, Russia, and in fact
ainost all the great countries of the world
i reier to Mr. LePlay, a Frenchman, who
died the year before last-he has left
several books which are considered the
tenc treatises on political economy in existe. Mr. LePlay inaugurated a new
Ys
finedmofstudyingsuch principles. He confor hinself to the system of observation.
and nstance he was 13 years in England,
of the studied carefully the foundations
•

'es te strength and prosperity and greatres Of the Empire.

He found that they

far due main]y to the strength of the
thles in England, and the high respect
eyad for the principle of property.
If
1al uerstand this measure, it destroys
alogether some of the
main elements
ec
onstitute
becausontiut the strength of families,
h e no one can read the lessons of
tht tWithout coming to the conclusion
at e greatness of some of the principal
oations of the world, and especially that
bf thgland, is due to the services
rendered
turee POwerful families, who during cenies have devoted themselves to the
elare of the country. They have been
to edu to do so by possessing means
life
for public
stats cate and fitfurnished
d they have themselves celebrated
the
statese
:he ba
h~g who have made England what
a
d
stad theen for many centuries.
an horogî

I under-

this
roughly that nothing is perfect in
ealcula
and there are some provisions
to strengthen and to create
Powerful
tle
families in a country which are
Cent.uefect, and which in the course of
p.ories no doubt have led to excesses.
instance the accumulation of great

N. W. Territoris.

185.

wealth amongst a small number of families
does not tend to the good of a country.
But at the same time I believe that
families should be encouraged to preserve
their patrimonies, and that the laws which
have enabled the great families of England
to do so have given to that country the
services of the most eminent men in the
Army, the State and the Church. They
could only, come from families strong
enough to provide their children with the
necessary means and education.
Now
this Bill to my mind does away to a certain
extent with the rights of the wife, leaving
her without iny recourse in cases of insolvency or family misfortune, allowing
the husband to dispose of the patrimony
of the family without regard to the rights
of the children, and the father himselfnot
being protected when he lacks the prudence and capacity to manage his property.
Those elements which constitute the
family, the wife and the children, being
deprived of all protection from the laws of
the country, it seems to me that the family
cannot become as powerful as is necessary
to produce the results to which I have
alluded. There are other features of this
Bill which are very striking. For instance,
if we consult all the authorities of the last
two thousand years, we come to the conclusion that it has always been considered
an elementary principle that a contract of
sale between two parties is perfected by
the will of the parties ; but this measure
makes not only the sale, but the validity
of a deed depend on the registration.
Now, the registration is, not only according to the present law, but according to
common sense, merely a matter of incidental accessory, and subsequent to the
sale. A man sells his property to another;
that is a perfect contract; the principle of
the contract lies in the consent of the
parties; but this law says that the sale
which gives the right to the property does
not consist in the free consent of the seller,
but in the registration of the certificate.
It is an innovation which I think ought
not to be adopted. This measure changes
altogether the basis of the law relating to
property which has been in existence for
2,ooo years, and all the results that have
flowed from that law. A man decides to
sell his property, and the purchaser acquires his rights and is entitled to all the
benefits resulting from the act ; but under

186

Real Property [SENATE]

N. W. Territorie8.

this Bill he would not become the pro- composed of families, if you weaken the
prietor until the registration of the deed. family you weaken the state. You can
Now, supposing a man purchases a pro- never have a strong community if it is not
perty for $ 1,ooo, and before the registra- composed of families having all those
tion of the deed it increases in value to elements of strength which I have men$oo,ooo, he runs the risk of losing the tioned. Now, one of those elements is
benefit of his purchase. It is true the certainly paternal authority. This measure
Bill provides that an action for damages will have the effect to a certain extent of
may be entered, but this recourse will in destroying the authority of the husband.
many cases prove ineffectual. This is In one sense it will leave him the power
one of the consequences of adopting a new of arbitrarily disposing of what is in his
principle which, as far as I can see, is a hands, whether he has received it fron
radical change, and a complete departure his ancestors or acquired it by his own
from the ideas which we have entertained toil; but in the meantime he will lose in his
hitherto of what constitutes the essence of relations with his wife as far as his interests
a contract. And in changing so radically are concerned a great part of his authority ?
the very principle of a contract, we change The wife becomes entirely free from what
altogether the principles which have been we call in our language marital authority;
entertained with regard to property ? For and I think the working of such a laW
instance, all the comments on the existing would prove, not in the near future, but
laws become of no avail. The effect of after many years, to have a detrimental
such a change may be far-reaching. For effect on the influence of the hushand.
instance, it changes altogether the I respectfully ask the Minister of Justice
basis of succession. If the validity of if it would not be possible to make of
a contract depends only on the regis- this a very good registration law, without
tration, it is no longer in the power of such a sweeping change of the principles
a man to secure the accomplish- which have governed the older societies
ment of his will, because it all becomes of the civilized world for so many centusubject to registration. Under the system ries, and which have proved so effectual ?
in force in the Province of Quebec, which I think it is possible. I do not see the
is similar in some respects to the provisions necessitv of mobilizing the whole of the
of this Bill, the registration towards a third immovable for the purpose of facilitating
party has the effect which I allude to ; transactions in land. Now, we have i'
that is, if a perfect deed is not registered, the Province of Quebec, for instance,
and if, after thirty days, another party gone very far in this direction. We have
buys the property, and bas his chattel done away with many of what are called
registered, the new purchaser will have the here incumbrances, but which have proved
right to the property. It is of course an for many centuries, to be the best securitY
exception to the principles I have alluded for preserving property in a family. We
to, but the title is valid only so far as third have gone very far I say, but, thank God,
parties are concerned. If I understand we have preserved a good deal of what is
this Bill, however, even between the con- necessary to secure those great interpst5
tracting parties, the agreement or contract and I think we have gone far enough il
will not exist before the registration. I affording to commerce all desirable adhave alluded already to its effects upon vantages for the disposal of properties.
the family. It changes, so far as I can If the systeni was one which would not
see, the relations now existing under the recognize mortgages, we would have tO
law between a man and his wife and accept the system of registration as it i5,
r
children. It will have the effect of creating or reject it altogether ; but the syste 0
different, and sometimes hostile interests does admit of encumbering a property Ji
between husband and wife, between father favor of a creditor. Then, why should it
and son, or at least of destroying any not be possible for the wife to have a lie"
community of interest between these on the property ? Why should she not
branches of family. It will have the effect have her right to dower or the protection
of weakening the natural bond which of whatever money she might possess O
binds those three elements together which her own ? I think she is entitled at least
:onstitute the family. As the state is to that much protection-to as mnuch
HON. MR. TRUDEL.

Real Property [MARCH 5, 1885]

N. W. Territories.

187

Protection as a money-lender. The feelOf course farmers ought to improve
'O that seems to prevail in the minds of their property, but it ought not to be done
on borrowed capital, and those who have
see
on.
faems to begentlemen who have spoken, large experience in farming operations
that we cannot go too far in
dltatng the transactions in real estate will admit that it is very seldom agriculdfldthe borrowing of money upon farms.
I ture will pay even a moderate interest on
teenOt share that opinion; I think in nine- large capital borrowed for improvements.
farcases out of twenty it is desirable that a There is nothing further from my mind
ha er should not borrow money. I than placing any obstruction in the way of
i EPPened a few years ago while travelling the legislation now before us. This is a
of thurope to hear of a striking illustration new scheme, and those who have studied
'rhe e effects of farmers borrowing money. it out and brought it to its present shape
Iot ato which I am about to refer is deserve very much credit for the labor
Aagether unknown to Canadian and they have bestowed on it. They ought
enIican readers. I met a distinguished to be assisted and encouraged as much as
who occupies a very high possible, though I do not think we ought
POsitien
the sooin Austria. He is at the head of hastily to adopt such sweeping legislation
anid . elety of political economy in Rome as is proposed.
The hon. gentleman
life t Vienna, and has devoted all his from Ottawa remarked yesterday that he
told the study of such subjects. He saw no objection to trying this new sysane that twenty-five years ago there tem in the North-West as that portion of
of br. vement in Austria in the direction the Dominion is as yet almost unsettled.
anId r owing money to improve farms, I do not agree with him on that point,
all
te
was a party, which was a very and for this reason : the people who will
were
nority, opposed to it. Those who go in and seule in the North-West will
e favor of affording facilities to retain the institutions we are now create rsand conclusively
to borrow money showed very ing for them. They will accept the systhat by borrowing tem of law which will be enacted by this
dolla nY florins or so many thousand Parliament for them, and I think, if it is
1ents ,and applying it to the improve- not clear to our minds that this is a
Would b the farms the yield of crops sound principle of legislation, that we
wers e double, and would enable the ought not to make the experiment at their
twerntyfÇf the farms to repay the debt in expense, because once it has become law
Conti ve years ; and their farms would in that part of the country it will be more
fore thee to produce twice as much as be- difficut to abandon a wrong system than
Calcula
provements were made. These to introduce an improved one. I have
the atlons were made at a time when not had time to study the Bill in all its
ere thntries surrounding the Black Sea details, but from what I have seen of it I
Slarge granary of Europe, and furnished think it is possible to make of this draft
kurop Part of the cattle sold in the a very good registration law without
th pean Markets. The farmers borrowed adopting the radical changes which are
4heir had and doubled the production of laid down in the beginning of the Bill,
hey y ; but unfortunately for them and I hope that it will be the opinion of
Velo
"ennot
calculated on the rapid de- hon. members, and that the House will
titent of agriculture on this· con- act in that direction. Of course we
are
'The Western States of America ought not to judge of such a system of
,heat foducing millions of bushels of land transfer from a narrow point of view.
alor
exportation to Europe, and they I do not pretend to judge this measure aca frzen succeeded in exporting cattle cording to the law which prevails in the
The result has been Province of Quebec, but if we take all the
at the .mes.
wheat and meats have principles of legislation relating to land
iinc
lstri ISed that now those farmers in tenure in England and other countries we
t s although their farms produce will find that there are some which were
y~ loreUch as before, do not receive in force long anterior to the present state
Saore for their products, and their of civilization, and which we ought not to
hey brrol 'ortgaged for the money part with too readily. It was one of the
great boasts of the French Revolution

188

Real Property [SE NATE]

that they abolished many of the old provisions of law, but what did we see after
the re-establishment of the Empire ?
Those men who were active in bringing
about the Revolution were the very first
to re-enact the laws which the Revolution
had destroyed. We have retained only
one degree of encumbrance, though we
admit that the principle of allowing a
father to so dispose of his property as to
provide for an improvident son, is a good
one. Hon. gentlemen ought to bear in
mind that by refusing to recognize this
principle you deprive the parties who
ought to have the benefit of this system of
that privilege, and why not leave to the
people of the North-West the same advantage that we in the older provinces enjoy ?
If a man feels that it is to his advantage
to create a dower or devise, why not allow
him to do it? If he thinks it is to his
interest to keep his property free of all
encumbrance he is perfectly at liberty to
do so, and why should we not leave
everybody in a position to benefit by
both systems ? If we adopt this measure
a man will not be able to place any encumbrance in a certain direction. For
instance it might be desirable to make a
matrimonial alliance for his son which
could only be done by securing a dower
to his future daughter-in-law, which under
this law he could not do. Why should he
not be at liberty to do so ? It is not
necessary to put the system of registration
into operation.
This is a matter that
deserves much attention and study. There
are some of our ordinances which are the
basis of the French system of law, and
which have been the four or five years
work and study of the most celebrated
legislators. Though they do not cover
more than half a dozen pages, yet they
are monuments of legislative ability which
will always command the admiration of
the legal minds of the world. When we
propose to dispose of a subject in 20 lines
that has occupied the ablest minds of
different legislatures for years and years,
we should only do so after grave consider
ation, for if we hastily adopt this system
we may have reason to regret in the future

N. W. Terrztories.

HON. MR. POWER-The object of the
Torrens system, as I understand it, and at
explained by the Minister of Justice, il
two-fold. The first and principal object
is to give greater certainty to tities to land,
and facilitate the proofof those titles. The
second one, important but subsidiary to
the first in this country, is to facilitate the
transfer of land. I think those two objects
of the Torrens system constitute the
principle of this Bill, and as I concur '0
both of those, and think them desirabler
I propose to vote for the second readid
of the measure, by which we adopt t
principle. I agree with the hon. gentlerna1'
from Niagara that in the present conditioo
of the North-West this Bill is not neces
sary ; because in a country as lately settîe
as the North-West is there can be 01
complication of title, and no difficulty Of
search, and consequently no difficultY o
transferring land. But we are laying the
foundation of a country out there that f
hope bye and bye will develop iO
populous provinces ; and in course
tinie the land will naturally be transferred
and dealt with there as in older countrieS
and it is a most desirable thing that Vre
should begin with a good and sinP
system. Credit is due to the GOVero'
ment for having taken hold of th
matter at a comparatively early dat
though, as the Minister of Justice
said, something of a similar character
proposed by Mr. Mills some years agOdo not propose to dwell on the inc
venience of the present system with resPed<
to the tities to lands. The hon. Minl1t
of Justice has spoken at some length U1'P
that point ; but these difficulties are
ticularly felt in cities, and I see that 10
the Ontario Legislature Mr. Mowmat e
introduced a Bill. embodying the sa
principle as this measure, which is to
applied to the City of Toronto an
immediate neighborhood.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL
he introduced it ?

1
the

MR. POWER- I see by C
newspapers that it has been introdtug
HON.

t ias uccome necessary [nere,
a city like Toronto, or even in smnallerit
that we have abolished principles of law after a certain number of years, it be th
which are necessary for the welfare of the almost impossible to be certain as
s
people of Canada.
tite of real estate.
I know that ci

HON. MR. TRUDEL.

Real Property [MARCEI 5, 18851 .Y. W. Territories.
'aller sphere, in the City of Halifax,
Mreers of the legal profession feel the
difficulty and hesitation in certify1 to titles because one is never quite
an mthat they are perfect; and I think
aY legislation which proposes to take
to the element of doubt from the title
isand is most desirable legislation. It
8aid that Torrens deserved a great
the of credit for devising this change in
th iMode of transferring real property. I
that he did undoubtedly, but it was
a
itse r ntral thing to have suggested
a gentleman who was situated as
S't
st obert Torrens was. He had been a
re .0n house officer, and I presume a
whsrar of shipping. He saw that ships,
Werh are very valuable property indeed,
waye.
transferred in this simple and easy
tu and as they had in Australia the
lad tous and expensive English system of
as transfer, he thought it would be a
app lprovement if the system which
While to ships should be applied to land.
the
endorse the principle of the Bill,
e are some of its details which, as the
enster of Justice has said, are not an
which Part of the Torrens system, and
ha
think deserve the criticisms which
hoe been bestowed upon them by other
0bj 'gentlemen. Before dealing with the
wordsons8 to the Bill, I wish to say a few
tr o the question of dower. I do not
vi er in the same objection to the proth

sîo Of this Bill with respect to dower

g Sorne other hon. gentlemen do. In
very 'Ithe law as to dower was
of W¡Materially altered in the reign
Ioral iam the Fourth. In England a
her bas dower only in the land that
tont u

nd dies seized of.

In this

serY She has dower in the land that he
,
years
Of during the marriage. A few
Ioago the objection taken to the prooruld h this Bill in regard to dower
the ave been well founded, but not at
riCk day. In Ontario, New Brunse1nt
dsed N ova Scotia laws have been
'fake th thin the last few years which
fore e Property which a woman owns
ring harriage, or which comes to her
Perty er marriage, her own separate
fthe
end which put that property out
the tha
toi if of her hus5and. It seems
we take from the husband
ir th0 over his wife's property, it is
that the wife's control over the

189

husband's property should be taken away
also, and under the present system the
right of dower would be more likely to be
productive of inconvenience and trouble
than of any substantial good. I agree
with the hon. member from Niagara that
it was hardly necessary perhaps to have
introduced a Bill of so radical a character
as this-a Bill which alters altogether the
character of land, and makes it a mere
chattel. Land is materially different ftrom
shipping. A man's house, the place where
his family dwells, his home, is on the land
which, as a rule in this country, is his own;
and there is a good deal in the suggestion
of the hon. gentleman from De Salaberry
that the making of that land a mere
chattel is likely to diminish the feeling of
attachment for home, and perhaps to a
certain extent to lessen the force of the
family tie. I doubt the wisdom of doing
away with the solemnities attending the
execution of a deed. Those solemnities
are intended to prevent hasty action. If
a law of this kind goes into operation a
man who is under the influence of liquor,
for instance, may, without knowing what
he is doing, dispossess himself of his
property.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONThere is total prohibition in the North-

West.
HON. MR. POWER-I understand that
occasionally they get a little whiskey in
the North-West notwithstanding the prohibition ; and that prohibition is not any
more effective in the North-West than
elsewhere. It is a thing not unlikely to
happen ; and there are everywhere speculative and unprincipled men who are at
all times willing to take advantage of the
weakness of others; and this Bill, if adopted in all its details, would give opportunities for over-reaching men who were either
rendered partly incapable from drinking,
or who were not very shrewd, or very well
able to take care of themselves when
sober. For that reason it is perhaps better
not to remove t le solemnities which attend
the execution of the deed. Then this Bill
does not in any way recognize trusts. I
am perfectly aware that in this respect it
follows the example of the Australian
colonies, but I should venture to submit
one or two considerations to the Minister

190

Real Property [SE NATE]

of Justice in connection with trusts.
Breaches of trust are becoming more
common, with each succeeding year. It
may be that we hear more about them
now than we used to, but they are certainly very common. It is not an unusual
thing to find a trustee leaving his home
with the funds of his fiduciaries, and there
is almost no protection whatever against
the fraud of the trustee in the case of
personal property. In the case of real
estate there is at present a certain amount
of protection. Any one who buys land
from trustees, or from a single trustee has
to search the title, and will find from that
search that the land is held in trust, and
in that way he is put upon his guard, to a
certain extent, and the fiduciaries are
protected. The man who buys land from
a trustee under our present system has
notice of the existence of the trust. It is
a matter worthy of consideration whether
trusts should not be recognized. Of course
the Minister of Justice has stated that,
where there are two or more trustees, in
the registrar's book, after the names of the
trustees, the words " No survivorship "
might be inserted. That would not apply
to the case of a single trustee, and it would
not give very much information even if
there were two or three trustees. It would
indicate that there was no survivorship,
and that would be all. The case of
executors has been dealt with already by
two or three hon. gentlemen, and I shall
not refer to it. I should like to know
whether the attention of the Minister of
Justice has been specially called to the
British Columbia registration law ?
Hox. SIR ALEX.
Yes, I spoke of it.

CAMPBELL-

HON. MR. POWER-I know that the
hon. gentleman spoke of it, but I should
like to know whether he has devoted any
special attention to that Act.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,
I think I understand it.
HoN. MR. POWER-It occurred to me
in reading over the British Columbia law
that it seemed to embody all the advantages of the Torrens system without some
of its disadvantages, and I understand that
FION. MR. POWER

N. W. Territories.

that law has been found to work vell
satisfactorily indeed in British Columbia.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL 1
stated in my remarks that I had examined
that Act, and I do not think it differs
materially from the Acts in force 1'
Ontario and Nova Scotia.
HON.

MR.

POWER-It differs very

materially.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--The
only difference that I notice in it at all 15
that after seven years the title can be rmadc
indefeasible. With that exception I do
not think there is a special difference
between the laws of British Columbia afd
those of Ontario and Nova Scotia.
HON. MR. POWER-Now that I have
heard what the Minister says, I fear thati
may have misapprehended the effect of
the British Columbia law ; but it seeile
to me that it embodied the provisions for
the security of title, along with the better
part of the present system of registratiOO•
The consolidated ordinance of British
Columbia was passed in 1870. It 1
intituled " An Ordinance to assirnilate
the law relating to the transfer of resi
estate, and to provide for the registrato'
of titles to land throughout the colon Of
British Columbia." I find that the I
section provides " That it shall be the
duty of the Registrar, when requeste to
and upon payment of the proper fees,
record in books to be kept for that purpoqe'
and to be called the 'record of conveyances,
the 'record of pre-emption claims,' th
'record of mortgages,' the ' record at
wills,' and in other books with appropri .
titles, all deeds and instruments in a
manner affecting real estate or the title t
any interest therein." Then under te
general heading of "Registration ofTitles
there is a provision which I think doeb
most of what is proposed to be done.
the Bill now before us. The 1 9th sectIOn
is as follows :
" Every person claiining to be theleg
owner in fee simple of real estate may apP'
to the Registrer for registration there0f, ""
the Registrar shall, upon being satisfied aft
the examination of the title deeds proihed
that a pi*na/acie title has been estabi
by the applicant, register the titie Be
applicant in a book to be called the eRegB

-Real Property [MARC H 5, 1885] N. W. Territories.

191

f'&bsolute Fees,' and also shall transcribe familiar things will disappear under the
lnanother book to be called the 'Absolute operation of this measure. It will undo
e"'8' Parcela' Book,'-' a description of the
the work of centuries, but this is not the
land to which the titie relates."

first time that Parliament has- been obliged

As the Minister of Justice says, that to'pass laws producing great changes. We

does not constitute, under this ordinance
an indefeasible title until after the lapse
of Some further time ; but I take it
elt a country like the North-West the
elay of some years 'is not an essential
Pat of the British Columbia system.
Then I notice that in British Columbia
the provision as to mortgages and encumrances has some advantages over the
provision contained in the Bill, and which
s8borrowed from the Australian law.
broder this Bill the holder of an encumrnce enters a caveat. Under the Brit's Columbia system he brings his mort.age
or
tgistrar, certificate of judgment to the
who makes a memorandum

are continually endeavoring to give to
those who send us here improved legislation, and I think that is the principal duty
we are called upon to perform as representatives of the people. I remember
when in the province of Quebec land was
held under the feudal tenure, and I have
had occasion myself as a notary public to
prepare acts of foi et hommage according
to the coutume de Paris,which was at the

time the law of the land. The owner of
any land en fief presented himself to his
seignor, and being there in the position of
vassal tête nu, un genou en terre, sans epée
ni eperons, he declared that he was his

vassal for such fief.

Being acknowledged

tLereof in connection with the title, and by his seignor as such, he .received in
there is a reference in the title book
return la bouche et les mains, meaning
the book of encumbrances, where this to embrace and hands. Parliament passed a
en-

1umfbrance is to be found. While there
somne force in what the hon. gentleman
m DeSalaberry said about the title
f!lg from registration and not from exeb
I do not think there is much,
cause the title to a ship is in exactly the
enIe position as the title to
Ve serious inconvenience land, and no
has
Perenced from the fact that the been extitle
gre dates only from registration. to a
tethat 1 have not had time to I redevote
be attention to this Bill that it deserves
but~ 1 shoM.nt ould respectfully suggest to the
soister of Justice, a reconsideration of
e
fportis of it which he says are not
sibltia-features of the measure, and posColUb.It ,May be found that the British
the hbla Act covers more ground than
ioti On. Minister at present thinks. I
cleacerthat it is shorter, and is I think a
aborer law than this will be. It is only
b Out
ore one-half the length of the Bill now
the House.

law doing away with that, although it had
been in existence for centuries, but would
any one dream of reviving it to-day ? I
think we have advanced too much for that.
No one regrets more than I do the provision to do away with the old custom of
dower and tenure by courtesy, which
were pledges of love and mutual affection;.
and there is always a feeling of pain when
we depart from customs which have grown
up under the common law of the country.
I understand the importance that we
attach to holding the title of a property.
It is regarded to some extent as the
history of a family. We examine our
titles to see what our fathers and forefathers have done for us. But at the same
time what is more important to look at is
to have a satisfactory title, and the registry
office will be the place where we can get
information on the subject without delay
or difficulty. Under this Bill there will
be no title recorded, but the certificate
of a property after being admitted
tative
R- GIRARD-As a represen- by the registrar. will be recorded, and
Manitoba, living near those who if you want to make a search with
areI
aenterested in this Bill and to a certain reference to a property you can find the
dut representing them, I think it is my certificate on record together with all the
befoto express my views on the measure encumbrances or charges against the
that iUs It will be generally admitted property up to the time you want to
istl kee
legislation, as in everything else, we mortgage or acquire it. I think that that
ae i P pace with the progress of the advantage will be appreciated in the North'il Which we live. No doubt many West as it has been in the Australian

192

Real Property [SENATE]

N. W. Territories.

colonies. I have been reading a report judge. What I approve of also is one of
of a discussion which took place in the last clauses of the Bill which gives the
London in 1872, on a lecture delivered Government power to make provision for
by Sir Robert Torrens himself before a the easy introduction of the systern in the
scientific association there.
After the North-West Territories. The Goverilecture a conversation took place in which ment may by Order-in-Council make
Lord Coleridge, the Chief Justice of Eng- necessary piovisions for this purpose. I
land, took part. The system was approved think the measure is well adapted to the
of by everyone present, and Lord Coler- circumstances of the North-West Terriidge who, previous to that, had had some tories, and I believe it will be popular
hesitation as to the adoption of the there. It will save the people expense
Torrens system, said after having heard and give them facilities for making easy
the argument of the men of science there and rapid transfers of property. Before
that the system was perfectly clear, that it long I predict it will be extended not onlY
was one that could be easily put in oper- to the North-West but to Manitoba also.
ation, and that all the provisions were as On more than one occasion the idea has
clear as that two and two make four-I been expressed of having some such sysuse his own expression. With regard to tem in force in our province. To Manitrusts I see no ground for apprehenson ; toba belongs the honor of having taken
I think the law furnishes sufficient pro- the first action towards doing away with
tection for those who are interested in dower and tenure by courtesy. For many
trusts. The property will be recorded years there was but a single book tO
in the name of the trustee it is true, but record all the titles in the Red River
provision is nade in case of necessity for settlement. There were no writings whatthe appointment by a judge of one or ever, but when anyone wished to transfer
more persons to attend to the trusts. his property he went to the officer in
What is peculiar in the Bill, is the con- charge of the Hudson Bay Company's book
tinual protection which is given in all and had the transaction entered. That
its parts to the owner of the property. was the only way of acquiriug a title tO
When he goes to the registrar it is for that property in the Red River settlement UP
official to decide at first whether he is en- to the year 1870. When that simple systitle4 to have his certificate recorded. tem worked so satisfactorily for many
If there is any difficulty about it the regis- years the people will have no hesitation i'
trar will not go any further, but will refer adopting another systern which will save
the whole matter to a judge. In the them from great expense and trouble 10
same way, if a man who applies for the real estate tiansfers. I have given yoU
registration of his title finds any difficulty my opinion of the Bill and I am satisfied
which necessitates a written decision from .that the people of the North-West will
the registrar, the whole matter will feel greatful for this measure.
be referred to a judge, who will decide
HON MR. KAULBACH-I have lie
upon it, and there is an appeal from
his decision to another tribunal. For my tened with some interest to the remarks of
part I think there is too much protection my hon. friend from DeSalaberry (Mr.
afforded ; I am afraid that it will involve Trudel) and especially that portion ofthern
a large expense, because the judges are relating to the system of land tenure if'
too distant from one another in that England.
He has shown how it has
country. One would have to go some- tended to the stability and strength of the
times three or four hundred miles before Mother Country, both socially and p0h
meeting a judge, and that would entail of tically, and tended also to cultivate and
course not only expense but delay. Per- sustain a spirit of chivalry and pride in our
haps when the Bill is referred to commit- ancestry, and the feeling of attachiment
tee some improvement may be suggested and tenacious holding to the lands of their
to this part of the measure. If a judg- ancestors and their homes. No dotbt
ment is rendered against a property, or gentlemen of the legal profession, having
if the property is sold by the sheriff, the all been brought up to study the history
title will only be recorded after having of the English feudal system, and the
been submitted to and supervised by the history of the changes in land tenure and
HON. MR. GIRARD.

Real Proprty [MARCR 5, 1885]

N. W. Territories.

198

transfe-r from the time it was held under up, and often persons who have or who
the feduai system, when a man generally ought to have a title lose their rights.
held his land as a fief for life subject to Certainly there seem to be many reasons
certain military and other duties-having why we should be in favor of this Bill.
early studied and been impressed with We have no law in Nova Scotia for quietthat history, and how the present tenure ing titles and we must rely on our ability
and transfer of lands existing in our own to prove long possession or an unbroken
COuntry grew out of that system, we all title from the Crown. Another fact which
fel that changes should not be hastily has not been dwelt upon or thought of in
ade in the law. Lawyers especially are this debate : in many deeds in Nova
.ow to make such changes ; we are par- Scotia the description of the property is
tcularly conservative in the law relating vague and one deed may describe the
t0 and affecting real estate, the tenure and land by metes, the next by natural bounds,
t11nsfer thereof. I know that a similar so that it is difficult to say what is confelling exists in Nova Scotia, which was veyed by the deed. Although a prosettled long before Ontario-for a century fessional man may go and look at the title,
and a-half at least-I speak particularly the wording of the description sometimes
MY own county, and of its noble is such that it is impossible to decide what
erman race. I know that men who property is conveyed without bringing in
t1lherit real estate there look with pride to an expert or a surveyor, or going upon the
their ancestors, and have a feeling of grati- land to ascertain whether it is the same
heatiOn that their fathers and forefathers property or not. That difficulty will be
have occupied the same land for
ierlerations It is therefore natural many obviated by the present Bill. Now, as
that regards doing away with dower I am rather
the prejudiced in my views rather against in favor of that, and also doing away
Bill; but having viewed it in all its with tenure by courtesy. I believe that
iases, and having listened carefully to the both are attended with great incovenience.
hanister of Justice and the debate which The uncertainty of those rights is such
CStaken place, I have come to the con- that it destroys the value of property
s'0n that there is a great deal in this everywhere. They exist in Nova Scotia,
CoeaSure worthy of being adopted in a new and formerly a married woman would
untrysuch as our North-West Territories. hardly sign a deed without getting a silk
Y
not agree with the hon. member from dress. In fact the title was almost conhalaberry that we can at any time easily sidered impeachable by her unless she
it ange the law in our Territories if we let got it. Tenure by courtesy does exist at
Then with regard to
go80 on under the system which is now in the present time.minors, the husband was
easier to change the protection of
frece ' Ontario. It is
titlertainty of title, from indefeasible supposed to have the right where there
, as this Bill proposes, to any other was issue by marriage, but it cumbers
Ve e- tIn that new country, where land and is of very little benefit in any
feu Patents have yet been issued case to the holder of the property by
The only trouble to
a rdthe Crown, I feel that we can that right. is as regards the easymy mind
transfer
llyr hto give this systen a trial, especi. in this Bill
1
.YWhet
ing sat.n we find that it has been work- of landed property. I believe in facilitatWhic afactorily in Australia, a country ing transfers to a reasonable extent but
Uc was situated in every way very not in naking them too easy. This
Ce as Our North-West Territories are. Bill makes it as easy as transferring
Any nty of title is of verygreat importance. bank stock, and much more simple than
er of the legal profession in transferring a ship. It will, or may, have
ov
very Uncertain
cotia knows that we are frequently the effect of people not valuing land as
about titles. We go into a much as they do now, and of not having
ad law where a title is in question the same interest in it that they would take
stablish are not certain that we can if they held it under the present system.
the C a title direct to the patentee of As my hon. friend from Halifax says, a
alSOown in unbroken links. There is man who may not be quite in his right
are davise heirship and possession. There mind would beenabled,under this measure,
Mrways in which we may be tripped to dispose of his land very summarily. If

194A

Real Propeïty [SENATE]

you can give a title almost as easily as a
note of hand, it will be very easy indeed
to get rid of one's property. The title by
registry, I notice by this Bill, is not indefeasible in all cases-for instance, in cases
Fraud vitiates everything, and
of fraud.
if such can be proved, of course then the
title is not perfect; but I believe that is
the only case in which the registration of
a title could be affected. There is a good
deal to be said about trusts, and I should
be glad if this Bill could be amended so
that fiduciaries could be better protected.
Such an amendment iight destroy the
indefeasibility of title, bue if any provision
could be made by which the fiduciaries
could be better protected than they are
under this Bill, it would be of great advantage; because, although a man may
leave his property in trust, trustees are not
always what they should be. It is true,
precaution is taken for the protection of
minors and others under trust, caveats
may be entered, but the property might
pass out of the hands of the trustees before
any step could be taken to prevent it. In
this respect I consider the Bill is sonewhat
defective. It does seem absurd and extraordinary to find that a man's right of
disposition of his property nay be taken
froni him by the registration of a certificate.
The Bill gives a fiduciary the right to
claim damages, but sometines damages
are not a sufficient compensation for the
loss of his property. It has been shown
that where the Act is in Ôperation this
seldom occurs; in Australia there have
been but a few isolated cases. The Bill
makes provision in such cases that a man
I
shall be indemnified for his loss.
hope that in the appointment of these
registrars careful selection will be made.
I perceive that the registrar must be a
lawyer of three years standing. No douht
the Government, considering the importance of the office, will see that it is vested
in men in every way equal to the responsibility and the duties they have to perform.
I do not know that I shall say anything
more upon this matter.
Feeling, as I
do, the sanctity in which we hold the
tenure of land, I consider that it certainly
gives a large opening for a different sentiment-a feeling that land is of no more
importance than a horse or any other
chattel-and the tendency I fear will be
that the people will be inclined to dispose
HON. MR. KAULBACH.

X. W. Territorýies.

of or encumber their property too readilYHowever, in that new country, our NorthWest, I feel th. t we nay with safety test
this system and observe its operation. In
the lower provinces it would be almost
impossible to introduce it, but in the NorthWest a different state of things exists.
People go in there, I suppose, with new
ideas. The same feeling for land and
land tenure and inheritance of estates
from their ancescors will not exist, and
therefore while I approve of simple, expeditious and economical transfers, yet I
think the facilities for transfer are toO
great. I shall not oppose the experiment.
It may be safely tried in a country which
has yet to be settled. While I am doubtful as to the effect of having people SO
readily dispose of their land without anY
checks or guards, or taking time probablY
to duly consider the matter, and while I
think it may in many cases work injurously to the owners of land, yet I a1
disposed to support the principle of the
Bill, and shall look with no little degree
of interest to its operation.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-I think we
have had no measure before the House
during the present session of such vast
importance as this one. We have to
thank the Government for it, and to thank
the Minister of Justice especially for giing us the benefit of his convictions in the
matter. As the representative of the legal
class in the Government, it might be presumed that lie would be opposed to this
change. I have none of the fears or
doubts in my mind that seem to trouble
some hon. gentlemen with regard to regis'
tration. If I understand the system right,
it is registration itself-the very foundatiOn
of the matter is registration. The grant
from the Government does not exist until
it is registered, and therefore you have
registration from the very commencemfent'
You cannot take any step in the matter
without registration. I am not surprised
that Sir Robert Torrens found great difficulty in introducing the systeni. The
difficulty would arise, no doubt, in the first
place, from the opposition of the legal
profession. Nor am I surprised, on the
other hand, that the system should enmanate from a gentleman connected with the
Custorn House, because the Torrens sYstern is simply the one pursued with refe'

Real Property [M ARCH 5, 1885]
ece to the registration of ships. Some
tinte previous to the introduction of the
Present system, we had the same laws relating to the registration of shipping as
QPPIY to the registration of land. That
has been done away with. At that tine
the captain carried the ship's register on
board, and it showed the ownership ; now
the register is kept in port. The fact that
John Brown is named in the register as
PWner of the ship does not necessarily
t
Imply that Jolin Brown is the owner ; but
entry must lie found at the port ot
registration.
Such is the systen that
We have in regard to this particular
maUtter before the House. Nor do I
%ee the difficulties that are to arise
'linder this measure with regard to the
matter of dower. On the contrary, I
nuot see how it affects dower. If real
estate becomes a chattel, then it becomes
Part and parcel of the chattels of a person
ghe
irtestate, and as a iatter of course
t Wife nmust have a share equal to, if
greater than she now bas under the
rel
s ating to real estate. So I cannot
ee h)w any difficulty will arise in that
t rction ; but we have at the present
e law that has been in operation for
e eighteen months past in British
lumbia; and I observe in the address
Ce
b IVered up mn Land Transfer Reform,
badlMr. Mason, that it does not work
ary on the Pacific cost.
But for thirty
.
at ion e systern has been in active operin the Australian colonies.
got
Ping too far to say that the It is
legal
as emen of those colonies are as acute
o any members of the legal proiession
expanada; and yet after thirty years
ethere,
when asked by the
be. horities in England (where, I
e
ve there are only two or three retrion offices for the whole United
ngdon), how it worked, the answer in
saiscase has been that it worked niost
Sft'actorily. But the answer given by the
throf British Columbia I think meets
Oie case. He says:gr-ei l

e title to eal property lias heen
ifled, without radical changes in)

the Pl el î
eb

tilhty of title, wîtli ?alety to pur3ri* T. 1 mortgagees lias beern securel.
to

'

ownersiipi

of property, eitler in

glancer , enti ry, is shown t'y the register ut
and Wlethier incumbered or
not.

N. V. Territorie8.

195

4th. It increases the saleable value of
property.
5th. It enables both vendors and purchaseru
to accurately asceriam the expenses u carrying out aiy sale or transfer.

6th. It protects trust estates, and bene-

ficiaries.
7th. It prevents frauds, and protectq purebasers and moragees from those mnisrepresentations conîuîîîono in ail countries ationget
a certain class ut legal practitioners and land
agen te.

I think that experience, coming from the
Registrar-General. ought to have some
weight with the House ; It certainly has
had great weight with myself, and I hope
the experience of a very few years operation of this law in the North-West will
enable the Goveinment to bring down a
measure extending the system to the
whole Dominion. I do not see the difficulties that the hon. gentlemen from
Nova Scotia apprchend as likely to arise
fron the introduction of this measure,
even in the maritime provinces.

Here is

a country sit.uated in the same way as the
Australian colonies, where it has been in
operation for years. They have the
option there to follow the Torrens system
or the old system, and I think the result
there shows that there is no great difficulty in the introduction of the systeni in
te older provinces of the Dominion
My hon. friend shakes his head ; anyone
who has had anything to do with the laws
of property or the granting of deeds for
property knows the great difficulties that
are met. In a new country, particularly
this country, where we have rising towns,
a man may own five or ten acres of land
worth probably $too an acre, which by
the progress of the town, may become
sufficiently valuable to be sub-divided
into building lots. If you bring the deed
of that particular piece of land under this
system, you have no search to make in
any case ; whereas, for every building
lot into which the land is sub-divided,
there would have to be a search under
the old systen. I do not see that any
difficulty can possibly arise in the matter.
Speaking fron the experience in countries
similarly situated to our maritilne provinces, in the province from which I come
particularly, I do not see how any difficulty could arise, because we have but
recently had a change from the leasehold
system to the freehold system, and all the

196

Real Property [SENATE]

deeds are registered in the land office. I
consider this Bill a step in the right
direction. We unfortunate laymen can remember long documents about John Doe
and Richard Roe and a great many other
things; but the law has been greatly simplifiedand I do thinkthis is oneof theworksof
John Doe's time. The sooner we get it
introduced into the whole Dominion of
Canada the better it will be for the owners
of land. It will enable people to purchase
and dispose of property easier ; and more
confidence will be felt in the security of
titles. My hon. friend from Niagara said
why not have the title registered and get
the title from that ? There are no two
lawyers who agree on registration. In my
experience, where one lawyer has made a
search and pronounced it right, his brother
lawyer does not take it, but makes a
search for himself; he thinks something
may have been overlooked, or that two
lawyers may have corne together and
agreed to overlook certain things. Now
with regard to one thing spoken of herethat is with regard to sheriff's titles-it is a
well known fact amogst legal men that if
they want to dispute a sheriff's title it is
easy to do so-some advertisement has
been irregular, or something of that kind,
and in consequence the title may be
vitiated. The leader of the Opposition in
this House smiles at me, but I know of
two cases in particular which have
occurred lately in Prince Edward Island
where the sheriff's title was decided by a
judge of the Supreme Court to be bad
because certain conditions were not complied with. So I say in this case there
cannot be a certitude. In Australia, in
several cases where large sales of lands
have taken place, parties have gone to
them and almost the first question they
have asked has been whether the sale was
under the Torrens transfer system or the
other; if the answer was that it was.not
under the Torrens system they left I
have no doubt in a short time in the NorthWest Territories, when land sales take
place, the same question will be asked
with the same result. Immigrants coming
to this country from Germany, Ireland,
Scotland, France and other countries will
find it easy to ascertain how titles are procured in this country. As it is now, they
are compelled to go to a lawyer, but under
this system there would be no necessity
HoN. MR. HOWLAN.

f. W. Territorie8.

of the kind. I am glad to see that the
Minister of Justice has had the courage of
his convictions to bring this Bill in, and I
do hope that the experience which we will
gain of its operation in the North-West
may be the means of extending the systeni
to the whole Dominion.
HON. MR. GOWAN-I will not detain
the Senate more than a few moments,
but I should like to say a few words with
respect to this Bill. I had an opportunity
of going over all the clauses, which I did,
and compared them with Mr. McCarthy's
Bill, and I wish I had received the reference which was subsequently distributed,
as it would have saved me a great deal Of
trouble. However I compared this Bill
with Mr. McCarthy's measure, which had
been received to some extent favorably by
gentlemen elsewhere, and which also met
with approval of the professional gentlemen in Toronto, who favoured the introduction of the system. The Bill before
me has been prepared with a great deal of
care, and in my opinion is a much better
measure than Mr. McCarthy's Bill. It
provides for many things suitable to a neW
country which Mr. McCarthy's Bill made
no provision for, and there is less complication in working out some of the details.
It would be out of place to enter intO
these details at the present time, but I
would like to say a word or two in regard
to the system generally. We know that
it has been in force in Australia, where it
was first adopted on the advice of Sir
Robeut Torrens I do not know whether
my hon. friend from Halifax is right inl
saying that Sir Robert Torrens was a
Custom House officer. If he was a
Custom House officer he was also an
eminent jurist, and he was also the premier
of South Australia, a very distinguished
man, and a man who made a vcry strong
impression on the professional men iO
England.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-He did not
belong to the legal profession, but Was
simply an officer in Her Majesty's Customs.
HON. MR. GOWAN-For twenty-si'
years this system has been in force in that
country, and as they saw its working and
saw its defects, amendments were passed

Real Property [MARCH 5, 1885]
to Correct these defects and improve the
sytem. The first was passed in 1858,
and they enacted three different statutes
amTending it, and bringing it down to the
Year 1870. It has been in force fourteen
years in New Zealand. It has been
twenty-two years in force in Tasmania.
'.has been eighteen years in force in
ltoria, and some twenty-two years in
h e* South Wales. All these countries
tave had an opportunity of experiencing
tf Operation, and they all speak favorably
f It. I happened to know some gentleth n from those colonies, and among
thenr Sir John Hall, who was for five or
he Years premier of New Zealand, and
he said that at first there was a strong
ng against it, but when they saw it
so well in it
deci ded to adopt thein other colonies they
New Zealand, and
greatthey prize it highly, and consider it a
great improvement on the
5hey had before it. He said old system
to me that
certain localities there were some little
veyculties in working it because the surthas were imperfect or erroneous, and
tiatl, caused some dissatisfaction for a
tis but that was got over.
Now, so far
'othat objection is concerned it would
tvapply to the North-West, because we
and an excellent system of surveys there,
bestthe whole country is laid out on the
far a nd Most approved system, and so
faicat'that is concerned there can be no apPlication of such an argument against
the
Id on of this Bill in that country.
that ever it is not intended as a measure
at is to last forever. It is intended
liepresent to give the people
in the
northWest a fair start, and it is introducd
Pices at country under very favorable ausPients ecause as yet there are few instrusystens on record under the old registration

there .
is very easy to introduce it
strt ;ow, and give that country a fair
for a;fut if the present system goes on
gfrofew years longer, when the country
for thup and they are entitled to legislate
Iliore dimselves, it would be then much
any change t than it is at present to effect
entirely agree with the
few lasta r
Otta rmarks of my hon. friend from
give ¡a, who said that it is desirable to
theyt to thern now, and afterwards, if
forthease, when they are able to legislate
are seemselves they can alter it. I'here
veral Points in the Bill,-which
is,

N. W. Territories.

10T

I think, one of the best drawn measures I
have seen for some time-that can be
noticed more particularly in committee ;
but there is one point that my hon. friend

has laid some little stress on-that is that
the Act abolishes all trusteeship. I confess I do not myself feel impressed with
that objection. It must be remembered
that this Bill applies to a new country
where there is very little entanglement of
rights, and very little complication, and
everything is in a very primitive conditio>n.
My recollection of my own province
extends back nearly half a century, and I
can remember at that period trusts were
very rarely in practice, and in the early
settlement of the country they were almost
wholly unknown. Now, the same conditions apply, and certainly with greater
force in the North-West. I do not fcel
myself impressed with that objection. I

know that in the early days I refer to
trusts were almost unknown in Upper
Canada, and we had not a Court of
Chancery, and we got on very well indeed
Then with regard

for a time without it.

to trusts, we know

that

under

the

banking laws they are not recognized.
$îoo,ooo might be changed in the
twinkiing of an eye by writing in the
transfer book in a bank, and there have
been means resorted to to guard against
any improper dealings by trustees-at all
events it is a fact that no difficulties ot
that kind have occurred. I do not propose to dwell on the subject, because it
has been so much spoken ,f and so thoroughly known that everybody can appreciate it. The last speaker has brought out
from a layman's point ot view all that can
be said in favor of the system. It conmbines cheapness with safety and security

to the purchaser.

Thc plan ot having

registrars and a Court of Appeal under

this new Bill, is, I thnk, a very great imnprovenient upon the McCarthy Bill ; but
I think it is an exceedingly important
thing that those registrars should be trained
men. I understood the Minister of Jus-

tice to say that wh le two or three of those
registrars were professional men, one was
not, and I do not think that is an adequate
safety to the publ c.

They should be all

trained men, thoroughly prepared for their
duty, and it might be perhaps a desirable
thing to insert in the Bill a clause requir-

ing them to be qualified for the work.

It

198

The Evana

[SENATE]

is one of those matters of detail that I do
not desire to dwell upon now, but I just
throw out the suggestion for the consideration of the Minister of Justice. I know
that my friend, Mr. Mowat, is very much
in favor of the Torrens system. His letter
to Sir John Macdonald a great many years
ago as to the Quieting of Titles Act, and
some of his own Acts, all show the
drift of his mind, but I think he is
exceedingly wise in not applying this
system to the whole province, or in any
place where the other system has been in
force for years, and where a number of
registrations have taken place. Whatever
douut may exist as to the propriety ofthis
system being applied to old settled provinces where there are entanglements of
title,and where there is much complication,
there certainly can be no difficulty whatever in applying it in a new country like
the North-West. What I said before I
repeat : if the Torrens system is established
there now it can be easily done, but it is
not for all time. If the people, after a
fair trial of it-and they' will have a fair
trial of it before they assume to themselves
the dties of Government and the exercise
of provincial rights-are not satisfied with
its operation, they can at once (o away
with it and resort to the old system of
registration, but I do not think they will
do it. If the present system of registration
is continued until the future provinces of
the Nortli-West are able to legislate for
themselves a change will be most diîficult
to accomplish. I may say that even as
the Bill stands, I would rather vote for
every word and clause in it iust as it is
than not see it pass into law. I hope the
Minister of Justice will be open to receive
any suggestions that can be made to improve
the Uill without altering the principle. It
will be impossible to incorporate anything
that alters the system materially, b<cause
if the system is altered in part the whole
value of the Bill is thrown away. I hope
the ineasure will receive the support of the
Hou se.

Divorce Bill.
THE SENATE.

Ottawa, Friday March 61,

I885.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
THE HATZFELD

DIVORCE BILL.

REPORTED FROM COMMITrEE.
HON.

MR.

KAULBACH,

from the

Select Committee to whom was reterred
Bill (D), " An Act for the relief of Georg
Louis Emil Hatzfeld," reported the Bill
witlout amendment. He said: In order
to give hon. gentlemen an opportunity to
see the evidence taken in the case, I nove
that ihe report be taken into consideration
on 'hursday next.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-May
I ask the hon. gentleman if the committee have decided that the evidence should
appear in the minutes?

HON. MR. KAULBACH-They did
not report to the contrary.
HON. MR. GLAZIER-Will members
get a copy ?
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Yes.

The motion was agreed to.
THE EVANS DIVORCE BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
HON. MR.

GOWAN, from the Select

Commîuittee to whorm was referred Bill (G)
" An Act for the relief of Alice Elvira
Evans," reported the Bill with certain
amendments. He moved that the report
be taken into consideration on FridaY
next.

l1oN. MR. ALEXANDER moved the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-MaY
abjournment of the debate.
I ask the hon. gentleman if in this case
the committee have recommended that
The motion was agreed to.
the evidence be printed in the minutes ?
The Senate adjourned at 6 p.m.
HON. MR. GOWAN-No; it has not
been thought necessary to do so. The
HON. MR.

GOWAN

Real Property [MARC II 6, 1885] N. W. Territories.

199

Inatter is so clear, and the evidence is so reading of Bill (A), "An Act respecting

Short, that the whole thing lies in a nut- real property in the North-WestTerritories."
Shell, and it was not considered necessary He said: In resuming the debate I would
,to have the evidence printed.
crave permission to observe that the two
The motion was agreed to.

hon. gentlemen, the hon. member from
Prince Edward Island (Mr. Howlan) and

my hon. friend from Barrie (Mr. Gowan)
EXPORTS FROM HUDSON BAY.

really have anticipated the remarks which

MOTION.

on the measure.
The speech of the
hon. and learned Senator from Barrie

I had intended addressing to this House
iolN. DR. SCHULTZ moved:
was so full as to cover the whole ground,
rThat an humble address he presented to and I almost feel as if it were unnecessary
tha
'jxellency the Governor-General praying
he a ill cause to be laid belthre this House
a tuIr of all Exports from, Ports on Fi udson
ai• James Bays, other than York oil.
lurs, ish, whale, sel or porpoise Factory,

HON SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am
afraid that we have not had much in the
of Returns to offer the House, but
atever can be found will be brought

The motion was agrecd to.
PERINTENDENTS OF EDUCATION IN THE NORTH-WEST.
INQUIRY.

. MR. SCHULTZ inquired whether
gi t
a the intention of the Government to
ont at in early day superntendents of
Stion
n the North-West.

e
an.

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
not able to reply to my hon. friend.

fmatter of apponting superintendents
tr education mn the North-West would
GOre

)roperly come before the Lieutenantirvernor and the North West Council
of hand we have not had an opportunity
a t~vng any communication with him

eoihesubject as yet, but I hope to make
e suIry shortly, and before the end of

answer we n to give my hon. friend the
edesires.
L ESTATE IN NORTH-WEST
TERRITORIES BILL.
DEBATE CONTINUED.

MR. ALEXANDER resumed
debate on the motion for the second

eN

for me to add one single word to his
observations.
The staternent which he
made that the Torrens system of transfer
had been a great success in ail the younger
dependencies of the British Crown I can
perfectly verify,because Sir Robert Torrens
was a very particular friend of mine, and'
I met him on many occasions during my
visit to England in the years of 1879
His system, as the hon.
and i88o.
member from Barrie observed, has been
very successful in New Zealand and most
Why that
of the Australian colonies.
system has not been adopted in England
can be perfectly well understood by this
House : the great landed proprietors of
England, members of the House of Lords
and proprietors in the different counties of
England, possess valuable estates under
titles in existence for hundreds of years,
and it could not be carried out there
without leading to a search into all those
tities. Such a search might result in
dispossessing perhaps a member of the
House of Peers, or members of the
nobility of England. Some fault might be
found which occurred a hundred years
ago that would lead to that result. With
regard to the measure itself, while I fully
am of the opinion that we ought to try the
system in the North-West, I shall take the
occasion to object when the Bill goes into
committee to some of the details, because
I hold the opinion-and I am sure it will be
shared by the legal gentlemen in this House
-that instead of making special legislation
for one part of the Dominion, we ought to
assimilate the laws as governing real estate.
What a confusion it makes that we should
be interfering with the laws of dower, for
instance, in one portion of the Dominion
while such are acted upon in other provinces; and there are also some other minute
details of the Bill on which, when the

200

Real Property [SENATE]

Y. W. Territories.

tance, and lay members of this House
have laid much stress on the fact that
estate of dower does not exist under the
Act. I would observe to them that before
objections are taken to the absence of that
estate in the Bill, a knowledge of it is
necessary. It is not such an estate as
most men consider and believe it to be.
It is a very ancient estate. Under the
Roman law it was a gift to the wife of a
personalty upon her marriage. Since the
conquest it became an estate in land, but
not the third of the estate of the husband,
as some laymen have considered it to be.
It is only an estate for the life of the wife
in a third part of the husband's land.
That is the extent of it, and it is never an
estate in possession during the life of the
husband. It is therefore much smaller
than an estate in the third of his lands.
It may be only for a day's duration. The
husband may die to-day; the wife has nO
estate in possession until that death has
occurred; she may die to-morrow, and in
that case she would have only the interest
of one day in the estate, or in the third Of
the lands of the husband. Now, by this
Bill, it is provided that in a case of
intestacy a provision is made for the wife
which to my mind is more than an equivalent for the loss of dower. She obtains
the one-third of the lands converted intO
personalty, as the lands here are in principle converted into personalty from the
very beginning. She not only obtairis a
life interest in the third of that estate
so converted, but she obtains a third
of that estate absolutely. On the other
hand by an estate which always attached.
to the lands of the wife for the bene*
fit of the husband, an estate by the
courtesy of England, he obtained an estate in the whole of the lands of his wife
during his life upon condition-upon the
condition that issue had been born of the
marriage. That has been termed "al
estate by the courtesy." That estate is lO
HON. MR. O'DONOHOE-There are longer attached in this Bill, so that if the
some few observations that I desire to wife loses her dower the husband is de'
address to the House upon this Bill res- prived of his courtesy, and as we all kno0
pecting the transfer of real estate in the -both in England, and more particularlY
North-West Territories. The measure is on this continent-every year that passes,
an important one and commends itself to the husband and the wife are more nearly
my own judgment to start with. The two assimilated in their civil rightsandrendered
important points in it are, first the titles of more independent of each other than thef
lands, and second the estate of dower. hadbeen. The wife to-day, and particularl
These two points are of paramount impor- under this Bill, is made competent to POS

measure is under the consideration of the
committee, I shah endeavor to express
my views. Sir Robert Torrens' history is
well known. He was a collector of customs prior to 1852, when he became
Treasurer of the Government of South
Australia. He became Prime Minister
about 1864, after which he left South
Australia and came to England. He was
elected to represent Cambridge, a most
important constituency, in the House of
Commons in England, and was a most
respected member of that body until he
left it. He died last year, and his death
was much lamented by the members of all
parties in England. I shall only, before
sitting down, make one further observation, that if this law is to be a success in
the North-West, the greatest caution must
be exercised by the Executive Government with regard to the appointment of the
registrars on whom will depend the proper
and faithful carrying out of this law. The
legal possession of real estate in the North
West will depend upon the selection of
the registrars and the judges. It will first
devolve upon the registrar to determine
from his own judgment and experience
whether a title is perfect, and upon his
having any doubt in his own mind he will
then refer to the judge of the district,
whether of Assiniboia or Alberta. I have
not read the Bill sufficiently to say, but I
understand from the hon. mnember from
Barrie that in the event of the registrar
and the judge not agreeing as to the
legality of the title, that it will be referred
to two or more judges. Therefore, if this
Act is to be a success in the North-West
such appointmcnts must not bc political,
which appears to me to be great
drawback to appointments in this country, and certainly men should not be
selected who simply have rendered partisan services to the Government of the day
or to any Government.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER.

Real Property [MARCH 5,1885]
8ess her lands independent of her husband.
§he can take them by purchase, by inherialce or otherwise, as freely and as comPletely beyond his control as if she had
been a femme sole, or an unmarried
*aotan. Then, again, looking at the comParative cheapness of lands there, the
n1ewness of the country, and the little

value there is in dower, and the embarnisnent which it frequently occasions in
he.transfer of property, I consider, after
h'ving given it the very best attention in

7yPower, and comparing it with the pro-

oSOrns own statutes and
of our
vistons regarding dower engrafted the proupon our
OWn laws, its exclusion isa material and very

Proper improvement. Everything should
b done in this new country of ours to
Ilake lands valuable by drawing towards
therm population, and this measure makes
transfers free, simple and easy to the imgrant. There is no feature in entcring
a country that, perhaps, embarrasses a new
5OrTer more than knowing there is
ntricacy or doubt about titles ; but unertis system,
illiterate he may
derhe is assuredhowever has only to go
that he
to
the office, and that the very last paper
aPn the register contains the whole title,
aid that it is not necessary for him
o behind that. It gives
hii contoence in the land and is an inducement
obuy which he otherwise would not have
And, the gentlemen, title in this
e ence of hon. difficulties ofwe have had
ovince new as it is. So great have those
that shortly after confeffculties it became
eration become
necessary to pass a
for thtis province and constitute a court
quieting of titles. That court has
be
bee stablished and its operations have

ni0st beneficial, but very expensive.
cit an having in a city, or outside of a

deib a hundred acres of land which he
deosigns to cut up into village or town lots,
sit matter what it costs him, it is a necesIarkbefore he puts those lots into the
the et for sale to get a certificate from
had 'queting of titles court. Otherwise
ad his 1o acres been cut iito town lots,
the a offered one of these lots for sale,
oblgIan who purchased the single lot was
of liged to incur the expense and the labor
froInvestigating the title to that ioo acres
date of the Crown grant down to
tte
of the thousand into
e that he bought it. That lot, one
which the xoo acres

N. W. Territorie.

0
201

is divided may not be worth more than
$200; but to satisfy him that he has a
title he must engage a professional man.
That professional man feels 'that his own
character is at stake to see that nothing
but a good title passes to the purchaser,
and he is obliged to go into that title and
investigate it from the time of the patent
down to the present hour. The cost of
that investigation hon. gentlemen can
easily understand. But the man who
buys lot No. 2, notwithstanding all that
had been paid for investigating the title of
lot No. i, has to go to the same expense
and trouble. The hon. gentleman who
spoke yesterday suggested that when one
man, or the purchaser of one lot, had
investigated his title the result of the
investigation should be placed on record,
so that the man who came next to purchase could look at it, and not go beyond
it. We know very well in practice that
that is quite impracticable, it cannot
be done.
In the first place the
man who investigated the title of
lot No. i was not obliged to register
his investigation, but if he had been,
the man who purchased No. 2 would
not be content, nor would the solicitor
employed by No. 2 be satisfied unless he
had investigated the title to his own
satisfaction, nor would he give a certificate
until he had examined it. Then hon.
gentlemen can readily understand the
expense of investigating the title of the
thousand lots into which that 100 acres

would be divided. In this Bill the good
title is certified. No man is obliged
afterwards to go behind that title. If he
has an unconditional title granted by the
judge of the quieting of titles court, all the
purchaser has to do is to look at that
certificate and has not to go behind it. It
is quite as satisfactory as if he saw the
patent from the Crown. Now exactly like
that certificate will be the last certificate
in the Registry office under the present
Bill. A man will not be obliged to go
behind it, no matter what quantity of land
is sold, and if the transfers were ten in a
day or any number all that the purchaser
has to do is to look at the last certificate
and there it is simplified to the greatest
possible extent. If there should be any
doubt of the certainty of title, no matter
how much cheapness might be gained
under this system itwould beobjectionable.

202

Real Property [SE NATE]

But from all that we have heard the system
of titles to which it comes the nearest, and
from which I believe it has been derived.
is the titles to ships. Now in our province
ships are not of that magnitude that they are
in the Maritime provinces of the Dominion.
But notwithstanding the fact we have quite
a number of ships and shipping interests ;

still I hardly remember any question in
our own courts as to the title to a ship,
and the title here is exactly like a title to
a ship-all you have to do is to go to a
custon house officer and find out who is
the owner of the vessel. In my own
experience I have scarcely ever heard of
any difficulty as to title arising from the
system.
And when I find the gentlemen who
come from the maritime provinces, where

that interest is paramount-paramount in
value-give their evidence that no difficulty arises there in title, then I say that
there is every reason to believe that in
this system there is the greatest possible
security.
It is both simple and certain,
why then shoul i we not adopt it ? I am
quite certain there will be no difficulty in

adopting the principle of this measure.
It is quite true that in committee there
may be some matters of detail which it
will be necessary to examine closely
before the Bill finally passes, but as to the
principle of the Bill, I feel that it is an
immense improvement upon anything we
have hitherto had. We have been in
many ways departing from the old system
of conveyance, and manv other old systems
also. We have abolished in this country,

without hesitation, the law of primogeniture, though it is still retained in England,
and it simplifies matters very much. I
believe we copied the State of Newv York

in doing that, and it is now generally
accepted throughout the whole of the
United States. If it came even to the
question of transferring some of our present laws to those territories, which of our
laws, of which of our provinces should we
take-because they are not alike on this
point ? The Province of Quebec has her
own laws, and as I understand the law of
dower exists in Nova Scotia and in some
more of the provinces, so that the law as
to real estate and conveyance is not the
same in all our provinces ; and even if the
Dominion had thought fit to transfer to
the North-West the laws of Old Canada,
HON. MR. O'DONOHOE.

N. W. Terrtorie8.

we still would have a difficulty in deciding
what code we should copy from. We are
doing better than that ; we are copying
from a British colony, and from countries
in which this system has been in operationl
for quite a number of years and where its
operation has been attended with great
success. In one of the bluê books of the
English House of Commons a report is tO
be found which was made at the instance
of the English Government, and there the
testimony, some of which has been referred
to and quoted here, is most satisfactory in
favor of this system.
A blue book was published in 1881 by
order of the British House of Commons,
in which I flnd the following :The Registrar-General of South Australie
writes: " In olieiience tothe Honorable the
A ttorney-Generai's direction, I have the lonior
tgoforward reports 1y Mr. Gawler and Mr.

Turner, the Solicitors to the Lands Titles
ltissioners, on the working and progresO
Comm)
of t lie svstem ot Con veyancing by Registratioa
of Title in Soiti Australa, arid. in loing so0
have to say that the office is workinbg satisfactorilv, and the systen is in great lavor with
the public of ibis colony."
Mr. Gawley, a barrister of the Middle
Temple. and for twenty years Examiner of
Ti te, Adelaide, wries :" Up to the preseit tinie (October 1880) nO
dificulty whatever has occurred in carrylig
ont the ordinarv transactions in land, such
as transfers, iortgages and leases, and tiere
can Lie no question that. as regards such
transactions. the ' Torrens' system' is a perleet succesp, land, in tact, beinig as easily and
secnrely dealt with as stock in the funds."
ie Registrar-General of Queensland
writes
" In the great bulk of transactions the gel«
eral publ'lic have not recourse to professiol'
assistance, the prevailing opinion being thalt
hie filliiig up of foris is so siniple that legal
advice is unntiecessary ; but this does uoe
apply to the briniging of land under the Act,
applical ions, or transmîissions of propert
uY
thrugh deatli of registered owner, as in suiC*
ca-es p!ofessiiial assistance is almost invari'
ably resorted to.
" There does not appear to be any difficulIty
in the workinîg of the Acts as mortgages a'
leases. The Real Property Acts have greatlY
iacilitated norigages and leases, the siuipiP 1
forni of nortgage and release allowing sfl'a
s
s If lioiey, raised on mortgage, to be
promptlv registered at very hule cost."
The Registrar-General of New South Will
writes:- -" While on the subject of tees, 1
may, perhaps, be permitted to miientîon thiat
the Lands Titles' office is entirely self-s.P'
portiîg, as sufficient revenue now Passe
through, the office to neet all expenses.

Real Property [MARCII 6, 1885]

N. W. Territories.

203

Although the Act has been in operation
very oncrous As
nearly eighteen years, no compensation getting a good title is
one who feels a deep interest in the new

nade for tie deprivation ot property,
riy claim hevn sustained against t he comers to our country and a deep interest
ncfed, which, at the present time, in persuading people of other lands to
holnuts4 to £38,060.
make Canada their home, I am desirous
Slhe progress of the Act lins been steadv, of doing everything that can be done to
far nlay say highly sýatisIfactory, and, so make our North-West Territories attractive
y as thtrinsactio unlder it are concerned, to settlers. It is only necessary to make
that great country well known and to have
STie
which was
W'ti e neapure, of suspicion at first received our highways to it well established and
cabi.some degree
as to its praietiestality, particularly with regard to trust then I venture to hope we will present a
WellesU won its wav with hIe legal as country than which there will be none
has
8 the lay elemnent of the conolînunity.
greater to be found in the world, a country
8pe The plOpularitv of the Act is so well that will draw to it those who are suffering
eored, and the imblic generallv have bewant of land-the thousands of people
hav so accustomied to our certifi!ates, and for every European country who are leading
in
l e acquireid sueh faith in their iindoubted
i'ea
inany instance to decline accept lives of misery, as soon as that country
P
property except the title is reistered becomes known, will find in it a home in
y at is universally styled ' Torrens
which they and their offspring can live in
i'i ii.s:
happiness and may hope to leave behind
hie on. Thomas Holt, M.L.C., writes
thein generations worthy of the countries
&I' Working men of New South Wales are from which they have sprung.
ail1tbecomiing landed proprietors; but
ha

las

V n"e of themi wold ever attend a sale
o
t'iaindf it were not announed in the adver.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Not being
At lit that the tile was that of the Torrens' myself a professional man, I felt considerable difficulty in forming an oplinion upon

tP411, indicates what an induce- this Bill, and I freely admit that I have
plainly

po et is to purchasers, particularly the been greatly assisted in doing so by the

Whenr classes,

to go and purchase lands
secu the title is rendered so simple and
sYSrte. .I have very little doubt when the
t astried in the North-West and beknown, the older provinces, no
Watt:ell
,or t what it may cost, will also adopt it,
on a e kindred system. We cannot go
in torever as we are. It sometimes costs
beths province an amount which would
a very larg' percentage on the value of
veroperty to trace the title. One conduOWer rwiîll tell you that if there is a
ust huttanding for even fifty years he
barred ave evidence that that has been
withst I- sOme way or other ; and notIng thandIg statutes of limitation shortenustehperiod of title, some conveyancers
ead have evidence that the woman
is
ili Or has barred her dower, before he
lttendss title, and the embarrassments
the
art e in the passing of a title in Ontarid
ftremely great. The law suits arising
out
ten'es are numerous and the expenses
1
uf the s . I am now speaking particularly
jot kprovince to which I belong; I do
what the circumstances may be
o-"%Y
on er Provinces. Although we have
the
ch to simplify titles and render
still the trouble and expense of

lucid speeches which have fallen fron almost every professional gentleman in this
House who has spoken. There may perhaps be one or two exceptions to that rule,
which nay be accounted for by the fact
that they have been accustomed to the
French rather than to the English system.
Nevertheless there are some quite unusual
circumstances surrounding the bringing in
of this Bill. One, which I do not think
has been alluded to, is, that the country
for which we are now about to legislate,
possesses no representatives in Parliament
and no m.ember in any legislative body
except, perhaps, the North-West Council.
At ail events, there is no one to represent
theni in this Parliament, and that ii quite
an unusual circumstance. Another peculiar circumstance is, that no application
has been made for a measure of this sort.
That is easily accounted for by the fact
which I have mentioned; there being no
legislature, there is naturally no body
which can make the wants of the scattered
population known as regards the registration of land.
HON. MR. PLUMB-They have the
right to petition all the same.

204A

Real Property [SENATE]

ff. W. Territories.

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-The Tor- delay taking action on this Bill we might
be doing a serious injury to the settlement
of that country. For that reason I think
we should strive to make the Bill before
us as perfect as possible during the present
session. I must say after listening attentively to my hon. friend from Manitobs
(Mr. Girard) I felt very much relieved Of
difficulties I had entertained, because I
understood that that hon. gentleman's
experience in the North-West peculiarly
qualified him to offer a useful opinion on1
this question, and accordingly I listened
to his speech with great attention and profit.

rens system is a good deal opposed to the
ideas of gentlemen who have lived all their
lives in the older provinces of the Dominion, where a different system prevails. I
can easily perceive why, for the present,
the system in vogue in the province from
which I come, for instance, is perhaps
best suited for it, although a time may
arise when a change may be desirable.
Perhaps it is less remote than we anticipate, but I can easily conceive that
during a long period the rights of
dower which have been so jealously
guarded in our province will continue
The Minister of
to be maintained.
Justice in introducing the Bill, told us
his experience of a lady's relinquishment
of dower in the Province of Quebec.
That relinquishment is an every day
occurrence in the province from which I
come. In our province it is not necessary
to go before a judge to perform this legal
act. It can be done be ore an ordinary
magistrate. I had even taken a relinquishment of dower in this city, of lands situated
in Prince Edward Island. I mention these
facts to show the manner in which this
dower question enters into the every day

life of our people. There is scarcely a
trarsfer in which this relinquishment of
dower is not a factor ; but I must say,
after looking at the Bill and listening to
the explanations of the hon. gentlemen
who have preceded me, I arn reconciled
to the system which is to be introduced

by the measure before the House.

I do

not entertain any serious objections to the
want of dower. Another thinv that strikes
me is that it is quite necessary that a Bill

of this sort should come into operation in
It would
as perfect a form as possible.
be very inexpedient to be altering this
Bill perhaps two or three sessions hence.
There would then be two or three sets of

titles existing, those under the measure
now before us and those under the amended act. It is therefore highly essential
to take care to make this measure as perfect as possible before it goes into opera
tion. No doubt the precautions which
the hon. Minister of Justice has taken will
have that effect. I think it might be quite
as dangerous to use too much caution in
this Bill as to use too much haste. There
is no fear of our being hasty, but if by any
circumstance we should be induced to

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-AS
apparently those members who desire tO
speak on the subject have all expressed
their views, I will detain the House for a
few moments while I endeavor to clear UP
some of the objections made to the Bill,
and which objections are quite capable of
being answered. Many of them are to be
found in the speech of the hon. member
from DeSalaberry, who certainly I thilk
will not feel hurt if I say that his speech
was one of the most Tory character-Of
the most decided conservatism I have
heard for a long time. The hon. gentlemall
laid great stress on the value of the aniily,
and upon the advantage which the famTilY
has been in the history of England il
offering to the public from time to tile
men who, from their circumstances, were
able to devote their lives to public affairs ;
and who also from their circurnstances
were able to bring to the discharge of
their public duties all the advantages Of
education and of continued and earlY
mixing up in public affairs. That nO
doubt has been a great advantage in the
history of England ; but it occurs to (.e
that the answer to that in this country iç
plain, that we do not desire-that it is
contrary to the interests of this countY,
contrary to the general sentiment of the
country-to build up families, whatever
advantage they may have afforded 111
England and the older countries; we do
not seek nor desire, nor would it be
possible, to build up families in this count'y
or to obtain for them in this country the
advantages which they enjoy elsewhere ,
nor is it possible, I think, that such
advantages as he describes could resal t
from such families being built up, even if
it was possible for us to do so.

Real Property [MAIRCIH 6, 18851
HoN. MR. TRUDEL-It was far from
1y intention to advocate anything like a
Potvileged class. I will perhaps
an,ther OPportunity to explain what haveidea
my
a; at present I merely wish to protest
gamst this interpretation of my remarks.
speaking of
fa 'sY interest, and the strength of the
the importance of
tiStuting strong families either in
YePublhcs or kingdoms, and was not reg at all to any privileged
limiting rny remarks to the great class, or
families
fgland. I simply illustrated my reEtirks taking instances from the history
by
' P-ngland, but I did not limit my oblervations to that.
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLat i understood was that the hon.
ntleman laid great stress on the imporof building up families and maintainIgg family relations, and the importance
f al the laws having
therefore of renderingthat tendency, and
difficult the conVeyance and dealing with land, and he
dvOCated, as I thought, such
a system as
vent i maintain land in families and prerule beng conveyed away, as a general
ointe I think my hon. friend for instance
derived to the advantages which had been
eVed during many centuries from the
adv ance of certain laws, and among those
edvantages that of the family,
and of the
evices which members of great families
theered to the several states in
which
hey lived-that all those things would be
isusly affected by the
ths neaure offers for facility which
the conveying
lad Of land ; that the greatness of EngIs
ntiuch to be attributed
!tintaning the estates of great to their
families
Iltact from1 generation
to generation.
Tha was the line of argument
that I
tinder Wa0 h ieo
ruetta
h~o'sod hirn to adopt.
However my
line' frîend says that I do not describe his
hav -argment correctly, and I must
lON.

hae lsunderstood him in some way.

Enl"
I beg leave to doubt whether
whglcnd has derived all the advantages
circu 'Y hon. friend states from the
Te rtances to which he has referred.
any %pire has undoubtedly derived
anY dvantages, but there have been
dvantages also. Whatever may
the th as regards
et
England, it seems
seek oUt of the question that we should
Inere way to build up families
i any

Y. W. Territories.

or keep together

205

large blocks of real

estite with any reference to such circumstances ; that we must here consider the
land as more commonplace, so to speak,
than they do in older countries, and more
likely to be transferred from hand to
hand; and therefore we should, as far as
we can, remove difficulties in the way of
such transfers. That I think is the
received opinion in all parts of the Dominion. I do not think that anywhereI doubt even in the Province of Quebec,
judging from their legislation and decisions
there-that they would think it desirable
to place obstruction of any kind in the
way of transferring real estate. All they
would think it desirable to do would be
not to remove obstructions if they found
them to exist. Some hon. gentlemen-I
remember the hon. member from Halifax
was one-laid some stress upon preserving some formalities in the way of the
execution of deeds. That was part of
the general feeling which I understood
the hon. member for DeSalaberry to
enunciate, that you should not facilitate
the transfer of land, but that you should
rather restrict it as far as you can by formalities, so as if possible, I suppose, to
give a man an opportunity for second
thought ; and therefore the hon. member
from Halifax was unwilling to see the old
formality of a deed under seal changed
or removed. Well. it seems to me-and I
venture to mention it to the House-that
there is no valid security against a man's
doing that which he may desire by delaying a transaction long enough to require
him to affix his seal to a document, and
those who are in the habit of seeing deeds
executed know that the seal is ready to
his hand-perhaps too ready my hon.
friend will think.
HON. MR.

TRUDEL-Not in Quebec.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-In
Quebec the system so far has been to go
before a notary and that perhaps gives a
little more time. But in truth, it seems
to me that for our generation, and for the
North-West in particular, the true theory
is to afford every facility for the transfer
of land ; we know that we cannot prevent
people from selling their properties. Some
hon. gentleman drew attention to the fact
that farmers are frequently too ready to

Real Property [SENATE]

206

mortgage their farms. Suppose they are
you cannot prevent them doing so. You
carnot make a rule which will enable those
who should have the right to raise money
by mortgage to do so, and preventing those
whoshould not. Theonly way when people
will sell or mortgage their property, is to
give then every reasonable facility to accomplish their purpose. I do not think
there is nuch objection to the Bill in the
light of its affording too great facility to
the farmer to mortgage his land. If a
man wants to mortgage or sell his property
he will do so in spite of the necessity
for having a seal on a document, and
going before a notary public, and therefore I think the best plan is to give him
every reasonable facility for carrying out
his desire. The hon. member from
Niagara objected to the system as being so
novel that people would find it more difficult to carry it out than the present
systen, and as many of then live far trom
towns in the North-West, they would be
obliged to take long journeys for the purpose of obtaining legal assistance, and
really it would not be a convenience or
advantage to men situated as they are.
I think that would be found not to be the
case. The people would gradually become familiar with the Act, and they
would fimd as men of the sam: kind wlio
live in Australia, in many cases as remote
from settlement and legal assistance as
they are, that the mode of dealing with
land was very simple, and that the deeds
were very easy to write. They would
come probably to be sold, and there would
be no difficulty in a man obtaining a blank
form, and still less difficulty in the using
it if he had it.
Hox. MR. PLUMB-I would ask my
hon. friend whether the class of settlers
in Australia and New Zealand is not entirely dissimilar to the class of settlers in
the North-West-whether as a fact the
population which is going into the NorthWest is at all like that of the Australian
colonies ? My impression is that lands in
the Australian colonies have been taken
up by an entirely different class of immigrants froi those in our North-West. I
may be mistaken but 1 think there is a
great difference.
HON.

SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL-I

think my hon. friend is right in saying
HON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL

N. W. Territories.

that the class is not the same-at all
events not of late years.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The emigrants to
the Australian colonies are as a class more
intelligent people.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Of
late years, but it was not so in the
first place. Take those who went to
Australia or New Zealand 20 or 30 years
ago and I think it is quite likely that they
were the sane class of people who are now
going to our North-West. My hon. friend
knows that the North-West is not being
peopled by settlers who are altogether, or
even to a large extent, illiterate-that
many of those who go to the North-West
are men of considerable acquirements and
education.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I do not dispute
that for a moment.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-PCrhaps on the whole I may be doing the
people of New Zealand and the Australial
colonies some injustice in saying that they
are the same class as those who go to the
North-West, but I think not. I thinlk
twenty years ago the same class went
there that now goes to our NorthVest, but of course that is a matter
which perhaps is deserving of being looked
into. Whether they are or are not, the
system is so simple in itself that it 15
almost sure to come to be understood
very readily, and worked very readily,
by those who are not lawyers.
In
fact that objection was taken to the
system originally in the colonies to which
I refer by the members of the legal
profession, that it would ruin them, because the pian was so simple that they
would not be resorted to: the sifiplicity of the Act is the reason of its being
so objectionable, as it was originally to the
members of the legal profession. AnY
man of common sense will ultimately, ifl
the North-West when the system becomes
familiar to them, be able to make a conveyance fron his ceitilicate ot ownerslip*
In the first place, he has his certicate
certifying that lie is owner of a certain lot.
He will probably have a blank transfer; 'f
not, all he lias to do is to copy the certificate he possesses, and if he wants to sell

Real Property [MARCiH 6, 1885] N. W. Territorie8.
to another man they go to the registry
tffice together. Suppose lie cannot write
t for himself, he gres to the registry office
With the certificate of ownership, and says
1 have sold to so and so, and here is my
certificate. The registrardraws a bill of
Sale in a few minutes, the old certificate is
given up and a new one is granted. That
Ls a sYse m easily capable of being understood. I do not think it would be more
difficult for them to understand
that than
the Systei which prevails in Ontario, aithough they may have been born in this
Provilnce. Now, with regard to dower I do
t feel very strongly on that point. The
certainly does, as my hon. friend from

dronto who spoke last pointed out, proride for dower in the case of land of which
the husband dies possessed-that is,

the
in the event of lier husband dying,
wuld, under the Statutes of Distribution,
et one-third of the land he possessed.
MVhet.her with reference to land he parts
with in his lifetime it is desirable to cut
Off the wife or not from
lier dower, I do

ow,

said Cel very strongly about. It may be
for thewith very great force, that the wife
far .he most part, assists the husband in
thrnig the land lie is about to
selli, and
shallore it is very hard to say that she
oth ot have dower out of it. On the
his hand, the husband being able to sell
h nd freely, may result in increasing
red lealth, and in that way it would really
aOund imore to the advantage of his wife
alt family than if she could stop the sale
at0gether by saying she would not sign.
agre also in what has been said that the
trnsances where the wite does prevent the
ernsaction are very rare, as far as I have
Iver kn,,
The silk gown suggestion of
the h own.
ordina nMember for Lunenburg is the
Part o ry remedy for any difficulty on the
the Wife.

201

that trusts are very often improperly discharged by trustees, that the fact of your
appointing trustees does not at ahl secure

their honesty or accomplish the object
which the person who creates the trust has
in view, and that a man very often in
making trust estates in his last will
deceives himself and injures those whom
he is so anxious to benefit, and that the
object he has in view cannot be accomplished, simply through the dishonesty of
the trustee. He wants to guard against that
-how can he guard against it? The land
under this system is looked upon as the
great object of the state, and legislation to
secure the title and to secure its passing
from A to B absolutely without any
possible contingency relating to trustthat seems to nie more important than
anything that could be done for the preservation of the object of the trust, and
while thinking of that I remember
a story illustrating the insecurity of
trusts. A father who by his last will
had left a hundred thousand pounds to his
son, mentioned the fact to him and said
"I have put one hundred thousand pounds
in the hand of a trustee for you." He said
" father could you not make nie trustee ?

I would rather be the trustee," showing at
ahl events that the people have arrived at
the conclusion that it is not very safe to
put anything in the hands of a trustee.

The House should bear in mind that
althouglh the land will go to the purchaser
yet the trustee can be followed up and

punished, and any other estate lie may
have can be touched.
HON. MR.

ALLAN-Would not this

Bill practically put an end to creating
trusts ? Would it not at ail events so far
put an end to them that while this mea'sure

was in operation a person would hardly
run the risk of doing so ?

thi
that
but

MR. PLUMB-That is some-

•

•

S[R ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,

HON. MR. SCOTT-It cannot be registerea as a trust deed.

s sOmething; she gets the silk gown,

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-You
ot think she succeeds in pre- could not register the trust in any way.
the sale. The hon. mniember from You could only have those words which

ventdo

Ralfg

"ith tx also said that he was not satisfied have been mentioned by the hon. mniember

breae provision as to trusts and that a from Halifax entered-there shall be no
teach of trust miglt be a very serious survivorship.

It certainly does not do

thiiand injure numbers of people and 1away with the possihility of creating
filles. That is very truc but we know but it may do away
trusts,
with the practice of

208

Real Property [SENATE]

N. W. Territorie8.

making them. They are not recognized not an executor. The trustee may sell
on the register.
the property, notwithstanding that it is
devised absolutely under the will to a perHON. ML PLUMB-And the register son whose representative he is. That is
really where I see great insecurity, that a
is the evidence of title ?
man cannot divide up his property and be
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes, sure that his will shall be respected after
it is the evidence of title. I am not aware his death. The trustees may sell the
whether in the Australian colonies, where property and the devisees can have onlY
the system has been in operation for some personal recourse against them. It is true
years the result has been to abolish trusts. they may apply to a court, but that is a
I do not think that anything is stated tedious proceeding.
about it in the very few works we have on
the subject.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
not a tedious proceeding.
HON. MR. SCOTT-It is practically
abolishing trusts if you cannot register a
HON. ML SCOTT-I mean for the
time being. At all events, the executOr
document with a trust in it.
or administrator is absolute owner and
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It may sell although there is an absolute
may not abolish trusts nevertheless, and I devise of the property.
do not think it does, because there is a
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is
provision in the Bill that the ceslui qui
trust can change the trustees from time to the interest of the state to see that the
property goes from the vendor to the
time.
vendee absolutely.
HON. MR. SCOTT-By application to
HON. MR. SCOTT-The 7th clause
the court.
provides that no devise shall be valid or
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That effectual as against the purchaser.
would not be the case if trusts were
abolished altogether. The whole idea is
HON. MR. POWER-Take the case
that a title shall not be bound up in the for instance of a person who holds valudischarge of the trusts-that the title shall able real estate as trustee for a number of
not go to the purchaser, and that the cestui children. Under the present law his title
qui trust shall look to the trustee ; but I would be registered as trustee and subject
do not agree with the hon. member from to the trust ; and no one could buy fro011
him without being aware of the fact that
Niagara that trusts are abolished.
he was simply trustee. Under this Act,
HON. MR. PLUMB-They do not supposing there was one trustee, it would
not appear that he was trustee, and these
make liens.
infant fiduciary rights would be prejudiced,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Is and no one would be to blame except the
not that an advantage that they do not trustee.
make liens ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL- 0 1

MR. PLUMB-That

virtually the other hand you have the danger that
abolishes them.
you may have a piece of land subject to
trusts and it may be tied up for years, and
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No, it prevents the use of the property for all
not virtually ; you can have them if you that time. I dare say in England there
please without their being liens on the are many properties subject to so many
trusts that it is impossible to deal with a
land.
property at all. This system takes the
HON. MR. SCOTT-If a man devises other plan and says they shall be of no
to one of his sons a piece of property, the account as regards the title. Then with
son does not take that property if he is reference to the trust question the remark
HON.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Tte Ind.qtrie8 and [MARCLI 6, 1885.] Manuf're of Canada. 209
If the hon. member for Barrie is very THE- INDUSTRIES AND MANUPertinent; that is, in a new country the
FACTURES OF CANADA.
trusts which exist are very small in number.
In the early
quite this with him.
h story ofagree province
we had hardly any
trust

estates at all.

I think that the

mneasure as a whole will work well in that
western country, and I hope it will reCeiVe the sanction of the House.
Parts
Of the measure are really not necessary to
the system at all. They have been introduced because they have found their way
nt 0 legislation in these colonies from
Which this Bill is drawn. It will be for the
"ouse and Committee to say what shall
be done with those. I do not express my
Own Opinion about it now at all ; but if
the House so decide, it has the opportunity of eliminating from the Bill the provision as to dower, and the provision as
to tenancy by courtesy, and many other
provisions of that kind which are not
nlecessarily incidental to the Torrens
systern. That the systeni as a whole will
Work well in that new country I am satisfed. I do not know what I should think
f it if it were proposed to be introduced
dnto Ontario, more particularly if intro4Ueed side bv side with the other systern,
b in Victoria, which scems to me very
jec tionable, that old already patented
0
th0uld be under thelands system, and lands
t 0 be patented should be under the new
SYtem. Fortunately the circumstances of

e North-West enable us to make it

As it presents many advantages
't Seems to me it is a very desirable system
introduce into that country at this time.

eeneral.

INQUIRY.
The order of the day having been called
for resuming the adjourned debate on the
Hon. Mr. Macdonald's motion:
" That lie will call attention to the Report
of the Commission issued by the Governmnent
last year to inquire into the effects of the
Tariff o! 1879, on the Industries and Manufactures of the Country, and wilI ask the Governnient whether the Report will be furnished to
Meinbers of the Senate and a certain number
to the Country."
HON.

SIR

DAVID MACPHERSON

said :-Before addressing myself to the

subject which the hon. gentleman from
Victoria, (B.C.) brought before the House,
I wish to say a few words upon a question
which the hon. gentleman from Ottawa,
dealt with at considerable length and
seemed to attach very great importance to ;
that is the manner in which disputes on

questions of revenue are now settled.
In all questions of dispute arising under the
working of the Custom Department or the
Departmient of Inland Revenue, if the
decisions of those departtnents respectively
are not satisfactory

to the parties in-

terested, the cases are referred to the
Treasury Board. The Treasury Board is
composed of four members of the
Cabinet, the Minister of Justice, the
Minister of Finance, the Minister of
Customs, and the Minister of Inland
Revenue, and by that tribunal, for it is a
tribunal, the whole question in dispute is
considered, and I am quite sure that no
one will doubt that the desire of the mem-

'(ON MR. PLUMB-I would like to
sk the hon. Minister what is the law
which now regulates these matters in the bers of that tribunal will be to arrive at an
equitable decision. My hon. friend frotn
lishrth-West-whether it is under the EngburdsYsten, which is said to be very Ottawa said, and repeated it very often,
tribunal should be a
no densome, or if there were no legislation that he thought the that I differ altogether
Ntyw what would be the condition of the judicial one. Upon
SIR A LEX. CAMIPBELL-The
fi.n the North-West is the law of
fOtario. The Lieutenant Governor
and
Ctncil of the North-West
having power
t egislate there adopted the law of
juario, and that is the statute which is
force there now.
e motion was agreed to and the Bill
read the second time.

O

from my hon. friend, and am inclined to
believe that a vast majority of the merchants of this country, the parties who are
concerned in these disputes, would prefer
the present tribunal to a judicial one. All
matters going before judicial tribunals, and
considered by judicial tribunals, invariably take a long time to settle. If we were
to agree now that it be enacted that all
those questions should be referred to the
Exchequer Court for instance it would be

2110

The Industries and [SENATE]

very soon desired that there should be an
appeal from that tribunal, because judicial
decisions are not always satisfactory. My
hon. friend from Ottawa has had a very
large practice as a leading member of the
bar, and I am quite sure that he has very
often been dissatisfied with the decisions
of the court ; that in cases in his opinion
where the law and the facts entitled him to
a judgment, the decision was against him ;
but it was a judicial decision, and there
was nothing to be said against it after it
was taken to the court of last resort. But
such decisions, when submitted to a
judicial tribunal, are attended with great
delay and expense, and in revenue cases,
where goods are frequently under seizure
awaiting decision, and where parties have
had to give bonds perhaps for penalties
which may be enforced, a very important
object-the most important object next to
the decision of the point itself-is that the
decision should be rendered without delay.
Now one great advantage of referring these
questions to the Treasury Board is that
they are decided without delay, and while
I think from the manner in which my hon.
friend dwelt upon the subject, he may
know of some case where it appears to
him that injustice has been done, anyl it is
not possible that errors of judgment can
be invariably avoided. There is no tribunal in the world whose decisions are
always right. It is not possible to have a
tribunal, composed of fallible men, that
will not sometimes fall into error in arriving at a decision ; but I repeat that
the change which the hon. gentleman proposes would be most unacceptable to the
commercial community.
I think the House should feel indebted
to my hon. friend from Victoria, for the
important and useful speech which he delivered the other day, and in which he
brought under the review of the House,
the effects upon the prosperity of the
country of the National Policy which
was inaugurated in 1879. The report to
which he referred was not on the table,
and was not in the hands of hon. members.
I had not seen it myself, nor had any one
of the members of the Government in
this House seen it, nor do I think any
member of the Government in the other
House but the Minister of Finance, as the
report was laid on the table of the Conimons in manuscript. The hon. gentleman
HON. SIR

DAVID MACPHERSON.

-Manuf'r of Canada.

(Mr. Macdonald), I understood him to
say, had been fortunate enough to see the
manuscript report, and it has been published, for it has since been shown to me,
in the Toronto Mail of the i2th February.
Of course that is not official, but I have
no doubt that it is correct. That report
showed the wonderful progress that our
manufacturing interests have made since
the inauguration of the National Policy.
My hon. friend from Ottawa spoke of that
policy as if it were one forced upon the
country by the present Government. He
must know very well that instead of that
being the case, the Governient were
merely the exponents of the wishes
and demands and commands of the large
majority of the people to bring that
policy into operation. I believe it is
quite an open secret that the Government
of which my hon. friend was a member,
seriously contemplated-in fact had made
up their minds to introduce a National
Policy in 1878.
HoN. MR. SCOTT-I think not.
never heard of it.

I

Hox. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONI heard of it, and it was very generallY
heard of in Ottawa and throughout the
country. The then great organ of the
party of my hon. friend (Globc) announced
on the day before the Budget Speech was
to be delivered that there would be a
change in that direction, and while I do
not recollect that it went so far as to say
how far the change would go, yet it
announced in as unqualified terms as
organs usually announce under inspiration'
what is contemplated by the Governlent
of which thev are the organs, that there
would be a change. It was said at the
time that the Minister of Finance had had
to recast his Budget Speech within 24
hours of its delivery, and the reason given
for the change was that a number of the
supporters of the Government from the
Maritime Provinces were opposed to the
policy which I have indicated, and induced
theGovernment toalter theirdeterminatioO
upon the subject. Whether I am correct
in saying that the Government changed
its mind at the last moment or not, it did
not propound a National Policy, and its
members went to the polls as free traders.
The then Opposition, the Conservative

The Indu8trie8 and [MARCH 6, 1885] Manufr8 of Canada. 211
Party, went to the polls announcing their
faith in a National Policy, and their
determination if they should have
a
tajority m Parliament, to be governed by
e sense of the country on that question,
and it 'Vould only be by the sense of the
COuntry being in favor of that policy that
office.
the Could have been was defeated
thy late Government brought into upon
that question. The Conservative party
.as
elected mainly upon the National
tlicy question, and they carried it out as
they beieved it was intended by the
People that they should carry it out, and
ýid so with the assent of a large majority
thl Parliament. They appealed again to
the People four years afterwards,
as hon. gentlemen know, the result and,
was a
1 ratification of that policy by the people.
teow hon. friend from Victoria submitmy
ted to this House on the day that he called
attention to the question the remarkable
Progress that had bien made in the manufaturing industries of the country.
He
extracts from the report, but I did
hfad hear him state that the commissioners
the Dmerely gone over about two-thirds of
,ot h omion in their inquiry. They had
!iO, ad time to go over the whole Dominig , and they had only gone over, accordthig to their own estimate, about twoThds Of the industries of the Dominion.
saninister of Finance, speaking on the
a¡ie evening as the hon. gentleman from
nattoria, submitted the result of his estinlate of what the real increase of the
han"ufacturing industries in the Dominion
en-that is, what the commissioners
wh
have been employed to report on the
th Ject would have been able to report if
De had time to visit all parts of the
ion,
and with the permission of the
e 1 will read it:-

per cent. to that, supposing their calculations
are correct, the resuilts should be tooind to be
the same. It would appear that the adoption
of this policy in 1M79 lias increased the
nuinber of factories by 892, and that the increase in the number of hands enployed is
51,828. That the increase in the vearly wares
is $15,8413,648. Increase of product-1 $79,-

360 4"6, and the increase of capital ivested
Under these
(Lond cheers.)
$44,210,360.
circunstances, I think we have rea-on to be
satisfied with the results of this policy during the first five years of its existence."
I think, hon. gentlemen, the progress
has been very remarkable, and I do not
think it admits of a doubt that the National
Policy has been of great advantage to the
country. The number of additional workmen, mechanies and artizans who have
found employment in the country at
remunerative wages cannot fail to have
been of great advantage to the Dominion.
Who can doubt that if they had not found

congenial employment at home, many of
those young men-sons of farmers and
others-would have left the country to
seek it elsewhere ? It is very well known
that many of the sons of our farmers, after
having received a liberal education such
as they can obtain in Ontario and other
provinces, are not disposed to follow
agricultural pursuits.
They prefer professional or mechanical pursuits; they
have a taste and a talent for them, and
manufacturing industries have attractions
for them which induce them to leave the
farms on which they were brought up and
cause them to seek those pursuits in
foreign countries if they cannot find them
at home, and I have no doubt the National
Policy has induced many young men to
remain in this country by giving them a
choice in the diversity of occupation. A
diversity of occupation is essential to all
people. You cannot find twenty men, or
ten men, or five men, who are disposed to
es
gtlemen, the co niisioners,
.
follow the same pursuit, and if you give
a" ate tha tlev visited factoris
pi,
l
our youth nothing to do, as I understand
o .twohirds~ of the operatives of thée
T he numîber in 1884 was 2,096 my hon. friend from Ottawa suggested the
0fon.
ofI
Ori, fese 1,501 were in existence in 1878, other night, but follow agricultural, lumThenue 'ears there was an increase of 595. bering, mining, or fishing pursuits, it would
a rber of ILUII(tq now e nployed is 77,346,
be impossible to keep them at home.
42n
4
ini 178 or aui increase of
,165; Tie year;y wages in 1884 were $24,- Unless we manufacture for ourselves we
erea Of1878 they were $13,833,733, or an must import very largely all the manufac
facturd f $10,562,432. The value of manin- tured necessaries of life, and for these we
aitainseProd ets in 1884 was $102,870,166, have to send money out of the country.
o~o
849,963-'882, or an increase ot nearly I ask hon. gentlemen is it not better to
$61,3,0037 whWe the capital now invesd is
tae , againtî $37,829,9:,1, or an ii- keep that money in the country? The
nearly $29,473,442. If we add fifty money you send out of the Dominion goes

212

The Inda8tries and [SENATE]

to enrich the country to which you send
it, and impoverishes our own ; but
money you retain in the country, while
one man may be impoverished by parting
with it, goes into the business of another,
he is enriched by it, the country retains its
wealth, and I ask again can there be any
doubt about the advantage of the policy
that produces that result ? One of the
evidences of the improved condition of
our people is the increased deposits in the
banks of the country, and especially the
enormous increase in the savings banks,
which is a favorite investment-if I may
so describe it-with the working classes.
The increase certainly marks a marvellous
augmentation of wealth.

Manuf'rs of Canada.

has been changed by the banks ? The
savings banks are giving a higher rate of
interest than the banks are. The people
are withdrawing their deposits from the
banks and placing them in the savings
banks.

HON. SIR DAVII) MACPHERSONThe amount allowed to be deposited in
the Government savings bank is small. It
is restricted to sums under $3,ooo, and in
post office savings banks to $1,ooo. 1
will now give hon. gentlemen a comparative statement of the amounts of the
deposits in the Government savings banks,
and post office savings banks on the 3 1st
of December, 1878 and the 31st Of
December, 1884,-respectively:
HON. MR POWER-Not at all.
31st Dec.
31st Dec.
1878.
1884.
GovernmentSav.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONI cannot do better than read what the P. ings Banks. .. $5,752,647 98 $16,651,825 49
0. Savings
Minister of Finance said in his speech the
Banks........ 2,844,019 89 14,183,258 67
other night upon that subject :
8,596,667 87 30,835,084 16
The savings of the people were never so
large as they are at the present time. This This statement shows that the deposits in
will be seen by a elance at some of the figures. 1884 were nearly four times as much as

The increase in the deposits in the chartered
banks from the lst of January, 1874, to the they were in 1878.
1et of January, 1879-Reforni period-was
$8,499,342.49, and from the lst of Janiary,
HON. MR. POWER-A very bad sign
1879, to the lst of January, 1884-Conserva. that.
tive period-the increase was $25,903,354 75.
The increase in Savings Banks deposits over
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONwithdrawals from 1874 to 187) was $1,997,422.37, and from 1879 to 1884 it was $20,009,- My hon. friend fron Ottawa spoke of the
853.64. The increase in deposits and purchase great decline that has taken place in the
of debentures in Canada connected with value of stocks of manufacturing cormpalBuilding and Loan Societies from 1874 to ies.
That is quite true.
He spoke of
1879 was $5,787,516 75, while fron 1879 to
1884 it was $9,513,731.93. The number of their working on half time and it would
Post Office Savings Batik accounts open on almost seem from the comments of son"e
the lst of July, 1878, was 25,535, and on the of the leading organs of the hon. gentlelet of July, 1884, was 66,882, ait increase of man's party, as if they derived satisfac41,146. In addition to these the number of
Dominion Government Savings Bank ac- tion from witnessing what they believed
counts open on the 1st July, 1874, was 19,922, to be evidence of any want of success n
and on the lst of July, 1884, it was 43,406, un manufacturing enterprises. Reducing the
increase of 23,484.
working of factories to half time for short
This increased number of accounts with periods, and sometimes for long periods,
the savings banks indicate the increased is comnimon in all manufacturing countries.
number of persons who were in a position It happen every day in England, and
to make deposits in those banks, and I happen every day in the United States
think it is impossible to adduce any fact There are certain manufactories, in fact I
that can bear stronger evidence of the in- think all manufactories are closed for a
creased comfort and wealth of our working certain portion of the year for repairs, and
classes than those returns do.
I have seen in our own country, during
the last two or three months, notices in
HoN. MR. SCOTT-Are there not the leading newspaper of the Opposition
other investers in the savings banks than -Globe, that such and such a factory had
working classes, since the rate of interest failed ; that it had to shut down, and
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON.

The Industries and [MARCH 6, 18851 .Manuf're of Canada. 213
that the enterprise was at an end, and I
ave seen that denied within a few days
Of the announcement, and the explananation given that the owners had merely
clOsed the factory for a short time as they
were in the habit of doing every year. I
l not going to deny that some of our
'anufactories, and probably many of
therm, are less prosperous at this moment
an their owners expected them to be
When they established them. Manufacturers are like importers, desirous of doing
a large business, and like importers sometirnes Overdo their business, but they will

learn in time what the consumption of the
Country is, and while I have
no doubt
that ranufacturers, like importers, will
'onter Periodically from over-trading, yet
or the whole, I believe they will be successful in obtaining a good return for
their

investments.

that such a comprehensive measure could

have been made perfect at its inception,
but wherever it was found to be imperfect-wherever it was found that there was
undue friction, efforts have been made to
remove that friction, and to do away with
whatever inequality may have been discovered in its working. The hon. gentleman spoke of consumers and producers
as being separate classes, and having
separate interests. I thing in this country
that is almost wholly a fallacy.
All our
producers are also consumers, and unless

they are able to obtain a fair return for what
they produce, there consumers power is,

of course, diminished. There is no such
distinction, as hon. gentlemen often
attempt to draw, between the interests of
consumers and producers in this country,
for the whole people are both producers
In 1879 when the and consumers. My hon. friend from

Inauguration of the National Policy
was Ottawa gave us an old-fashioned free trade
nder discussion, my hon. friend from speech the other night. It was very
Ottawa and his friends in this House, and interesting to listen to; it is alway interestbis friends in the country, took
that the Dominion was about the ground ing to listen to my hon. friend, because he
to be given
views with
much clearness
ver to monopolists ; that enormous prices submits bis specially sosothat evening, be-;
and it was
th d be charged by manufacturers ; that cause I think he was a little more excited
prhiwould be enabled to do so from the than he usually is, and it was one of those
ibitory rates of duty that were to be old fashioned free trade addresses that one

t)osed, and there was great sympathy does not often hear now-a-days.
expressed for the consumers.

Free

trade is not so fashionable as it was, and it

was an address that would have been
<t"'- MR. SCOTT-So they did for worthy of the apostles of free trade, and
worthy of Cobden and Bright, it was so
S'l"N- SIR DAVID MACPHERSON-

unqualified in its tone. Hon. gentlemen
will remember what Messrs. Bright and

nd hthe sympathy of the hon. gentleman Cobden promised England when they
act is friends is altogether for the manu- urged her to adopt free trade. They told
gcturers ; they find that the people are her that within a few years all the other
goodng their supplies of manufactured nations would adopt free trade, and that
1
Yths as cheaply and perhaps more cheap- England would be the workshop of the

predc 'they did before, and that all the world. What has been the sequel ? I am
falsions of our opponents have
been not going to deliver a protectionist address ;
fin(d
- by events.
While business is I prefer to appeal to facts. What bas the
the iin ts level, the consumers benefit by United States done ? What bas France
t b Prices of goods, and are doing so done ? What bas Germany done ? How
Polieve at this moment. The National have these and other countries met Engan<j I was not intended to discriminate, land's free 'trade advances? They met
tween believe does not discriminate be- them by rejecting them, and inaugurating
naugu Classes. There never was a policy a national policy in every case, and it is
tak rated in which greater pains was impossible, I maintain, for a nation to
ben to produce a measure that would attain to greatness if it limits its industries
at tually upon all classes in its oper- to what the soil, the sea and the mine
oicn tan in the case of the National produce, and to exchanging these for the
fear 'cy That I state without any more costly, because more highly finished,
f Contradiction. It is not likely manufactures of the world, and of which

21A4

The Industries and LSENATE] Manuf'rs of Canada.

they require to consume a great deal. If
they are content to be the hewers of wood
and drawers of water for other nations,
they will remain impoverished, and will
continue to occupy a low stand in the
scale of nations.
HON. MR. POWER-Does the hon.
Minister mean to say that the people of
England are poorer to-day than the
people of those other countries he has
mentioned ?
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONI am very glad the hon. gentleman has
reminded me of that point.
I was very
nearly omitting it. I believe that the
working classes of England are very poor ;
that there is a great deal of distress
among the laboring classes, and that many
more of their operatives are reduced to
half time than of the operatives in Canada.
Free trade is not now as much believed in
by the people of England as it was th:rty
years ago. Fair trade is making great
progress in the public mmd, and I can
assure hon. gentlemen that it is so,
and if they will only read the literature of
the day they will find surprising evidence
of the fact-evidence that would have
surprised them at all events ten years ago.

HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONIf they had imported all the manufactured
goods they required and paid for themf
with their wheat and fish and timber, do
you suppose they would have been the
wealthy people that they are to-day ? No,
certainly not. They may have imposed
too high duties ; that is not a question
which I am going to discuss ; but I say
the imposition of those duties, the adoption of what we cali in this country the
national policy, has contributed incalculably to the wealth of the United States.
We speak of the free trade measures of
Cobden and Bright. They were real protection and intended as protection to the
manufactures of England. Their policY
was to reduce the cost of everything.
England enjoyed great advantages as a
manufacturing country, greater than any
other country in Europe, and what Bright
and Cobden succeeded in bringing about,
was a reduction of the cost of the raw
materials, including labor, to the lowest
point, and they cared no more for the
laborer than they did for the other raw
materials that went into their manufactures. My hon. friend from Ottawa spoke
of increased imports ; he said he was astonished that our imports had not fallen
off-that it was expected the imports
would fail off when the National Policy
was adopted.

HON. MR. POWER-If the Minister
will excuse me, he has not answered the
HON. MR. SCOTT-My hon. friend
ques:ion I asked. I wanted to know if he
wished to leave the impression that the misunderstood me. I said the natural Se
people of England were poorer or worse quence was that they should have fallen Off
off than the people of France or Germany. if we would manufacture in Canada what
would otherwise have been imported. I
said that the wealth of Canada was due to
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONThat is a natter of statistics.
I will say other causes ; notwithstanding the high
this: that I believe those countries are tariff we bought abroad.
richer than they would have been had they
not adopted a national policy, had they
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONnot protected their home industries, just The latest reports shew the imports are
as it is with the United States.
Will the diminishing. Many of the articles used I"'
hon. gentlemen say, for instance, that if the our own manufactures have to be imported
United States had not protected their and the more active our manufactures are
industries they would have been the the more of these articles we must inport,
wealthy and prosperous people that they including machinery. I have a statelient
are to-day, and that there would have here shewing the exports and imports for
been the wealth in that country that there the periods from 1874 to 1878 inclusive,
is now ?
and from 1879 to 1883 inclusive. They
show the imports for each year, givin1g
HON. MR. POWER-They would the total for five years in each case. The
have more wealth.
statement is as follows :-

HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON.

The Industrie8 and [MARCH 6, 1885] Mantuf'rs of Canada. 215
Total Exports and Imports for periods
HON. MR. POWER- What about the
ý874 to 1878 inclusive, and 1879 to from
1883 star this year ?
Inelusive.
.4r.

1814
1874
1875

1877
1878
8

Tot. Exp'rtl.

Grand Total
Imports
And Exports.

$

83$

99,327,962
93,081,787

217,565,510
200,957,262
174,176 781
175,203,355
172,405,454

2

536,903,960

940,308,362

71,491,255
87,911,458
98,290,823
102,137,203

81,964,427
86,489,747
105,330,840
119,419,500
132,254,022

153,455,682
174,401,205
203,621,663
221,556,703
230,339,826

525,458,536

983,375,079

89,351.928
77,886,979
80,966,435
75,875,393
79,323,667

Total'--434
1880
1881
1882
1883

Tot. Imports.

98,085,804

Total-457,916,513

128,213,582
123,070,283

93,210,346

I have the return here for 1884; I will
ye it.if my hon. friend wishes it; but I
have given a period of five years in each
ça3se.
diON. MR POWER-What was the
fference between the two periods ?
"ON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONAbout forty millions of dollars. Now,
there is one remarkable fact
exhibited by
tlis statement ; that is that
the great
oth
ue of trade declined annually under
the administration of which my hon. friend
fis a mnember, with the exception of the
rst ear.

110"N MR. SCOTT-Hear, hear; no
Oubt about it.

A oN. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONald the volume of trade increased annuofrOr the time that the people saw fit
t0
frietnove the hon. gentleman and his
s. and to place my friends in power.
ON. MR. SCOTT-You were born
klder a lucky star.
It ON SIR DAVID MACPHERSONreally is a remarkable statement.

HON. SIR I)AVID MACPHERSONThe star last year did not shine so
brightly; there was a decline of nearly
$23,000,000 compared with the previous

year, but the amount exceeded that of
any of the years I have named except the
My hon. friend,
two preceding ones.
speaking figuratively the other night, said
when the dark cloud which covered this
country was lifted that improvement took
I think
place and prosperity followed.
thatthat might be stated in a somewhat less
figurative sense, and that it might be said
that the dark cloud was the previous
administration, and that when the people
saw fit to dispel it, then a brighter light
shone upon us, and prosperity burst upon
che country. I think if there should
be another change, such as my hon. friends
opposite no doubt wish for, that even a
darker cloud than before would descend ;
but I do not see any probability of such a
cloud descending on the country again. A
return was brought down to the House of
Commons a few days ago shewing a comparative statement of the imports and
exports during the last six months-that
is to say from the 1st July, the beginning
of the financial year, down to the 31st
The comparison with the
December.
corresponding period of the preceding
year shewed a decrease in 1884 of
$4,o19,o67 in value, and a decline in
revenue of $805,153. Now, I was curious
to see how these arose, and I think the
result will go to satisfy my hon. friend
from Ottawa that our manufactures are
taking the place of imported goods, for I
find that the decrease in the duties in the
six months from the ist July to the 31st
December, 1884 on cotton goods was
$347, 1o 9 .69 ,andonhardware$420,7 3 7.75,
making together $767,847.44, leaving to
be accounted for only $37,305.60. I then
looked at the imports of wines and spirits.
I thought I would find there evidence that
the Scott Act had affected the revenue,
and I found that it did so. The decrease
in revenuefrom that source was$78,41 8 .32,

• NIR. SCOTT-I tried to make it
why it was so.
more than sufficient to
or $31,112.72
account for the whole decrease; so that
As N. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONmore than the whole decline is accounted
May hon. friend says, our administration for in the decrease of revenue derived
forned under a lucky
star.
from cottons, hdrdware, and wines and

Pl

216

The Induetries and (SENATE] 3lanuf're of Canada.

spirits. The hon. gentleman also spoke
of the small increase of population. Well,
the population has not increased as fast as
we should like to see it-certainly not as
fast as the Government would desire to
see it-but I do not think we are to blame.
The Government put forth all the efforts
it could to direct immigration to this
country, and those efforts would have been
successful if our friends on the opposite
side had not to some extent frustrated
them. I am not speaking of the gentlemen
immediately opposite, but of their organs
and those who sympathize with them in
the country. I acquit the hon. gentlemen
opposite of any intention to injure the
country, and I have never seen from any of
them any tendency in that objectionable
direction ; but I speak of the supporters
of my hon. friends, and not only their
supporters, but also their leaders. They
have taken especial pains, one of them in
particular, Sir Richard Cartwright, to decry the country, and to send forth statements which, if they were credited, would
cause intending immigrants to look upon
this country as they would upon a plaguestricken country and avoid it. Anything
more unpatriotic I cannot conceive than
the policy that has been adopted by a
large number of the members of the Opposition and their organs, and, as I
have already said, by the leaders of
the Opposition-for Mr. Blake is not free
from blarne in the matter. The course
they have pursued is to me altogether unaccountable ; because, no matter who is
in power, or who is out of power, surely it
should be the desire and the ain of every

responsibility of Sir Richard Cartwright's
unpatriotic utterances to an extent that he
would not be expected to bear it in the
case of any other of his supporters.
HoN. MR. SCOTT-Are they responsible for the falling off of the emigration
to the United States ? My idea is that
we on this continent don't control inmlgration except to a small extent. Of
course I entirely disclaim that my friends
are to any extent responsible.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONI think our country is a far more attractive
field for immigrants than the United
States. The agricultural lands of that
country are pretty nearly filled, while ours
are still very largely unoccupied. The
United States however have this great
advantage over us ; that the immigrants
who are there induce their friends to
join them in that country ; but that advantage will be lessened as our population
increases. What I complain of is that
Sir Richard Cartwright paints the countrY
almost, as I said before, as a plague
striken couutry.
HON. MR. SCOTT-Oh, no.
HON. SiR DAVID MACPHERSON-I do not see how any man intending tO

emigrate to Canada, read'ng his speeches
and believing them, would come to this
country. I have a statement here of the
taxation of the country. Hon. gentlemen
have read it, I have no doubt, because it
is taken from the Finance Minister'5
man in the country to do what lie can to statement. It is as follows :1874-79
promote the public interests ; but instead
of that, these gentlemen have taken an Receipt from custons excise
and stamps ..........
entirely opposite course, especially Sir Total receipts..$114,860,495
Richard Cartwright. Under ordinary cir" expenditure 119,679,284
cumstances a member of the Opposition Deficit ..... ..............

is looked upon and allowed to be a free
lance ; but Sir Richard Cartwright cannot

$93,295,770 34
4,818,789 00

$~98,114 559 34

be looked upon in that light. He was Taxation necessary per head
brought into Parliament in a very special
of population ........ ($4,021,000)-$4
1879-84.
manner. He was not the spontaneous
from custonis,
choice of a constituency. On the con- Receipts and stamps.... $124,723,659 8
excise
trary, the constituency he appealed to re- Total receipts, including
jected him ; but he was brought in by Mr.
lands .... .$157,687,879
Blake as one whose services were essential Total expendi're 137,258,154
20,420,725 0O
to aid him in conducting the affairs of the Deduct surplus .......... ,
Opposition, and for that reason he, the
$104,2934 8
leader of the Opposition, must bear the

HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON.

The Ind8trie8 and [MARCIH 6, 1885] Manuf'r8 of Canada. 217
(4,aation necessary per head of population favor of nearly ' per cent., a saving which,
.
on,64 00),chargeable Adding the expenditure used as a snking fund, would pay off our
to capital, $1,642,544 95 entire debt in fifty years. (Cheers.)
treys $4.78
Oe su
woud txation necessary froin 1879 to 1884 I would call special attention to a fact, and
still be below $488 per head. For the
ye
foar 1883-84 thereceiptsofthe former country it is one as to which my hon. friend from
tar entoms, internal revenue, national bank Victoria did not do full justice to the
t
and fees amounted to $324,085,895.43.
ThicSurplus amouited to $57,603396.09, Dominion, when speaking on the subject ;
Whevh, deducted from the total amount of that is the large amount of Dominion tax$2 lene from the sources named, leaves ation which goes to defray the expenses of
is6 ,482,499.34. The estimated population the Local or Provincial Governments and
beag4'&000. The necessary taxation per to pay interest on the debts of the provinwa 4 93rneet expenditure and sinking fnnd ces. Nothing of the kind is done in the
to eett
Thetaxatio in Canada necessary
t eet th-a expenditure out of consolidated United States. Every state has to pay
reaenue, including sinking fund for
five the whole of its own expenses out of its
e"'8 from 1879 to 1884 is $4.78.
An im- own revenue. The subsidies to the prolecesnt point brought out was, that of the vinces and the payment of interest on the
isdary taxation in Canada $1.75 per head
debts of the provinces forni a large poror on account of the several pro'Vnc
ce owards local expenses by local legis- tion of the expenditure of the Dom:nion,
Btues, whereas in the United States the as is clearly brought out in the statement
$1e taxes average thirty-two cents on every on the comparative taxation of the United
81 0 real and personal property assessed,
.
20
or States and of Canada which I have just
%ecesaPer iead ot the population, niaking the
ei ry taxation in the United States $6.134, submitted.
an
anada 'the average necessary taxation in
HON. MR. MACDONALD-I made
ford,for five vears of $4.781 per head, or
neces ninion purposes about $3.032. The no allowance for that in my statement. I
the Dsary taxation to meet the expenditure of took the whole amount of revenue and
the ¡ 'ninon for the fiscal vear 1883-84, less divided it by the population.
n the
n
ig fund, was $4.84 per head; and
the 3. United States for the same period, less
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONta"aing
Fund, $4 07, and adding the State
taation thereto--$1 .20--niaking the necessary The hon. gentleman spoke of the inesti tn in the United States $5.27. The creased expenditure. I have had very
'tI United Staies revenue for 1885-86,
$54,656 ,000 su rpls and sin kin fond, is little time to extract the facts, but I
looked at the per centage cost of collecting
4
nat 4,000 or $4 58 per head of' an esti$1.20 SOplation of 50,00 1,000, and with the the duty on the total imports, and it is as
per hatate tax added nakes a total of $5 78 follows :
er
had. The estimated necessary taxation
Percentage of Duty
Percentage of
les;he
.for Canada for the fiscal year 1885-86,
on Total value or
Amnount of
of $ 0king Fund, based upon a population Year. Goods Entered for Customns ue CEoenof
C tionst
ofi opua
Consuiption
I is $4.75 fer head.
oR Ppulaton. Bevenue.
Dutiable and Free.
?4i 1 regard to the ast loan the Finance
n
Per Cent.
Per Cent.
Per Cent.
oan ster said: " With reference to the last
04.55
3.93
11.32
,iiliplaced on the English narket of five 1874
04.44
4.19
12.83
,inions Sterling at 31. per cent. interest, the 1875
3.44
05.61
13.44
£91 tm anount was 91 but the loan realized 1876
13.03
339
05.75
the fift 8, or equal to per cent. prenhinm on 1877
14.03
3.46
05.58
the .YYear loan at four per c -nt. That isI 1878
16.10
350
0556
Canad!ghest rate ever obtained. for any 1879
19.70
3.83
05.04
(Ch
loan ever placed on the market. 1880
20.19
4.25
03.87
deces r .) The loans placed by my hon. pre- 1881
19 27
5.02
03.33
plaedr fromn 1874 to 1878, and the last* loan 1882
18.82
5.26
03 26
Iaeei
r myself on the Engli:h market, 1883
18.64
4.53
03.96
he
faabout the saine sum at 4 per cent. 1884
ent
the3 do not realize as good a rate
I have many more figures here which I
debeatu 4Per cent. Thirty Years' 4 per
cent.
p
ticre placed at £90 ina1874 paid at that could submit to the House, but it is now
£4i
eears' 4 12 6s.per £100 per annum. Thirty near the hour of adjournment, and I
cst CPer cent. debentures placed in 1877 shall not do it.
earna
£4 Ils. 2d. per annurr ; tifty
Interes
er cents at £91 gave a rate of
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I rise to
et. eb£ 18s. 3d, and fifty years' 4 per
atarat enture8 ellingat 102 yield interest move the adjournment of the debate. Of
l'Ch nakes a difference in our course at this hour it is impossible to go.

The Honorable [SENATE]

-218

on with it. It was adjourned for the convenience of the Government last time, and
now in fair play to the Opposition I think
it should be adjourned again.
The motion was agreed to and the
Senate adjourned a 6 o'clock.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Monday, March 9 th, 1885.

Mir. A4exander.

is now the mode of punishment freely used in
the English House of Commons, under the
new orders, which will be found at the end or
this chapter.

If a member refuse to with-

draw when suspended, the Speaker will order

him to be removed by the serjeait.
IL is usual when a charge of misconduct ia
made against a member, to hear any explanation which lie may have to ofier; but " if the
House should be of opinion that the oflence
which the hon. meinber lias committed il
flagrant and culpable, and admits of nO
apology, it will be competent first, withOnt
directing him to attend in his place, to order

him to be conimitted to the custody of the
serjeant-at-arms." This was done in the

The SPEAKER took the Chair at three English Comnions, in the case of Mr. Fergus
O'Connor in 1852. Subsequently a petitionp

*'clock p.m.

Prayers and routine proceedings.

THE HON.

MR. ALEXANDER.

MOTION OF CENSURE.
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL moved:

That the Honorable George Alexander, a
member of this House, on Friday, the 6th of
March instant, after being called to urder by
Mr. Speaker at the instance of the House,
having refused to resume his seat in accordance with the' 25th rule of the House, and
having persisted in using offensive language
and in d isorderly conduct, is deserving of the
censure of the fouse.
He said: The motion to which I now
draw attention is one of a very unusual
character. I do not now propose to enter
at all into the merits of the motion or into
the subject to which it refers, but I think
it is desirable, considering the novelty of
the position in which the Senate is placed
in regard to the matter, to draw the
attention of the House to the rule which
practice has established in the English
Parliament with reference to kindred subjects. That rule is laid down in " May "
very closely, and it is also laid down very
distinctly by Mr. Bourinot in his work,
recently published, on Parliamentary Law.
I will read to the House two sections of
the latter work:
PUNISHMENT OF MIscoNDUcT.-Either fouse
of Parliament has full authority to punish
those members who are guilty ol contempt towards it, by disorderly or contumacious behavinur, by obstruction of the public business
or by any willul disobedience of its orders.
Any inFm ber, so offending, is liable to punishment, whether by censure, by suspension
from the service of the House, or by commitment, as the Bouse may adjudge. Suspension
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

stating that lie was ot unsound mind, was re'
ceived and referred to a select conmmittee,

which reported that the allegations thereiln
were correct, and it was accordmugly ordered
that he be discharged from custody.

From the foregoing illustrations of the
practice of the House of Commnons in cases Of
disorderly language or behaviour, it will be
seen thatCwhenever the conduct of a menber
is under consideration it is his duty to witil
draw from the House; but lie should at firt
be allowed an opportunity to explain andto
know the nature of the charge against hirfl
Fo- instance, wlien a memnber is named by
Mr. Speaker for disorderly conduct or 18n'
guage, lie will explain and withdraw. 1
case lie persists in remaining, he will be
ordered to withdraw, as soon as a motion 11i
reference to his conduct has been propoSed.
When the charge is contained in the report

of a comniittee, or in certain papers whiich
are read at the Table, the m-nmber accused
knows to what points lie is to direct his ei'
planation, and may, therefore, be heard W
those points before any question is noved
or stated against him ; and lu such a case lie
is to be heard and to withdraw before an1Y
question is moved. But, where the questiOfl
itself is the charge, for any breach of the
orders of the House, or for any matter thst
lias arisen in debate, then the ciharge muust be
stated, that is, the question must bemoved
The memiber must then be heard, in bis ee'
planation or exculpation; and then lie is to
withdraw. The principle is thus stated bY
" lie meniber complained 0 i
Hatsell
should have notice of the charge, but not o
all the arguments.'
For instance, ir. *
motion be made f·r a select committee to in'
ot a memîber, he Wili
quire into the conduct
be heard in his place and withiraw.
The statement of a niember made in his
place

in

reply to certain charges which

appear on the journals, i also frequenty
given in full on the record, especially in the
Canadian Commons. This, however, is onil
properly done under more recent practices
when the charges are contained in papers
laid before the Houso, and the reply is frorn
a written paper. In Mr. O'Connell's case, .
1883, the speech complaived of appears l

The Honorable [MARCH 9, 1885]
full)ad then the journals simply
and l
record:

O'Connell having avowed naking use
Oatese expressions withdrew." In sitnilar
When the charge is contained in a
Ot~e,o
dow o, or when words have been taken
'ne D, or a complaiit has been made of a
re'enber's conduct. the journals will simply
<herd the fact that lie "explained," or that
as heard in his place," or that " he
na
he e an explanation in the course of which
allknowledged or denied the truth of the
elgation."
0f

paThis is the practice in both Houses of
thaaent in England. The charge in
Case against a member of this
etniade in the motion now in the House
hands
the Speaker, and without making at
Present any comments on that motion of
tYiY kind I would simply muve the resolutiori.
hON. MR. ALEXANDER-Will the
litt- gentleman be kind enough to state a

Itue more definitely the language which
thesed and in what respect I transgressed
the 25th rule of the House?
25

•.

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The

tSth rule of the House requires a member
to take h
The his seat when he is called to order.
the Speaker rose to enforce the wishes of
ouse and called the hon. gentleman
to
dio rder. The hon. gentleman not only
co riot obey the order of the chair but

iOntinued in a loud voice, calculated and
'ten'ded by him to overpower the voice of
ordrpeaker, and so continued in his dis-

Mr. Alexander.

. 219

tried when endeavoring on the floor of
this House to check wrong-doing on the
part of the members of this House and
members of the Government.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
do not think this is an explanation or
apology.
THE SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman must confine his remarks to a retraction of the language, or exculpation of the
conduct complained of.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I understood the Minister of Justice to say, in
reading the views of Mr. Bourinot, who
has written a book on constitutional
practice, that the member accused shall
have full power to make an explanation. Now I want to know why I should
have been checked? I want to know why
the Minister of Justice should have prevented me from finishing those words
which I uttered on Friday ? Does he
mean to say that I could produce no precedent ? I quote here from the House of
Commons, in the year 1715 in the reign
of George 1, when the Earl of Oxford
was accused of treason-I ask him to
read that debate, and he will see that the
member who brought that charge of
treason against the Earl of Oxford, never
was interfered with by the members of the
House of Lords or Commons.

y conduct.

q

MR. ALEXANDER-I think it
Ouecessary for me to say to this
hon
at ever since I have had the
aiworsof a seat in this Chamber I have
res pes endeavored to show the utmost
an
t to every member of the Senate,
res
have endeavored to show every
doPect to the Speaker of the House. I
o think that any member of this
ha tr, bn recollection of anything that
is
hoorans pired here since I have had the
orle (f a seat in the Senate, can recall
r
stance where I have not shown that
of this If in the opinion of the members
N

the rueOuse I have transgressed any of

aniple s I arn the first to make a full and
ot
apology to the House. I do
Permit now whether the House will
threet rne to state that within the last

Weeks one has been considerably

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
hon. gentleman either accidentally or wilfully misunderstands the charge preferred
against him. It is not with reference to
the language which he used during the
discussion upon the Torrens Bill ; it is
that he persisted in refusing to take his
seat when he was called to order by the
Chair, and endeavored in a violent and
disorderly manner to overbear the voice
of the Speaker, when he was calling him
to order.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I arn not
permitted to explain in what manner I
was endeavoring to discharge my duty to
the country. Nothing could have been
further from my mind than to break any
rule of the House. When I look round I
feel that I have the good fortune to possess
the respect, esteemu and confidence of the

220

The Ronorable [SENATE]

whole House, with the exception of four or
five members, and nothing could have been
further from my mind than to utter one
single word inbreach ofthe rules; but there
are members of this House who, I conceive,
have interfered with the procedure of Parliament, and have exercised a right which
they should not have exercised-they are
daily doing so and bringing this House
,into contempt.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I rise
to a point of order. This is simply a repetition of the offensive remarks and disorderly conduct to which the motion refers.
I have tried twice to state the question that
is brough! before the House by this motion.
The hon. gentleman in his explanation o

exculpation must confine himself to the
question before the House and not wander
into debates on the conduct of any member of the Senate.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-If I am
not permitted to make any explanation, I
beg to say that if I have transgressed the

rules, such is my respect and esteem for
the members of this House except five
members, that I am always ready to make
an apology to ail except those members.
I do now make an apology for any
error of judgment of which I may
have been guilty, for it is only an error of
judgment. I here openly, before God and
man, disclaim that it was my intention to
violate the rules of the House. The hon.
gentleman dare noL charge that it was my
intention ; and if I have been guilty of an
error of judgment I am the first man, as
an English gentleman, to make a full and
ample apology for anything which I have
done.

Mr. Alexander.

consider that apology or exculpation sufficient or not. It is very difficult to deal in
this matter with the hon. gentleman. I
will not now go into the merits of the
accusation, but it is very difficult to confine him to the exact point of the charge,
and very difficult, after he has made his
exculpation, to know whether he intends
to persist in his disorderly conduct,
or whether he really feels that he has not
been guilty of it. I should like to hear
the expression of opinion of hon. members
before deciding on what course should be
pursued. If the exculpation which the
hon. gentleman has presented to the
House is deemed a sufficient excuse for
his conduct, then I think it should appear
on the journals of the House that he in
his place apologized to the House for the
disorderly conduct mentioned in the
notice of motion, and thereupon the
motion was withdrawn. It may be that
hon. gentlemen will consider under ail the
circumstances that that will be the wiser
course to pursue. I admit that the incl'
nation of my own mind is in that directiol'
and he having stated, as I suppose he itended to state, that he regretted his
conduct, and having apologized for it as
he did, the motion had better be withdrawn, it appearing on the Minutes that
this apology and exculpation had been
given.
HON. MR. PLUMB-He apologized
only to part of the House.

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We
must consider that as part of his peculiar
idiosyncrasy. I have no right to speak i.n
the name of the other five members. It is
his insults to the House, and not to the
five members, we are dealing with ; anl
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am he seems, as far as one can understand
sorry, after the very serious manner in him, to apologize to the House for is
which the hon. gentleman has put it, to disorderly conduct on Friday.
have to say that I believed it was his intention, because immediately after the
HON. MR. BOTSFORD-I concur iD
language was uttered he said in a triumph- the observations made by the hon. Minis
ant tone that he had got out ail he had to ter of justice as to the course which ought
say, that he knew that he had violated the to be pursued under the peculiar circuln'
rules of the House, and he did it in stances of the case ; but I may Say that
triumph because he had violated the rules. the apology was no apology at ail; it Was
The member who is charged with the a reflection on certain members of the
accusation having made the explanation House, the very disorderly conduct which
or apology, which we ail have heard, it he was guilty of in the first instance
will be for the House to say whether they Well, I suppose under ail the circunstances
HON. MR. ALEXANDER.

Explosive [MARCH 9, 1885]
that the members of the Senate will on
th"s Occasion not proceed any further in
the Matter, but adopt the suggestions of
he Mimrster of Justice. I must say my
IMpressions are that such conduct cannot
permitted to be continued in this
louse, and that if on another occasion
the hon. member should be guilty of such
eonduct the Senators, in the performance
f their duty as Senators, should take
ore decided action.

Substances Bill.

221

HAMILTON LOAN & PROVIDENT
SOCIETY'S BILL.
SEcOND READING.

HoN. MR. TURNER moved the second
reading of Bill (J), " An Act to comprise
in one Act a limitation of the share, and
loan capital of the Hamilton Provident &
Loan Society." He said: I may mention
that it is intended to consolidate the existing charters, to limit the capital and to
ON. MR. PELLETIER-No member ask power to issue debenture stock.
of this hon. House would attempt to defend
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
the COnduct of the member for Woodstock,
was read the second time.
ed I arn sure everyone in this House
Would have liked a 'more ample apology
"-an has been made ; still, under 'the EXPLOSIVE SUBSTANCES BILL.
hrcumstances, as the leader of the House
as uggested, the apology having been

SECOND READING.

reade, although not in such language as
Hôx. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
o WOuld like to have it, it would be better
the second reading of Bill (K), " An Act
t accept it as it is.
respecting explosive substances."

He said : This is a Bill having for its
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-What
ttaken place will appear on the journals object the endeavoring to prevent as far
as possible the new crime which has sprung
'f the House.
up admist old countries as well as here,
in using dynamite. They have found it
TII SPEAKER-Yes.
necessary in England as well as in several
states of the neighboring country to legisThe motion was thereupon withdrawn. late on this subject. I was very glad
to observe, on the first alarm in England,
that some States in the Union, New York
MR. understood should like to and Vermont among them, immediately
"'"'have it clearly DICKEY-I in
what form proceeded to legislate, or members gave
Sthe ntry will be made on the Journals. notice of Bills to legislate on this subject,
th k it would not be sufficient to enter although at that time they had not suffered
but fact Of the apology having been made, from such crimes in their own country.
adt should also appear in the motion
tade by the hon. Minister of Justice to The fact that they were ready to legislate,
Wthdraw his resolution, that the fact of speaks, I think, loudly in favor of the
ther
friendly feeling which exists on that side
the member from Woodstock having made of the line toward the people of England
Pology
to Withdraw is the ground for asking leave and of this colony. The Bill which is
the motion.
now betore the House, is framed on the
lines of the English Bill on the same subOreN.SIR ALEX. CAMPBE LL- ject. It proposes to make the possession
; that was of dynamite a crime, unless the person
the Sey : that
ap'ntion. will beI done
What
propose should who has it in possession can estalisha r 1.n the minutes is that I withdraw and it lays the burden of proof on himhaotion on the member apologizing for that he has it for a legal purpose. That
c ving refused to resume his seat in I think will be a great deterrent, because
the dance with the twenty-fifth rule of the people who are intent on the use of
ofeLIouse, and having persisted in using explosive substances will be very reluctant
'l'he ,ve language and disorderly conduct. to be found with it in their possession,
nember having apologized for seeing that the burden of establishing why
thdraw my motion.
it is in their possession is thrown on them.
lION.

922

T2e Indu8tries and [SENATE]

Manuf'rs of Canada.

That he will call attention to the Report of
the Commission issued by the Gwvernment
last year to inquire into the effect of the
Tariff of 1879, on the Industries and Mant"
fhetures of the country, and will ask the
Government whether the Report will be furnished to members of the Senate and a certain
number to the country.
He said: When the hon. gentlemen
introduced this subject I was somewhat
of the impression of the hon. gentleman
on my left (Mr. Scott) that the proceeding
was unusual. I see, however, that soie
advantages may accrue from it. At all
events the views of those who advocate the
National Policy, and who wish to put forward in a prominent position the results
of that policy before the country had ample
oportunity for doing so in this HouseThe hon. member for British Columbia, at
great length, read statements from reports
of commissioners which no doubt he intended should go to the country, and he
commented on these statements as he
went along. He was followed by the
Minister of Interior on a subsequent occasion, who addressed himself more to al
explanation and to glorify the policy Of
the Government and its success. I feel
myself somewhat at a disadvantage ii
advocating the opposite course, because I
know a large proportion of the members
of this House hold views favorable to the
National Policy, and that those who
think pretty much as I think myself
on this subject are a very small
minority. I am not, however, to be
deterred from expressing my opinions
fully and freely on this subject. I onIY
wish I possessed greater ability to put
them in an agreeable and succinct form'
before the House. I protest here, in this
House, that if I could be persuaded Of
the truth of the principle of the National
Policy, I would even now desert nmY
old principles of free trade and become an advocate of the National
Policy ; but the more I have studied
that question, the more I look into the
The motion was agreed to.
history of it in the United States, in CanaTHE INDUSTRIES AND MANU- da and in England the more convinced I
am of the correctness of the princiPle
FACTURES OF CANADA.
which has made England the great and
wealthy country she is at the present
THE DEBATE CONTINUED.
moment. I think it fair to say that tel'
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE resumed years, or a little less than ten years agOr
the adjourned debate on Mr. Macdonald's the question of the day for the Parliamient
motion :of Canada was whether the deficiencies il

If by the use of explosive substances life
is lost or property injured, the punishment
imposed for the offence is a very serious
one; it is either capital punishment or
confinement in a penitentiary for life, or
for 15 years. It has been suggested to
me that it would be a good amendment
to the Bill to add to these punishments
that the offending party should be liable
to be whipped. That also, I have no
doubt, in many cases would be a very
serious deterrent, perhaps the best, and I
think I shall perhaps offer to the committee, when the Bill is before them, an
amendment to that effect, In the meantime I think the provisions of the Bill go
as far as it is possible to go safely. I was
very glad to be able to avail myself of the
English provisions on the subject, because
in England they are careful in these matters to go very securely and safely, and it
is a great source of advantage and security
to us in the colonies to be able to
follow where they lead in criminal
legislation. An hon. gentleman has
suggested to me just now that the Bill
might be more advantageously considered
in a Select Committee than in the whole
House; but I am not disposed to concur
in that. It is a simple Bill in itself. Any
change must be for the purpose of enlarging the offences or the punishment,
and it seems to me the example of the
English Parliament in this respect would
be one which we should follow, rather than
increase the number of the offences by
enlarging the meaning of them, or increase
the punishment, and I should hope that
the House will be disposed rather to take
the English course and adopt this Bill as
it is, with perhaps the amendment I spoke
of with reference to punishment in certain
cases. I do not think I need explain
further on this occasion the objects of the
Bill, and I move that it be read the
second time.

HoN. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL

The Industrie8 and [MARCH 9, 1885] Jfanutf'r8 of Canada. 223
the revenue, which were then occurring, itself to the creation of wealth, which
shoulid be met by additional taxation or by during the war had been well-nigh dea reduction of expenditure. Now there are, stroyed. The resources of the country
tnany reasons why the latter plan should be had been taxed to their extreme power,
ereferred to the former, and'I think myself and even beyond it. They had incurred
at the course which Mr. Mackenzie's an enormous debt. They had used up
'-"vernment at that time adopted was a the whole national resources and drawn
statesmanlike and patriotic one for reasons upon the future to an extent which no
h"Ch shall shortly explain to the House. other country ever did in so short a time.
seemns to me that those hon. gentlemen In addition to this wastefulness, which is
Who Were then responsible for the Govern- the usual effect of war, they had also
tnent of the country had a thorough accumulated a vast floating debt. Of
>preciation of its capabilities, and they course on the return of peace the first idea
ci ,t further than that, a thorough appre- which occurred to the holders of these
de tson of of that day and
depression the causes which le'd to the vast sums of irredeemable notes was that
the
tf the revenue, and knowing falling off something must be done with them ; they
as they did must be employed some way or other, and
,that th
0 'no
t1ses arising out were not internal, not it was not long before means were devised
C se causes of the state of things in for finding employment for this irredeemCfthda itself, but arising out of the state able currency. Soon the country was
?d ings in a foreign country, they, in my overspread with industrial undertakings of
Caugent, very wisely considered those every description and kind, and railway
aUses Would be of a temporary nature building, mining, manufacturing of all
2ind When the reaction came our revenue
sorts and descriptions, and every imaginthat h resume its former buoyancy, and able speculation that could be devised
saYt thwould be saved from the unplea- was entered into by way of employing this
i and unstatesmanlike plan, I may call fictitious capital. The consequence was
o Ofincreasing taxation in a country like a great influx of population, and for a few
ands. Nu doubt that was their intention. years a rapid increase of wealth. The
ae 1 think it was a wise one. It may
be first produce of these enormous manufac'Weil to
Whet Say a few words as to when and tories went to supply the great waste which
re that depression, perhaps one of the had been caused by the war, and a little
Worl wide-spread that ever existed in the later on the great influx of population
lifed o commerce, arose. In my long helped to consume it; but after a while
and u I recollect no depression so great there was an end of this sort of thing.
and inie
the nversal as that one ; that it arose in Production trod too closely on the heels
I
ted, bnted States,is pretty generally admit- of consumption, and the consumers were
cor
ts causes I think have been less not able to use all the manufactured goods
1 th lyunderstood than might be wished. from these mills which had been opened
dethtda short inquiry into the causes of all over the country. Then came a time
untdepression will tend certainly to an when a market should be found someCana anding of how it came to affect where for these superabundant products.
the
and all rest of the world so Canada was one of the most ready and
larg
they as t did. I am of opinion that most easily accessible and it was the
the dpression which prevailed throughout one which suffered most acutely from
ted States during those years, the excess of American goods brought
f
es
Ws the from.1873 to 1878 and 1879, into the country. I rememberrid the
of
f t e utcome of their great civil war. time when this process of getting
ndeerse these things react very remotely the surplus supplies of the United States
*hich ; it takes time before the causes was styled slaughtering in Canada ; and
full
Produce them work out their it was thought a great grievance that our
The first consequences manufacturers should be injured by the
ichects.
th ensued in the United States great influx of American goods. I recollect
on
rete restoration of peace were well that this question was before this
tion and unusual prosperity.
The House some years ago, and I think it took
suin> unbent from its military ardor, re- the form of a motion in which reciprocity
its industries and once more set of trade or reciprocity of tariffs was laid

224

The Indu8tries and [MARCIH 9, 1885]

Manuf're of Canada.

down as a principle. I myself disapproved soon as the occasion ceased. I have beof carrying on a war of hostile tariffs with fore, I think during the present sessiOnl,
our neighbors. I believe it would have stated in my place in this House, that the
been injudicious to do so; but it has been progress of a country such as Canada
a matter of astonishment to me that the should be uniform, and if that progress 1advocates of protection to native industry broken it is not difficult to ascertain the
in the United States and its advocates in cause. It has frequently happened front
Canadahavegiven totally different accounts deficiency of harvests, and from the causes
of their proceedings. The manufacturing which I have indicated, but these are
in the United States was represented for almost invariably temporary causes, and
many years as a magnificent success, and the ordinary and normal state of a colonY
Canada was invited to imitate them. But such as this, is one of constant and steadY
what was really the case? It was just progress, and if depression is permanent
simply on a large national scale what we it must be from indifferent statesmanshiP
have often seen here in the warehouses of and not from any deficiency in the re'
Ottawa-sales of bankrupt goods, goods sources of the country. I therefore cOnwhich must be disposed of somewhere to sider that the Administration which sucthe highest bidder. Goods manufactured ceeded Mr. Mackenzie's would have acted
in the United States found their way to more wisely if, instead of adopting the
England and were sold there for lower National Policy, they had simply allowed
prices than the same quality and descrip- the tariff to remain pretty nearly where it
tion of goods usually command there. We was. They would have found that the
were told with a triumphant air that revenue would have very soon recouped
Anierica was underselling England in her itself and paid for the deficit which theY
own markets. Now that was a complete inherited-a very small one it is true, but
What still a deficit-and they would have been
misrepresentation of the fact.
America was really doing was sacrificing relieved fron the difficulty in which the
her surplus products which she could not country finds itself. We now labor under
sell at home or anywhere else in the a very onerous customs' tariff, and at the
markets of the world because they were same time we find that the employmelnt
produced at too great expense at home. of our people under the National Policy
They were sold in the English market has not been permanent, as the menber5
where the English people, who are always of the Government led the people to suPpretty well supplied with money, were pose it would be. It has been anything
willing to buy anything out of which they else but that, and the hon. gentleman who
could make a profit. Now this is the spoke on the other side of the House, the
cause of the depression which prevailed Minister of the Interior, tried to make a
in Canada during the time of Mr. Mac- point of the great success of this NatiOnln
kenzie ; and I cannot say on reviewing Policy ; but he failed to answer my honhis course of conduct on this question as friend, the leader of the Opposition, who
well as upon others that I am at all disposed pointed out that the greatest proof of the
to consider that he acted injudiciously or in present failing position of many industxies
an unstatesmanlike way. On the contrary, -of the cotton manufactures in particular
in my judgment, he deserved and should -in Canada was indicated by the fall '
have gained the approval of the whole of value of their stocks. The Minister O
this community for the firmness with the Interior asserted on his part that tht,
which he acted on that occasion. He manufacturerswere simplysuspendingwor
fully understood the resources of the from ordinary causes, that such suspensions
country, and was not to be induced to were necessary and occurred independ
diverge from the course which he and his ently of the general state of the narket.
colleagues had laid down for themselves, But he did not attempt to reply to the
by any fear of future consequences. As statement which has been put forward bY
I have said, he, understood perfectly well my hon. friend the leader of the OppoS'
that the difficulty which Canada labored tion, that the cotton stocks of Canada
under at that time was not from internal were offered at a very considerable discauses, but a difficulty which came on her count, and when he asserted that no holder
from abroad, and which disappeared as of cotton stocks would hesitate to accePt
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

T'he Indut8triesand (MARCH 9, 18851 Manuf're of Canada.
Par for his stock at the present moment,
niy hon. friend opposite did not venture
to assert that he was wrong in his assertions. I believe myself that he is perfectly
Correct. It is just what was anticipated
by us at the time the National Policy was
adopted. We knew very well that when
.Government undertook to stimulate
. investnent of capital in these enterPrises that that would happen, which has
PPened both in Canada and in the
fllted States.
When the Governnent
Put a prenium on the employment of
t1Pital in any particular line of business,
s pretty certain that capital will rush
d that line of enterprise without any
s4cretion or hesitation. The first comers
et large profits, but the very largeness of
Ae success of their investment at first
anduce2s others to follow their example,
i of course the investnent of this money
buildings and iachinery and wages
does for a time cause a considerable degree
,r Prosperity. It is not a genuine prosbity, but still it passes for such and is,
of Some, believed to be an indication
c the success of the policy of the
Ove
ent when they have really incapital to employ itself in such
ent
rueprises that if left to
itself it
I
would long hesitate to embark in.
CapSider that the people who
become
capita~
theirtahsts by their own industry and by
r wn economy are very well able to
Padaoy capital in a way that is rnost
their
Vbntageous and secure
for themselves,
in tactig as the Government have done
Phe establishnent of this National
soucy, they have aimed a blow at this
uId principle which capitalists so well
grat stand.
'he hon. gentleman conrplate the country too on the great
of labor. Well,ifsuch eml)loyen
C
'ere permanent, and the result of
1 tor o invested without special protection,
there .ne could rejoice in it. I should say
ore is nothing that a nation should be
qf its Proud of than to see the enterprise
Indt ctizens embarking in self-sustaining
treries , and su-ceeding in those indusConsid The laborer so supported may be

225

prospects of the country than this uncertainty of labor-particularly such labor as
is employed in the manufacture of textiles,
that is the labor of wornen and young
children. This manufacturing industry
has this objection under all circumstances,
whether under the National Policy or
under any other policy, that it abstracts
fron other occupations labor which would
be employed there. Now, the proper occupation of the operatives-the great bulk

of those in a cotton factory-at that time
of life should be educational ; and to take
young children who are employed there,
and work then on full time in those
manufacturies, is doing them a permanent
inju-y, and a still further injury if they
are led to depend on that industry for
their support. They acquire expensive
habits and they acquire tastes altogether
different from what they would have had
if they had lived under the parental roof,
and they become unfitted for any other
industry. I have visited cotton factories,
and have bestowed some attention on the
Factory Laws of the United Kingdom,

and I know myself the effect of the factory system on women and young children is very injurious indeed, and when
the proper time comes no doubt I shall
discuss that matter more fully. I do not
think, at the present time, the Government are entitled to claim any great degree of success in the enploynent of labor
in those factories. The hon. gentleman
claims that many mechanics were employed in them at very high wages.

No doubt some have been employed,
and some of them are Canadians ;
but my impression is that a large number
of first-class mechanics who have been
charged with the running, and with the
setting up of the cotton machinery have
been imported-they are not Canadians;
they are Englishmen. I was, a year ago,
I think, at Moncton, and when there paid
a visit to a new factory which was then
nearly ready to be opened. There I saw
some of the most exquisitely beautiful

machinery that it is possible to find, b.it
the mechanics who were setting it up were
no sud
Perrnanently supported, and Englishmen and not Canadians, and
C Ofect to that very embarrassing pro- therefore the claim which the hon. gentlefl ti eing employed at one period on man makes of the employment of a large
half tiMe, and at another period only on number of our mechanics at high wages
nYthÎiMe, or not at all. I do not think in those factories as the result of the
can be more injurious to the National Policy must be taken with some

226

The Indu8trie8 and [SENATE]

degree of qualification. I think the hon.
gentleman attached considerable importance to our manufacturing at home a
large quantity of goods, which if they had
not been so manufactured at home must
have been imported, and consequently
that the sending out of a vast sum of
money was saved to the country. I doubt
very much myself if anything has been
gained in that way. We may have manufactured a large quantity of goods of
different descriptions in Canada, but it is
very questionable whether they were
manufactured at an advantage-in fact
my own impression is that those goods
have been manufactured at a higher price,
and that they are more costly goods
to the country at large than if we had imported them. It must be recollected, in
the first place, that we went to great expense to enable us to manufacture those
goods at all ; then we went to a further
expense for the raw material, and we diverted our capital from pursuits which
were profitable to other pursuits which
are not profitable. When I say they are
not profitable, I think I do so with reasoDn,
because a year ago no man could walk
through the streets of this city or of
Montreal or of Toronto without seeing at
every salesman's door piles of cotton
goods for which no market could be found,
and we know it is not a iatter of doubt
but of notoriety that throughout
Canada iii the early part of last yearsay from about now until well on in the
summer-the cotton market in Canada was
glutted. The difficulty was to know how
cotton goods were to be disposed of, and
we know that a suggestion was made in
the press that those goods should be sent
home to England ard a similar process
should be adopted with them here that the
United States goods were submitted to in
Canada a few years before-and slaughter
them in the English market. I ask hon
gentlemen where would have been the
difference if we had sent this cotton surplus home to England and slaughtered the
goods there or disposed of them at a loss
at home ? That they have been disposed
of yet is a question on which there is considerable doubt, because even while I have
been here in Ottawa I have heard it
gravely proposed that the Canadian surplus of cottons should be exported to the
Old Country to be printed and re-imported
HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE.

Mangf're of Canada.

into Canada, of course paying some loW
rate of duty on entrance. I find that that
proposal has been rejected. It shows,
however, the incapacity of the country at
this time to manufacture cottons at a
profit.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
proposal is under consideration.

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-It shows
how impossible it is to carry on the manfacture of textile fabrics beyond a point
which capital would discover for itself
Before the National Policy we had cottOn
factories in Canada, but I have never
heard that they experienced such vicissltudes in the value of stocks as we have
seen within the last two or three years.
They may have made smaller profit
throughout, but those profits were genuine.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONThere were few factories in Canada before
the National Policy was adopted.
MR. HAYTHORNE-There
HON.
were not so many, and although their
profits may have been smaller, they were
less subject to vicissitudes than they are
now, and I have said their profits were
genuine, the natural results of capital enploying itself in an industry in which theY
knew it would be successful. But hongentlemen now say to manufactures'
"do not concern yourselves about the
success of your enterprises ; leave that t5
us, we will protect you ; such an amount
of duty shall be charged in our tariff that
you shall not be troubled with comfpettion. You build the manufactory, get
in the machinery and raw material, and,
we will see that you have no losses..
But the hon. gentlemen did not anticipate that there would be such an amnOUt
of cotton spinning done in Canada,
Capitalists were too greedy, and the Consequence is that piles of unsold Cotton goods are to be found in every city
in the Dominion-at least it was sOlst
year, and what has become of them sinc'e
I cannot pretend to say. I think it 1a1y
be fairly said in reply to the Hon. Mi"'ster of the Interior who congratulated him'
self upon the large sum of money which
the Government had prevented fra
finding its way out of Canada to paY for

Thie lndustries and [M ARCII 9, 1S85]
those goods which were manufactured at
home, or would otherwise have been imPorted, that Canada could have very well
earned the money to supply herself with
COtton or other goods by other means
that experience has tat'ght us are profitable,
and are suitable to the requirements and
rPacity of the people, and would tend to
leave the-m better off than they now are.
it has been asked by the hon. gentleman:
t
las not our agricultural industry developed very largely under the National
koicy ?" It is true that during the Mackenzie regime we had not invariably good
harvests; we had some good and some
bad, but the great stimulus that agricul
ture has received since 1879, has been
Owing to the establishment of the cattle
trade, and the bad harvests in England.
't seemns to me that hon. gentlemen
tacked confidence in the resources of
their country when they established this
COUttil Policy.

It was not so with

ther Prdecessors. The Mackenzie Government felt confident in the future
of
Canada, and in the ab*lity of Canada to
avee lierseif if the time was given to do so.
these periods of depression, painful as
they are whi'e they last, sometimes come
. a sudden conclusion, and I think
anis a very profitable inquiry for us and for
any nation that has been suffering from them,
tu ascertain the cause, and the occasion
when the depression begins to cease.
at vas a great evil to several countries
to
in 1879, was a great advantage
ha he Unit.d States and Canada. They
ad particularly bad harvests in England
asvr Ireland during that
year, and in
8eve l countries in Europe. It became
anedent in an early period in the sunimer,
became evident that Anierica
wa 'tUalso able
d be
to supply the deficiency,
Wî t at once raised the prospects of the
toestern States, and enabled those States
rproceed with their interrupted improve'tarte5.
Unfinished railways at once
Ways to completion ; abandoned railre taken up and continued in
ord
count that the remotest parts of the
o.t ry Producing wheat and other kinds
horin available in the European markets,
nag bereached ; and at once, as if by
dc,

there arose a demand for the pro-

Ot Of this country. The timber in
CanaI and Other lumbering districts in
disappeared as if by magic owing

fanuf'r8 of Canada. 22T

to the constant demands for railway purposes, and all those collateral uses which
occur when a railway is being carried
through a country. What was the secret
of the depression ? It is quite possible
that the present depression may disappear
as suddenly, and it is to be hoped through
no worse causes. The hon. gentleman
congratulated himself on the increased
number of accounts in the savings bank.
No doubt it is an encouraging thing for a
Government to see that the population of
a country, whether it be the laboring population, the well-to-do populaton, ->r a.
commercial population are so well disposed,
to trust them with their money; but I think
it would be a great error to say that the
large sums deposited in the savings bank
in some of the provinces of the Dominion,
at all events, were the savings of the laboring classes. In my province, I can say
pretty confidently that those deposits
were made by individuals, nany of
them far above the laboring classes.
They were deposited by persons who had
been in the habit, perhaps, formerly
of making deposits in banks, but the
banks had lost the confidence of the community, and their rates of interest were

small, and the risks which depositors ran
were evidently considered, and under
those circumstances people naturally preferred the savings bank, and that, I think,
accounts for a very large number of the
deposits. The hon. gentleman spoke of
the fairness of the National Policy. I
have never been able to see the thing in
that light. It seens to me it is rather the
contrary The burden which it imposes
falls to a great extent on the agricultural
interest, which is on the whole a prosperous interest, one which is probably throughout the Dominion slowly but
steadily amassing wealth, but at the same
time one which does not take all the caie
of its own interest which it ought to do.
It perhaps bestows too little care and
attention on political subjects, and does
not make very close or searching inquiries
into the sources from which taxes are
derived, or the modes of their application. I should like just to read to the hon.
gentleman a passage from Justin McCarthy's history, which I have no doubt he
may be acquainted with, but perhaps some
other hon. gentlemen may not be. He is
a well recognized historian, and not only

228

The Industries and [SENATE]

from his agreeable manner, but for his
insight into the resources of our country,
his writings are worthy of perusal. Speaking of Mr. Gladstone's career he says :"Mr. Gladstone grew slowly into Liberal
convictionfs. At the tinie when he joined the
Coalition Ministrv he was still regarded as
one who lvid scarcely leit the camp of Torvisn,
and who had only joined that miînîstry becatuse
it was a coalition. Years after, lie was applied
to by the late Lord Derby to join a ininstry
formed by him, and it was not supposed that
there was anything unreasonable in the proposition. The first impulse toward Liberal

principles was given to his mind, probably,
by his changue with his leader fi oui lrotection
to Free TradÎe. Wlen a mîîan like Gladstone
saw that his traditional principles and those
of his party liai broken down in any one
direction, iL was but natural tlat lie shouhd

begin to question their endurance in other

direct ions. The whole fabric of belief was
bilt up together. Gladstone's was a mind

Manuf're of Canada.

the genuineness of the whîole system of political thought of which it formed but a part."

I think these remarks are worthy of the
attention of hon. gentlemen of this Ilouse.
When the hon. Minister of the Interior
spoke of the fairness of the National
Policy I think, perhaps, he forgot for the
moment the amount of dutywhich he levies
on the imîplements of the agriculturists.
Surely that particular class of the people
of Canada who bear the principal burden
of taxation, and who contribute the largest
portion of its exports should receive sO
much consideration from the Governmlent
that the tools vith which they work should
be rendered as cheap as possible instead
of making them bear 35 per cent., and
rendering them that much dearer than
they would be if free from that duty.

of that order that sees a principle in every-

HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONthinig, and nhust, to adopt the phrase of a
great preacher, niake the ploaghing as mucli In the North West agricultural implerneits
a part of the religious duty as the praying. are cheaper than they are in the adjoining
'fhe iiterest of religion seemied to him bound States.

up with the creed of Conservatism; the principles of Protection nust, probably, at one
HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE-I have
tine have seemued a part of the whole
creed of which one article was as sacred heard the hon. gentleman make that stateas another.
His inte lect and his princi- ment before, and I think I may meet hiti
ples, however, furd themse.ves compelled in this way : that it is another case where
to follow the guidance of bis leader in the capitalists over-reach them selves through
matier of free trade ; and viien imquiry
thus began it was not very ikely soon to stop. their own greed. They wanted to iake
Be miust have seen how muuch the svorkiig ot too nuch money ; they wanted to niake
sucli a principle as that of Protection became tremendous sales of implements out there,
a class interest in England, and how impos- and they sent out rather more than the
sible it would have been for it to continue lon ( market required. The consequence was
in existence under an extended and a popular
suffrage. Iii other countries the fallacy o. the market was glutted, and rather thaO
Protection did not show itself so glaringlv in bring their goods back the manufctur>rs
the eyes of the poorer classes, fr in o1he sold them out there, and sold them at a
countries it was not the staple food of the loss.
population that becane the principle object
of a protective duty. But in England, the
bread on which the poorest had to live was
made to pay a tax for the benefit of landlords
and fariers. As long as one believed this to
be a necessary condition ol a great unques.
tionable creed, it was easy for a voung statesman to reconcile himiself to it. It nUiglt hear
cruelly on individuals, or even multitudes
but so would the law of gravitation, as Mill
has remarked, bear hiarshly ou the best of
men when it dashed himx down froni a height
and broke his bones. It would he idle to
question the existence of the law on- that
account; or to disbelieve the whole teaching
of the physical science which explains its
movements. But when Mr. Gladstone came
to he convinced that there was no such law as
the Protection principle at al], that it was a
mere Eham, that to believe in it was to be
g uilty of an economic heresy-then it was
mipossible for him not to begin questioning

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

HON. MR. PLUM3B-They are doing
so stilL
HoN. MR.

HAYTHORNE-I cOUl

tell the hon. gentleman of one particular
implement used in ny province which re
quires steel plates imported from England,
and I am inforned that before a file or
hammer can be put on those plates they
have to pay 12 4 per cent. duty, and Of
course when they are finished the farnier
has to pay so much more for them. Another
instance of the fairness, according to the
hon. gentleman's contention, ofthe National
Policy is the way in which it operats
against the English people. Accordilg t
his own principles Canada ought to adMi'

Ve Industries and [MARCI 9,18S5] Manuf'r8 of Canada. 229

glish. manufactures free. Does not
]ngland admit our products free to her
iarket, and does not the hon.
idea of reciprocity lead him gentleman's
to practice
the same policy towards her ? We have
beard enough of jug-handled free trade,
Which %vas stated to mean one-sided
free
tade, where the duties were imposed
all
'Il one side, while on the other side there
Wele none. Is not that the case with
land ? England admits our grain and
eytte, fish and timber, and pretty nearly
e1erything we have, duty free.
1ONXN
SIR DAVID MACPHERSONf11 the same condition as she admits
foreign goods.

"oN- MR. HAYTHORNE-That
Polcy is a strange kind of fairness to my
e
I do not desire to exhaust myself
berry in reply to the hon. gentleman,
because I wish to make a few remarks
the cularly in regard to the statement of
Wh on. gentleman from British Columbia
Wao introduced this discussion,
and I may
S¡ lth regard to the report of the Comorssion which appeared at such length in

anr Journals, that 'I do not intend to offer

han Cments

on it.

I have under my

but the means of replying to that report,

I abstamn from using those statements
objPY because they are open to the same
Oenttîon as the report of the GovernObjecs Commission-precisely the san-e
tIl-they are ex pa-te statement-.
1
enw it seems to me that if the Governthent had really wished to throw light on
the rauatr
t r
tin
resources of the counand d to exhibit them before Canada
the world in a just and equitable
a
diffner, that they would have adopted a
dop't tcourse to the one which they did
perso
do not know the commissioners
co
yally, I will assume them to be
but
poin e ent men but still party men apS
Germent for a special pur'eand to that extent they are open to
t
adbjection that their report will be
in such a manner as will
ulease the
deniernîent. At all events it cannot be
O
n
that their operations were carried
Way-that the witnesses who
Were b r
N Croought.before them were not subject
Curse xam ination. In my opinion the
0 de Which the Government should have
Pted, if they wished to do it
in a way

which would have insured public confidence, would have been to have moved
for a committee of Parliament, before
whom witnesses could have been examined. A select committee of the
House of Commons or of the Senate, or 3
joint committee of the two Houses, might
have dealt with this subject in a manner
which could not have produced controversy afterwards. If a witness were brought
before such a commission to state that
manufactures in any town were in a prosperous condition, and gave testimony to
that effect, he would be subject to crossexamination himself, and his evidence
would be subject to rebuttal by other witnesses who would be called on the other
side; and it seems to me that was the
proper and natural course to have followed
in this instance. Now, I have under my
hand here statements which appeared in
the press-the press devoted to the party
opposed to the Government. I do not
use them, for the saine reason that I object to the report of the commissioners,
because they art. ex parte and ought not
to be relied on simply because they have
not been subject to hostile criticism. The
report of the Commission is open to the
same objections, and it does not deserve,
I say it roundly, the confidence of the
country. The hon. gentleman from British Columbia made some statements
which I heard with considerable regret.
I do not think that he undertook to assert
the actual falsity of free trade principles ;
but he said, if my memory serves me
rightly, that free trade to be successful.
must be carried on under the principles
of reciprocity ; that is to say that it would
not be carried on with advantage by any
country with another unless that other
country reciprocated with the first one by
admitting its manufactures on similar
terms. Now that is a fallacy. The experience of England and of free traders
has been that free trade itself with free
importations of raw materials is the best
means of meeting a hostile tariff. It bas
been a dictum of Sir Robert Peel and Mr.
Disraeli, that the best remedy for hostile
tariffs is free inports ; but it would be incorrect to say, as I am not sure, but as I
rather think the hon. gentleman said, that
promises were made by those who intro
duced free trade into the British Parlia
ment, that it would be accepted by other

230

The Industrie8 and LSENATE]

Manuf'ra of Canada.

nations. Now such is not the case I you the benefit of that argument, and I rely
have here the words of Sir Robert Peel. upon that fact as a conclusive proof of the
pulicy oÎ the course we are pursumng.
But what has been the resuit upon the
Hon. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL - That amouit of yuur export trade? It ias generally
was certainly the prophecy of Cobden increased.
Whatever be the tariff of foreign countriesand Bright.
however apparent the ing"atitule with which
HON.
MR. HAYTHORNE-Allow îhey have treated you, your export traite lias
bWen conistanitly inereasmiig. By the remlaission
me to remind the hon. gentleman that of votir duties upon the raw iiaterial, by inCobden and Bright were not responsible citing your skill and industry -by comîîpetition
witis fioreign goods, you have defied yout
to the government of the country.

competitors in foreign markets, and yuî
have been even able to exclude them.
NotHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-But withstanding tteir hostile tariffi, the declared
they were the advocates of free trade.
value of British exports liavejincrease<i above
ten millions ste. luring the period which lias
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-But they elapsed since the relaxation of duties on your
were the agitators at that time. I have part. I say therefore to you that the-e hostile
taritra, so tfr froim being an oljecîion to conhere Sir Robert Peel's words spoken in tinuing your policy-are an argument in ità

1846 when he was introducing a further
reduction of the duties imposed by the
English tariff ; he had, four years previous
to that, made some very extensive changes
and he was able at the end of that period,
to speak with confidence of the result
and to invite the English Parliament to
proceed in the same path that he had begun tentatively. These are the words,
and I beg the hon. gentleman to lay them
to heart ; they were the words of a great
statesman spoken with deliberation, and
have been borne out by the result :1 fairh avow to you that in making this
great reduction (from protective duties on
agrieulhure, on manufactures and on every
description of produce) on the inport of
articles the produce and manufacture of
foreign countries, I have no guarantee to
give von tlîatothercountries wili iimnediately
follow our example.

Weariei with our long and unavailing
efforts to enter into satisfactory commercial
treaties with other nations, we have resolved

at iength to consult our own interests, and

not to punish those other countries for the
wrong they do us in continuing their hiigl
duties ipon the importation ot our prodnets

and ianifactures.

We have liad no com-

munication with any foreign govertînent upon

the subject of these reductions. We caninot
proniiise that France will iimîîiediatelv make

a corresponling reduction in her tari.
We cannot promise that Rtussia will prove
her gratitude Io us for the reduction of duty
n lier
tallow by dimjinution of lier dutties.
You miay therefore ask, why this superfluous
liberality, that you are going to do away with
all these duties, and yet you expect nothng
in return. I may perhaps be told-and truly

-that many foreign countries which have
ben-fitted by our relaxations have actually
applied to the importation of British goods
higher rates of duty than fornerly. I give
HON.'MR. HAYTHORNE.

favur.
I think that is a very conclusive answer tO
the argument that England went into free
trade under the expectation that foreign
nations would very soon adopt a similaf
course. The hon. gentleman from British
Columbia made some statements and
some comparisons with regard to the state
of the English tarif and the tariff of certain
other European nations. Well I thought
when the hon. gentleman was speaking
that he had a very inadequate appreciationl
of the wealth and power which had accuniulated in England during the years of
free trade ; that the instances which he
brought as illustrative of lower tarifs and
the different state of circumstances in
Europe were very inadequate.
TO
compare for instance such countries as
France, Austro-liungary and Russia with
England is simply to compare very small
things with very great things.
Thesc
countries may be of larger extent and
possess most valuable resources, but to
compare their wealth, their energy, Or
their success with the success of England
is 1 think a very great error.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-What do
yiu say with regard to Germany and
France?
HON. MR. HAYTHIORNE--What I
say with regard to France is this : she
differs from England in one particular and
a most important one-that whereas it
England her population has been steadilY
increasing year after year-snce 1842 it

The Industrie8 and [MARCII 9, 1885] Xanuf'rq of Canada. 231
has increased some xo,ooo,ooo or thereabouts-France with difficulty maintains
ber Own. Her population scarcely increas at all, and her trade we know, her
shipping especially, of late years has to be
PPorted by a bounty, and we know she
h tO go to England to supply herself
When she wants an extra good vesselWhen she wants a packet for instance she
as to go to the Clyde for it. I can give
A' instance of that kind myself, how a
essel which had done ten years service in
.rince Edward Island, at the end of that
ne-the company having been incorpored for ten years only-was sold, at a
reduction it is true, but sold not to
1nglafnd but to France.
fON. MR.
aentleman hasMACDONALD-The hon.
mistaken my comparison ;
not comparing the wealth of
la
those
eOuntries but the taxation.

thoN. MR. HAYTHORNE-It may be
t those nations have found by experi"'e that making additions to
their tariff,
r'tting
on higher

rates, perhaps has the

ect of reducing the proceeds. They
thaeeperhaps gone just about as far as
f Y.dare go and no further. Now take
O- instance Austro-Hungary, and what
'o We find? If I look at her resources I
atthnot help being struck with admiration
looker variety and extent; but when I
y at her revenue I am struck with suryse tat so great a country should submit
gra after year to a deficit. She had a

aO

revenue in 1882 of £75,012,300,

and a gross expenditure of £8',395,626,
the deficit-a chronic deficit-was
4-6383,326. Looking at previous years
reve fno material difference either in the
defi .ue, or in the expenditure, or in the
as
Now to compare a country such
Iatat with England is I think inappro
a co • H o w are we to ascertain whether
she isntry is progressing or is not, whether
h gettmg richer or getting poorer, or
doter the fiscal system which she has
la Pa ter trying another fiscal system
Ultijproper one? How are ve to ascertain
orately whether she is getting richer or
pandj
Fortunately in the case of Engfairy We have that means, and we can
tndY argue that the system of free trade
latedr cannot her great wealth has accunuwhich
be a bad system. It may

not be all that its promoters desire it, but
if the wealth of a nation has increased to
an enormous extent under it, and if that
increase has been steady and has prevaded
all classes of the community, then I say
we have the strongest possible presumptive
evidence that the system under which that
progress has been made is a good one,
and one which other nations should adopt.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Her wealth
was made up under protection.

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-The hone
gentleman says her wealth was made
up under protection. Some people might
think it a misfortune, but hevertheless
I am some years older than the hon.
gentleman, and I have a pretty extensive experience of what England was
in the first twenty-five years of my life. I
remember then when the whole laboring
comnmunity was in a state of very general
poverty. But I am not going to bring
my experience to support a statement f
that sort. I am going to bring the experience of others. I shall quote the
incorne tax returns from the time of its
first imposition untùl the present day, and
I shall show you that they have been
steadily and wonderfully on the increase.
Now, that could not be the case unless
the country was becoming every year
more wealthy. It is one of the things
that has surprised foreigners, and I wish
it had surprised the colonies a little more,
because they might have laid to heart
the effect, and governed themselves accordingly and tried to go and do likewise.
I have here a work by Mr. Mallock,
called "Property and Progress." The
figures which he makes use of he states in
a note to be the result of the labors of
four well known statisticians, Mr. Giffen,
Mr. Mulhall, Mr. Dudley Baxter, and
Prof. Leone Levi, and he states as a
proof of their general accuracy that these
gentlemen arrived independently at the
results, which did not vary in one
case more than one per cent., and in
another case not more than two per
cent.; and this he gives as proof of their
general accuracy. In fact their general
accuracy is not disputed. No doubt
these gentlemen came to the conclusion,
after deliberate study, that the gross income of the English nation in 1843

The Jndustriesand [SENATE]

32

.Manuf'r8of Canada.

was in round numbers £515,000,000, think hon. gentlemen may fairly put ny
that in 1851 it was
; in statement against the hon. gentleman's. I
1864 £814,ooo,ooo, and since i88o it do not say his statement is incorrect. i
bas reached or perhaps somewhat exceeded have seen it myself in the papers ; but it
I1,2oo,ooo,ooo. Then the amount that is an utter impossibility that any very large

£616,ooo,ooo

was assessed for income tax in 1842that

is

of all

incomes

above

or serious amount as compared with such

£150 totals as I have read to the House can

a year-amounted to £28,ooo,odo. In
1851 it was about the same figure-the
country had at that period gone through a
heavy ordeal. The famine and pestilence
in Ireland had caused considerable falling
off in the population, until, in 1851, the
"people had little if at all exceeded the
former period, and the wealth of the
country had been seriously interfered with
by the large importation of food. Still the
income tax in 1851 yielded about the same
figure. In 1864 it had risen to£370,ooo,ooo and in i88o it was about £577,000,ooo. Now I think hon. gentlemen must
admit that a country whose annual income
had increased at this rapid rate could not
be an ill-governed country-could not be
suffering very acutely under the disadvantages of a tariff. If there were any circumstances which affected its wealth surely it
did not affect it very materially when such
a vast sum could be amassed and spread
through the whole country. I know some
nen may say that during this period too
much of that wealth was accumulating in
the hands of a very few-that while the
rich were becoming richer the poor were
becoming poorer. Let us see how this
writer deals with that point.

actually exist.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONI am sure the hon. gentleman will, not
deny that profits have diminished enormously in England.

HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE-What 'g
my reason for taking returns spread ove
so long a period as from 1842 to 1885?
Why simply this, because during these
periods you must expect vicissitudes tO
happen. I have no doubt if we look intQ
the history of the times we wouM find
quite a number of crises have occurred
in England from one cause or another,
and it is to the general progress we must
laok. If we find a country always gettilg
more wealthy we will say that country i5
not suffering from any great difficulty at al
events ; but if we find it decaying, or its
population diminishing-if we find the
laborer not enjoying the usual amount Of
the necessaries and comforts of life,.theO
we may fairly say that that country, 1
But can you say that of Engr
decaying.
land ? Is it fair to say that we dare not
adopt free trade in Canada because it ha*
failed in England ? I only wish to Heaven
that Canada could go on as steadily and
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONsecurely as England has in the last fortl
The hon. gentleman is well aware 1 have years.
no doubt that the accuracy of tlh income
tax returns is very seriously questioned in
HON. MR. KAULBACH-The money
·England; that it is well known the manu- itself would treble itself in interest 10
facturers and others, fearing the effect on that time.
their credits of stating what small profits
they make, make the returns larger than
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONthey actually are.
The hon. gentleman will admit that all the
predictions of the free trade aposties have
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I
am been falsified.
aware that it is alleged to be so ; but I
can meet that fact by another ; and that
HON MR. HAYTHORNE-Not at alh
is that many persons are charged income I have read an extract from Sir RObert
tax to which they are not liable, and that Peel's speech when he introduced i4
the expense and trouble of getting their which certainly would not have led anr
cases tried and getting justice done them one to suppose that he was adopting it 10
are so great and attended by so many the hope that France or Russia or anl
difficulties that they prefer rather to sub- other continental countries would adOPt
mit to the infliction and pay the tax. I it.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

Tk Indu8tries and [MARCR 9, 1885] Manuf',r8 of Canada. 233
'0N. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONWhat did Cobden and Bright
say?

to say the incomes of those who earn less
than £150 a year have increased in the
last 40 years 130 per cent. It demon
MR.
HAYTHORNE-They strates the state of England and shows
re not Ministers of the Crown; they that the country has improved in all

e agitators.

respects; not merely that the rich have
become richer, but that the incomes of
ON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONthe classes earning less than £15o a year
They moved the Ministers of the Crown. have also increased with the wealth of the
ON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Cobden
Sir IBright stood in the same relation to
eit Robert Peel at that time that the hon.
entleman himself stood in towards the
late Governinent when he occupied a seat
ap this side of the House in 1875, and I
tpheal to hon gentlemen who recollect
the debates of the House at that time
Whether the hon. gentleman's language
*as always exceedingly temperate when
ke expressed his relations with Mr. MacenlZe's Government. I think the hon.
gentlemnan from British Columbia, who
has been spending a summer in England.
as ben captivated by the doctrines of
thessrs. George and Hyndman; they affirmn
been thel tendency of modern times bas
at
to eave the poor poorer and to make
rrich richer. This proposition of

country. Iwould nowread an extractwhich

I have made from a speech delivered by
Mr. Bright on this subject about two years

ago in Glasgow, where he was a guest on
some occasion.

He was giving his life-

long experience as, to the improved condition of the laboring classes.

"It must be admitted that if we go back for
the last fifty years, we shall find that the condition of our pe-ople at home has greatly inproved. Labor is becoming more comstant
more steady and more highlv remunerated al
over the country. In aIl our great manufacturies in England-and 1 donbt not it is the
sanie in Scotland to a large extent, in abnost
ail our agricultural districts in England
-there has been a steady and a very con.
siderable advance in wages. The food eaten
by the people is more abunrdant, more cheap,
more healthful. Their clotimg is more coimfortable, healthy and becoming. W1 iheir
education 1 need scarcelv speak. In Scotland
yon are more familiar with the question than
we have been in England. But in Englaiid
during the last twelve years, the efforts that
have been mnade have teen stupendous! i
believe that during that time they have never

theis bas been met, and in my judgment
huceessfully, by a writer named Mallock,
0 demonstrates, in the book I hold in
Jny hand tb
M842h, t at in the 41 years between
1
-the year when the income tax was been exceeded in any age, or in any part of
ePOsed-and 1883, not only had the of the world. I, who have as good a means
wealth of Great Britain increased
enor- of knowing as any other main in the country,
unOUsly, that wealth had been dis- make bold to say that the condition of the
but
fributd
people of Great Britain is now, i every resthosted with great regularity both amongst pect, greatly better than it was forty or 'ifty
the classes with incomes above, and years ago; and that ail our institutions that
one With incomes below £15o per are worth considering rest on a more solid
The object is to show that the foundation than thev did during my youthful
days."
en .with incomes less than £150 are
fortsY g More of the necessaries and com- Now, there is the opinion of one of the
184 lIfe in every way than they did in first statesmen of the age, a phlilanthropic
arno3 and before that; by deducting the man, and one who has been all his life
tarnt chargeable to income tax, the long brought into close contact with the
.romtht(of incomes above £1So a year, laboring classes, and who must therefore
ainount of the sum total of the be acquainted with their condition. I
a sua ncome, we have for the remainder have here another extract which goes to
etr t
hich belongs to the laboring classes, prove the enjoyment by the laboring
Vea.ties who earn less than £150 a classes of the luxuries as well as the
f fag ividng that amount by the number necessaries of life. I have here a table
ne1meles in the country we arrive at the compiled showing the increased quantity
cn8e of each family. It is given here of the principal necessaries of life con5843 at £4o per annum; in 1851, sumed in England from 1843 to 1880. I
and at the present time it bas am not going to trouble the House at any
e
between £95 and £1oo ; that is great length. I shall just state a few de-

23A4

The Industrie8 and [SEN ATE]

tails, and one particularly which was
alluded to by the hon. gentleman from
British Columbia: that is to say, tea. He
spoke of the hardship of putting a tax of
six pence a pound on tea. I have read a
speech delivered by Mr. Gladstone in
which he expressed great regret that he
was still obliged to tax tea ; but a revenue
must be had somewhere, and it was perhaps a fair thing to expect that the laboring classes who enjoy so many advantages
under the existing free trade system of
England should contribute somewhat to
the revenue as well. Mr. Gladstone reminded his audience that in his young days
the duty on tea had been four shillings
a pound. I remember perfectly well these
high taxes. The rate has since been reduced from time to time until six pence a
pound appears to be the duty. In 1840
the co.isumption of sugars in Great Britain
was 15.20 pounds per head of the popula-

tion ; in 1882 it was 62.10. In 184o the
-consumption of tea per head was 1.25,
and in 1882 it was 4.07 pounds.

There

was that vast increase in these and other
articles consumed in the country which
are used also pretty much in the same
way. There are many necessaries of life
worth noticing. Rice for instance: in
1840 there was but nine-tenths of a pound
per head consumed ; in 1882 it was 13.49
pounds. I have here before me other articles with which I need scarcely trouble the
House; but the statement shows that there
was less cotton and more wool consumed
in the country itself in 1882 than in

1843.

Now all these things go to prove most
conclusively-and it is impossible to dery
them-not only that the country has grown
richer under free trade, but that riches
have been disseminated throughout the
country; not merely have they gone to
enrich a class, such as wealthy manufac
turers or rich owners of lands, by creating a
fictitious demand for their properties, but
they have circulated amongst the laboring
classes and have done their work amongst
them. The extract which I have just read
from Mr. Bright's speech, shows the extent
to which education has advanced amongst
the laboring classes. It will enable them
in future to use their earnings with a great
deal more discretion than in the past.
When our laboring classes were unhappily
illiterate their tastes and occupations led
them to expend the larger part of what they
HON. MR. HAYTAORNE.

Manuf'r8 of Canada.

earned in a senseless manner. They were
extravagant in everything. When we think
of this we regret it, but that regret is qualified by a knowledge of the fact that thc
generation now growing up are developing
better habits and more cultivated tasted
than their predecessors.
The claim has always been set up 0,
behalf of the Government that their favored and applauded scheme, the National
Policy, would produce prosperity everywhere; that no sooner would they find
themselves in office and inaugurate the
system than the depression would dispers
like a summer cloud. Well I think that
I have stated clearly what brought the
depression on, and what caused it to diS•
appear, and shown to the House that the
claim set up on behalf of the policy had
no foundation at all. I would just like tO
read to the House a short extract of A
speech which was made by Sir Alex. Galt
in Liverpool about two years ago. He set
forth a similar sort of claim there, that the
inauguration of the National Policy had
dispelled the depression ; but lest I should
misrepresent him I shall read his words:-"In 1879 when this tariff (i. e the National
5
Policy) waq adopted, they tried for fiteea
years to keep downt the dnties on their goodJ'
and in the hope that the Unitei States would
nirwiiy their systemi, in order to enalble the 1
fthe Canadians) to tiade on somethting lik

tair ternis with them (the people of the
United States.)

In 1878 finding thenselves impoverished
they changed their plan-. It might be said
that tey had vion a i all the priciples Of
1 'olitical ecoîioniy, tlit political econlonîy W&8

not yet an exact science, and the conclusione
which onght to aripe tromu certain preni"e
did not alwavs do so (hear, hear.) They
adopted not only a protective buit a defensiv 8
m.v8teuuu of lus tarili, and the restait had beeIi
dhat theîr people had hecome proqpeious aula
contented, lank stock haid risens, and emplOY'
ment was abundant. So nuch for Caloada,
and as to this country, under the ne<
t.anadian tariff they had taken in 1882 oveft
'ine milli os of onr manuactures as agaîfln
tive millions in 1879, or an increase ut 80 Pet

cent.

Therefôre

they certainly had nOe

injured England, nor dia they find that
hlad ijured theiselves."

thef

That was Sir Alexander Gault's state
ment made before the Liverpool Chamber
of Commerce ; but naturally the Lon11
Times had something to say the next day,
and what it said was this:" A fondness for the fallacy of arguig'
post hoc, ergopropterhoc lias always been a

The Idu8tries and [MARCI 9, 1885.] Manuf'r8 of Canada. 235
nshn
h Ca

mark of the order of mind

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Yes, I
think I have decidedly disproved it ;
Al"ace of this has just been afforded by Sir I have shown where the depression
the L.'er Galt, who undertook to enlighten
thel ve1poo Clhamiber of Commerce, a to came from and how it was lifted; it cerelleioce of the econonic policy recently tainly was not the National Policy that
1t, by Canada. Sir Al exander alter lifted it, but the demand in Europe for
1P
1e.8 lorward the usual mixture of erroneous American corn that gave a market for
dty e, and false ratiocination which does
i
r reasoning with the school of econo- American grain and a market for our
he belongs, finally niade an lumber in the United States-that it
'vtlich
ugertdeci o which lie evidently considered to le was that removed those piles of lumber
,le 1e of the qnestion : Ever since 1879, which had accumulated here, and on
pron the ri was isnposed, Canada has been which the interest and insurance paid had
ns,
ask ro1 accorqiing to him, and we are
in some cases consumed their original
to o concluefe fromn this that the tarif
har fot possibly have done Canada any value and brought bankruptcy on the
9 1879 l5very otie kntows that in the Autumn owners. It was the improvement in the
Ii L trade. all over t he woi ld, but especially foreign markets which removed the defro
nited States began steadily to recover
the. ie depression which had lasted durinig pression in the United States and subse.
five years, and it was therefore quently from this country, and not the
(. larmg of Sir Alexander to offer such a National Policy.
lint is capableof a'lopting protectionism.

ive

An

O psenu logic as tihis to a body like the
rPoul Chamber of Coiierce."

HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONI tried to show the hon. gentleman and
Cther bodies besides the Liverpool the House what the National Policy had
tainber
tterent.of Commerce have heard the done.

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Yes, but
if you bring forward such eviderce as that
It 'O" SIR DAVID MACPHERSONto as very daring of the London Times of your Commission you can show it to the
.og pras an opinion on the fiscal policy House and the country, but you cannot
make us believe it ; belief is quite another
thing.
4.MR. HAYTHORNE-The Londo
MACPHERSONto sees has some authority in the It HON. SIR DAVIDthe hon. gentleman to
is scarcely fair of
the arcial world. ThiEstatement about
impute unfairness to those commissioners.
thd vent of hon. gentlemen to power, He has not adduced a tittle of evidence
Plc te influence which the National
hasc has exercised on the depression to justify that. The commissioners are
5s en made in many places, but it respectable men ; they were sent out to
collect facts, and they represent that they
You hply trading on people's credulity. have stated facts, and I think without
And ave to take it for what it is worth
being able to disprove their statements
that bo ore. The hon. gentlemen say that it is not right for the hon. gentleman
fore teIcause there was a depression be to charge them as he has done with being
qhat dey came into office and because partial.
tered oeression ceased after they en'of th
lce therefore they were the cause
HON. MR. H AYTHORME-The hon.
are thremoval of the depression ; that they
prove e parties who brought on an im- gentleman will recollect, I hope, that when
ord state Of things in Canada. Now, I first alluded to this subject I disclaimed
I stated my
anything of that kind.
t brie to establish that it
necessary
*eide og forward conclusiveisconsecutive reason for discrediting the testimony of
the ence unbroken between the cause and those commissioners was that il was ex
parte ; that they were appointed by the
o for claimed, else such an assertion Government, and that the evidence they
ittle or nothing.
took was not subject to cross-examination
by their opponents. But I told him how
SIR DAVID MACPHERSON- he could obtain evidence that would meet
e hon. gentleman disprove it.
with public approval. I told the hon.

236.

The Industries and [SENATE]

Manuf're of Canada.

gentleman that if he would appoint a corm-

tatesman of note that she has been able)
mittee of this House, or procure a com- to face all these national contingencies
mittee from the other House, or a joint with less fatal results, simply because she
committee of the two Houses, and brirg has been fortified by her system of free-,
witnesses before them and subject them trade. I feel that I have taxed the
to cross-examination; and examine wit- patience of this House, and I freely ad Mit
nesses subject to the call of the Opposition, I have exhausted myself, although I haVe
then evidence could be obtained that not exhausted the subject by any means.
would be reliable ; and because I pointed
HON. MR. READ-I would like to ask
that out to the hon. gentleman he says,
"Oh you are not fair to the commis- the hon. gentleman what the United
sioners." I do not know thecommissioners, States has been doing during the same
and I did not even know their names, but period in the way of progress ?

I do object most emphatically that the
Government should appoint a commission

HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE-I ar
to obtain ex pare information such as he perfectly prepared to meet the hon. gentle
desires, and publish that information to the man on that ground, and perhaps I maY
world, claiming credit for it as a result be allowed to refer to some authority 1i0of the National Policy. You might as well whom he may not place any confidence,
go into one of those divorce courts held but in whom I do-the Hon. David
in this House every day and say, " Listen Wells, one of the ablest exponents of free
only to the petitioner ; do not hear the trade in the United States. I have staterespondent at all. Summon only the peti- ments made up by him as to the progress
tioner's witnesses ; never mind the other of that country as compared with England.
That is what the hon. gentleman There can be no doubt that the policy
side."
proposes to do by his Commission, and he they adopted was calculated to stimulate
cannot expect the independent voice of manufactures in a country where there
the country to have any confidence in was such an enormous home market for
that report.
all the necessaries which they manufactured, whereas the articles which they pro'
HON. MR. KAULB3ACH-Is not the duce themselves had to go out to seek a
census of the country taken in the same market in other parts of the world. One
of their manufacturers was represented "s
way ?
saying in answer to some protectionist
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE - I did not views promulgated in the Boston newsexpect that the statements I was going to papers that he was the protectionist prO
put forward here this afternoon would be tected in the production of his spools to
palatable to the hon. gentleman. I know the extent of a couple of cents a piece,
very well that they are not, but I maintain but the farmer's animails, his corn, wheat,
that I have not stated one single fact pork and other products-everything tl
which cannot be supported by most short the land produced, the farmer was
reliable evidence, the evidence of history, able to take to England and hold his oW*
the evidence derived not from one period there, and even to push the British farmner
or from two periods, or from the four or out of his own market. But as to the
five years that the National Policy has manufactures of the United States, I bebeen in existance in Canada. I have gone lieve great misapprehension exists there.
back to sufficiently remote periods to They have no doubt a very fine horne
include every variety of circumstance inarket, but it is a matter of surprise that
that can befall a nation in its history. with the experience that was at the disPOs
Look at the history of England ? It has of our Government with regard to the
waged warfare more than once on the operation of protection in the United

Nile, in Asia, in Africa and the great
national encounter in the Crimea with the
Russian i ear. She has faced pestilence,
war and famine, and every contingency
that any nation can be called upon to meet,
and I think it is the opinion of every
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

States, and with regard to the older exPer'
ience of England before the year 1842
and since then, they had the recklessnels

to adopt this policy in Canada--a policy
that had failed in the two most importan

countries in the world.

They knew that

The Industrie8 and [MARCll 9, 1885] Mianuf'rs of Canada. 237
t had failed in the United States, where
the tsupply of manufactured goods so
eeatly exceeded the demand of the home
trharet that they knew not what to do with
the quantity that had accumulated in their
houses. Mr. Wells gives some facts
tri regard to the American cotton trade,
Which the American may be fairly proud
eed the vast amount of raw cotton produ-,
d in their country-but my hon. friend
rom Belleville must recollect that the
'Production of raw cotton and the producgenerally, is a
agricultural
7 Oerf
different thing exports the production
from
Y nufactured goods. Referring to that,
r
ells says : "In 188o we exported
cOtton to all countries to the value of
r39,oooooo ; but during the same year,
domat Britain, besides supplying her own
tabristic consumption, exported cotton
thatcs to the value of $377,ooo,ooo." So
toatually Great Britain exported more
ent.n fabrics in one year than the
cotire value of the total production of raw
hadon n the United States where they
co every advantage. " The cause of the
Ptparative smallness of Anierican exPrts', Mr. Wells says, "is due wholly and
i'direct taxes." our burden of direct and
" sively to
Noc some few years ago, after those
to which I alluded in the
forrces
oer Part of my address, namely the exPoraton of the American surplus of man"factured goods to England, and the
gation which had been made that
orerica was underselling England in her
thouhMarkets, English manufacturers
dght it would be to their advantage to
travel experts, commissioned by them, to
an estrough the United States and form
of
0iatewhat the actual condition
of h
Sier mnanufacture of textile fabrics really
rep They did so, and what was the
this. of those experts? It was simply
kept that so long as the United States
atio u its existing fiscal system and tax0
lot , tnglish cotton manufacturers need
Tlot 'vor
o WOiy themselves about American
; but if a change of policy
were
serio ade, then it was time to think
Iodabl that they would have to meet a
oremhble rival in neutral markets. I
reteMber myself making this same statetwo On the sae authority to this House
e ears ago. More recently I have
e same statement made by other

and most reliable authoritv, and latterly I
notice it has found its way into the public
press, and now the people are beginning
to believe it. Now that they see free
trade principles are beginning to establish themselves with the rising generation
in the United States, the day when free
trade may be in the ascendancy in that
country will not be quite so distant as
some hon. gentlemen seem to suppose.
Mr. Wells states that he knows of no respectable, well-conducted newspaper in the
United States which will deliberately undertake to advocate the principles upon
which protection issupposed to be founded.
He says lurther that he knows very fewonly one or two I think he says-colleges
in the United States where the professors
of political economy do not teach free
trade principles. A distinguished English
traveller, about the same time, used the
sane language. I need only mention his
name to this House to be certain that the
value of his testimony will be appreciated.
The gentleman to whom I allude is Sir
Lyon Playfair. He stated the fact in the
same terms as Mr. Wells, to which I have
just given prominence. He says that he
knows but one or two colleges in the
United States where the professors of
pohtical economy are not free traders, and
I have lately seen a statement in the press
respecting the College of Philadelphia,
that it is the only college in the United
States where the professor of political
economy is not a free trader. The effect
on the coming generation of the United
States will be seen, when instead of being
imbued with the principles of protection
they are taught the truths of free trade in
the early period of their lives. Here are
the views I have gathered from Mr. Well
in regard to wages. Perhaps the hon.
gentleman from Belleville labors under the
mistaken impression that wages are so
much lower in England, that the English
operative is miserably paid, miserably fed
and miserably clothed. Here is what Mr.
-ee swa
r
mieatheohd
Wells says in regard to that :-"

Wages in

the United States, as a general rule, are
unquestionably higher thai in Europe.
The difference in rates between the
United States and Great Britain, taking
the purchasing power of money into consideration, is not at present (1882) very
considerable, and not near as great as is
commonly represented. Between 1875

238

The Terry [SENATE]

and 1878 wages were higher in Great
Britain in several departments than in the
United States, and in consequence the
tide of skilled labor rolled back."
I have no doubt that hon. gentlemen in
this House recollect that period when
immigration turned on its track, and emigrants returned to Europe from the
United States. I need not trouble you
with the causes of the higher value, but
here are some facts which are not without
interest, I think. " In the cotton manufactories wages in England are from 30

Divorce Bill.

include the Canadian French race, and
which Sir George Cartier described as
French speaking Englishmen. That race
we have included amongst our people and
count as amongst ourselves, as part of the
English speaking race of America. 1&•
Gladstone has predicted a wonderftl
future for that racc. As to their nunbers
we have pretty good grounds for suppos
ing that they will yet be sufficient to overrun the whole of this continent in the
next 100 years. I do trust that the GOl'
ernment who are charged with the destinto 50 per cent. higher than in France, ies of the Dominion will not forget the
Belgium and Germany. Wages in Eng- part they have to play, and will not Crland, in every industrv, are much higher bark this country in any wrong direction
than in the Continental States of Europe." so that they will have false theories to up
I hope the hon. gentleman from British set, and the results of wrong theories tO
Columbia will lay these facts to heart. remedy in the future. Let then remee
The English operative receives more ber that this Canada of ours will have tO
money per week than a similar one in play an important part in the future
Russia in a month. It seems absurd to which the English speaking race will have
compare countries such as Russia, France, to play in the history of this America
Belgium or Germany where such low continent.
wages prevail, with England, where comparatively high wages are paid. Yet does
HoN. MR. HOWLAN moved the ad'
England seek protection against the con- journment of the debate.
tinental nation, or is it the reverse? Mr.
Wells proceeds to describe how he visited
The motion was agreed to.
the factories and machine shops of England, and afterwards those of the contiThe Senate adjourned at 6 p.m.
nent. He found that just in proportion as
wages decreased, the demand for protection to domestic industry and the dread
of British competition increased. From
THE SENATE.
this fact he recognised the falsity of the
plea that American labor by reason of its
ability to earn higher wages than that of Ottata, Tuesday, March zoth, 1885Europe needs to be shielded and proThe SPEAKER took the Chair at thre
tected.
I ought to apologize for the time I have o'clock p.m.
occupied in this discussion, but I have
Prayers and routine proceedings.
been led on imperceptibly from point to
point until I have hardly any voice left.
TERRY DIVORCE BILL.
I wish to say, however, before I sit down,
that doubtless the gentlemen into whose
hands the destinies of Canada have fallen
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
bave read that admirable letter which
proceeded from Mr. Gladstone's pen adHoN. MR. ODELL from the Selec
dressed to Mr. Smalley, which has been Committee to whom was referred the BlU
published in our newspapers within the for the relief of Fairy Emily Jane Terry, f
last two weeks. There is one special pas- ported the Bill without amendment. {e
sage in that letter to which I would moved that the Bill be taken into con'
allude: it is that in which Mr. Gladstone sideration on Thursday next.
refers to the probable destiny of the
The motion was agreed to on a divis
English race on the Continent of P merica,
and among this race I should certainly ion.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

A Que8tion

[M A RCH 10, 1885]

PRIVATE BILLS.
E FOR RECEIVING REPORTS EXTENDED.
1

oN. MR. LACOSTE from the Select

COtTuritt

atmittee on Standing Orders and Priaills presented their twelfth report
recommending that the time for receiving
reports Of Committees on Private Bills,
fhich expires on the 12th instant, be
rther extended to Thursday, the 2nd

day of April next. He moved that the
report be now adopted.
The motion was agreed to.
NEW SENATOR.
the SPEAKER-I
elouse the certificatebeg to present to
of the Clerk of
e Crown in Chancery setting forth that
Ex
pcellency the Governar General has
aPleased to summon to the Senate,
scal Poirier, Esq., in and for the Pronce Of New Brunswick, in the room of
te late Hon. Wm. Muirhead, deceased.
A QUESTION-OF PRIVILEGE.
11

0N. MR. ALEXANDER-Before the
Oer? Of the day are called, I rise to a
aestion Of privilege. I learn that orders
& been given to the reporters of this
ere to expunge a certain speech, deored in this House by a member. The
the rs were conveyed, I understand, to
tarnreporters by the hon. senator from
What a (Mr. Vidal). I desire to ask by
eyauthority that senator gave or conliaered such orders ? My reading of para

nitary? practice is that no speech of

ofi¡
ember can be omitted from the
Order report of the debates without an
der of the House conveyed by resolution
1
y
7 Passed
e

ber •MR. VIDAL-As the hon. mem
thirs called upon me by name to explain
eith inatter, I nust endeavor to do so,
diugh laboring under very considerable
lie h UItY on account of a severe cold. As
as been pleased to term it, the order
eorr

s been given the reporters is not,

froth Y called, an order. I received
reporters, in the absence
1 hetofficial of the Committee on the
chairman
Ptng of the Debates, a brief memor-

of Privikge.

239.

andum asking what was to be done with
the debate of Friday last in connection
with the disorderly conduct and remarks
of the hon. senator from Woodstock. The
reporters understood, as I think it was
generally understood in the House, that
his remarks and the speeches referring
to those remarks, should not find a place
in the record of the Deoates of this House.
That was the understanding by myself,
and I think by the other senators, of
what was the desire and intention of the
House in this matter. I had no authority
to suppress any debate, much less to do
what has been incorrectly charged to have
been done-expunge it from the record,
because it has never been on the record,
and consequently could not have been
expunged. I had no authority for directing that this speech should not be placed
in the record; and I therefore took the
opportunity of consulting other members
of the Debates Committee. There was
no time to call the committee together, but
I took the opportunity of consulting such
members as I could conveniently see
Every one of them understood the sense of
the House that those speeches-not merely
the speech of the hon. member from
Woodstock, but all the speeches based
upon his remarks-should not be inserted
in the official report of the debates. I
conveyed this information to the reporters, and they very naturally asked
the question as to where the omission
was to commence and how far it was
to extend ? I gave to them what I
understood to be the decision of the
Senate, and as I thought a very natural
and very proper decision, especially when
the hon. gentleman from Woodstock had
professed to make an apology to the
House. I considered, that being the case,
that there was the admission that he had
done wrong, that his remarks were eritirely
out of order and should not therefore, on
that account. be placed on record ; so I
gave, as I thought, very simple and proper
instructions to the reporters to go on with
the hon. gentleman's remarks just so long
as he was speaking on the subject before
the House-that is, the Bill respecting the
transfer of lands in the North-West
Territories,-but so soon as he departed
from thatand began to use these inexcusable
imputations, and when he undertook to
express himself in a manner entirely

240

A Que8tion [SEN ATE]

unbecoming any member of this hon.
'body, that those remarks should not
appear-that that should be the special
point at which the reporters should not
record the debate, and as a natural
consequence not only the remarks of the
hon. gentleman from Woodstock but the
remarks of other hon. gentlemen who
spoke after him in reference to this matter,
should disappear altogether, so that there
should be no record in our official report
of that very unpleasant debate. I think
the hon. gentleman's remarks were very
derogatory to the character and honor of
this House, and calculated to lower us
very much in the estimation of the country.
There is no hon. gentleman who professes
to have greater respect for the dignity of
this body or greater desire that it should
stand well in the eyes of the community
than the hon. member from Woodstock,
and I venture to say that remarks such as
he lias made in this House during this
session have done more to lower it in
public estimation than anything that has
been done within these walls. Not only
should the Senate sanction what has been
done, perhaps somewhat irregularly, with
reference to these remarks, but in my
judgement the Senate would act wisely
and well if they would expunge from the
record the remarks made by the hon.
gentleman on a former occasion when he
indulged in unjustifiable imputations upon
the character, honesty and integrity of
members of this body. I trust the House
will sustain the somewhat irregular action
taken by me and will affirm the principles
and motives which actuated me in adopting
the course which I have taken.

of Privilege.

bate, and I gave my consent that it should
not appear on the record. That is the
only explanation that I can give.
HON. MR. POWER-I cannot agree
with the hon. gentleman from Sarnia.
think that there is a right way and a
wrong way of doing things, and in the
present instance a certain debate which
took place here, has been suppressed
withaout the authority of the House, O1
even without the authority of the coln
mittee that is charged with the duty of
looking after.the reporting of our debates
I was fairly attentive to the proceedings
that took place on Friday last, when the
hon. gentleman from Woodstock made
such a very objectionable speech hereat least a speech a portion of which was
exceedingly objectionable-but I did nOt
understand that there was any opinioI
expressed by the House, that that speech
should not be reported. One hon. Minister pro)osed to move without notice, that
the speech of the senator from Woodstock
should not appear in the report of our
debates. I objected to that and suggested
that the more regular way would be tO
give notice that a motion would be made
on Monday to the sane effect. That
course was not taken.
The Debates
Committee was not summoned, and reallY
no action has been taken by the House
at all, and now, vithout any action of the
House, and without any action of the
Committee, a portion of our debates ha
been suppressed. I wish to call the atten'
tion of the hon. gentleman from Sarfnia
and of the House, to a fact in connectâon
with this which they appear to have loSt
sight of : the hon. gentleman from VoOd
stock was called upon yesterday in a
proper and regular way by resolution,.of
which notice had been given-to apologize
for his conduct.
Now if we have
expunged from the record of our debates
the objectionable language used by the
hon. member, the proceedings of yester'
day become unintelligible and Uf'
reasonable.

HON. MR. Dî,BOUCHERVILLEI regret that I had to leave the House a
moment ago and did not hear the begin
ning of this discussion, but I understand
that some remarks have been made respecting the non-publication of the speech
of the hon. gentleman from Woodstock on
Friday last. As I am chairman of the De
bates Committee I may be considered responsible for what has happened, but I was
absent from Ottawa when the discussion
HON. MR. VIDAL-No, no.
which has been referred to took place.
Yesterday, from what I heard from hon.
members, I thought it was the expressed
HON. MR. POWER-Excuse me, the
opinion of the House that there should proceedings of yesterday were based 01
be no publication of that part of the de- what took place on Friday.

HON. MR. VIDAL.

A

Question

[MA RCI 10, 18S5]

of Privilee.

241

l'oN. MR. VIDAL-The hon. gentle- no report of the proceedings should
nan is mnistaken. The motion is not appear at ail ; that the report should be
ned on his words at al], but on his action suspended.
or' refusmg to sit down when called to
der by the Chair.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-No, no.
1

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLN
hR. PLUMB-That would have
Othing to do with the debate at ail.
There is no occasion for the hon. gentleman to shout " no," in that uncomfortable

aIO• MR. POWER-The facts would
tookear in the reporters' notes as to what
re -Place, when the hon. gentleman was
puired to sit down and did not do so. I
Presume that the language of the Speaker,
the what took place then would appear
in
the report.
Then when the hon. gentlei from Woodstock yesterday made an
thaogy, as I understood, for the language
used
lan he had use in (which was not proper
frguage to
this House), as well as
e his disobedience to the Speaker, it
to) me that under ail the circumsta
the es It is very much to be regretted that

and violent manner. It was understood
that the report should be suspended, and
that further instructions should be given

about it.
HON. MR.

ALEXANDER-No, no.

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
House hears me and understands that it
was so, notwithstanding the hon. gentle-

man's denial. Then it fell to the Conmittee on the Reporting of the Debates to
give some directions. The only irregularity seems to be that that committee
hav o. gentleman from Sarnia should did not meet, and the hon. gentleman
11e taken the course that he has followed. from Sarnia has explained why they did
bek uPon the report of our Debates as not meet. If they had met and given
J11g sollething in the character of our such instructions everything would have
extentls-they are sacred to a certain been perfectly regular, and in carrying
of nt, and if the Journals, or if the reports out the wishes of the House, even withihr debates can be tampered with, out a formai meeting, it seems to me they
"Iouit any officiai authority froin the were amply justified in giving the instrucRep 0 *. or from the Committee on the tions. It is very often difficult, if not
of the Debates, what sort of impossible, to interpose in time to accomsee 'rtg
hrty is there to hon. niembers who plish an object of this kind which the
napen nOt to be in the good graces of the House had evidently fixed its mind upon,
,do rIty, that they will get fair play ? I1 if it is necessary to delay proceedings
ap t Wish at ail to be understood as until the committee could be called toco Oving of, or endorsing, or excusing the gether. In the meantime, perhaps, the
tCct of the hon. gentleman from Wood- report would have gone abroad, and the
:takteon the occasion referred to, but, as I wishes of the House would have been dehonthe other day, what happened that feated. Therefore I think the memlbers
hap' gentleman on that occasion may of the committee were justified in the
nothen sotie other hon. gentleman on course which was adopted under these
vioate Occasion, and we should not circumstances, and have showed that they
the e Our rules, and, as I think, violate were actuated by no unfair spirit, since it
ProProprieties which ought to govern the was not only the remarks of the hon.
. teedisofies
sipi ngs of this House and its officers, gentleman from Woodstock that were
t
icul1yfor the sake of dealing with one directed not to be published, but the
Patcu1ar case.
whole consequent debate, so that the
same mete which has been measured out
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It to him has been measured out to others,
ON
be S to me that a word or two should and I think that is the best and fairest
of this On behalf of the hon. gentlemen way to leave it, and I move that the
rer cOs committee who acted in the man- orders of the day be called.
fron o municated by the hon. gentleman
oather daria
It was understood the
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-This is a
O ay when the matter was up that
very grave matter, hon. gentlemen. This

Rea1 Property [SENATE]

N. W. Territoriew.

is a matter affecting the privileges and the
After some time the doors were ordered
rights of this House, and it is a very to be opened.
strange thing that the hon. Minister of
Justice, from whom we ought to expect REAL ESTATE, NORTH-WEST TER*
rulings dictated by higher principles,
RITORIES, TRANSFER BILL.
should act in the manner he has done.
The hon. gentleman knows perfectly well,
as well as I do-and if he consults the
work of Mr. Bourinot, the Clerk of the

IN COMMITTEE.

The House resolved itself into a Cofln
Commons, who is the highest authority
in the land, it will shew him that a speech mittee of the Whole on Bill (A) " A
delivered on the floor of Parliament can- Act respecting real property in the North'
not be prevented from being issued in the West Territories."
official reports without a motion of ParliaIn the Committee,
ment. This is the rule of the Commons
and House of Lords in England, and in
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Th
the Parliament of this country, and one fifth clause of the Bill is as follows:whom we expect to be an authority on
by thie
5. Al
such matters should not thus degrade the common lands in the territories, which, eststie
law are regarded as real
position he occupies.
shall be held to be chattels real, and shall go
to the executor or admiînistrator of any person

ALEX. CAMPBELL-I call or persons dying seized or possessed thereof,
the hon. gentleman to order. The hon. as other personal estate now passe@ to thie
gentleman has no right to use such lan- personal representatives.
That is a part of the scheme which 15
guage in reference to any member of
not absolutely essential to the carryil0
this House.
out of the Torrens system, but it has been
The SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman adopted with great advantage in sone O
HON. SIR

from Woodstock is clearly out of order,
and clearly transgresses the rules of this
House by charging the Minister of Justice
with conduct degrading to the House. I

hope the hon. member wil.1 keep within
the rules of Parliament.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER--I have
consulted the highest authorities on this
point and it is a most grave matter, affecting the privileges and liberties of Parliament, and no member should be allowed
to do what the member for Sarnia has

donc.

If the hon. Mr. DeBoucherville

the Australian colonies, and in Newfoundland, and is spoken of by writers as beilg
a very valuable feature and one which
they very thoroughly approve of, one which
they think has merit, and from which they
expect very great and good results. 1 '
read some remarks which have been made
by the Chief Justice of Newfounladnd,
where this system is in operation and,
where they have lad experience of it ever
since 1832. The Chief Justice says:Prior to the first passing of the "
Chattels Act" in 1834 (cons. stat. s. 35), the

law' of Newfoundland regarding real property

had not been absent he would have acted was in a verv indefinite and unsettled suite.
The law of England was regarded as whollY
differently, like all the gentlemen from the
unsuitable to a country where for a
Province of Quebec. I have never known period under the operation of the Imper'
any member from the Province of Quebec
acting otherwise than as gentlemen of
principle, and it is for the gentlemen from
Upper Canada to lower the positionHON. MR. BOTSFORD directed the
attention of Mr. Speaker to the fact that
there were strangers in the House.

Fisherv Acts the first occupant in the sprifln
was entitled to hold for the season that p
of the shore, the only part of the soil cons](,
ered of value, of which he could take posser
sion, where, until a conparatively recen
period, crown grants of land other than miere
licenses of occupation could not be niades
vhere for several years after thecom meneenet
of the present century, no one could huild or
substantially repair a permanent dwelling
without the express permission of the uOl

THE SPEAKER-Strangers are order- ernor.

cd to withdraw, and the doors are to be
closed.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER.

Accordingly Chief Justice Reeves in 1792
held that lands and plantations in Newfo

Rieal Properti,

[MARCU[ 10, 1885]

N. W. Territorie8.

243

land
Ire nlothling mlore thlan chattel interests,
n4ld il cases of intestacy be distributed
1818 • (A rehibald's disgest, 125.) And in
Port.e sane point was so ruled by C. J.
in t les u, Villiams and w illianms, select case..
lea
ets. of Newfoundland, 120. The ]ate
8tet and talented registrar of our sup. Co.,
1
26 t Archiiald, observes in bis Digest,. p.
for 'it lie never knew or heard of a Claim
Stt
i'n ithe Island, and that though the
0ilf
ofrauds had been held to be in force, a
nvalof the land had not been regarded as
d for the want of three witnesses.
the Othter hand the late Chief Justices
op tons and Bowins) seenms to have been of
that the laws of England in relation
t the" ' were in fo.rce in Newfoundland prior
have
ealChattels Act, and of this opinion
e majority of the profession, at
lIat *.f
the S late yearH, and*even C. J. Forbes ield
r of Lii. to be a bar Loth to the
"Id to a subject's claimi to land, S.
195, 203.
ertrmedy this state of confusion and unater t t y the Local Legisiature imnmediatelv
of representative institutions
r
to
Chatte on'ttandin 1832, passed the Real
.gecî Act, at first with a proviso restrainogl, e cutorP and ad ministrators froin disposth and for a larger tern than one vea.
4#t alit the cons ent of the Suprene Court,
of a.erwards (this clause being disapproved
lil, ceonsistent with the principle of the
h
y the Colonial Office) in its present
and
as

Public
there

. was quite in accordance with
and feeling on this sul),ect, and
dPinion

no doubt it was a wise and salutary
e. Particilarly suitable to a voung
fro t
wheit the' complex law springing
entire] e feudal system would seen to be
-y
yOut of' plac;e.
tail ne stroke it swept away prinogeniture,
lutid , curtesy, dower, and 'numerotis other
toliditi 1 8of land in England, reduced to the
rea
f a literary cturiosity a large body
Of .i, 1 perty law,*and bv the substitution
a
tities bg elandsimple tenure for the complex
elntr y" whih land is heldl in the miother
piy, it lessened litigation and rendered
tre
nl easyV the proof of title and a consdeeds and wills. The transfer of
fier
c
te4
is effected by any writing
%1e1i uinder Statute of' Frands, acconDÞrcha'Y rgistration as against subsequtent
5
atders and inctinbrancers. Its devol iis regulated mncases of intestacv
te
, b t.ï, Distrib. and where thiere is~a
Ste
'rovisions ot our
local. Wills
are te sane for a devise of land
ora
e
The 1,te9nest ofmioney.
e

toint

heatio

es of uses have, of course, no

Hon. gentlemen will remermber that
since this law came into force in New.
foundland the population of the colony
has increased.
There is the City of St.
Johns with a population of 25,ooo, and I
suppose there are considerable dealings in
land. The Chief Justice says in this letter:
"No public inconvenience, so far as I am
aware or have heard, bas attended the abolition of the English law of inheritence.
'he
proviso in the Acts saving rights reduced into
possession, of the eflect of which I have found
in former years a few instances but theoperation of which ias now substantiallv ceaeed
frot the lapse of tine, effectually guarded
against this evil.
Apprehensions were at first entertained lest
.:he unlimited power over lands, given bv acte
of personal representatives, should be attended
by mischievionis con -equences, but experience
bas shown these tears to be groundless, the
security given by adninistrators, and the
ready intervention of the courts of justice
having been found to be sufficienit protection
for creditors, legatees, and next of kin.
The admiinitrator and the executor deal
with the land as with a enattel, the latter when
the claims of creditors do not intervene, having, of course, regard to the dispositions et his
testators, and the litigation has, I think,
diminished, ratter than increased, by reason
of their being clotlied with titis power.
I an not aware of'any inconvenience hnving
been felt by the abolition of the power of creating entails. It bas been productive of'good
rather thari evil, as apart frot other inporte
ant considerations it defeats the desire to
exercise the lengthened postiutnous influence
over the disposition of property to which
mnany testators are pronF.
The principle of the Act is, r think, perfectlv understood by the uublic, and is regarded vith getieral satisfaction as answering the
denands of justice by placing ail the children,
in cases of intestacy, on the samne footing, and
facilitating the recovery oft debts.
In fine, alter au mntimate and practical
acquaintance with the operation of titis Act
for foi tvyears. I can heartily recommend it
as a marked ref'orn in the laws of landed
property.
In Canada, circuumstances may exist of
which I amn ignorant which may render its
introduction there impracticable or inexpedient, but of Newvfounlland, it is not too ntuch
to say that I know of no Act ot the Legielature which has been more extensively
useful.
My brother Judige Hayward concturs in
these observations, which, you can use in any
way you please

eIl,but trusts of land are creanme
d, und dealt with as trusts of In addition to that I will read the remarks
e ab
li, Hngland
A kîsband can distil Wflo 1 nulyeldu
e lit
covertiine et lands et of Mr. Duffy on the experience of the
here t , lt se'ttled to ier separate use; colony of Victoria :lett thevre I.o utch disposition or settle"Legisiation on the subject ivas resumed in
. reait to the survivor.
June 1864, wlien the mnost important aiteration

2AA4

Real Property [SEN ATE]

of real property law yet attenipted was effected
by convertin real estate on testacy from an
inheritance escending to the heir-at-law into
personalt yto bedistriluted by an adiinistrator
anongst the next of kin." '
Therefore as regards this clause we have
the experience of Newfoundland and the
experience of some of the Austrahan
colonies ; but it is not an essential feature
of the Torrens system, and it will therefore
be for the House to say whether or not it
should be maintained. I hope myself that
the House will approve of it. It seems to
me that it will be found, although it is a
novelty and rather makes one feel a little
uneasy at first, that it will be a convenient
and safe plan. It vill not interfere with
the execution of a man's will, which vill
still govern the descent of his property
It does not interefere with the rights of
any person ; it will merely simplify the
execution of a will and the passing of
rights from one person to another. The'
executor or administrator will have the

administration of the land the same as he
has now of the personalty, and there will
be no greater or other difficulty in transferring a lot of land through the executor
than there is now in passing $1oo,ooo in
stock through the executor of a testator to,
his devisees. I hope the House will adopt
the clause.
HON. MR. KAUILBACH-Under the
existng law the land passes to the
heir without the intervention of any
machinery ; but suppose a person dies
leaving no will and no debts, and that no
person moves for administration, is there
anything in this Bill by which the court

would appoint an administrator to act
upon the estate ?
HON. SiR ALEX. CANI

there is.

P[iELIL-Yes,

HON. MR. LACOS'I'E-L intended to
have spoken on the second reading of the
Bill, but happened to be absent, and i
hope the House will permit me to make
a few remarks now. This is a most important measure and it is contrary to the
ideas which have been entertained as to
land in the Province of Quebec, not only,
by the French-Canadian but also by the
English speaking lawyers of the province.
It seems to me that this fifth clause of the
HON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

N. W. Te"ritories.

Bill is nerely put there for the acconiW"
dation of the system contained in this
Bill ; that is to say, to carry out its main
object, which is to give to the purchaer
an indefeasible title. Now, it is a princi'
pie of natural law that when a man he
comes once the owner of a property, he
cannot be deprived of it except by l.s
own consent. There is but one exceptotl
to this ; it is when for the public beflefit
his property is expropriated.
I do fl0t
speak of prescription or limitation, becaUt
those assume a consent or gross negligence
For instance, if a man's property hs
been in the possession of another for, seY'
thirty years, then it ceases to be his
this case there is a consent presumed On
his part, that he does abandon
property, or the law considers his
rieg"'
gence to be such as to justify a forfeiture
of his ownership ; and the property goe5
to those who have had it for thirty yeaIr
I do not think, however, there is aný e
ception to the principle of law whic 1
have stated, but the one, expropriatieo'
This rule has always been applied to re
estate, but as to personal property the
rule is not so strict, as it is always easY t
follow real property into the hand Of
third parties.
Supposing my neighlor
should sell my property, I could go

claim it. The property is still there.
this property is sold by the first purcha'
to another, 1 could still claim mv landOn

the

contrary

the

law

is

nOt se

strict as regards personal property
there is always the presumption that the
one who sells it is really the owner, because
he is in actual possession of the thin'
For instance, if I sell a horse I have to
deliver it. This horse must have coe
into my possession before I could del"Ve
it. It is the presumption both il to
and equity, I think, that being able t.i
deliver the horse I am the owner.
the saine with promissory notes. If I ho
a note I am presumed to be the owner.
But under ihis Bill the sale of real Pte
perty-takes place by the registration 0a
deed without actual delivery. T:here
nothing to show that the vendor sr
in actual possession of the property.
now all sales of land have been acco
panied by certain formalities which wer
required for the protection of the ptibIc
as well as of the parties. That is to
aill those formalities were to assure the

Reai Property [MARCI
chaser that the consent of the real
niao, eas given, and that is based on
been law. It is a principle which has
1eapProved of for centuries, and now
Sgoing to depart from that principle;
gnl
fore doing so we should have very
th
roun and very strong reason for
ge departure.
What reason have we to
to
eparting from the principle ? It
title
ve the purchaser an indefeasible
Canat is to say a title which no one
this tack. I say that the title given under
is not indefeasible
Under the
so a be Province of Quebec-I am not
of fa har with the English law or the law

if aOntario, but I believe it is the samie-

reallan holds a good title, that title is
lay Indefeasible; no one can take the
Proprmaî his han ds, except in case of
1
for the public benefit.
't tIon

ible t

title which is called indefeas-

inde this Act,
defeasib l

title,

is not,

indeed,

because

it

an

may

be
neated the following day by the very,
gav aho gave it. The Registrar who

after atile as indefeasible may sometime
to a gie a similar title for the saie land
the other Party, and this party becomes
to wner of the property. I will take
th Cases-the case of personation and
thi Case of misdescription, which are, I
thlerehentioned in this Bill. I know
f been one case of personation in
'r9iTen the English colonies where the
f Of

hill s.'ystemn is in force. Under this
su as It is now proposed to be adopted,
self
g a Mran should represent himJohn, the real owner of the
jpr
Josety, and should sell that property to
ouPh, and Joseph acting in good faith
Would it and paid for it; both of them
*ould go to the Registrar and Joseph
the
get from the Registrar a title to
to troperty; afterwards he could come
%Oranrte owner of the property, who is

tell h. altogether of what took place, and
Sben sThis
property is mine ; it
1 did S8Id to me."
John would say :
elia

sot sell that property; you have

assi ed it fron some person who bas
tiO
d lmy name ; it is a case of personathat

10, 1885J

N. W. Territories.

246

the effect of this Bill. I say this is contrary to the principles of law and against
vested rights. I would remind the House
how careful we are to sec that vested
rights are not tampered with. For instance, in cases of Private Bills, we re(luire that notice shall be given when a
measure of this kind is introduced here ;
so that if vested rights are affected in any
way there is a proviso protecting the
rights which have already been acquired.
In this Bill we do not really protect vested
rights, although two remedies are givenone remedy is that the person whose
land has been sold nay go to the
Registrar and show that he has been de
frauded.
Uider section 115 of this
Act, the Registrar may of his own motion
call upon the new purchaser to cancel his
title. I really do not know how this 115 th
clause will operate in connection with the
58th.
But taking it for granted that this
is a rernedy, the Registrar may act only if
he chooses ; and if he does not choose to
act, then the person bas no remedy to
recover his land.
The owner cannot
obtain his property from the purchaser
and the only recourse he bas is for damages.
Section 58 provides that the certificate of
titie granted under this measure, except in
case of fraud, in which the purchaser has
colluded, shall be conclusive evidence of
title. I am speaking of a case where the
purchaser bas paid bonafide his purchase
money. Section 115 seems to give him a
renedy, though I do not see how it can
agree with section 58. Section 115 provides that if it appears to the satisfaction
of the Registrar that any grant, certilicate
of title, or any other instrument bas been
issued in error or contains any misdescription of land or boundaries, etc., it can be
cancelled or corrected. Now according
to our law in the Province of Quebec, if a
sale of land is made, the purchaser has 30
days within which to register his title. If
he does not do so within that time the
title is not good as against third parties
who may have acquired the land from the
same vendor. This is our law, but at the
saie time the principle of ownership is

Surely you do not mean to say respected
; that is to say, no one can sell

Proe yU Want t o deprive me of my property unless that property is his own.
$oheY because

you bought it
But according to
rephO d who did not own it ?" from is not the owner this Bill, a person who
The
of the land can give a
Elve it Ol bef: " Yes, you will have to good titie to it. I suppose such a thing
p, for it is now mine." That is will occur but rarely ; yet I know that a

246

Real Property [SE NATE]

case of personation came before a court
in Australia as I have already stated. Now
let us take a case of misdescription. This
law will apply as well to town as to farming
property. In towns the lots are small as
compared with the farms, and supposing
the registrar were to give wrong metes
and bounds and did not mention
the correct numlber of feet, what would
be the result ? It would be that the
purchaser of a lot would corne perhaps
ten or twenty feet into his neighbor's
house. According to this, the registered
title being good, being indefeasible until
it is set aside by another title of a similar
character,
the purchaser's
neighbor
would be bound to give ut) his property;
he could not keep possession of it. I say
this is interfering with vested rights. I
have said the first renedy is to go to the
Registrar. If I am at the end of the
province - because those districts are really
provinces in extent--I must travel a long
way to go to the Registrar's office to convince him that he ought to take proper
proc:edings to have the new title set aside.
In cases like this, I think the remedy
should always be in the hands of the real
owner of the land. If another one who
has a bad title wants to dispossess him, I
think t is be who ought to have a right to
say to the nev purchaser " I will not give
up miy land ; if you think you have a
right to it, go before the courts ; no one
can deprive me of my vested rights."
Now there is in this Bill another remedv :
the real owner deprived of his property
can have recourse against a special fund
to be created under this Act. Well I say
it is unfair, because it is changing his
position altogether. I-le is dispossessed
for the benefit of the )urciaser. According
to the principle followed uintil now,
expropriation can only take place for
the public benefit ; but in a case like this,
his property--I say it again -would be
expropriated by that titie, not for the
publ.c benefit but for the benefit of a
purchaser, his only recourse being for
damages. He must first take action against
the one who bas defrauded him, and
then, if necessary, be bas recourse against
the Government,so he bas togo to the trouble
of taking two actions to reiniburse himself,
and he must prove the damage he has
sustained. The burden of proof is on his
shoulders. At the timiîe of the sale he was
HoN. Mt. LACOSTE.

N. W. Territories.

in ignorance of the transaction, and was
relying upon his title as being indefeasible. This ii the way that this Bill might
o;'erate to the disadvantage of innocent
p irties, anl I be*ieve it to bec unju t and
unfair. I know that such a law bas been 1
operition in sonm of the British col >nies;
but I may siy th it in one of them they have
amen led i: andi are conîng back to a"
The mitto of the Scotch
old principle.
tI istle- 'ema file impuinclacessit-appl ie to
al principles of law, and no one can
violate these principles without having to
stand the consequences.
In a neW
country, a iaw like this may do very well
for somae timeC, but later on they will feel
the bid effect of it, hecause this law is

opp

ned

to th2 fundanental principlei of

justice and equity on that point. This

House must not understand that I at
aliogether opposed to the adoption of this
Bill.
I think that it is the duty of the
iiieiiiers of the Senate to second the
No doubt
efforts of the Government.
this menasure is oie of the nost im portIt
that h is b:e i sabnitted to us, and it "s
said tiat it is ai improvem :nt on the laW

n'ow* ex:stin , in the North-\Vest territorie\Vell, I take that for granted on the declaration of the hon. Minister of Justice,
who is s learned in the law, and I take
th- declaration of the Minister Of
it up
tiï Interior, ani also on the statemenit Of
the hon. me '>er fron NI initoba (vir.
Girard), bit while it may be an imp>rov'
ment on the law as it nov exists, I do not
think it is an improveient on the law in
the truc sense of the wrI. That is to
say I do nt think it is based upon a corrcct principle of law.
It ais been asked why not sell and a
readily as we sell a ship ? hie case i' not
the sane at all. A ship is person1al Pro
perty. Moreqver -- I do not know vhat js
the law in Ontario-but according to the
law in Quebec, it is only the owner that
bas the riglt to sell a ship, and of course
the ttie must be registereJ. The saleWI
take uffect fron the date of registrati of
the tile, and a ship, or a share in a shiih
cai only be sold by the real owner, so that

the princip!e of vested rights is strictly
I will content myself wit
preserved.
these rrm irks on the 5th clause of the 13ilL
Vien we come to the sections respectill
trusts and mortgages, with the leave of the

Real Property [M ARCII 10, 1885] N. V. Territori..
'Ouse
I

2AT

may have some further remarks this Bill provides a remedy in the ii 5 th
clause to set it right on an appeal to the
toN. MR. GOWAN-The remarks of proper functionary. It gives a remedy in
that clause under a process which is much
the hio
think o gentleman from DeLorimier, I more simple and less expensive than an
are sound in substance, but they action at law. I confess I cannot see
apply with equal force to any sys- how it is possible to guard against frauds
that has hitherto been deviseJ. I by personation.
b
Personations take place
knult that in practice, in Ontario, per- in the sale of other articles as well as of
are very common indeed, and it land. A man may come forward and sell
bas b,,
the een found impossible to guard against a horse. He n ay have stolen that horse a
accr. Fraud will always devise means to short period before, and if the party who
to 0irPlish its purpose, and it is difficlt has purchased bas sold again to a third
Cas'Iape any law such as will met
every party, there is a remedy by an action of
tse fraud ; but the liability
of
to frauds replevin ; but the party must prove his
'if that character is less under this Bill right.
I know of no system existing
an under the systen in force in Ontario.
which would guard against false personarnder our present system of transfer, a tions of that kind.
Sbmay without the safeguard of appearHON. MR. KAULBACH-The hon.
before an appointed officer, come
gentleman from DeLorimier bas made out
an attorney, or anyone who is a very strong case. A
Caare
man under our law
th'pe
of witnessing a deed, and may
of profess to be the owner of a certain who does not own property cannot pass
Of land-it lias often occurred in Upper property ; but under this Bill a man who
!anrdada-and be may grant a deed of that does not own the property can pass title,
That and there does' not seem to be sufficient
without heing the owner.
W
in
repre- provision by which property can be taken
sentirent, with all the formalities
ret hin to be the owner, is placed on out of the hands of a man who has pur'o ord in the registry office, and lie he- chased it in that way. AIl that the victim
res the owner of the propety.
The van do is to get his action for damages
etl ofner may reside at a dist mce, or for losing his lands.
'Oe the country, and after a time when
HON. MR. GOWAN-He is not cona comes to sell the property to a third fined to
that remedy.
Ps, that party on searching the record
oqner ee is some one ap)aren ly the
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Certainly,
a deed. or professing to he the owner under under
this law the moment the registry is
the original )ro)riet(r. It made it passes the land, and the title is
UJp Oecured not once but many times in in the man who lias the
deed, although
oner oanada, whle the renedy of the the person who gave may have had no
a actio grrantee of the owner is to brmng itle in it at alil.
l
toI to recover possession, and he bas
g0 hog
action through ail the formalities of an
HON. MR. GOWAN-The same vay
proceeat law, which is a very expensive under the registration law of Ontario.
ioed
ing, to assert his rights. Iersona- 'hie person having had the deed appears
also tY Occur under this law, but it may to be the owner until the opposite is
eall ade under any system and shewn.
iet
ahy,a we have seen, under the sysIn tat has been found to work so well
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-But in that
tario.
case it passes nothing. The moment it
is ascertained by the court that the man
don MR. LACOSTE--Tt cannot be who gave the deed did not own the land
Under the system in force in Que- the deed is valueless ; but the moment
the deed is certified by the registrar under
this Bill, the holder owns the land.
*Vare
MR. GOWAN-I
am quite
that kithat under any system fraud of
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
ndcannot be prevented.
I think 1think my hon. friend from DeLorimier was

10rae.

2A8

Real Proýperty

[SENATE]

S. W. Territories.

not here when the Bill was read the
second time ; so, naturally, he discusses
rather the principle of the Bill than the
particular paragraph under consideration.
I think if the House considers that the
property should go to the administrator or
the executor we might pass this clause.

in force in the North-West, it was only S
provisional adoption of them until that
country would have the right to iegislate
for itself

HON. MR. TRUDEL-The trouble is
that it will be hardly possible to have
what we consider the true principle recognized in the following clauses, because
the fifth clause is the foundation of the
system proposed. The more I read the
Bill the more I see that it will be an immense advantage if the House should
make of it two measures, one to establish
a perfect system of registration-and I
may say at once that I would be ready to
assent to most of the clauses of the Bill
as far as the question of registration goes
-but the misfortune is that while we are
called upon to enact a registration law we
are at the same time obliged to settle
questions which are of the most important
character, and to hastily adopt principles
which are the very foundation of the whole
system of legislation. Of course I will not
deny the strong precedent which has been
quoted by the Minister of of Justice. But
the fact of some of the English colonies
having adopted this system, is an argument,
the strength of which is only relative. We
ought to consider what has the improved
method been substituted for in these
countries. For instance, if those colonies
have concluded that a system of legislation
such as prevailed in Europe for many
cen:uries was a bad one, it is a strong
argument in its favor, but we have to consider the question of what advance has
been made by those colonies in the study
of legislation ? There is in this a very
difficult question for those who feel as I
do. We are called upon to say whether
it is not better to adopt this system than
to allow the North-West to remain under
the laws at present in force; and we are
reminded by the Minister of Justice that
those laws are the laws of Ontario. I
think that when we are called upon to
adopt the basis or foundation for the
legislation of the North-West, we should
not take it for granted that the present
system in force in the North-West is that
of Ontario. If my memory serves me
right, I think that when laws were put

the laws respecting the registratioi Of

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I di&
fot say that the laws of Ontario were
force in the North-West, but merely th-I

deeds were copied from the StatuteS O
Ontario.
1hey have been legisIating i
the North-West by virtue of the Goverfor
in-Council, and the laws in force are those
which the Governor-in-Council has poe
mulgated, and in dealing with this subject
of registration the (;overnor-in-Council
took the law of Ontario and passed it il'
the shape of a Bili in the North-XWe t
ierritories.
HON. NR. TRUDEL-I have a vague
recoliection that sone temporary legi5îa
tion has been adopted vith respect to the
North-West; I do not know whether it iS
the whole law of Ontario, or only the
criminal statutes by which the people Of
the North-Wcst are to be governed Untiî
other legislation is enacted.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMpBELLThe criminal laws are the laws of -ie
Dominion, and they are extended t the
North-West by Act of Parliament.

HON. MR.

TRUIEL-I think tha'

the adoption for the North-West
sound principles of legisiation in the
beginning should be carefully obse e
and that ample time should be given to
those who take an interest in this nattef
to inquire into it before any systeni 15
decîded upon. For this reason 1 haee
suggested to the Minister of justice that
only the part of this Biii which relates to
registration should be taken into consider
ation now. The Minister of Justice h35
admitted that these clauses to whic t
have referred are not necessary tO t
working of the Torrens systen'>;
therefore before adopting such a radi'a
change as is here proposed, the subject
should be further inquired into. We 1 «,y
exaggerate the advantages of our 0W!>
systeni, and as I stated the other daYi it
wouid not be fair on our part to cOI>e
here with our Quebec ideas-our Frefb
wuideas-of
the principles of legislatio ate

Real Property [MARCIH 10, 1885] Y.
'Y to impose them on the large majority
Of this House ; but hon. members know
Perfectly well that there is an immense
ntage to be derived
Ote Systems of law infrom a comparison
force
Countries. I do not hesitate in different
to say that
the transfer system of England cannot be
COmpared with the laws which govern the
transfer of land in sone of the southern
cOUntries of Europe. It is, no doubt,
eil understood that there are a great
r4any features in the law of England that
are superior to the laws of other countries,
tt is also generally admitted that the

st perfect people are those who want as
"tie legislation as possible. In fact the
ount of legislation in a country
it not a criterion of the state of
civilization ; on the contrary the
existence of vice and crime necessitates inCreased legislation, so that if the system
ehich prevails in England is not so perfect as that which prevails in other
toOUntries, it does not follow, in my opinion,
a cvilization is less advanced in Enga than anywh ere else. But I say it is
tact that is recognized by the ablest legal
u'gds in England that sound principles
nstare better recognized in France, for
-mee, than in England-that the
htem there is a good deal more perfect.
Vee myself in England, heard men of
"eyhigh iegal attainments say that their
high
ti source of information on most quesIns of law is the French commentators.
thihink it would be to the advantage of
ts'country to carefully compare both
%s ms, and if that were done, I think it
ousld be admitted that in committing
iurseves to a principle like that contained
opt.e fifth section of this Bill, we are adofii'g sOmething which is merely
a fiction

flecl , and hon. gentlemen ought to rethat seriously on this point.
I contend
rl he principle of the fifth clause is
i a legal fiction ; it is not a reality ; it
t ot a truth because real property in
Chatteri t sense of the word cannot be a
roperly understand what the
Wor ci
the d chattel » means. We are asked at
thisvery opening of this measure to base
afi tew System on a proposition which is
ihon. Then there is clause seven,
the is to a certain extent governed by
It ilinciple which obtains in clause five.
Charact
seen there that not only is the
er of the property changed, but

. Territorie8.

249-

that one of the conesequences of the

system is that the true owner of the pro
perty does not appear. Therefore we will
be obliged to create a second fiction of
law to say that the devisee, the man in

favor of whom the property bas been
granted will not be considered by the law
as the proprietor or owner ; that his right
of property, which is a sacred thing, is set
aside, and the owner of the property, under
this law, is a person quite different from
the owner in equity-the real owner of
the property. This is another serious
objection.
It is another unsound
principle to wbich we are asked to,
commit ourselves and we never can
calculate what evils may result from the
adoption of it. I would again suggest to
the Minister of Justice, if he would allow
me, that this Bill should be considered in
committee as a registration law merely,
and that ail other matters connected
with it should be reserved for further
examination.
HON. MR. GIRARD-We cannot expect that on a measure of such importance we can arrive at a proper conclusion

without discussion. For my part I think
if this Bill is adopted in the North-West
Territories it will be a great improvement.
We may differ in opinion as to its details,
but I know that the measure is asked for
there, and that if it is adopted it will be a
great benefit to the country. Our NorthWest Territory is not in the same position
as the other provinces of the Dominion ;
nevertheless we can appreciate the advantages such a law will afford, and the benefits that may be derived from it. A
system that has been beneficial to other
colonies may be of equal benefit in our
North-West. The circumstances of the
North-West are exceptional ; we are just
beginning to settle that country. It is not
as if it were proposed to introduce this
system in England, or even in the older
provinces of this Dominion. In the new
Territories of Assiniboia, Alberta and Saskatchewan everything is new, and what we
want to arrive at in the beginning, above
everything else, is a system by which we
can have a perfect title to lands, and at the
same time one that is simple and inexpensive.
We think that under the system proposed
we will secure ail those advantages if it is
adopted. We know that the system in

-250

Realproperty [SE NATE]

N. W. Territoriea.

force in the Province of Quebec is a good "The system of caveat is found sufficient
one, but it is expensive. We have to for the conservation of trusts whilst life
make searches in the registry office ; we estates and estates in reversion or remaifl
have to seek the advice of a solicitor, and der are fully capable of definition on the
we have to go to a notary to have the title register. In fact the system has so far
,passed, and all that cannot be done with- been foumd equal to ail purposes of col
out an expense of from ten to thirty dol- veyances." The Conrissioner of Land
Jars in each case. This trouble and ex-f
'thes
for Western Australia writes "The
pense is what we want to obviate in the system int roduced bythe LandTransfer Ac t
g
North-West, and we expect that if the Of 1 74 as worked satisfactorily, and ho
'orrens system is adopted ibwill produce effected an important reforn in the law of
same good effect in our country that vthe property."
real
The Commissioner Of
à has done in the Australian colonies.
Titles, Victoria, writes: "The facilitie
for carrying out aortgages and payitg
HON. MR. TRUDEL-Would the hon. theni off under the Act are very great,
gentleman state to the House what greater and thoroughly appreciated by the public.
benefit is likely to be derived from this The expense of eiher transaction is co1S
systen than from the one we have now in parauvely trifling." The Registrar-Genthe Province of Quebec as a registration eral, New South Wales, writes: "The
measure, which was at first received Wit
.law?
some degree of suspicion as to its practlHON. MR. GIRARD-I do not know cability, particularly with regard to the
whether I will be able to answer the hon. trust estates, has won its way with the
gentlenan's question satisfactorily, but it legal as well as the lay eleent of the co
is stated to me that there will b an munity. The popularity of the Act io f0
e
immense différence ; ahr property being we.l secured, and the public generollY
looked upon as chattels real, t wTill make have becote so accustomed to Our cer
.an immense difference in the succession, ticates, and have acquired such faith i
and in te titles which will be recorded as their undouhted value, as in many instat,
have just shown aces todecline accepting a property excet
tities of ownership.
the inconvenience that exists in the the tile is registered under what iscoiProvince of Quebec in consequence of versally styled the Torrens systeinthe expense attendant uIol the transfer The Recorder ofWitles, Tasmania, writeS
ot property, and that is what we want to "I can corne l no other conclusion thal
avoid in a country where we have no time that tîtle by registration is a simple, exto consult lawyers and spend days and peditious, and economical method f
weeks in explanations and searches into dealing with land, untrammelled by the
titles to and. An important feature to be costly and complex machinery of the O
a
ýconsidered at the presenit tirne, is the mode of conveyancing."
ad
aims which will be made before long for
That is what we expect if the law
gold mines and other valuable mnng adopted in the North-Vest Territories.
properties ; in those cases the deeds will I have said that the Bill as it stands iSnO
be rcequired to bc passed as quickly as a perfect one, but it is a measure initTo'
possible, and under the proposed systemi ducing a perfectly new systemn of conveyit will bc done much more easily than ancing, and abolishing the old one, and
under the existing law. I have read the we must ail expect that there will be 50me
statements of the authorities in the difficulties in the commencement; but
Australian colonies as to the working of we have the guarantee that the Goverin
the Torrens systen there, and I cannot ment is responsible for the orking and
do retter than to quote then to the operation of the law, and a special Pre
House to show how it is appreciated in vision will be made, by which the Govethose countris s after an experience of it nor-in-Council will be authorized
for any years. The Registrar General of the necessary arrangements to render the
Queensland writes "There does not appear system workable in the different parts
to bc any difficulty in the working of the the Territoy where otherwise t
Acts as w mortgages and leases." The not be operative. The
inon.
gentielari
Registrar General of New Zealand writes from DeLorimier has referred todifficultîs
HON.

MR. GIRARD.

Real Property [MARCH 10, 18851 N. W. Territorie8.

251

Which he thinks may arise under the oper- HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Newation of this Eill; that we will be exposed foundland and some of the Australian
O Personation and acts of dishonesty. colonies, I really do not remember which.
Such nay be the case, but it seems to me
that the provisions in clause

115

are

HON. MR. POWER-It is not the rule
The Minister read
to the committee a little while ago a letter
from a gentleman who has been Chief
Justice of Newfoundland. The introductory part of that letter gave the reasons why
it was desirable to treat land as a chattel
in that cAlony, and that is that land was
actually used there as a chattel.
The
fishermen went and settled for a few weeks
or a few months on a certain portion of
the shore which they used for fishing purposes, and naturally those fishing stations,
as we may call them, which were used only
for a part of the year, were dealt with as personal property. We have the sane system
down in Nova Scotia, as the hon. member
from Lunenburg knows.
The fishing
stations along the shore there are drawn ;
that is, the water lots are drawn by the
fishermen year after year, each fisherman
drawing a different lot each year, or each
two years.
These stations in Newfound
land were not really regarded as land at
all, and we can readily understand why
the law in Newfoundland was altered to
meet that state of things. But the case in
the North-West Territories is exactly the
reverse. In the North-West Territories
the land is the important thing. Personal
property out there will count for very little;
that is, beyond the live stock on the land;
but the important thing is the land, and I
think we are making a mistake in diminishing in any way the weight or value of
the land or making it more easily disposed
of by the original settlers whom we want
to keep there and protect. I cannot help
feeling that the 5 th clause, although it
may suit very well loan companies and
people of that sort who may be trafficking
in land or loaning money upon it in the
North-West, is not in the interests of
settlers in that country ; and it is the duty
of a government to protect the settlers as
far as they can. I do not wish to go into
the general question. The lion. gentleman
from DeLorimier did very properly go into
it hecause lie was not here when the Bill
was read the second tine, and he wished to
give his views to the committee. I think
the Minister might very well give way on
this 5th clause at least, because it is a very

sufficient to protect us against all such in Australia, I think.
"-ontingencies.

It is within my knowledge

that under certain circumstances cases of
fraUd have occurred in the Province of
Quebec ; false titles to property have been
tained before notaries, and mortgages
ave been passed before notaries upon the

Property

of others who were not present
at the tine they were passed, that could
Ony be set aside by suits at law. We
ay have some of those difficulties in the
orth-West. I suppose we will have disaonest people there, as, unhappily, they
are to be found everywhere ; but
it seems
nie if this system is adopted it will be
tnost Satisfactory to the people of the
orLth-West I do not feel at all alarmed
at the clause which declares that ieal
Property shall be treated as chattels real,
beutuse I an of the opinion that it will do
"ay With a great nany of the difficulties
that are experienced in the transfer of
operty in the older provinces of the
'[linlon.

."1N. MR. POWER-I hope that the
.ister of Justice after hearing the strong
Opinion fron m embers of
have given some attentionthe House who
to the subject

honot press this 5 th clause, which the
On gentlemian

himself admits is not part
of the Torrens system, and which I do
IOt think is embodied in the system in
y Of
aVery the Australian colonies. It is a
Seeping and radical
way Of dealing with land. change in our
I do not think
thnister has shown any good cause
geai revolutionary measure. As a
thing the Minister is very careful
about
for tupsetting things which have existed
oth a long time, and very slow to act
O erwise than as they do in England or
do Much in advance of what has been
a in E ngland and other countries, and
thi very much surprised to find that in
s particular measure and in a very imPurtant respect he is willing
to go so much
fArther than the law has
gone elsewhere.

adunderstand it the only place where
has been declared to to be a chattel
i8ewfundland.

252

Real Property

[SEN ATE]

N. W. Territorie8.

sweeping change, and there is no sub- with, say $2,ooo. Then it might be, as it
stantial reason given for it.
is under the law of our province, that this
special dower has no force unless there is
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Sup- a special registration of it and the property
pose we let that 5 th clause stand. I think affected by this dower is described : sO
a great deal can be said in reply to the there is no general obstruction as to the
hon. gentleman, and I will endeavor to do transfer of properties ; but this has the
so to morrow, and also the hon. gentleman effect of the ordinary hypothec on a
from DeLorimier, with reference to the property. I do not see why a man should
danger of fraud, and so on. My hon. not give such a hypothec on the property
friend has omitted, I think, some pro- in favor of his wife when he can do so tO
visions of the Act which do away to a a money lender. If he selis his property
great extent with the dangers which he he sells it subject to the payment of this
money to his wife.
anticipates,
The clause was allowed to stand.
On the eighth clause.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
is not the dower which this clause proIt is the ordinary
poses to abolish.
common law dower which requires a
woman's signature to a deed if the husband wishes to seli during her lifetine.
Inasmuch as in another part of the Bill
we inake the husband and wife separate
entities altogether, to give her the right tO
do what she likes with all her real estate,
there is no reason why she should have
dower on the property of her husband.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am
quite ready to express my opinion with
regard to dower, but I will pass on if the
Committee think proper. I think myself
it would be an advantage to adopt this
I think that the existence of
clause.
dower is an obstacle in the way of transferring property-an obstacle which is
seldom of advantage to the wife-and
that it may sometimes, if she persists in
HON. MR. LACOSTE-This clause
refusing to join her husband in a sale, will not prevent a husband giving a
prevent a transaction which would re- mortgage on his property under a marriage
dound to the advantage of herself and her contract.
children.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No, it
HON. MR. TRUDEL-I would respectis just abolishing the common law right Of
fully suggest this: we have a good deal of
experience in our province ; there are two dower.
dowers, the customary dower and the
HON. MR. PLUMB-It is not required
prefix. The first one has been considered under this clause that the wife shall join
as an obstruction which is created of in a deed with her husband?
course by the law ; so that this dower exists in our province without a deed and by
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No.
mere force of law and remains even after
a sale by the sheriff. I think that this
HON. MR. PLUMB-Does not D'Y
clause might perhaps be amended in such
a way as to have these obstructions set hon. friend think that that requirement is
aside, preserving to a certain extent the a salutory check on the husband to preright of the party to create an interest in vent him parting with the homestead ?
hi_ wife's favor.
HON. MR. TRUDEL-I do not care
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That much what naine is given to it so long as
there is legislation which will reserve to
is a separate matter altogether.
the wife and children some right to the
HON. MR. TRUDEL-It would be property-so long as there is ineans dewhat we call in the French law the droit vised to secure the rights of the wife.
prefix; the husband would declare by a
marriage contract that he endows his wife
The clause was adopted.
HON. MR. POWER.

Real Property [MARCH 10, 1885.] N. W. Territories.

253

On the eleventh clause,
should be considered in every way, quite
411. A man may make a valid convevance as capable of taking care of her own proor transfer of his real estate to his wife, and perty, and as having a full right to deal
trWoman may make a valid conveyance or with it-to mortgage or sell or do what
transfer of her real estate to her husband, she likes with it-as if she were
not marthOut,in either case, the intervention of a
ried. This Bill maintains the rights of
the wife, and says those rights shall not be
ON. MR. LACOSTE-How is the covered over by the fact of her being marpresent law ?
ried ; that she shall be entitled to retain
her property ; that she shall deal with her
liON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Under property quite as if she were not married.
the existing law I think it would have It seems to me that it is a more liberal
been by a complex deed, they would have way to treat a woman, and a safer way
bad to join in a deed to some other party, with reference to her character and habits
and then it would have been conveyed to and the formation of her mind and the
the wife or husband as the case might be. chances of her being entirely the head of
the family, that one would desire to see
lON. MR. TRUDEL-We who live her. I think such legislation has, in all
the Province of Quebec can hardly con- those respects, a much better effect than
ceive how such a principle should be ad- the old plan of placing everything in the
tn4ted. We consider that it is opening hands of the husband, giving her no
the door to every sort of difficulty, and power and making out in fact that she is
ne Would be this : you create separate incapable of protecting herself or dealing
Interests between the wife and the bus- with her property, not knowing when she
nd; you pave the way to what happens should sell it, or whether she shoild give
tween strangers who have transactions her husband any rights over it or not.
c*th other. It is creating two con- Now this thing the Bill proposes to do
each
fiicting interests, and the wife will suffer away with. The hon. member from Deturough the influence which the husband Lorimier says, how could it have been done
Will exercise.
She may have an estate in the past ? It could have been
Perhaps of $100,000, which in the course the way I have mentioned ; but itdone in
seems
tf a few months will be conveyed by her to me that dealing with a matter of this
th her husband, or if she refuses to convey kind, and particularly in a new country,
lhen there will be a conflict between
the
them, there can be no sound
as frequently occurs between strangers, wife should not have her reason why herproperty to
d I need not say what the result would self just as the husband bas his property
-. I cannot conceive that such legis- to himself.
lation should be adopted.
HON. MR. WARK---1 would just call
thXoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I the attention of the hon. Minister of Justhink .Iny hon. friend has not given much tice to what has struck me in this discusttention perhaps to the course of legisla- sion-that the property is dealt with and
in England and other countries- that it came into the husband's hands. It
%hehPerhaps the Province of Quebec, often happens in a country like this that
wh I 'venture to think has been in
that the husband and wife hold a property
re8pect not keeping pace with
what has which is of very little value-its principal
be en going on elsewhere. The tendency value is acquired by the industry of both.
to regislation certainly has been to cease The property may be as much indebted
t egard the wife as one with her husband for the value it acquires to her industry
prto cease giving him control over her and economy as to the husband's toil.
Operty, and habilitating her with all the Now, if the husband was getting a legacy
Po er and authority which is necessary and the wife was, it would be perfectly
hould go to an unmarried woman right that each should have control of his
with reference to her own property. That or her own property, but when property
and en, I think, the course of legislation, is made valuable by the industry of both
ar a course which recommends itself to jointly, I think that the wife ought to have
OIt ;nen of liberal minds-that the wife some consideration, and that the husband

254A

Real Property

[SENATE]

N. W. Territories.

ought not to be empowered to convey it afterwards have purchased the whole of
without ber consent.
her property, perhaps worth millions, and
hold it in his own name, and he may waste
HON. MR. TRUDEL-The Minister ail that property and the wife will be left
of Justice presented a case in this way: with nothing.
he said on one side we have the progress
of humanity and one of the greatest counHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My
tries in the world perhaps, England and hon. friend forgets that that can be done
her colonies, and on the other side we now, only by a roundabout way, as I
have the province of Quebec. If the case mentioned to the hon. member for Depresented itself in that light I would not Lorimier.
utter one word on the subject, but I will
tell the hon. Minister that there have been
HON. MR. TRUDEL-It is not imposhundreds of millions of people who have sible ; but the contrary is the general rule.
occupied a prominent place in the world's We know it was stated the other day that
history and who are certainly as far ad- with a silk gown the husband could inflU
vanced in civilization as other nations, ence his wife to dispose of ber property ;
who have preserved those principles of and the point is, it may happen sometimes
law. In one of them, France, they at one
period in their history unfortunately
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-MY
adopted most of the sweeping legislation hon. friend does not seem to see that thi5
which we seeni to follow now, and they very thing can be done now. Suppose it
were very glad a few years later to remedy was such a case as my hon. friend puts, e
a part of their error by returning not to man marrying a very young woman and
what the experience of centuries had wishing to get hold of ber property-he
proved to be wrong, but to what it had can do it now. Supposing him to havc
proved to be the best legislation possible. that influence with his young wife, he
Now, from what has fallen from the Min- could make a conveyance to a trustee and
ster of Justice, and from my hon. friend afterwards have it conveyed to himself; 50
behind me (Mr. Wark) they are in- that it can be done now, but by a roundclined to believe that the system we are about way.
advocating places the wife not only under
the influence but under the full authority
HON. MR. TRUDEL-What is the
and arbitrary power of the husband. The necessity of putting the wife in such S
contrary is the fact. My objection to this position ? This law should be amerded
clause is because it will place the wife too in such a way as to preserve the rights Of
much under the influence of the husband. the wife. It was one reason why I s3 d
According to the French system of law we should not proceed in that way before
which, to a great extent, is derived from having fully studied the question.
the Roman law-and there are some of its
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Under the
provisions which have been in existence
for two thousand years-the wife's estate is existing law there must bt proof that there
placed entirely beyond the arbitrary power is no compulsion. We know that there
of the husband.
are many cases in which the wife is no
subject to punishment because of the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The influence of ber husband. For instance
Bill does that.
in the case of larceny she is presurned to
act under the coercion of ber liusbandr
HON. MR. TRUDEL-I do not think and therefore crime is not imputed to ber
it. WNe know the natural influence which In this case I think there is a great dea
a man possesses with his wife, especially in what the hon. gentleman says.
if he is a business man, as is the case very
often. The wife may be a mere child,
HON. SIR ALEX.CAM PBELL-Under
without any experience in the world, and the existing law such transfers can b
if we allow the husband to purchase the made through a trustee, and why shoul
property of his wife an unscrupulous man you not allow it to be done without a
might marry a woman and in six months trustee ? Why should you not recogn"e
HoN. MiL WARK.

Real Property [MARC H11, 1885] N. W. Territoris.

255.

fully and frankly thî.t the wife is as able to
HON. MR. KAULBACH-There may
¶ake care of her property as the husband be many cases that donot come to ournotice.
la ?
HON.

MR.

HAYTHORNE-There

ON. MR. POWER-I think this clause was one reported in the English papers
lowing husband and wife to transfer the other day.
Property to each other is likely to be made
HON. MR. LACOSTE-According to
'Ose of for the purpose of defrauding credis. A man finds himself getting into the laws of Ontario, if I understand what
diculties, and the principal means of the Minister of Justice said a moment ago,
Satisfying his creditors is his land. Under the sale cannot take place directly, but
this law he transfers his property to his it can take place through a third party.
Wife and the creditors may whistle for The wife must transfer the property to a
their claims. As soon as' the deed is trustee, and the trustee to the husband, if
registered under this Act the creditors are the wife sells. I ftid in this a guarantee.
cOIpletely shut out. Then, although, There is a third party there who can judge
hUdoubtedly the relative positions of whether the wife is defrauded or not. Of
busband and wife are altering, I think that course, according to my view of the
2îWays, or at least for a long time, the principle of the law, I would be altogether
average wife will be very considerably against this clause; but after what has
Unfder the influence of her husband.
been said, that this is done indirectly
through third parties in the Province of
Ontario under the English system, I am
H the SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
lON.
ope
average wife will continue to be not so much opposed to it, but I really
considerably under the influence of her find it is a guarantee to do it through a
husband.
trustee, instead of making a transfer from
husband to wife, and wife to husband,
directly.
tON MR. POWER-I would suggest
the Minister of Justice, if he does not
HON. MR. GOWAN-The chief objecal is way clear to strike out this clau'e tion seems to be that a young wife might
atogether that he should provide at any be influenced by her husband to divest
huhat the conveyance from a wife to her herself of all her property. I think it is
sttand should be accompanied by a more likely that a young woman would
free ent tbat she has executed the deed influence her busband to get rid of his
SUchy, and without compulsion. I think property, and I think chose who have
aceck as that is necessary, because taken this objection must be bachelors, or
ath
Oerwise there is nothing to hinder a they would not hold such an erroneous
with husband from threatening his wife view. They certainly have not read
a deeddly violence if she does not silgn Bumble's account of the powers of woman.
Withd Under this Bill he goes at once The Bill provides that this may he done
has itthe deed to the registry office and directly which is now done indirectly, and
I thin registered and the property is his. the creditor is not one whit worse in this
knsid worth the Minister's while to position than hewould be under the present
it is
the l er tbis point. I do not know how law. On the contrary a transfer of the
in
sarn a 1:s Ontario, but I think it is the kind would be attended with more sus.
althe a in Nova Scotia. In our province, picion and would be more closely watched
OUgh the husband and wife are made by the courts, and I think the position of
rat for many purposes under the the creditor would be better.
t cetly passed there, still they canlonvey directly to each other.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-And
he would be far more likely to use his wife
lal
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We for the purpose of defrauding his creditors,
theseae been more or less mixed up in under the present law.
*erk ransactions, and which of us has

d t0wn a wife to be forced by her hustign

a deed ?

Hox. MR. GOWAN--I think the law
as it stands is more susceptible to be used

Real Property SENATE] N. W. Territories.

2%6

for defrauding creditors than this. The
THE SENATE.
hon. gentlemen say, " protect the wife ; "
but why not protect the husband as well ? Ottawa, Wednesday, March, zAth,

-885.

HON. MR. PLUMB-I object to the
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
whole tenor of this kind of legislation in o'clock p. m.
weakening the position of the wife in
Prayers and routine proceedings.
respect of the land on which the family live.
I do not accept the argument of my hon.
friend in regard to Mr. Rumble, and I do
THE SMITH DIVORCE BILL.
not think it is a matter that can be treated
REPORTE) AGAINST BY THE SELECT COM
with that sort of levity.
MITTEE.

HON. MR. GOWAN-I do not treat it

HON. MR. GOWAN, from the Select
Committee to whon was referred the Bill
HON. MR. PLUMB-I do not think it intituled " An Act for the relief of Charles

with levity.

is desirable to facilitate the power of the
husband to part with the property on
which he and his wife live. My great
-objection to the whole scope of the Bill, so
far as we have gone, is that it renders the
transfer of land more easy to any man who
desires to get rid of it, or may be improvident, extravagant or neglectful ; and there
is always a salutary check in the wife, who
is the conservative element in the family,
almost always, as my hon. friend knows.
I am not speaking of the wealthy; I am
speaking of the poorer people, who may
have nothing else except the honstead,
and I say it is a very dangerous principle
to adopt to permit the transfer by the party
who owns that property, where any safeguard can be adopted to prptect the
woman and her children.

Smith," reported recommending that
the Bill be not passed, on the ground

that there had been collusion and counivance between the petitioner and his
wife to obtain a separation.
He moved
that the report be taken into consideration
on Wednesday next.
The motion was agreed to.

DRE)GING THE MOUTH OF REv
RIVER.
INQUIRY.

HON. MR. SCH ULTZ inquired whether
it is proposed to continue the dredging
of the navigable mouth of the Red River
during the coming summer, and will any
work with the dredge be undertaken else~
where, and if so at what point?

HON. SIR A LEX. CAMPBELL moved
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-In
that the Committee rise and report progress
and ask leave to sit again.
reply to the question which my hon. friend
has put, I beg to say that the su" o
The motion was agreed to.
HON. MR. REAID, from the Committee,
reported that they had made some progress with the Bill, and asked leave to sit
again to-morrow.

BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (io) " An Act to reduce the stock
of the Federal Bank ot Canada, and for
other purposes."--(Mr. Allan.)

The Senate adjourned at 6 o'clock.

$1o,ooo has been placed in the estinates
for 1885-86 for expenses of the dredgi"9
This plant was pJroplant in Manitoba.
vided specially to open the mouth. of the
Red River, and it will be continued On
that work during the ensuing suminer, and,
if the appropriation allows it, the Govern
ment will consider whether any work can
be undertaken elsewhere in that Province.
REAL

PROPERTY, NORTH WEST
TERRITORIES, BILI
IN COMMITrEE.

The House resumed in Committee 0<
the Whole the consideration of Bill (
HON. MR.

GOWAN.

Real Proper»ty [MARCH 11, 1885]

N. W. Territorie.

257

n Act respecting real property in the transferring property, and that can be
orth-West Territories."
accomplished without doing away with
dower or the right of an owner to devise
In the Committee,
his land as he pleases. A very common

uevise-very commnon in uintario au au

SIR ALEX. CA MPBEL L-I beg events-is to leave the property to the

o suggest to the Committee, as a means wife for life and at her death to one of the
8vng time, that the clauses on which sons, or perhaps to unmarried daughters.
.erences of opinion have arisen on It seems to me that that principle
ought
Prilciple, and which have been discussed fot to be disturbed or interfered with, and
"aty when the Bill was up for second'that we can obtain what is sought by this
redng and partly when it was in com- Bil without such interference. The object
ttee when we last met, should be passed of the measure, as described by the Minis
er, and if the committee agree to that ter of the Interior, was to introduce some
an pass over clause r which provides simpler forr of conveyancing which would
transfer of property from createdou.-Alta
bande tthe wife, or vice versa. Itthe hus- cost less and could be more easilycarried
udbecomisd
e discussion, and if we can allow it to
interfering with dower or the
Stand and go on with the clauses which without of land
devising
in the way 1 have describr 0vide for the Torrens system proper, we
SaVie te
o
TOrns ytn
rpr
ed. I notice that the principle of this
t save time. On the 12th clause I do Bil. so far as conveyances are concerned,
opt think there will be any difference of! has been introduced elsewhere and that
tailion. Its object is to abolish the estate these objectionable
have been
Th,
o substitute for it the fee simple. eîiminated from
that when we
alat nglish speaking provinces. I do not set outway provide a simple, cheap and
to
F has been the course of legislation in quick
of transferring lands, it does

do . as to Quebec, but I think that we fot follow that we should make ail these
t. o
0wish to create entailed estates insweeping changes.
country, and the present tendency in
ngland is to do awav with them. We
which Win Ontario and in the country for does fot follow at ah.
this Bill proposes to legislate cut
ot
'f forestate tail, so I suppose the House
e
sI
stricken outOI think-Ithere would od
be
fore oifle the adoption of it.
ot dissent fromn that clause. I there were folf
H N
R
E
h s
e-;
a dhein
at
lon MR. SCOTT-As I read the
ilse hParticularly the last three lines, it
it
larger than the interpretation of
l "I by the Minister of Justice. The
lat three lines are as follows :-" But the
an whatever form of words is used in
Ordlnstrument of transfer or transmission
estat ing, shall be and remain an absolute
taIn the owner for the time being."
e sets out with the proposition
tha
entail is
also can ries with itnot to be allowed, but it
this proposition that no
' tat. limitation is to be permitted.

A

to A
for instance to convey property
fee
r ten years or for life and to B in
a pr not to be admitted. If the House
threared to adopt the Torrens system,
an'

a matter of course the hon. gentle-

yse8 Proposition will foilow, but I think

7 this that

what we all desire to secure

gislation is a simple system of

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
clause was taken from the Australian Act,

but it does not seem essential to the Torrens system. If the suggestion of the hon.
member from Halifax is adopted, we
might strike out all after the word " tail."
HON. MR. DICKEY-I may say in
confirmation of what has fallen from the
Minister of Justice, that for the last thirty
years or more there has been no entail in
Nova Scotia, and I have never heard any
objection, nor am I aware that there has
been any attempt to repeal the existing
law. It has been found to assist the transfer of lands and simplify titles by abolishing that ancient mode of limiting them by
entail. As we are all agreed upon that
principle I think we had better strike out
the three last lines and adopt the clause.

258

.Real Poperty (SEINATE]

HON. MR. TRUDEL--As the clause
is framed, the possessor of the property
will have it absolutely, although he may

have acquired it subject to the obligation
that he should leave it to his son. If he
is the absolute proprietor he is not obliged
to leave it to his son, and may sell it, and
the practical object of substitution is lost.
I do not think we should pass the clause
as it stands.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am
afraid that it will be impossible to adopt

the view of my hon. friend without going
back on the legislation of many years in
the English speaking colonies. The hon.
member from Amherst has stated that it is
the law of Nova Scotia as well as of
Ontario. It has been considered that these
entails are objectionable and that the man
in possession for the time being should
have the right to sell the property. In
England at this moment if the tenant in
possession and the tenant in expectation

unite they can sell, and cut off the entail.

S. W. Territoriew.

would be most inconvenient for the peoPle
here, unless the Government intend to ap'
point about twenty more registrars. As »O
movement has been made by the people here,
it is beleived that all the influence so far
brought to bear upon the government has
been through the exertions of a companYy
whose base of operations is Toronto, and whoP
whatever their actual intereët is in the coui'
try-entirely perhaps a gambling one-shOuld
not alone be heard upon this matter. The
proper thing it seeme to me for the goverament to do is to give-if they have not ai
ready-to the North-West Council, power tO
legislate upon the matter. As to the syst-e
itself, it would be most unsuitable to tiJ
country, for one reason alone, viz : that rr'
gistry offices are upon an average 200 milO
apart, and if the transferee's title is to depeId
solely upon registration, this will be a moo
inconvenient method of transfer. Take the
case of a transfer at Carleton or Duck Lake'
it will be necessary to travel to Battleford, a
distance of 120 miles, in order to get "title
completed. It is therefore expected that.the
government will duly consider the propriety
of passing finally upon the matter at the pre
sent time
Yours, etc.,
N. W. T., Feb. 25th, 1885.

A SETTLER

HON. MR. SCOTT-Under the law of
HON. MIR. GOWAN--I should like to
the North-West Territories now you could
know whether it is intended to exclude
not create an estate tail.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
that all the words after " tail " to the end
of the clause be struck out.
The motion was agreed to and the
clause as amended was adopted.

Keewatin from the operation of this
sure ?

me-

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-.It 15

No provision will be made for Keewatn
or the Peace River country at present
In reference to the letter which the hon'
member from Halifax has read he must
On the 13th clause.
bear in mind that the difficulties of regis'
HON. MR. POWER-I hope the hon. tration are not ncreased by this 13'
Minister will allow this clause to stand so Under the present law a man who wats
that if he should afterwards decide to his deed registered has either to trav.e
strike out the i rth clause he may add a those 200 miles or send his deed by mal

few words to this to prevent the transfer and he will have to do the sane Und
of land direct fron the husband to the this Bill. It does not increase the di '
culty in any way.
wife or the wife to the husband.
The clause was allowed to stand.
On the 14th clause,
1ION. MR. POWER--If the comrnittee will allow me I will read the following letter which appeared in this'
morning's Citizen :Sa,-The proposed legislation in regard to
the North est, introducing the T-orrens'
syetem of land'transfers is not desired by and

HON. MR. POWER---The writer saYS

that the iegislation is asked for by parties
in Toronto.
HoN,. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--As
said when I proposed the second reading
of the Bill, a similar measure-perhaps not
exactly, but very nearly similar--was intro
duced in the North-West Council, a
would have been passed there had tiole
permitted, and had the Council be

Real Property [MARCH 11, 1885] N. W. Territories.
sfficiently full of members who were
'cCustonied to deal with laws to justify
ther in passing it. I had that informat' ror a member of the Council, who
m
stated that on the occasion when the Bill
Was introduced there was a unanimous
expression of opinion in the Council in
favor of it. As to its not being
asked for
bY the North-West Territories that is quite
tile; .but, as I have mentioned
to the
tolnlittee, the Council, or governing body
there, have expressed their
opinion in favor
• As to its being pressed forward by
People in Toronto, I believe there is a
8oeiety there which has taken a very active
parr n advocating the adoption of the
rens systeim, and the president of the
Siety has delivered a lecture
about it,
bu do not know that it
should make us
Object to the Bill in any way.
It should
't prejudice our minds against the Bill
that certain persons in Toronto approve of
System.

269

that in ten years the number of mortgages
that will have been registered under this
Bill will be four-fold the number that will
be passed if we allow things to remain as
they are. People who go out to the NorthWest frorn Ontario, France, Germany and
elsewhere, go there with different notions
altogether of the princples of land transfer
They are a conglomerate people. They
are only recently thrown together, and they
have not had time to compare notes or
adopt a system, and on the second read.
ing of this Bill I threw out the hint to the
House that it did seem sornewhat extraordinary that we were willing to impose a
system of law on the people of the
North-West that we would not adopt
ourselves-for I do not hesitate to
say that I would give the warmest opposition myself to adopting it in
Ontario. The people of the North-West
are unrepresented in this Chamber, and
I do think, fairly speaking, that it is a
monstrous proposition, unless it is called
the"ON- MR. SCOTT-It really brings up for by some considerable portion of the
te tquestion which I raised in the debate people in the North-West, to force such a
ol the second reading of this Bill.
system on that country. The Minister of
the Interior urged on behalf of the measure
•o
Sù< ALEX. CAMPBELLthat it was giving a simple and inexpensive
hich (loes
system of land transfer.
I an perfectly
willing to go into any similar system they
• NIR. SCOTT-The
point raised have there now, and if he can point out
Iithe letter which has been read by the how it can be simplified, or reduced in
th,
entleman from Halifax. I made any way I will cheerfully assist in doing it;
setatement in mny observations on the but I do think that the adoption of that
secpn reading of the Bill that I did not in no way carnes with it the larger and
aprove of a Bill of this kind, being pres- more important proposition that we should
te -on the people of the North-West at revolutionize the system that those people
he nstance of loan soci.ties, because that are familiar with out there, and when my
do.LIat it is when you come to boil it hon. friend from Halifax read this letter
' I do not think there are ten men to the House this afternoon, I felt that it
you anNorth-West to-day who could give was entirely in accord with my own
yste explanation of what the Torrens opinion, and hon. gentlemen will bear
is. There are numbers of loan with me when I say that I was exceedingsci
who want to lend money, and this ly cautious and guarded in speaking on
sis
o
:4 t systemr of land transfer, if adopted this subject on the second reading of the
Inot' North-West, presents the best Bill, and I then stated that we are simply
Pportunity for doing it. They can lend adopting this system in the interest of the
file at Once on those certificates being lender.
ýheati it was a warning note I gave
!¤ the said that we were passing this Bill
lION. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
la the -nterest f loan companies, and not not think we have ever heard my hon.
of the people of the North- friend use more fallacious reasoning than he
foreInterest
bor Y giving themi increased facilities has done on this occabion. The question
and . owg money and mortgaging their is not what the loan societies desire ; the
Sefthave no hesitation in saying that question is, what is the best thing to do
Of passing this measure will be for the people, and for the titles that exist

260

Real Property [SENATE]

N. W. Territorie8.

in the North-West. It is not whether the
loan companies desire this, or whether
they do not desire it, that is the question be
fore the House. That a certain society in
Toronto, of which this gentleman, Mr.
Mason, is the president, have taken an
active part in promotîng this Bill is quite
true ; that it may facilitate their operationns
is also quite true ; but these are not the
motives that are actuating the Government
The motive that is
and the House.
actuating the Government and the House
is simply this : is this a good Bill to introduce in the North-West? The hon.
gentleman might as well say with regard
to any other act that we want to introduce
in the North-West, that the people have
not asked for it. When a system of government was established there, we extended to the North-West the operation
of a score of laws belonging to the
Dominion.

the loan companies desire it but because
this law is a plain, simple and inexpensivc
system to introduce into that new country

ask for them ? If my hon. friend had
wished to oppose thern then he might
have said with as much logic as on the
present occasion, why impose those laws
on the people of the North-West; they
have not asked for them ?

now urged by the hon. gentleman agaims t
this Bill. But my hon. friend says, "cleave
it to the Council of the North-West." Th'

that we propose to adopt it. That is the
question, and according to my judgenent
it is a good system, aid we have those
gentlemen who are best able to speak for
the North-West, among them the hof·

gentleman from Manitoba, who say that
this is a measure that will be most usefUl

and convenient for the people of that neW

country. It is true they have not asked
for it, but we are obliged to legislate for
them according to our best knowledge Of
their requirements. It is not a questiO'
of extending our own laws there ; it is a
question of giving or not giving to the
people the very best system that can bc
devised for the purpose of enabling them'
to deal with their lands. I am bound tO
say that very few of them understand the
Ontario system ; that there is not a mai 1'
the North-West who knows whether a deed
HON. MR. SCOTT--Yes, our own laws. if registered cuts out a non-registered
deed with or without notice, and thereHON. Sis ALEX. CAMPBELL--Yes, fore I say the same objection might be
but did anybody in the North-West then urged against the present system that 15

Council of the North-West have alreadY

indicated their opinion ; such a Bill was
submitted to the North-West Council.

HoN. MR. SCOTT--I would not leave
HON. MR. SCOTT-But it was our
own law-it was law that we had imposed it to the Council of the Ncrth-West, to bc
acted on by outside opinions; I would
on ourselves.
leave it to the people.
HON. SIR ALEX.CAMPBELL-There
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
is no, " our own law " about it ; the law
of Ontario is not our own law in the people can only express their feelings
North-West; the law of Quebec is not the through the Council.

law of the North-West, but it is such law
as the Parliament of the Dominion saw fit
to put in force in the North-West is the
law there, and among the rest we put in
force there a number of statutes that I
venture to say the people had never heard
of, and the same fallacious reasoning that
the hon. gentleman uses now might have

been urged then against them. Of course we
do not pretend that people in the NorthWest understand the Torrens system ; we
do not, many of us, understand it ourselves,
and I confess that I do not understand it
altogether ; but I say it is a simple form
of transferring land, and it is rot because
H ON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL

One portion of the

1
Council is elected and the other portiO' .
it
is nominated, and the elected part Of
have spoken in favor of this Bill, and that

is the reason that it is now introducedand not because of eagerness, if there ,e
eagerness, on the part of those supPosa
to be interested. The question for the
comrittee, I think, is simply whether this
is a good, safe and simple system to otro
duce into the North-West, and if so
think we may very prudently and wiseY

adopt it, and I think we are bound to g
on with it; so long as we legislate for the
North-West it is our duty to give then7 the
best system we can. Is not my hon. friend

Real Property [MARCH 11, 1885]

N. W Territories.

261

4e linister of the Interior, engaged from
Week's end to week's end in endeavoring to
d1 all he can for the North-West, and is it
not his duty and the duty of the Govern'lent to give the settlers there every facilty 1 enable them to deal with their lands
and promote settlement ? Will it not pro-

there is anything in it.
As to the fear
expressed by the hon. gentleman from
Ottawa that under this measure the people
will be too ready to mortgage their farms,
I think they have already had sufficient
exnerience of that in their dealings with
agricultural implement agents, and most
r'note settlement there if the people find of them will be very careful before they
that the transfer of land titles is easy, and mortgage their properties again.
they can acquire property without much
eýense ? Will it not be a good thing to
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I am very
s to the people in England, "Go to the much surprised at the opposition shown
andth-West, you will have good land there, by the hon gentleman from Ottawa to this
You will not have the difficulty that Bill, because I really thought on the whole
Yu have at home, you will be able to get that he favored the principle of it on the
a deed for your land without expense second reading. He seemed to feel a
,Ddelay.p
little douhtful about the wisdom of making
incumbrances on property so easy, but on
ION. MR. SCOTrT-They can do it the whole I thought he was rather in favor
of the measure. I never was more surprised
than to see the sudden revulsion of feeling
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-But on the part of my hon. friend on the
's t ith $0 little expense, and therefore it reading of the letter which appeard in the
ttt
right for my hon. friend to argue morning's Citizen by the hon. gentleman
t t is not asked for by the people of from -Halifax.
he North-West Territories, That arguHON. MR. GIRARD-With all deferntS failacious, and should not sway
i
to bCornittee at all. The only question ence to the views expressed by the
ie
asked is whether it is a good system ? eon. leader of the Opposition, I dIo
say that I hail with
that ought to be
thera systemi will it be useful adopted not hesitate to the introduction of this
d And
if it is great satisfaction
opted?
Bill, but I look upon it as the duty of the
Governmient to iniroduce it at the present
fON Mr. SUTHERLAND-I ar time when we arc informed that there ire
yai
much surprised at the opposition that only about three hundred patents issued
fro been shown by the hon. gentleman in a country whre there is roor for
en Ottawa in regard to this Bill, and tventy million of people. It is wisc and
te Nor1th-Ws
theially at his saying that the people of prudent that we shuId now adopt a
oh-West could not understand this system by which the tite to land shah be
I had occasion this last sum- made secure in that country. It is well
e
to be out a good deal in the North- known that the lands of our Nortli-West
I have spoken to several gentle- are open to the whole world. We find
and Ien
everyout there, farmers and others, and people going in there from Germany,
one that I spoke to about this France, Spain, and every nation in Euro e.
it seemed to be most anxious to They ail core with a knowiedge of their
ve
because they find very great own systeins, but they do fot knowhow
dii,

r

norw U n

carrying out land transfers poet

-account of the trouble of getting
the
fesirvices of gentlemen of the legal protO draw out their papers-that they
had easily buy or sell their lands if they
iia ready way of getting a secure title.
Citzeregard to this letter in the Ottawa
fron ,Iquoted by the hon. gentleman
ha
lifax, 1 question very much if it
Sn
in ot think
inOtt
''aotbeen written adI
impression, here do Ottawa.

smngdi

hscnr

they are strangers to our system, and that
is a reason why we should give them
a law by which they can ail know exactly
how they stand with regard to the titie to
wiIl find in th
their property.
ail the necessary provisions to secure thtir
titie, and to render transfer easy, safe and
inexpensive.
I know that the Torrens
system iffot only in the North-West least
desired, not wel understood, is at Ter-

Real Property [SENATE]

262

ritories, but in Manitoba; and I think that
during the present session a Bill will be
introduced in the Legislature there to
bring the Torrens system into operation
in that province. The object of our being
here as legislators is to devise means by
which the securityof societywill be ensured.
I remember when the registration law was
introduced in the Province of Quebec
after the troublous times of 1837-I think
it was in 1840 that the Bill was passed by
the council which was then the legislative
body of the province. The people were
opposed to the registration law, and if
they had been consulted at the time, it
would never have been introduced. The
legislature had to force it on them, but
now that we have had the benefit of it,
we would not be without it under any circumstances. I think the people of the
North-West will be satisfied with the
proposed system, and if the Bill is passed
it will be hailed with pleasure by the
whole North-West Territories.

W. W. Territorie8.

HON. MR.

GOWAN-I said that his

mind ran in this direction-not altogether
with regard to its details, but he seens
desirous that the system should be adopted
generally-at all events if newspaper
reports are correct he proposes to intrO'
duce the system into one county for trial.
I do not know what the feelings of the
people may be in this locality, but I knOW
among the professional gentlemen it findc
favor in Western Canada.

HON. MR. BELLEROSE-As a layman I am very little inclined to take par
It seems
in the discussion on this Bill.
to me that it is better in the hands of n'et
who are conversant with the law ; bitt
though a layman I have ears to hear, and
5
I have intelligence to judge of the merit
of the arguments used by hon. gentleien,
and I have yet to be convinced that we
ought to legislate in this direction, eveti
though the people of the North-West do
I find no argiient
ask for such a law.
in that, because the population of the
HON. MR. GOWAN-Thehon. gentle- North-West is yet very small, and I say
man from Ottawa seems to think that the that the representatives of the people k"
system finds favor only amongst the loan both Houses of Parliament have to look
I know that to the interests of the population which
companies in Ontario.
throughout the country, so far as my ex- will go in there from the different provinces
As to the other argu
perience goes, it finds favor amongst a of the Dominion.
very large number of professional men who ment that our North-West will yet he
will be seriously injured, so far as fees are settled by people from all parts of the
concerned, by its adoption. My friend, world, it may be so ; but a great part Of
the Attorney-General for Ontario, I have that population will come from our h 5
pvery reason to believe, favors the Torrens provinces, and in our own provinces this
'system, but he is unwilling to adopt it system is not known or acknowledgeor
'generally throughout the province without and the people coming from France Or
first trying it in one locality. The ten- England, or from any other part of EuroPe'
dency of his mind has been long in that will be brought face to face with e
direction. I think my hon. friend from system that is known nowhere on the
Ottawa will recollect the letter addressed other side of the Atlantic. The questiOn
by Mr. Mowat to Sir John Macdonald a we should ask ourselves is whether this law
is a good one in itself or not ? For n'y
good many years ago on this question.
part I think it is not, because in
opinion it is opposed to every prifncate
HON. MR. SCOTT -lDoes it embrace
hitherto recognized in sound legislatîon.
the principles that are embrace(l in this There is the great principle which co1ne
BillI?
under the natural law, the principle O
proprietorship and vested rights, which 15
HON. MR. GOWAN-Analogous prin- not acknowledged here. I believe that if
ciples-principles subsequently embodied this Bill was made into a registrati'o1
in the Quieting of Titles Act.
measure, it would be a verv effective havi

f)r the North-West; but if it is allowe. ato
SCOT [- Did the Attorney go further than that I consider it iS a
Generil of Ontario favor the provisions o r dangerous Bill, as it does away with Pr""
this Bill ?
ciples upon which the law of the word is
HON.

MR.

HoN.

MR.

GIRARD.

Real Property [MARCH 11, 1885] Y. W. Territories.
ed. This is a serious consideration,
Id I think the hon. gentleman from
De Salaberry was perfectly right when
he
%4g9ested that the other part of the Bill
no hd be allowed to stand over for
enther twelve months for further con'ieration. This is the opinion I hold on
Bill but I did not like to urge it
e I thought it might be one
W Would not be worth much : but
heard the arguments on both sides
si
tht Of the question, I feel convinced
the the opinion I formed after reading
feeIl was well founded, and that I may
iey express it. I hope before the com.ttee reports the Bill that the discussion
'thli be adjourned until next week so that
tiere 'ill be a better expression of opinion
uPon it in a full House.
T

263

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLIf it is in the registrar's custody he will be
obliged to furnish it of course, but if it is
cancelled it can be of no further use. A cancelled document could hardly be evidence.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It might be.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLAfter it is cancelled it is no longer an
official document.
Then, again, the
language of the clause has been copied
from the South Australian Act, and they
have had some twenty or thirty years' experience of it, and I am unwilling on that
account to alter it. One cannot see why
a registrar should be called upon to furnish
copies of, or extracts from documents
which have been cancelled.

he clause was adopted.

HoN. MR. POWER-There may be a
charge of fraud, for instance, having been
'on the twenty-second clause,
employed in procuring the last document,
and it may be necessary for the purposes
e0N MR- SCOTT-Would it not be
1ell that the registrars should furnish the of the party who is trying to establish that
fraud that he should be able to see the
"te kind of security as other officials ? character of a previous conveyance.
theisGuch more satisfactory, I think, to
Overnment and every officer ought
HON. SIk ALEX. CAMPBELL---He
Pay out of his own income the fees for could always have resort to a subpena.
sureties.
HoN. MR. POWER-Why should he
hI "On SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We be obliged to do that? I think he ought

amend the clause by inserting the
eeond i any guarantee company " in the to be able to get a copy of a previous document on payment of the legal fees.
Suppose a man has deeded away his proT
and he clause was amended accordingly perty to somebody else; if any question
adopted.
arises as to the validity of that deed there
is no difficulty under the present system
on the twenty sixth clause,
of getting a copy of the previous deed
from the registrar's office. I do not mean
t
eo.MR.
e registrar O'DONOHOE-Why should to say that the Minister is wrong, but it
be required to furnish
onlv has not been made clear to me that my
hik .of uncancelled documents?
I hon. friend from Toronto is not right.
Word Would be better to strike. out that
u ncancelled," because although
HoN. Sii ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
registr ument may be cancelled in the not uriderstand on what basis or principle
sary th office, it may at times be neces- you are to ask the registrar to give an exthat a copy of it should be had.
emplification of a document which no
longer exists.
lOtN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-He
ta g1ve a copy only of the document
HON. MR. KAULBACH-If the regisCoJUl Ii force.
If it is not in force he tar is paid a fee for it there can be no

not give an abstract from that.
MR. O'DONOHOE--But

il required in court ?
at

objection.
sup-

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-1 see
no objection to it except that this provi-

264A

-RealProper'ty [SENATE] N. W. Territorie8.

sion of the Bill has been tried in the South
HON. MR. TRUDEL-They are obliAustralian colonies and we should not de- ged to justify themselves. The differencl
part lightly from what has been used there in the two cases is this : under this clause
without injury.
it rests with the complainant to prove that
the officer has acted in bad faith, and it
The clause was adopted.
is always difficult to establish what an 0 '
cer s intention is ; on the other hand, the
prothonotary is obliged to prove that
On the twenty-eighth clause,
he has acted in good faith to justify hifnHON. MR. TRUDEL-I do not see self, and it is far easier for a man to justif1
why the responsibility of the registrar and himself than for another to prove that he
bis deputy, or any person acting under the has acted in bad faith.
registrar's authority, should be removed.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL- 1
all who are working think the registrar and his officers are en'
unlimited impunity to

It seems to me that this clause gives an

in such an office, although, as a matter of titled to this protection, which requires
fact, they will have in their hands the for- the party accusing them to establish thait
tunes of citizens. I can understand why they acted in bad faith.
the registrar himself, who exercises judicial functions, should not be responsible
for damages for bona fide acts, but in the
case of mere officers, in all countries of the
world, as far as I know, if they are guilty
of wrong-doing an action for daniages lies
against them. An officer always has an
opportunity to defend himself, and if he
can show that he has acted in good faith
and in such a manner as to justify his conduct, he will not be condemned to pay
damages, but under this clause the burden
of proof is thrown on the proprietor, who

will be obliged to prove bad faith on the
part of the officer. I think it would be a
sounder principle to require the officer to
establish that he acted in good faith.
KAULBACH-I think
HON. MR.
the clause is bettt r as it is. The officer
acts in a judicial capacity and certainly
should not be made responsible for any
wrong that he may do in so acting.

You would not inpugn a judge for giving
a judgment not consistent with law.
HON. MR. TRUDEL-To a certain

The clause was adopted.
On the 3oth clause,
HON. MR. POWER-Considering the
very great power given to the registrars
under this Bill, I put it to the Minister
whether he does not think that a qualifi'
cation of three years professional standing
is too littie ? I notice in Mr. Mowats
Bill, introduced in the Ontario Legislature
the other day, that the Master of Titles,
at any rate, who is to be at Toronto and
to do the woik that the registrars are required to do under this Bill, must be a
barrister of at least ten years standing
That would be, of course, too much tO
ask in the North-West; but I think that
five years would be not an unreasonable
1
thing to ask, because it is' doubtfU i
practice would be much Of
three years'
guarantee.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLr-have no objection to make it five yea'q$
but three years was adopted after consUltation with Mr. Richardson, who has been
in the North-West for some years, and is
a stipendiary magistrate there, and knoWs
much better than I do what is practicable
and best in that country.

extent the office of the registrar is of a
judicial character, but only to a certain
extent. Under our system in the Province of Quebec, our prothonotaries, in a
great many cases, act judicially and sometimes have concurrent power with the
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I think it
judges, yet they are liable for damages should be five years. You can hardly tel1
which their actions may cause.
in three years what a lawyer will be.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Not

if they act in good faith.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

HON. MR. A LMON-I think the nun
ber of years that a man has practiced the

Real Property [MARCH 11, 1885]

265

, eSion is a poor way to gauge a law- on his part; and knowledge of the trust will

es ability, because if he is a fool at the

net in itself be imputed as fraud (d).

The

this
of
at tof One year he will be a greater fool principleshiftthe Act in of therespect appears
action and rethe onus
to be to
eth of three years.
end
sponsibility froni the purchaser, who is not
l0.
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
rnIst Say on behalf of the profession to
Whch I belong that we know more when
wh have been five years at the bar than
*ben we have had but three years practice.
The clause was adopted.

interested under the trust, to the beneficiary,
who is, and to enable the beneficiary to pro-

tect himself by proceeding against the trustee,
when an improper dealing is contemplated,
rather than by renaining inactive to rely
upon the purchaser's knowledge of his righits
as a safeguard against their violation.
It will be remenbered that a cestui que trust

nay enter a caveat under which we will receive notice of any dealing with the trust

property in time to stop it (e), and that the
conmmissioner of his own inotion may cause a
like caveat to be -entered to protect the
re
GN·MR. PLUMB-My hon. friend interests of persons entitled, but unable to
!i ' the other day the opinion of a judge question the transactions of the legal proprieuoIefoundland, who spoke of the system tor (f), and may also protect in any way he
fCaveat as being quite sufficient for the thinks desirable the rights of the persons

On the 31st clause,

'oservation of trusts. Now, I would like
o f
how far the depositing of a notice
otrust With the registrar will affect the
prarfer of lands. The registrar merely
th It on fyle ; is that sufficient to stop
e Conveyance of the land?

for N

beneficially interested, or require the concurrence of persons whose consent nay be
necessary to the exercise of powers (g).
I notice in Mr. Mowat's Bill, a copy of
which the hon. member from Halifax was
kind enough to lend me, that he makes
an additional provision with regard to
trusts and provides in the Bill that some
notice shall be taken of the trust by marginal note. The provision is substantially
the same as we have got it in the Bill
before us, but there is some additional
provision which seems to me to be a good
one and which I am willing to incorporate
in this Bill.

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,
maIOnth, and in the meantime an
I
apheation can
fe ok the Housebe made to the courts. a
will allow me to read
te words from a work of F. G. Duffy;
tre dition is by him. but the work is by
tha
lhornas àBeckett, and it gives better
system can the reasons why the Torrens
ast
does not recognize trusts. The
HON. MR. KAULBACH-That is just
fousage Which I am about to quote will be what I suggested; I think the entry should
fo in chapter 19 of his work ; it is as be on record of the trust ; as regards the
fiduciary having a right to take action, we
treat oprietor miay settle his property by know that fiduciaries are often minors and
fi ýtn any estates in it for life in remnainder not able to look after their own affairs,
generai inlthe sane manner as under the and there is therefore greater reason why
aJov and restraiied only by the saine
iw,
evn ns agaist perpetuities: lie is allowed the caveat should be entered on the record.
to t 1
gater facilities, as lie need not resort
HON. MR. PLUMB-It seems rather
etif technicaitiîs of limiting uses, or
aurg
any precedent or particular estate to
hard that those who are to be benefited
there.- an estate in renainder (a). But
situtea i this narked distinction between the by the trust should have to take action
:ill noand the general law-that the statute and that the purchaser should not have to
Derrit, by registration, recognize a trust or buy at his own risk, I observed in the
OWnlerse Separation of legal fron beneficial letter from a judge in Newfoundland, that
tr "he for the purposes of dealing (b).
P
and said in the
ties t tnay be created as between the par- he spoke of administrators heirs or devileas te instrument in any nianner they execution of their trusts the
if ti)as Under the general law; and a co *y sees would be protected by the bonds of
.e trust deed nay be deposited with t e responsibility of the administrator, but he
(c). 8t
for sale custody and reference
not to say anything about
%th
T"and miay be reached by the trustee, was very careful
do
the trust will not be attaclhed to the an executor who does not give bonds.
filst cl a manner as to be enforced Therefore that part of the argument falls
a
Person acquiring it, without fraud to the ground, but he expressly stated that

-266

eal Property [SENATE]

N. W. Territori&e.

the notice was a sufficient protection ; the do, and they are in Ontario adopting the
words he used I think were that the
ýexistence of a caveat was quite sufficient
for the conservation of trusts. Now if
there is to be no notice of these trusts to
the purchaser, but those who are beneficiaries under the trust are to protect
themselves, there should be notice on the
record, and I think my hon. friend will
see that it might be desirable to afford
some protection other than that of merely
depositing a notice, which is declared not
to be a notice, which shall bind the purchaser. I think there might be some way
-devised by which minors and others would
ýbe protected.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
.committee will remember that the words
"no survivorship " are to be entered where
there are two trustees. Mr. Mowat adopts
this language:" In such a case the words 4 no eurvivor-

ship' in the entry shall be construed to mean
-that in case any of the owners should die, no
,registered disposition of ihe land, or charge,
shall be maade except under order of the
court."

same views as to the advantages or dis
advantages of it, so I think with that protecting clause it would be safe enough.
HON. MR. POWER-I think the general
feeling of the committee is in favor of
adding the words quoted from the Mowat
Bill. That evidently does away with 3
great deal of the objection to this clause.

The clause was allowed to stand.
On the 3 2nd clause,
HON. MR. TRUDEL-I understand
that we are aiming all the time at creating
a cheap system by which parties will be
saved expense, and it seems rather hard
that the registrar should have the right tO
require a plan of any land within his dis'
trict to be registered. It is imposing a
heavy burden on the proprietor and I
think it should be provided that where a
plan is necessary it should be made at the
expense of the Government.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
Now that is a great additional safety. not concur in that view. The smallest

sub-division made under the Governient
survey is a quarter section of 16o acres.
Suppose a man owns land which he desires
to divide into town lots, the first and ImOst
essential step for him to take is to prepare
a plan. It would not be fair to impose
the cost of that on the Government. If
he wishes to go on with his speculationl he
HON. MR. PLUMB-That meets the must have a plan, and that ought to be
case in part, but suppose there are not registered for the safety of those with
whom he has to deal.
two trustees ?

Then if a man appoints two trustees and
the words "no survivorship " are entered
-as a matter of course under the Act it
would be the duty of the registrar to do
that-it both trustees are not there to act
for the trust, neither of them can dispose
-of the estate.

HON. MR. TRUDEL-In the Provincc
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
think for the most part there are two of Quebec in such a case it is the duty
trustees named, and certainly if there are the proprietor to have a plan ; but here

two that is a great protection.

If the the registrar may oblige any owner oflald

committee concur, I would introduce within his district to deposit at his ogica plan of such lands. There is no restric
that as an additional safeguard.

tion to that

rower.

HON. MR. PLUMB-It seens to me
if the principle is recognized, the comHON. MR. POWER-There is a prO
mittee ought to go further and not jeopar- viso at the end of the clause that it sha

dize a claim because there happens to be not be necessary in the case of lots in a
only one trustee.
city, town or village, the plan of wh ich
has been registered. That is, as the MinHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-You ister of Justice has suggested, to neet the
cannot go further without recognizing case of a man who wishes to lay the fOuntrusts, which the Torrens system does not dation of a village ; he can register the
HON. MR. PLUMB.

Real Property [MARCIE
Plan and can then sell lots without making
a further plan, but I think the cases must
lo very few in which a man selling a farm
lot ought to be required to make a plan
.is property.
He should only be
re9uired to do so in case it is necessary in
Order to identify the lot. I would suggest
that.
. It would be well to insert after
teg5tsrar ," in the beginning of the clause,
that the registrar in any case where
it is
necessary for the identification of the proPerty conveyed might require the owner
t fyle a plan. I presume that the registrar Will get a fee for everything that he
s, and if you leave it optional with him
require a plan. he will have one fyled
every case. I think it should be only
reuired where it is necessary to identify
Property.

11, 1885] N. W. Territorie8.

267

ing therewith, the owner is required to fyle
a plan of his land."
HoN. MR. GOWAN-That is the implication all through.
HON. MR. TRUDEL-Would it not
be well to limit it to building lots in villages ?
HON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
is already provided for under clause D.

HON. MR. POWER-It may be a
somewhat expensive and difficult thing to
get a surveyor to make a plan out in the
North-West. As the principal object of the
Bill is to make the transfer of land cheap
and easy, we should not do anything that
would interfere with that object. I still
FON. R. TRUDEL-It should be in adhere to my view that this should be lime Of sub-division of land into build- ited to cases where there is any reasonlflg lots.
able doubt as to the identity of the land.
Suppose you insert the following words :
" The registrar in any case where there is
11
0N. IR. GOWAN- Precisely the
e provision has obtained in Ontario any reasonable doubt as to the identity of
the land, may require the owner to fyle a
has worked very well. So long as plan."
ad
PeyPle deal with the lots as originally surleyed there can be no difficulty in identiHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
Yng the lots
otdertakes to disposedaof ; but if a person cannot concur in that. The first great
lay out property into town
lott
Object is to make the conveyance of the
is to his own advantage
that land safe, and how can persons who are
'shOuld have a plan, because, if not, he
about to buy land in a village be possibly
wOuld be required to give a special sur- safe unless there is some plan fyled ? Why
"ey0r S certificate for each lot. Almost
tvery day, certainly every week,
it is the very first step that any prudent
in Ont- man would take if he intended so to deal
aub, Plan of this kind is
fyled which is
t 'lbnitted a judge to be approved, so with his land in Ontario or anywhere else.
to
enablt Will be clear on the face of it and
HON. MR. TRUDEL-The clause
enable any purchaser to ascertain the gives the registrar power to order the man
txc 1)t conveyed. This clause is in to prepare and fyle a plan.
lawstance the same as the provision of the
aert.i Ontario for the sub-division of proHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-In
Wel. e Which has been found to work very order to have it safe the registrar is empowered to exact such a plan. It is not
a very arbitrary thing to do wlen a man
io
-NhR. KAULBACH-Would it would, for his own advantage and the
sion ewell to confine it to the sub-divi- safety of those to whom he sells, prepare
tions of lots, for the purpose of identifica- such a plan.
HoN. MR. TRUDEL-The registr
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL- I might order it without any reason.
Words ing to suggest that the following
de Inight be added :-"1 Where the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
the Purpose
r Proposes to sub-divide his land for would only be in the case where an
of selling or otherwise deal- owner proposes
to sub-divide his land for

Real Property [SE NATE]

268

N. W. Territories.

the purpose of selling in such divisions.
HON. MR. POWER-I have already
Then the registrar might require the expressed an opinion on that question,
owner to fyle a plan.
and the House has decided on it; but I
think it is to be regretted that we should
HON. MR. POWER-The Minister not have followed the example of British
puts the case of a man who divides his Columbia and retained the system Of
land into town lots. There is another registering all documents dealing with
case which is more likely to happen in the lands.
North-West; that is where a man is the
The clause was adopted.
owner of a quarter section of i6o acres
and wishes to sell a portion of it, say the

east half or the south half. Now there is
nu necessity for a plan to further define
that. The registrar, who I presume is
to receive a fee for the registration of
every plan, m>ay require him to fyle a plan
although it is not necessary for the identification of the property. Now I do not
think he should have the power to require
a plan in such cases.

HON. MR. READ, from the Committee,
reported that they had made some progress
with the Bill, and asked leave to sit again
to-morrow.

ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
not think I can yield any more than I
have; I am quite willing to introduce
these words at the commencement of the
clause: "Where the owner proposes to
sub-divide his land for the purpose of
selling or otherwise dealing therewith in
sub-divisions, the registrar may require,
etc."

HON. MR. GIRARD (in the absence
of Mi. Lacoste) moved the second reading
of Bill (I) "An Act to amend the Act tO
incorporate the Sisters of Charity of the
North-West Territories."

HON. SIR

HON. MR. POWER-I would call the
attention of the Minister of Justice to this
fact in connection with the suggestion of
the hon. gentleman behind me : that it
would not be much trouble for a man to
make a plan of that kind, and lie could do
it on a piece of paper. But this clause
requires that the plan shall be certified by
a licensed surveyor, and that it shall have
the measurements narked thereon on a
certain scale, and that involves expense.
HON.SIR ALEX.CAMPBELL-There
is no safety without it.

SISTERS OF CHARITY (N. W. T.
BILL.
SECOND READING.

The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
FEDERAL BANK OF CANADA
BILL.
SECOND READING.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL (in the
absence of Mr. Allan) moved the second
reading of Bill (io) "An Act to reduce
the capital stock of the Federal Bank Of
Canada and for other purposes."

The motion was agreed to, and the 13ill
was read the second time.
The Senate adjourned at 6 p.m.

The clause was adcpted as amended.

On the 3 7th clause,
HON.

MR. POWER-There is no pro-

vision made in this clause for the registra-

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Thursday, March r2th, I835-

tion in any way of any dealings with proThe SPEAKER took the Chair at three
perty except those under this Act ?
o'clock p.m.
HON.

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No. 1 Prayers and routine proceedings.

H ON.

SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Real Property [MARCH 12, 18851 N. W. Territories.

269

NEW SENATOR INTRODUCED.

having a transaction to say what the easements are. A very common easement in
"ON. MR. POIRIER was introduced, older countries is the right of a pathway
aId having taken and subscribed the oath across a field. They might or might not
"Ifo$ce, took his seat.
have that in view; but I do not think any
difficulty will be created by this subiAL PROPERTY, NORTH-WEST section.
TERRITORIES, BILL
HON. MR. DICKEY-As I understand
it, this does not interfere with existing
IN COMMITTEE.
easements ?
The House resumed in Committee of
he Whole the consideration of Bill (A),
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No.
A" Act respecting real property in the
The clause wasadopted.
orth-West Territories."
In the committee,

On the 66th clause,

On. the twenty-seventh clause.
HON. MR. PLUMB-How long is the
term for which a lease will be protected ?
HON. MR. PLUMB-I would ask
Whether in case taxes have accumulated
ou the land those charges will be wiped
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-A
lease to be protected cannot be for a
oyt bY the transfer ?
longer term than three years. All leases
- SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL - over three years must be registered.
b ey would be if allowed to accumulate,
The clause was adopted.
en Manitoba and the North-West procedings are taken every year to collect
On the 72nd clause,
tes ;there are sales every year. It would
ot do to allow taxes to accumulate. The
HON. MR. PLUMB--Is not the princit
cia1ls of the municipality should collect ple on which mortgages are held entirely
then every year. The last two lines of changed by this Bill ?
triaclause are "and any right of approaiOk
onwhich may by statute be vested
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
i an>y person or body corporate." That
mortgage must be in conformity with this
tiro provide for a case of this kind ; some- measure.
1o tfImprovements have been settled
.to be executed in a township, such
HON. MR. PLUMB-The mortgagee
tha ttance as drainage, and it is agreed does not get any title by his mortgage ?
Of te rate shall be levied for a number
grars-say ten years. This last paraHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--Oh
lad would protect such a plan, and the yes, he gets his lien on the land.
whicWould be subject to the assessments,
*hich would be quite fair.
HON. MR. PLUMB-But it does not
operate to give him a transfer of the land.
the N· MR. POWER-The only one of
HON. MR. TRUDEL-It seems to me
tionse sub-sections as to which any quesitself to me is sub-section the 74 th clause should be amended in
"
a way
registrar to
right of
.if the land is
Way 'op other easement.subject to not that suchdecisionasoftoaoblige the After noticeget
the
judge.
is
Should
apat on the register ? You require a given a sale is to take place to satisfy the
trntO fyle a plan to show what he is mortgage. Now that is exactly what was
indicaeing ; should not the easements be known under the old system in France as
SI(AXCAPd
toEo ?
the right to execute without judgment,
which was considered a most arbitrary
ini8ht* SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-It measure at the time-that is, you sell a
t h
eahinost impossible for persons man's property for payment of a debt

e,,suggests

270

Real Property [SENATE]

without having a judicial decision. The
clause is al!o open to this objection that
it is not in harmony with the remainder of
the Bill. In some cases the intervention
of a judge is required and I do not see
why it should not be necessary in this
case also.

Y. W. Territories.

usual rule, and it looks as if it might be
very easy for any man holding an encumlbrance on a property, in that case, to get
possession of land worth a great deal more
than the mortgage. I do not think the
mortgagor or those who come after the
mortgagor will be able to protect the1n
selves under this clause. It seems to me that
very great hardship might be sustained froin
such a summary mode of procedure, and
that those provisions are intended rather
for the benefit of the holder of the nortgage than to protect those whose interests
ought to be protected under this Bill. 1
think before that clause is passed we ought
to understand thoroughly in what position
those who may perhaps have an interest lfl
those lands will be placed, and whether
they ought to be summarily dealt with
without notice.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
provision is a very common one in Ontario,
and in fact, in all the English speaking
provinces. The mortgagor in giving his
mortgage pledges his land and authorizes
the mortgagee to sell if he fails to pay the
debt.
The mortgagee advertises the
property for sale, and those who are
interested have an opportunity of attending
the sale; and if the land brings more than
the amount of the mortgage, the mortgagor
gets the balance over. It is the ordinary
provision introduced in almost all mortgages in this province-certainly in mortHON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-The
gages where money is loaned it is a provision to which my hon. friend object$
is that which enables the land to be sold
comnion provision.
by private contract, and premits the
11ON. MR. KAULBACH-It seems to mortgagee to bid it in.
These two prome that the mortgagor should not have visions are constantly found in 31
the power of selling by private contract; mortgages in Ontario, at all events, and
that it should be open to public sale.
I suppose in the other provinces ; but if
the committee think proper we might e'
HON. MR. DICKEY-It seems to me clude sale by private contract, and insist
that clauses 55 and 66 do not harmonize. upon land being sold by public auctiOn.
Clause 55 provides that no instrument We might, if thought necessary, omit the
shall be valid until registered except power to the mortgagee to buy in and re
leasehold for three years or less. That is sell, but I do not know that that would be
clear enough ; but then clause 66 pro- desirable. Supposing we strike out the
vides that when any land under the words " by private contract ;" that would
provisions of this Act is intended to be make it necessary to provide for sale by
leased or demised for a life or lives, or for public auction. Then at public auction
a term of three or more years, the owner where every body was present sUP~
shall, &c. Now, there are two conflicting posing there was no one there willing to
provisions.
give for the property the amount
mortgage money, and the mortgagee were
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We allowed to buy it himself, nobody woula
had better alter the 66th clause, as the be injured by it. I think my hon. friend
intention is that three years shall pass, and from Niagara is mistaken in suppost"1
more than three years shall not.
that the land can be taken away absolutely
from the mortgagor without any furth
HON. MR. PLUMB-The proceedings proceeding ; if he looks at clause 76 he
for foreclosure and sale under mortgage will find a provision that when default for
seem to have something objectionable in six calender months has been made, in,
them. I observe that the land is first put the payment of the interest or princIPa
In case a sum secured by mortgage, the mortgagee
up for sale by public auction.
sale is not then effected a notice must be may apply to the judge for order of fore
given, and the land can be sold at private closure after the offer for sale, so that al'
sale-that is, it can be bought in by the those provisions are complete, and affo
mortgagee. I think that is contrary to the ample protection. It seems to nie the
HON.

MR. TRUDEL.

Real Property [MARCH 12, 1885.] N. W. Territories.

271

Only question is whether we should insist except under special circunistances. We
Upon sale by public auction, and
omit the all know how it may be abused. Very
Provision for the private sale.
frequently mortgage sales are advertised
and nobody attends, and the mortgagee
1
(0N. MI. BLUMB-In Ontario there under this provision, would buy in the
used to be a limit to the bid which the property and take advantage of the wants
raortgagee could make.
and necessities of the mortgagor. Our
experience tells us that we are not always
'ON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-He certain of getting buyers at those mortgage
CouId bid the amount of his mortgage sales. People feel a delicacy sometimes
tuOuey.
in attending, and before a mortgagee
should have the privilege of buying in a
ON. MR. KAULBACH-The pro- property himself, the sale ought to be
Pertn
may be worth more than the conducted by the court. He might bid it
rotgage, and the mortgagor may not be in at 25 cents on the dollar, and still hold
able to redeem the whole, and in that a claim for three-fourths of the amount of
le he should have the right to say what his mortgage against the mortgagor. It
poto of the land should be sold.
should be presumed that the mortgagee
has taken security for his money, and that
"ON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That he is satisfied that he will be recouped
supposes that the land is worth more when he makes the advance. It would
case the mortgage money, and in that be manifestly unjust, if by any captious
there can be no difficulty.
circumstance or accident he should be
allowed to come in and get possession of
• MR. KAULBACH-We find in a valuable property for less than its value,
the . Scotia, in sales under judgments that and still have aclaim againstthe mortgagor.
dec Judgment debtor has the power of
oling what portion of his land shall be
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-When
rald, and I think the saie power is gene- a man mortgages his property, and makes
eq given by the courts in preceedings in default in the payment of interest or printy in foreclosure of mortgages.
cipal, something must be done to enforce
the claim of the mortgagee, and what safer
thi MR. GOWAN-The objection to test can you have of the value of the prothls CI
a lause seems to be the placing in the perty than offering it for sale ?
f the mortgagee the power to sell
ei
le -by private contract or
HON. MR. SCOTT-But it should not
Cont in other words giving him by private
the entire be sacrificed.
igtrOl Of the matter. I think the difficulty
tbht be met by introducing a provision
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL -- In
hat t.e sale shall be subject to the order spite of all the legal proceedings that can
[Idirection of the judge.
be adopted, and in spite of the delay which
those legal proceedings will cause, and the
1Od". SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That expense they would involve, the ultimate
npose upon the mortgagee a bur- test of the value of the property is what
den
nder îch is not now imposed upon him it will bring at public auction; and if you
,Or fortgage transactions of that coun- can obtain this without delay and expense,
Oftario or of Nova Scotia.
isit not the best for all parties ? Supposing
a mortgage was taken with the idea that
to
- MR. GOWAN-This clause seems there was going to be a town in the imi, g e larger power to the mortgagee than mediate neighborhood of the property,
'i n in Ontario.
and on that expectation a loan of $i,ooo
was made, and from some cause or other
the i.
MR. SCOTT-The adoption of the town is not built and the value of the
to burinciple of permitting the mortgagee land is diminished, and the property is
! Saat a sale of foreclosure is one that sold for one-half its originally supposed
ait W have with very great disfavor by value, would it be right that the mortgagee
upon
considered this subject, should lose half his money ? The mort-

212

Real Property [SEN ATE]

gagor has had the money, and if his land
will not bring the amount of the mortgage,
is it right to say that the mortgagee shall
give up the balance of his claim ?
HON. MR. SCOTT-The position I
take is this : that if the land is sold by
auction or private sale and the mortgagee
himself buys the property, he ought to
give a full discharge of the debt. If on
the contrary, somebody else buys the property for a less sum than the mortgage,
then the mortgagee ought as a right to go
back on his covenant. But it is always a
temptation to the mortgagee to get a property below its value if he can buy it in, and
still hold the mortgagor for the balance
over and above the sum which the property
realized.

N. W. 7ritorie8.

newspapers, or to give any public notice
whatever-he simply gives the mortgagOr
one month's notice and he can then sell at
what is called public auction, but the sectiOn
does not prescribe any previous public notice
which will bring people to the sale and
prevent the property from being sacrificed.
I doubt very much if the mortgagee should
be allowed to have any claim on the mortgagor for any balance over and above what
the property sells for under foreclosure
where the mortgagee is permitted to bid it
in himself.

HON. MR. ALMON-I do not know
a case in Nova Scotia where loan societies
have sold lands by foreclosure of mortgage, in which they have not lost money,
and I think if you deprive the mortgagee
of the right of buying, the man who own"
HON. MR. POWER-I think if the the property is deprived of a bidder, whic-h
Minister of Justice considers the interest I think is unfair to him.
of the Government he will not insist on
HON. MR. KAULBACH-In Nova
passing this clause in its present form, be
cause I think it goes a long way to justify Scotia the mortgagee has the power to
the suggestion made by my hon. friend purchase. There should be sufficient
from Ottawa that this Bill bas been drawn notice given, more than thirty days, but I
in the interests of the lenders of money. must contend for the system to which
have been accustomed in Nova Scotia,
HoN. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-It that even when land is sold under a judgis copied verbatin from the law of Austra- ment the owner should have the right tO
lia, and how can it be suggested that it require that a certain part of his land
was drawn at the instance of anybody ? should be sold first. If by the sale Of a
portion of it he can meet the debt, whY
HON. MR. POWER-1 said it gave should the whole property be offered? It
color to the suggestion of the hon. gentle- :eems unjust and cruel that the whole Of
man from Ottawa that it was drawn in the a man's property should be sacri6ce
interest of lenders of money. Although when perhaps a small portion of it WOUd
mortgages in Nova Scotia contain a powei realize enough to pay the encumbrance.
of sale, the motgagee is not allowed tc
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-1 have
sell ; be bas to go through the process of
foreclosure, and the property bas to be known cases in my county where, for walt
advertised for thirty days and must be of advertising, property has been sacrificed
in a most cruel manner, and I think there
sold by public auction.
is a great deal of force in the hon. gentleHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That man's contention.
is according to the terms of the mortgage.
HON. MR. BOTSFORD-There is this
HON. MR. POWER-No, that is the objection that if you complicate proceedlaw of the province independent of the ings you interfere with the sale. Ini New
terms of the mortgage altogether. In Brunswick the power of the mortgagee 1
New Brunswick, although the mortgagee precisely similar to that given under this
may sell under his power of sale, he can- section. I think it is desirable to lea.e
not buy in the land himself. Under this the clause as it is for this reason, that i
Bill all that the mortgagee has to do is to you have to go to the Court of Chancell
give the mortgagor one month's notice. to decide the matter the expense Must fàJî
He is not obliged to advertize in the ultimately on the mortgagor. The rnort
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL

Real Property [MARCH 12, 1885] N. W. 2'erritorie.

2
273

gage' lVould not pay it because he is where the property is situated full notice
tntitled to all expenses incurred.
shouldbe given to avoid any such collusion
as my hon. friend refers to.

nototkN• SIRwhether the committee
know ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
is of
HON. MR. POWER-As to the point
0
Pion that there should not be a pri- taken by the hon. member from Ottawa
Vate sale.
there is a provision in the subsequent
clause which I think deals with the case
bo. MR. POWER-There shouid not sufficiently. The change which has been
a private sale.
made removes the principal objection to
the clause, but I think it needs some imON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--Sup- provement still. If you are to make a
shale wVe alter the notice and say that it provision for the publication of an adverSha be for two months instead of one, tisement for four weeks in such newspapers
.and in the third line, after the
hen,
notice," strike out "or" and insert word as would be likely to give the best notice
"and it will render an application unnecessary
th tiing, and after the word " an " in and save expense.
ane'ihth line insert "'subject to the order

r irection of the judge either altogether
id

a
os."

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBEJL-The
difficulty in that case is that it might be

claimed that the advertisement did not
t IR. KAULBACH-Should not appear in the proper paper, and there
elotice say where the sale is to take might be trouble about the title. I would
plaer -. Should it not be where the pro- prefer to leave it to the judge to say where
Pert 3 ISlocated
?
the notice should be advertised.
SIR A LEX. CAMPBELL-That
HON. MR. GOWAN-I an quite satisnt ot be convenient.
fied with the clause as altered by the Minister of Justice. It will put it in very
f1o- MR. SCOTT-In practice it is much the same position as sales in the
0en1 to be fair that where property has Court of Chancery are in this province,
ahnadvertised in the ordinary way and The Master regulates the time and place
the nest effort made to effect a sale, of sale when both mortgagor and mortgato 0otgagee should then have the right gee fail to agree as to the best time and
to at» by private sale. I do not object place.
Phaprivate sale under such circumstances ;
HON. MR. DICKEY-The leading
be Ido object to is that power should
gageýven in the first instance to the mort- principle of this Act is to simplify proceedhi se to Purchase at a sale of which he ings and make transfers as cheap and
Therefore I
are e has given notice, because there expeditious as possible.
hidderY Iany cases in which there are no would hardly be in favor of making any
hrs at a sale except the mortgagee, serious changes in this Bill which appears
Iight under that clause have the to have been well considered. After all,
ri8ht m
that tho bu the property for a sum less when we come to consider it, there is
the
e amount of the mortgage, holding nothing in the laws of the older provinces
think iortgagor for the balance, which I to prevent a mortgagee from buying.
I most unfair.
There is generally a provision inserted in
the mortgage giving the mortgagee liberty
eai MR. BOTSFORD-That may be to buy in the property if it is put up to
1 evaded in this way-the mortgagee sale.
itnget a friend to attend the sale and buy
to the Property and then have it transferred
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Shall
hmselfwe leave in the words " sell by private
sale "?
rease ' MR. KAULBACH-That is a
U
WhY greater precaution should be
HON. MR. POWER-No, strike them
Wen the sale is not at the place out.
s
l'ON·

•

274A

tReal l'perty [SENATE]

N. W. Territories.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLHON. MR. PWER-Jas the Minister
There is great force in what my hon. friend satisfied himself that twenty per cent. Of
(Mr. Botsford) says-the more difficult the registration fees will form a sufficieft
you make it to realize the money the fund?
worse it will be for thernan who owns the
land.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL- It
will not in the first instance, I suppose,
HON. MR. KAULBACH-If the mort- but for some time to cone the transacgagee has power to purchase I do not see tions are likely to be simple.
why there should be a private sale at all.
HON. MR. POWER-I think the sysHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-What tem adopted in the South Australian ColOis to be donc supposing land is put up for nies was to pay a percentage on the value
sale at public auct on and does not bring of the property.
the amount of the mortgage ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-1ý e
HON. MR. POWER-The mian can might try whether the twenty per cent. Of
buy it ii.
the registration fees would be sufficient.
If it should prove to be insufficient We
HON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Very could provide for a percentage on the
often it occurs wlhen a man has been try- value of the land transferred. In the Coing to sell land at public auction without lonies to vhich the hon. gentleman alludes
success that some months afterwards he money was plenty and people were selling
finds a purchaser for it by private sale. valuable land, and the quarter of one per
cent. was a trifle to them ; but it might be
HON. MR. REESOR-I think provision an undue burden on the people of the
ought to be made for selling by private North-West.
sale under certain circumstances.
loN. MR. POWE R -The condition Of
H,--s. A. TRUDEL-I thi«nk the British Columbia is not verv unlike that
interests of those who may not be able of the North-West and I think we can
to attend to thein should be guarded in safely adopt the system that has been i11
somne way, and the disposal of property in operation there, which is a percentage orr
this sumniary mianner should not be the value of the property. I do not thin.k
allowed without the interference of sorme that the carrying out of this law which is
public authority. I do not think it would intended for the benefit of the people Of
the North-West Territory should be made
complicate proceedings iuch.
a burden on the revenues of the country.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELI-I
The amount of the fund should be enoIgh
have put in the words "subject to the to cover anfy probable loss.
discretion of the judge."
Now as to the
KAULBACH -- It i, not
final objection to this clause on the part
HoN. Mî.
of the hon. niember from Halifax, suppos- likely for many years to cone that there
ing we insert the words immediately will le any burden on the country, bebefore "or by private contract," " and cause the transfers will be so simple at
subject to the order and direction of the first that there is no likeiihood any damlage
judge, either altogether or in lots, by public will accrue to any person.
auction, or after an effort so to sell, then
by private contract."
Hox. MR. REESOR--suppose instead
of a quarter of one per cent. youI mnake
Hos. MR. POWER-'l'hat will do well it a fifth ?
enough.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBEL'f
The motion was agreed to, and the have letters from the D)eputy AttorneY
clause as amended was adopted.
General of British Columbia, and the
Registrar General, and neither of thetf
On clause one hundred and six.
says anything about an insurance fund.

Real Property [MARCH 12, 1885] Y. W. Territorie.s.
"ON. MR. SUTHERLAND-In my
humble opinion there is no immediate
necessary for any charge. It is not likely
that there will be any use for such a fund
for some years to come, and although the
charge might be a very small one, yet, as
the Minister of Justice has stated, there is
nlot a great deal of money there, and
probably there will be no surplus money

in the country for some time to come.

27511

why he has not done so; it seems to me
it would be much better to allow the party

to bring his complaint before a judge-to
summon the registrar to appear before a
judge to answer why he has not done so
and so.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
is what I understand the clause to provide.

Parties dealing in land might consider a
HoN. MR. TRUDEL--You oblige the
Very small item such as this, especially if registrar in the first place to proceed, if

is not required, to be something of a he does not proceed you require the party
grievance
interested to ask the registrar to take action
against the party who is guilty of fraud.
'ION. MR. KAULBACH-I think we
had better recognize in the law a fund If the party should prefer to take his case
before a judge why not allow him to do so ?
however small it may be ; if it is found to
to small it can be increased.
Se

HON. MR. DICKEY -The object of
the clause is to do exactly what the hon.
.YON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
tInister of the Interior thinks that perhaps gentleman desires-to simplify matters.
't would be better to put in a very small He might find on conferring with the
percentage, say one-tenth of one per cent. registrar that there was no necessity to go
before the judge, but my hon. friend would
lONMR. POWER--I sec by the 76th have him go to the court first and then
Section of the British Columbia Act that get his information from the registrar
re is an assurance fund in that province. afterwards.
The rate is one-fifth of one per cent. on
Property below a certain value, and oneHON. MR. TRUDEL.- What I say is
tenth of one per cent. on property above he should have the option to take either
course.
that value
The clause was adopted.
"(N. Mi. DICKEE
Is it not rather
a ovel principle in the legislation of the
HON. SIR A LEX. CAMPBELL-Befor try to nake the Government liable
fore asking that the committee rise and
e nisconduct of these ofhicers ?

report progress I would just like to give a

tON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBE11, -Only
I presume, of
Ste extent of the fund.
ourse, it is not to he a general charge on
lowever, I will take care
tha country.
at that is made plain. I move that the
follth clause he amended by adding the
t>ong after " Receivar-General,"
words
h' far as the assurance fund will enable
h to do so"

general idea of what still remains to be
considered in regard to the Bill. I understand that we have not passed upon the
several points which are outside of the
Torrens system ; that we have not passed
upon the question whether lands are to be
considered chattels or not, and we have
not passed upon the point whether they

are to go to the executor or not ; we have
not passed on the question of the devisee
The
otion was agreed to, and the or on the question of dower. Although my
hon. friend from I unenburg and my hon.
lause as anended vas adopted.
friend fron Halifax appear to be satisfied
as to the question of dower, my hon. friend
Onl the~ ith clausc,
1
fron DeSalaberry is not.

MIR. ''RUDI>E

the
Hox. MR. SCCT
It is not undertestrar does not do what is provided by
i 4th and i i;th clauses, then by stood on this side that the question of
0n1 t 3 he would be asked to declare dower is settled.
- Suppose

276

Exploive

[SENATE]

Substancs Bill.

HoN. MR. GOWAN-I have read the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
think I have mentioned the points which evidence, and it seems to my mind to esare open, and I will prepare one or two
amendments which have becn suggested
and lay them on the table so that hon.
gentlemen can see them between now and
the next sitting ofthe committee. I move
that the committee rise and report progress,
and ask leave to sit again on Tuesday
next.

tablish conclusively the report which the
committee have made, and I fully endorse
the views entertained by the committee.
HoN. MR. GLASIER-I have a right
to my opinion, and therefore I propose to
vote against the Bill.
The report

was concurred in on a

HON. MR. READ, from the committee, division.

reported that they had made some progress
with the Bill, and asked leave to sit again
on Tuesday next.
The report was received and the motion

THE TERRY I)IVORCE BILL
THE REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE
ADOPTED.

was agreed to.
HoN. MR. ODELL moved the adop-

THE HATZFELD DIVORCE BILL. tion of the second report of the Select
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ADOPTED.

Committee to whom was referred Bill (E)
"An Act for the relief of Fairy Emily
Jane Terry." He said :--This report,
and the evidence taken before the conmittee, have been printed in the minutes
of proceedings of this House, and have
been in the hands of hon. members for
the last few days. The committee were
unanimous in their report, and I think
under the circumstances there is no
reason whatever why it should not be contcurred in by the flouse.

HON. MR. KAULBACH moved the
adoption of the second report of the Select
Committee to whom was referred Bill (D),
" An Act for the relief of Georg Louis
Emil Hatzfeld."
He said:-As the report and the evidence taken before the
committee have been in the hands of hon.
gentlemen for some days, I do not suppose
that the House will expect me to say anything to sustain the report which the
The ieport was concurred in on a
committee have made. I nay say, however,that the committee decided nem. diss. division.
that the evidence led to but one conclusion,
that the allegations of the preamble of the EXPLOSIVE SUIiSTANCES BILL.
Bill were proved by circumstantial evidence

of the clearest character.

The evidence

REPORTE)

FROM COMMITTEE.

of the respondent herself, in the opinion
of the committe, rather strengthened the
The House resolved itself into a Coiallegation of the petitioner, and the com- mittee of the Whole on Bill (K), "An Act
mittee found that there was no collusion respecting explosive substances."
or connivance between the parties to obtain
a divorce.
In the Committee,
HON. MR. GLASIER-I shall have
HoN. SiR ALEX. CAMPBEIL-As I
to vote against that Bill. I do not think explained before, this Bill has been taken

the case has been proven according to the
Scotch law.

almost entirely from the Act recently
passed on the same subject in England.

HON MiR. POWER-It the Minister
HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-Was
of Justice Attorney-General of Canada?
the hon. gentleman on the committee?

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes'
HON. MR. GLASIER-I was not, but
I have read the evidence taken before the I am Attorney-General of Canada, but I
am not mentioned in this Bill at ail
committee

EQplosive [MARC H 12, 1885.] Sub8tances Bill.

271

HQN. MR. POWER -Clause 2 pro- effect than any other mode of punishment
"ides that the expression " Attorney- with persons who perpetrate these crimes
theneral " in any proceedings taken under -men of a certain degree of education,
a
this Act in the North-West Territories and good deal of skill and some science. If
Keewatin means the Attorney-General of those people knew that they would be put
Canada.
in the pillory, and have the cat applied to
them, it would be a very great deterrent to
The clause was agreed to.
them-much more than it has proved in
practice to have been on the street walker
On clause 3,
who prowls about for a livelihood and
meets you at night and catches you by the
hON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBE LL-My throat and tries to take your purse from
hon. friend from Halifax, when this Bill you. That is the kind of man who
1
does
as u) the other day, said he took it for
granted that by the Interpretation Act the not care so much about the whip, but in
Penalty of imprisonment for life meant point of fact we know what the effect has
been, even with that degraded class. It
a1so a less period, in the discretion of the has been to almost
stop the crime of garJudge. It is so.
rotting. It is quite true that flogging is
not provided for in the English law reHON. MR. KAULBACH---Ithinksome cently enacted, and there is a great deal
suggestion was made also that the penalty cf force in that argument, but it seems to
Should include flogging.
me it has been suggested lately-for many
of those crimes have been perpetrated
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBEI L-It since Parliament sat last-that punishWas, but I am not disposed to
ask the ment by flogging shculd be provided.
comittee to adopt that suggestion.
The When we are dealing with people who are
reason is, it has not been done in England, beyond the pale of society-men who are
and another reason is that this law is not enemies of the whole human
race, I do
likely to be applied to those
who are not think we should allow any sentimental
The application of scruples to deter us from doing what we
th itual criminals.
the cat is only in connection with that can to prevent those horrid crimesclass of habitual criminals such as sneak crimes which not only destroy public prothievesandgarrotters, and not to
those who perty but imperil the lives of women and
are likely to use explosive substances, and children and defenceless persons
who
i do not think, so far as I can judge, that ought to have protection under the law.
is desirable in the face of the example Those dynamiters spare noboby, and there
they show us in England to carry out the fore I think it would be well for my hon
fiuggestion that is made to increase the friend to reconsider the matter, and en
Punishment by whipping.
deavor if possible to give the judge dis
cretionary power, if he thinks the case re
HN MR. ALMON
left to the discretion of -Could it not be quires it, to add this punishment to the
the jddge ?
rest.
"ON. MR. KAULBACH-They found
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
nO mneans in England to put down garrot- have looked at several bills which have
ting until they commenced using the cat. been framed in different States of the
Union, as well as at the English Act, and
ON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-Gar- this provision
is not to be found in any of
ottlfg was perpetratedalmost
altogether by them. I think if hon gentlemen call to
a cias of habitual criminals.
The crime mind the state of alarm they have been in
Whch this Bill is to provide for will be in England on account of the efforts that
dOne by a different class.
have been made there to injure public
buildings, and find that under provocation
a'ON. MR. DICKEY-I can hardly vastly greater than any we have been
accept that view of the case, because if obliged to submit to here, they have not
the Cat were made a part of the
punish- thought it necessary to introduce the
ientWOuld have a much
t
more deterrent punishment of flogging into their Act,

278

2Eplo8ive

[SEN ATE]

Subst«nee. Bill.

although they have it for certain crimes
there, they will agre that it would be
unwise to introduce it here. The committee must bear in mind there are other
circumstances that we are obliged to consider.
You might perhaps affect the
sympathies of a great many people whose

she is likely to screen her husband on ail
occasions. I do not know any other Bill
but the Canada Temperance Act in which
such a principle is adopted. It interferes
with the divine law " Whom God hath
joined together let no man put asunder."

sympathies it would be bad policy and

HON. MR. IPOWER-The first portion

inexpedient to affect in that way by adding of the section may lead to abuse.

ExplIthis punishment.
It is very difficult for sive substances of different kinds are used
me to explain myself fully to the House, by miners and others all over the Dominnot because I could not, if I thought it ion. It is possible that a police officer,
wise to do so, but because it is not desir- finding a man with dynamite in his possesable I think, in the meantime at all events, sion, would naturally think he had it for
to add this punishment of whipping, an unlawful object, and it is a somewhat
partly for the reasons to which I have serious thing to transfer the onus of proof
alluded, and partly because I do not find from the prosecutor to the accused. I do
it done under circuinstances of great not sec how the clause can be altered very
'provocation in England. I took occasion well, but I think the provision is capable
to consult my colleagues about the matter of very considerable abuse. I know that
sornewhat informally in order to ascertain there are a great many miners in Nova
what the general feeling was, and I may Scotia, and those men all use dynamite in
say that the informal opinion of my col- their business.

leagues was against the introduction of
flogging.
HON. MR. GIR ARD-I am pleased to
sec that the opinion of the Minister of
justice is against the introduction of
whipping, although the offence is a grave
one. I think it would be better to enforce
the penalty of death rather than the degrading one of flogging. I know that in
the only case of whipping that was resorted
to in my province, public feeling was so
strongly against it that the sympathy was
entirely with the criminal who was so
punished.

The clause was adopted.
On the 5th section,

HON. MR. VIDAL-They would not
be troubled by this law.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
because they would have it for a lawful
purpose.

Hox. MR. VIDAL-There must be a
reasonable suspicion before action can be
taken agair.st the party at ail
HON. MR. POWER-The fact is that
any man who is found in the city of liaifax with dynamite in his possession would
be looked upon as having it under susPicious circumstances. I would suggest that
the Minister should, between now and the
third reading of the Bill, see if that clause
could not be modified in some way so a

HON. MR. SCOTT -- Does this section to protect innocent men.
involve the necessity of contractors, and
others who are using explosives necessarily,
HON. MR. DICKEY-There was a
informing the authorities of it ?
case in Halifax exactly in point. Two
men came there in whose possession dylHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-If amite was found by mere accident. TheY
they are interfered with it will.
could not and would not give any accourt
of themselves and the result was that
HON. MR. AI.MON-I object to the they were imprisoned for a considerable
econd sub-section which provides that a period. Afterwards one of these parcels
wife may be examined as a witness against or dynamite which had been overlooked
her husband on a charge of this kind. I in some way, was found in another part
do not thnk there is any necessity for the of the town. I do not know whether it
wife being drawn into the case, because was ascertained, but it has been conject-

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL

Man. & YV. W. Ttr. [MARCH 12, 1885] Censgu Bill.

279

'red that one of the men was the person the census is likely to be taken some of
unningham who has since been arrested our people will probably be in the neigh-

InFngland.
NI
MR. KAULBACH-As the Onus
obandi is on the part of the accused
ere, it gives him an opportunity of showof the
ng that he is not in possession
any improper purpose. If
naite for
ztWere prevented from establishing

his

butcence, it would be a great hardship,
t is not so under the circumstances.
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My
on. friend will sec that the second
step

boring States hunting, or engaged in some
other business, who will have no intention
of remaining away, but will return home
in the Fall. They reside in Manitoba or
the North-West Territories, and it would
not be right to exclude them from the
census. Provision should le made to
have their names and the names of their
farnilies included in the returns, and I
should like to know what the Government
intend to do in the matter.
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-Could there

"nOt be taken under this clause without not be means adopted by which those who
!he fiat of the Attorney General. There are thus absent with animus revertendi
'S protection there that the Act will not should be shown in a separate column?
froenforced unduly. The clause is copied
froni the English
Act.
Hox. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I

think we will have to leave that to the
officers who take the census. They will
act under the rules and the instructions
MR. BOTSFORI), from the given them by the Minister of Agriculture,
mC(T1îfittee,
reported the Bill without whose object is to get the best informaanedmnent.
tion he can as to the population at a
certain time.
4ANITOBA AND NORTH-WEST
HoN. MR. POWER-I think the sugTERRITORIES CENSUS BILL
The clause was adopted.

gestion which has been made by the hon.

REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.

The Ilouse resolved itself into a Comte

of

the

Whole on

Bill

(21)

Act to provide for the taking of a
et'sus in the province of Manitoba and
the eorth-West Territories and the district
Uf Reewatin."

In the Committee,
th 0N word GIRARD-I would suggest
tdt the MR. " hunting " should be inserted before the word " fishing " in the 4th
ause. In that country hunting
is an imP>0nant industrv
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
ent gentleman t the head of the Depart41
assures
ed In taking me that the forms to be
the census will include furs.
o<
1"'.MR. KAULBACH-The words

Other Idustries " will cover it.

member from Lunenburg is a very good
one. A good deal of dissatisfaction has
been expressed on both sides as to the
manner in which the census has been
taken heretofore. It may be that there is
no ground for it, but it would be well to
adopt the suggestion to insert a column
giving the persons who are absent temporarily with the intention of returning. It
could not be said then that there was any
attempt to deceive or to claim a hrger
population in that country than there
really is ; and on the other hand it could
not be said that that portion of the population of the territories who were absent
with he intention of returning were
excluded from the census. It would give
us more definite information than the
ordinary census does, and it would be
better to have the forms prepared in that
way than to leave the matter to the discretion of each census enumerator. Those
officers are not always the most intelligent
or careful men in the world.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
li'O MR. GIRARD-I would again
'ahl attention to the fact that at the time will not be left to the discretion of the

280

The Indutries and [SENATE]
20

officers, but to the Minister of Agriculture
to say what information should be got in
that way.
I will take care to bring the
view of the hon. member from Lunenburg
before the Minister and communicate the
result to my hon. friend.

Manuf'r8 of Canada.

counsel for the petitioner was not even
called upon to address the committee, Se
clear was the case.
The motion was agreed to and the report was adopted.

HoN. MR. GOWAN moved that the
MR. DICKEY-It is a very Bill be read the third time on Tuesday
simple way of meeting the dimculty.
next.
HON.

HON. MR. MACFARLANE, from the
The motion was agreed to on a divisio'committee, reported the Bill without
amendment.
THE INDUSTRIES AND MANIFACTURES OF CANADA.
The House adjourned at six o'clock.
DEBATE CONTINUED.

The order of the day having been called
for resuming the adjourned debate on the
Hon. Mr. Macdonald's motion :THE SENATE.
That he will call attention to the Report of
the Commission issued by the Governient
Ottawa, Friday Marci I3 th, 1885.
last year to inquire into' the efiect of the
tariff of 1879, on the industries and mnaThe SPEAKER tock the Chair at three factures of the country, and will ask the
Government whether the report will be
o'clock p.m.
furnished to memibers of the Senate and
certain number to the country.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
HoN. MR. HOWLAN said :-I do nOt
intend to reply at any length to the reEXPLOSIVE SUBSTANCES BILL. marks made by the hon. gentlemen Who
have preceded me in this debate in regard
THIRD READING.
to free trade and protection. To replyto
the hon. gentleman who last spoke wOul
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved weary the House with a portion of the
the third reading of Bill (K) " An Act re- history of what might properly be called
specting explosive substances."
the trade of Great Britain. In connection
with this question of the condition of
The mDtion was agreed to and the Bill Great Britan at the particular period to
was read the third time and passed.
which the hon. gentleman refers-(I84)'
and on which he lays great stress because
Sir Robert Peel who had so long been k
THE EVANS DIVORCE BILL.
protectionist became a free trader-I think
the position of the country at the tinle
THE REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ADOPTED.
would possibly better be considered for a
moment to see the springs of action which
HON. MR. GOWAN moved that the occasioned his great departure from proreport of the Select Committee to whom tectionist principles. We know that in
was referred Bill (G) " An Act for the re- this country the words " free trade " and
lief of Alice Elvira Evans be concurred " protection " do not mean what theY do
It is impossible for a
in.
He said: The evidence has been in England.
printed, and is before every member of country that obtains its taxes fromn reV
this House.
I can only say that the enue to have either free trade or pro
committee found the allegations of the tection. When we look at the pOsitA
petition fully and clearly sustained ; that which England occupied in 1842 in regare
the finding was unanimous, and the to trade with the powers of the world, WC
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

The Indut8ies and [MARCHl 13, 1885] Manuf'rs of Canada. 281
'ust remember for a moment the accidents
HON. MR. HAYT HORNE-Hear,
ad incidents that surrounded her in the hear.
early Part of this century.
It will be reenbered that the fairest portion of this
HoN. MR. HOWLAN- -That was the
Continent was lost to England from what reason why Peel adopted free trade. What
admit was bad government. was the condition of England at that
Atil
herat now France had been crippled in time ? In 1842, the earnings from the intime
ver trade relations, and England, after a dustries of England amounted to £515lengthened war, out f which she ooo,000 per annum. She had the manue
face Oit is true, victorious, found herself facturing power of the world. She had
face to face with the fact that the leading beaten France in her wars, had crippled
tIids of Great Britain-the giant mindsthe industries and shipping of her rival
the bran power if I may so callit, of her and started her own manufacturing indusubic men - were in favor of doing tries in full blast, with an earning capacity
It was then settled
,ooo,ooo.
realthing to cultivate the friendly of £
were then broken, with upon that the best course to pursue to make
s, which
h
inat were called the rebellious pro- the rebellious provinces on this continent
idces. They saw that the United States her customers was to admit the raw proand d grow to very large proportions, ducts of America free; that was the best
us tf they allowed them to beconie way to foster her own industries. Was not
wsO ldrs of any foreign nations, that they that one way of meeting the difficulty ?
- thernselves lose for ever the trade Such was the mode by which the statesto
the hich they were entitled, and of which men of Great Britain enlarged her comter bad administration of affairs had merce and they are reaping advantages
adPorarily deprived them.
It was then from that policy to this day. But are
acated throughout the length and there no people in Great Britain who
bre1dth of the land that, as Great -Britain believe that under ordinary circumstances a
Vati . of the foremost manufacturing different course would be pursued ? I am
co0lds in the world, the best thing she sure there are.
Had Great Britain been
could do was to have free trade. She situated, as we are, with
a nation of 50,atId successfully compete with any ooo,ooo of people beside us, with extenhav.io wherever ber flag floated, and sive manufactures, the policy of free trade
.g a large mercantile marine, and with would not have beer inaugurated. Great
utroivalled manufacturing industries, the Britain on the contrary was mistress of the
PrOPe and best policy for England to seas and controlled the money markets of
adso ewas to repeal the corn laws and the world, she had
the largest manufaccon- turing industries and that was the reason
free trade policy.
t
ne in With that particular But in
fact I may say, why free trade was adopted. The surplus
'ic the language of Sir Robert Peel, earnings of her people which, in 1841,
0op . was quoted by my hon. friend were £515,ooo,ooo, had risen in 1851,
%ayss'te (Mr. Haythorne), there are two to /616,ooo,ooo,
and in 1864, to
f protecting industries of a country. £814,ooo,ooo. The last return I have
sit
ticulated as Great Britain was at that par- been able to find is that for 188o which
to the tirne, the opening up of her ports shows that they had then increased to
trade of the world was one way of £i,200,000,o00.
Such was the earning
WhichtIng ber industries, as the extract power of her investments at that particular
Clearl was read by the hon. gentleman time. We have been told that at the
koeY shows. The words used by Sir time when the National Policy was adoptrt Peel were as follows ed in this country there was nothing to
warrant any departure from the course
- 'tever be the tariff of foreign countries
hichever apparent the ingratitude with which had been pursued by the previous
hey have treated you, your export government. We were told that the cause
ae been constantly increasing. By the of all the difficulties and troubles and detrial, b
our duties u pon the raw ficits which attended the administration of
y cor.m cting your skill and industry Mr. Mackenzie was the bad harvests pred yoiue tompetit
for eign markets, ceding 1878. If we look at the Speech from
'~Ytab&V
ben venabe to ecludee them." the tbronc delivered at the opening of the
ouve been even able t ex
afol'
.
tned

-282

The Indutries and [SENATE]

Session of 1878 we will sec that the Governor Gencral states that the harvest of the
previous year had been an excellent one.
His words are " I am happy to be able to
congratulate you on the abundant harvest
reaped in all quarters of the Dominion."
That does not look as if the agricultural
industry had failed to reap a good harvest
that year. It shows that this country was
just in such a position as that which England occupied in 1842--that sorne new
departure was necessary to
meet
the constantly occurring deficits. My
honorable friend remarked,
and I
was surprised at his expression, that the
ate Administration had faith in the future
of this country. The trouble was that

they had no faith in its future --that they
were not equal to the emergency. If we
are to credit the statements recently made
at Montreal by a gentleman who stood
high in Mr. Mackenzie's Government, and
who occupies a prominent position in the
Liberal party at this day--Sir Richard
Cartwright-there was a difference of
opinion amongst the members of the late
Government as to the proper policy to be
pursued, and Sir Richard goes so far as to
say that he was himself in favor of increasng the tariff. It is evident therefore that
here were differences of opinion in the
Cabinet, and well there might be a division.
In every part of the country meetings were
held of men engaged in trade-the men
who were doing what may properly be
called the every-day work ofthe Dominion;
men representing every industry in the
country were advising the Government by
personal interviews, by petitions, by public
meetings and through the press as to the
best course to pursue, and we now know
that there were divisions in the Cabinet.
No one in this House doubts for a moment
that if by some accident, or some incident
of political life, the Government were to
change next week, the present fiscal system
of the country would be maintained. No
one believes for a moment that anything
would be done to destroy the industries
which have been planted throughout the
Dominion under the National Policy. On
the contrary, the leaders of the Opposition
are careful to state at public meetings that
they would not interfere with the course
that trade has taken if they were to come
into power. If they had been wise and
prudent, if they had had foresight and
HON. MR.

HOWLAN.

Manf're
jf

Canada.

statesmenship enough in 1878 to grapPle
with that question, the Conservative party
would not have been in power up to the
present time. If they had shown the safne
prudence and statesmenship that Disraeli
and Gladstone displayed with regard to
the Reform Bill they would have beei 1
power to-day. I do not wish to be understood as misquoting the language Made
use of by Sir Richard Cartwright in MOI
treal, and for that reason I will read an
extract from his speech which will be
found in extenso in the Globe. I k°w'
my hon. friends opposite have great faith
in the Globe, and will not dispute the
accuracy of the report.
Sir Richard
says:" It is of importance that me should understand that the issue was fairly and welldefi'
ed. It was not a question of whether vçf
should lay on more taxation for revenue.
was a square issue, squarely stated, whether
we should lay on heavy taxation to protec
our general industries or not. Now, I wou
like to say a word about the position of tbe
Mackenzie Administration as to the revenUS
question when it arose in 1876. I accept novr
as I accepted then, the responsibility of the
dicision of the Cabinet, but I am not breakin
any Cabinet secret when I say what *V
perfectly well known to many gentlem en Oul
side the Cabinet, what was made no secret
at the time, that I myself, in my capacitY &
Finance Minister, was disPosed to put 00
additional taxation in 1876.'
That I think sets the question at rest
with regard to his views at that particular
time. But when the public were appeaed
to throughout the land what was

result ? The policy as advocated by Sh
John Macdonald and his party met with
the approbation of the people and a very
large inajority was returned to suppOt

him. Now, in a new country like this, t
is impossible for statesmen to applY the
old rules, if I may so term then, I
suit a well established country like Eng
Since 1842 what changes have
land.
taken place ! What changes have take
place within the last ten or twelve years "I
this country ! Compare the Winnipeg O
to-day with the Winnipeg of ten or twe
years ago and mark the difference 1 C0.c
pare for instance any of the Napoleo0n
wars with the wars of modern times
there anything as great or grand in tAb
as the advance of General Stewart at .b
Klea, in a country where he was figh
natives not wanting in bravery, skill

T4e Industries and [MARCH 13, 1885] Mangf're of Canada. 283
arts of war, supplied with proper against those theoretical professors and
ttern .o and well armed to neet their Mr. Wells, we have the 50,000,000 of
tay In the open desert ? In that in- people of the United States adopting pro
huce General Stewart with ten or twelve tection, and what has their experience been
r ted Men faced and defeated eight during the last twenty years ? By protecttheren thousand of the enemy-surely ing their industries they have been able to
of "aind
eis something in that to be proud rescue their country from the depression
admire. Since 1842, things in which they found it, and bring it to an
Unless
tou greatly changed and I am at a loss unexampled state of prosperity.
(lrMerstand how my hon. friend opposite we come to the conclusion that our 5,000,which aythorne) could apply the rules ooo of people in Canada are inferior
cout goerned England at that time to a in enterprise, energy and intelligence,
and possess an inferior country to
y like this.
int e give him a quotation on the theirs, we must be satisfied that the
policy for this country is
,, from "Lang's Political Economy." proper
1ie Oîitical econony is not a universal protection to our industries. If that policy
toail o°f
which the principles are applicable had failed in the United States we might
good a
ldner al circumstances and equally possibly suppose that free trade would
ntry btrue for all nations, but every
liae as a political econorny of its own, have suited their circumstances better.
l"iio'tg own physical circumistances, The United States, at the close of their
te on the globe, climate, soil and pro- civil war, were burdened with a heavy
and to the habits, character and debt -- a debt caused by the destruction of
abs7 of its inhabitants, formed or valuable lives and millions of dollars
YSuch political circumstances."
worth of property. The securities of the
sto ePle of four millions in the country were selling at forty cents on the
ktit
9of the world have ever at- dollar, and commerce was well nigh
he O the task which we in the ruined. Under a protective tariff their sebui¡g.n Of Canada have undertaken, of curities have increased in value until now
leng g a railway nearly 3,000 miles in they are second to none in the world.
It shows that the men who But we have only to look at the enormous
tver
the the country have faith in its future. debt which had been rolled up during the
and ystood by the cradle of the Dominion civil war and the extraordinary manner in
its eY were not prepared to follow it to which it has been paid off, to see what prothe hrave. In the gloom of depression tection can do for a country. On the ist of
f ta faith in the recuperative power August, 1865, the public debt after deductu resteoPle and they knew the best way ting the cash in the treasury, was $2,756,aliz. Ore Public confidence and to nation- 431,571. On the 3 oth June, 1884, it had
Pubeli sentiment and so make of been reduced to $1,317,888,5 76. During
14g that a great and united country. Tak the fiscal year ending the 3 oth June,1884,
ae of it, the first thing they did the debt was decreased $101,o4o,972.
er th et every good farmer does-look The total income from the previous year
'e doie fence to see what his neighbors was $398,287,582, and the expenditure
and what their style of farming over $265,4o8,138, making the sum which
rdler
did that ; we looked across the I have already mentioned as the amount
r1 ted8 what our neighbors in the paid for the year, and leaving cash in the
u
See
we fd ? tates were doing, and what did treasury up to the oth June, 1884,
3
reove
Ve found a nation which had $
at all events that
4 2 5 ,03 1 , 3 21-showing
theire from a disastrous war in which we had a good precedent for adopting a
atio Merce was destroyed, and whose protective tariff. We had good reason to
the Ofal gag had almost disappeared from believe the policy which had proved to be
ells . Mv hon. friend says tliat Mr. in the interests of the United States, could
The
aitdth whom I am personally ac- not work badiy in our country.
" Has it
at altwas in favor of free trade, and question has often been put,
in the Dominion of Canada?"
a
sor olitical economists and pro- worked badly
oad colleges in the United States We are told by those who oppose this
%noyvocate that system.
Political measure that the cotton factories have not
ys not an exact science, but as proved to be a success. We were told when
r

2,84A

The Lndu8trie8 and [SENATE]

we were adopting this National Policy
that the manufacturers of cottons and
the sugar refiners would make large fortunes, and that the people would have to
submit to heavy taxation in consequence.
That prediction has not been verified and,
now the opponents of the National Policy
are not satisfied because the manufactures
have not realized fortunes. But the Government did not legislate for any particular
class ; they legislated for the masses of
the people, the consumers of manufactured goods, and it proves how far-sighted
the Government were, because cottons
are cheaper to-day in Canada than ever
before. Fault is found now because the
people get cotton goods so cheap that the
manufacturers are not making anything.
The hon. gentleman said in one part of
his speech that he never knew of any
cotton industries having experienced
vicissitudes, until after the National Policy
was introduced, and he did not believe
after all that the consumers of manufacturedgoodsthat enter into the every day life
of the country were getting their goods
cheaper than before.
The hon. gentleman certainly must have forgotten that at
the time the Nationl Policy was adopted
in this country the stocks of several of
our leadingcotton mills were almost valueless. i remember one, a factory at Cornwall, the stock of which was looked upon
What is the
as entirely worthless.
position of that industry now ? The fact
is the stock has risen and become of some
value, and the company is no longer in
the unfortunate position which the hon.
gentleman describes, and I may say the
cotton factories of the Dominion are not
all in a deplorable state.
HON. MR. POWER-Hear ! hear!

HON. MR. HOWLAN-The hon.
gentleman says " hear, hear," I have in
my hand the statement of Mr. A. F. Gault,
a prominent director of the Hochelaga
Cotton Mills, in which he says:" We have not discharged one hand on the
score of retrenchment during the season, but,
on the contrary, want more weavers; our
staff now nunbers about 900 operatives at
Hochelaga, all told, and 400 at St. Ann's, ail
working on full time, and at current wages;
any rumnor of distres2 through discharge of
hands from our mills is without the slightest
foundation."
HON. MR. HOWLAN.

Manuf'r8 of Canada.

There is proof that so far as some O
manufacturerers of cotton goods are .
cerned, the hon. gentleman is only wasto
his sympathy on them. But if anYt1I'
more is wanting to show whether this inde
try is thriving or not, I may mention
fact that the imports of raw cotton
increased from 7,000,000 pounds in
to some 20,000,000 pounds in

That does not look as if they were su
from depression. But before I pass a ta
from the subject of the great debt Of the
United States I wish to speak of our te
debt. It was not possible that the scatter
provinces which were brought together '0
1867 couldremain united for eighteenYeb
without incurring a large national debt
But our debt was not caused by interne
troubles, nor is any portion of it rePie
sented by piles of masonry for defendock
our harbors, or ships lying idle in dtate
yards. The debt of the United Stahe
was the result of the struggle between ch
North and South, and represents so Idet
destruction of property. The public of,
of Canada is more in the nature
mortgage on a farm, which has beeert
curred for the improvement of the proPe
It represents enlarged canals, nuiueri'
lighthouses along our coasts, public bued
ings in every town where they are re ulr
shelter for mariners in the way of hosPtgc
harbors, docks and railroads, and we the
this great national highway fro"'
Atlantic to the Pacific. Therefore 1
stand in a very different position fro' et
neighbors. While one country has sP
its money in settling family difficulties o
have been enlarging the family

Iaesent

and improving it not only for the Pre to.
generation but for the generations yethis
come. We have been told also that
policy has injured the poor mian.abot
have hear< a good deal of talk
the poor man. He seems to occaf
an
many hon. gentlemen a great d
trouble, but we all know, and everyor the
who has been the head of a failbo
last thirty or forty years will corro te
what I say, that you can buy more fore
dollar to-day than you could during ottons
25 years. You can buy sugar, ct
clothing of all kinds, cheaper now tiaj
could then; has the policy therefore 1 00Jrf
the poor man? Is that hard upon the P
man ? Let us take four or ve iteuris
the revenue, that may be called

Industries and [MARC H 13, 1885] ]Jfanuf'r8 of Canada. 285
R. POWER-Cigars for in- 1884 they average from $1 to $1.75 per
lay. In 1878 domestic servants received
'rom $5 to $6 a month; in 1884 they
R. HOWLAN-Yes, cigars, averaged from $6 to $12 per month.
and
whiskis and satins, and brandies and That does not show that the working
that s, which are luxuries; you will find classes were injured by the operation of
fro t arge portion of the revenue comes t he tariff of 1879. It proves that so far
thathat source-but I maintain stoutly as the poor man of this country is connd rcottons, woollens, boots and shoes cerned he is better off, that he bas a
n ead-mae clothing of all kinds, teas greater earning power, that his earnings
have bles, are cheaper to-day than they have a greater buying power than in 1878,
een at any time for the last twenty- and the fact that he is in this improved
v
withiyears. There are hon. gentlemen condition is due to the introduction of
hant1 sound of rny voice, wholesale mer- t he National Policy. The hon. gentleth * Who know whether I am correct man also told us that the price of agricul.
kno statenent I make or not. They tural implements was higher now than it
0
ntty t the course of trade. It is their was prior to 1879. I happened the other
Part 0fo Watch the current of trade ; it is day to cone across an article in the
teir education, one of their springs Canadian Manufacturer upon that ques,of
we on, and they will bear me out, as tion.
ry man who bas had to maina
e o hold, that the necessaries of HON. MR. POWER-Hear! hear:
4 are cheaper to day than they have
that hOr the last twenty-five years. Does
HON. MR. HOWLAN--Ny hon. friend
it seetthe .poor man very much ? I do from Halifax says " hear ! hear !" when I
an b hat it does. Then bas the poor give hin the source from which I got my
Mr. Clegg, a prominent
the .en able to earn more per day since information.
thae
haroduction of the National Policy farmer and stock raiser from Brandon, in
blievetha prior to 1878 ? If we are to his evidence given before a committee of
%st
the facts that are before us we the House of Commons, said: " Within
hon ad'it that to be the case. But my the past two years the prices of agriculturefergend Opposite bas in his speech, ral implements have greatly diminished;
are de to manufactured goods, that they waggons have fallen from $90 to $45 and
tl

'

i arer

fo1W

than they were in

1878. $50; binders from $350 in 1881 to $225

f ot misquote him, so I will read
t Official He the remarks of the
geleman. reportsays:beobty ver much myself if anything
aiý have mnaniifact~~ (bý protection).
9aineý thiat way
.av mauatured a rge quantity
it f different descriptions in Canada,
0 actSr dquestionable whether they were
ured at an advantage-in fact rny
14t11actreOni8 that thowe goods bave heen
toreed at a higher price, and that they
th
a if
hse .goods to the country at large
le h84 IMported them."
erit. statstics do not bear out that state*e
h)e Very contrary is the fact. But
i ey how the poor man earns the
se
Vh to buy
Y these cheap goods, and see
erth
t ethe 8facts I have stated are borne
ead benf 1 78-- quote from a paper
Oresre the British Association-farm
ti

th.

w'ages were from $1o to $2o a

1884 they averaged from $15
$22
rers per .mlonth. In 1878 common
received 8o cents a day, and in

in 1884, and all other farm machinery in
like proportion." It does not seem from
that that the operation of the National
Policy has increased the price of agricultural implements to the farmers of this
country. But my bon. friend (Mr. Haythorne) says that he does not see any
evidence of the prosperity which the
advocates of the National Policy seem to
think this country has enjoyed ; and he
also seems to be under the impression
that it was an unfortunate thing that the
statesmen of this country should have
inaugurated such a policy, as it would
lead to differences between us and the
Mother land. But what does Mr. Forster
say in his speech on this subject as to
whether the increase of our tariff has
deteriorated the trade with the Mother
Country ? If we had a tariff like the
United States there would be some reason
for that objection being raised to it ; but
what does Mr. Forster, speaking as a

The Industries and [SENATE] 1Ianuf're qf CanaIa.

286

public man well versed in the trade
incomings of Great Britain, say ? He
renarked that the trade which the
inhabitants of Great Britain conducted
throughout the world was about one-third
of the total trade of the whole world.
" The annual trade of the British
dominions beyond the the seas with the
United Kingdom, was, exports and
imports,

£19o,ooo,ooo,

and with other

£17o,ooo,ooo-a

countries

/360,ooo,ooo,

total

of

or six times what it was at

the beginning of the century. They had
heard," he said " a great deal about the
depression of trade which had ruled
throughout the whole of the United
Kingdom. and he asked if it were not for
the colonies what would the depression
he ? The trade of the United Kingdom
with foreign countries in 1872 was more
than

£248,000,000,

£214,000,000, a
of £34,000,000.

and in

1882 it was

decrease in the ten years
The trade of the United

Kingdom with British possessions which
in 1872 was /66,ooo,ooo,. had increased

in

1882 to

£99,000,000.

They would

not, Mr. Forster asserted, have those
figures if the colonies had been separated
from the Mother Country. With regard
to bread-stuffs, the increase in the amount
ofwheat importedintotheUnited Kingdom
in 1882 from India, North America, and
from Australia against that in 1872, was
8,ooo,ooo cwt. from India, 1oo,ooo,ooo
cwt., froni North America, and 200,ooo,ooo
cwt. from Australasia. The total trade of
imports and exports of the United Kingdom
with the world outsidethe British possessions
had increased from 1854..to 1882, more
than 77 per cent., but the total trade,
import and export, of the United Kingdom
with British possessions had increased
more than 170 per cent, We know that
hesides the Dominion of Canada there is
another dependency of the Crown that has
adopted a protection policy -- that is one
of the Australian colonies, so that these
two colonies may be properly counted in
in this i70 per cent. Mr. Forster says,
speaking of Canada :-1 I ehey were uot our colonies, judging
fron .hat had happened elsewhere, they
would levy far higher duties. There was a
vast difference hetween the duties levied by
the United States and those levied by Canada,
and he wondered if we would do any thing approaching the trade with Canada if they maintained the

tarit

of the United States.

HoN. MR. HOWLAN.

He

very much doubted whether we should 'lot
have the United States' tariff in place of ,
Canadian tariff if Canada ceased to be go
erned by the Mother Country.
I think that disposes of the questiOn 0
the interference of this tariff with the
channels of trade with Great Britaior
coming as it does from one of Englands
foremost statesman who had paid a great
deal of attention to the question. le
states further on in his speech that it is a
pride and a pleasure to the nation to clai'
that one of the greatest dependencies Of
the Crown has been enabled to carry On
its business independently by a wise or-

dering of its internal affairs. My hOî.
friend was very guarded in his renark
when speaking of the deposits in the saving banks. If there is any barometer as
to the prosperity of a country which is mfore
reliable than another, it is the savings
the people. Well-to-do people put ther
savings into fine houses, fine equipages,
telegraph and gold stocks, and other
things, but the man who is dependent
from week to week and from month to
month on his earnings for the support Ot
his family puts something away for a wet
day, and deposits it in the savings banlki
and if there is any better means of judg
ing of the prosperity of the people than
the amount of those savings, I would like
to know where it is. It has been the barometer that has been taken in Englanld
and in the United States ; it is the bafro
meter that is taken in every province o
this Dominion since Confederation, and was
even before they were united province e
If my hon. friend was a member of the
government, and he found from every
point of the Dominion from British Col
umbia on the west to Prince Edward 1s
land on the Atlantic that the savings banks
instead of showing increasing depOS
were showing a decrease, I ask him
nf
would take that as a mark of prosperity
the country ? If he found that in Prince
Edward Island, with which province he ,
well acquainted, that the deposits M ter
banks there were decreasing year aft
year, would he consider that a prosperoUs
state of affairs in his own province
ask hii as a public man, would lie bc
content under his oath of office with that
state of affairs as an indication Of tt
prosperity of the country ? I think ha*
There is not a gentleman here who b

The Indu8tries and [MAIRCI 13, 1885] Manufrs of Canda. 287
the responsibility during his lifetime
«h eader or a member of a government
h does not know that as a public man
int first watchword and his first care is the
Interests of the people, and if he finds that
theinterests of the people are not being
fairîy advanced, it is his duty to bring the
iatter under the notice of his colleagues
d do his best to improve the condition
of he country.
That is the duty of all
governments, and that is what was done
bg this government on their accession to
thfce. The hon. gentleman was afraid
that that question of savings bank deposits
hOUld be brought up, and he guarded
rnself on this particular item, and said of
rince Edward Island:
dent1 amY province, I can say pretty confiiadi
that those deposits were made by
above
duale, many Thev were
la ~riag classes.« of theni fardeposited the
by
na who had been in the habit, perhaps,
bnkry of înaking deposits in banks, but the
. had lost the confidence of the coinnd ttY, and their rates of interest were small,
de risks which depositors ran were evi%ta considered, and under those circunbankes people naturally preferred the savings
lae and that, I think, accounts for a very
n,
11
number of the deposits."

the hon. gentleman nust certainly be
re, and I do not think he disputes the
, that 1oo,ooo people of Prince Edward
and are not different from ioo,ooo
peoPle i British Columbia, Ontario, Nova
tiQotiaf New Brunswick or any other poro hOf the Dominion, whether the majority
9 then livedi by farming, or by any other
I1ustry ; but he did not give us a stateoent of these particular classes of people
dividto what classes these depositors were
oursd, so that we would be able to satisfy
OIrseltves and satisfy the country that the
tateent he makes is correct. I will
ton to a place in his own province, the
f SYumerside, with a population of
o
hast Over 4,000, where a savings bank
over een reccntly opened, and iii which
has been deposited from
the
twelvrngs of the people within the last
a itl "Ionths. It is true there has been
o tte distur)ance in the banking interests
Of that Island ; still the banks
are safe,
lslandthough the Bank of 'rince Edward
taken has gone dovn, a larger bank has
i
1to place. Unless that hon. gentletn thi! prepared to state in his place in
House industry and
Pruden ce, care, that there is less energy,
watchfulness,

pride and ambition in the people of Prince
Edward Island than in the population of
any other portion of the Dominion, he
must stand convicted of not having investigated this matter perhaps as fully as he
ought to have done. I hold in my hand
a statement showing who are the depositors
in the savings bank of the Dominion, and
we will see if the statements which he has
made here will be borne out by the statistics prepared by Mr. Cunningham Stewart,
chief of the Savings Bank Department,
and which were set forth in the paper read
before the British Association last summer
in Montreal. The first class he refers to
is the farmers.

14,ooo fariers deposited

$4,722,ooo, or an average of $337 each.
That is not bad for the farmers ; it shows
that the National Policy has not hurt them
any. Their deposts aggregate more than
the deposits of any other class of the community. Next in value come the mechanics and we find that 7,850 mechanics
deposited $1,422,ooo, or an average
Is that not a fair
of $181 each.
indication of the prosperity of that
class ?
Does it not prove conclusively to the mind of every intelligent
man that the prosperity of the nechanics
must certainly be in proportion to the
amount that they have to their credit in
the savings bank ? Do we not each and
all of us accept the fact that when a man
has money in the savings bank he is
looked upon and respected for his thrift
and industrv ? The next class is the trust
accounts and children's deposits ; 5,500
deposit $170,ooo, an average of $31 each.

Now, if there were any great deposits of
money placed in the savings bank on account of trusts or of children under age, it
will be shown here, but there is none. So
far as that item goes it clearly proves one
thing, that the 'money in the savings bank
comes froni a class of people who are accustomed to save out of their earnings,
and deposit it in the savings bank for that
purpose.

The next class is 3,000 clerks

whose deposits average $174 each. Next
comes î,6oo tradesmen whose average
deposit amounts to $293 each. These
arc classes of people who have to economize in order to save anything and live.
Then we have farm and other male
servants numbering

average

$188

1,470 whose deposits

each.

1572 professional

Next

we

have

ien with an average

288

The Indu8tries and [SENATE]

deposit of $249 each. Then we have
miscellaneous depositors numbering 168o,
Next we
and averaging $128 each.
have 12,ooo married women whose
deposits average $196 each. There are
10,500 unmarried wornen with an average
10,00beconie
of $120 each, and 3,240 widows averaging
With a statement of facts
$214 each.
like that before us, is it not beyond ail
-doubt that the money in the savings bank
of this Dominion comes from the industrial classes ? There is no other conclu
sion that any hon. gentleman can cone
to. If we turn now to the chartered banks,
what do we find ? Here is a class of
people who do banking, not for fun, but to
make money. They certainly ought to be
looked toasthe barometers of the trade and
prosperity of the country and more particularly what is called the mercantile world.
We find on looking at that statement that
the increase 4n the peoples deposits in
chartered banks from the ist of January, 1874, to 1st of january, 1879,
was $8,499,942.49 ; while the increase of
deposits in the sane bank from the ist of
January, 1879, to the 1st of January, 1884
Surely that must be
was $25,903,564.75.
taken as an indication that the country is
No if we take the sums in
progressing.

the savings banks, we find that the increase
in savings bank deposits over withdrawals
from 1st ot July, 1874, to Ist of July,
1879 was $1,997,422.37 ; while the increase in the same from the first of July,
1879, to the ist of July, 1884 was
$20,009,853.84. I have shown from these
returns from the chartered banks, and
from the savings banks, that the people of
this country have been able to save from
their earnings this large amount of money,
and if that is not an indication of prosperity in this Dominion, I am afraid I
shall not be able to convince my hon.
friend. If he turns to the post office
account he will find there that the letters
transmitted through the mails throughout this country have nearly quadrupled
Is not
in number in the same period.
this another indication of prosperity in the
country ? The hon. gentleman said at the
commencement of his speech that if he
were only satisfied that this National Policy
was a good thing for the country, wedded
though he is to free trade principles, he
would adopt it. I will quote the hon.
HoN. MR.

.Manuf'rs of

«nada.

gentlemans remarks as they appear in
the officiai report
«I protest here, in this House, that
e rsuadedofthetrith of the prifi
coul
ciple of the National Policy, would eveÙ
free Poli'Y;
now desert mv old principlesNationaltrade and
an advocate of the of
blt the more 1 have studied that question,
the more 1 look into the history of it in the
United States, in Canada and i England the
more convinced I ain of the correctness
the prin cible whichi lias mnade Enýgland th'
reat and wealthy country t2he iq at
'resent moment."
If I cannot convince my hon. friend
fron the indications shown by the returfl
fron the savings banks, from the chartered
batks, and from the prices of goods
throughout this country that the DorniOn
bas prospered under the National Policy
1 an afraid 1 will be unable to niake
couvert of ini. But what docs the hol
gentleman state hirself as li closes hi'
If vou give -e
speech? He states
select committee of this Parliament where
1, with ry friends, will ho enabled to brifl
evidence before that comittee, I Nvîi be
convinced ?" Has there been no coniTiit
tee hefore vhich this question las corne?
Has not this question been subrntted tO a
comittee of 50,000,000 of People if
the United states, and has fot a coi
mittee of 5,000,000 of people in Canada
already decided it? Have there not bei
committees since the last general electiOn
in evry province of the Dominion, and
what better committees cat you have th3n
a committee of the whole people thefl'
selves? Has not the hon, gentleman had
a conimittee at his own door in the cOntest in which Dr. Jenkins was elected fo'
Queens County only a short time ago?
Was the hon, gentleman fot one of th"'
committee himself, and did he not upOI
every platforn where he could advocate
his particular views, advocate them as
always does with ability and energy, and
did not that select committee pronOifce
against hirn and his friends, and send P"
jenkins here as the representative of that
conStituency and the National PoliCY?
What other way could you get conuittees
together to pronounce an opinion fOe
forcibly or more decidedly than those
line an 50,000 on oe ite'O
two select committees in Canada Since
1878? It i not too much to say thatthe
people at large thoroughly understpnd
t

nyOWLAN.

-TheIndustries8 and [MARC H 13, 1885]
this question. I have no doubt that the
gentlemen who espouse the views of my
anj. friend, ably advocate it in the press
On the platform, and have done so on
every Occasion during the last six years, but
*til the fact remains beyond any dispute
that the people of Canada are as well satisled with the National Policy to-day as they
Were when it was first introduced. I feel
dat I have wearied the House by quoting
bdr tfigures only by producing these facts
bt
is connected with this question,
that it is possible for one to meet the
,tatements of hon. gentlemen opposite,
I have no hesitation in telling my hon.
&iend that when the committee of the
People is again appealed to, the sanie
aswer will be given that the Government
that rescued this country from annual
ficits and raised its credit and made it
Stand as high in the money markets of the
tOuld as it does to-day, deserves the gratie and the support of the people of this
i minion. It is a gratification to me, as
'tought to be to every one of us, to have
en permitted to be present at the inauguration of this National Policy-and of
WhtI nay call the grandest effort of any
eOple in the world, in the building of a
Ce of railway from the Atlantic to British
'aOluMbia.
I say it is a gratification and
'a Pleasure to have been permitted to
iare in, and assist in a feeble way at the
Iuguiration of such a gigantic enterprise,
If to see it carried to a successful result.
.eterprise not for the success of that
t were
would we be able to hold this
be&lninion together to-day? Would we
be able to take these separate provinces
ot galvamze them into a nation if it were
Sotfu this inter provincial communication?
t1, osmg it was as difficult to get from
it y aritime Provinces to Ottawa now as
as n 1867, what would be the state of
by h? How would we be looked upon
he people abroad-even by our
oUr o
0
neneighborsWe have won the respect of
because we are trying to
b4ake the best of the heritage that has
thoe left us by the Creator, and because
troe people are not forgetful of the
%tigles
which the founders of this DofaithI have the men people have stood
fitfully by had. The carried out the
who

founa Which were held when the broad
fountation of the constitution of this
'flitry was laid.
T

[anuf 're of Canada. 289

I have not the remotest doubt, when
the next appeal is made in the hon. gentleman's province, and the question is
there discussed, as to what the result will
be. If there was any question with regard
to this policy, and the benefits it was conferring upon the Dominion, the Government would not be blind to the appeals of
the people and would remedy it as they
did in 1878. I say it must win the respect of every intelligent man that while
the revenue has been raised, the people
have not felt the burden, and the public
works that have been carried through
under this policy will be a lasting monument to the statesmanship of the men
who inaugurated it.
HON.
MR. ALEXANDER - The
speech which has just been delivered by the
hon. gentleman from Alberton is one replete with very valuable information, and
he has advanced views with many of which
I cordially agree ; while there are others
with which I cannot concur. I regret
that I come to the consideration of this
subject with very little preparation to discuss it. I regret very much that through
the deafness of age I was unable to follow
the remarks of the hon. gentleman who
introduced this question, and who, I have
no doubt, expressed to this House the
public sentiment of the Province of British
Columbia, from which he comes, very
faithfully. With regard to the remarks
which fell from the Minister of the Interior
I scarcely took the trouble to listen to
them, because I know of my own knowledge, and the House knows, that he was
a pronounced advanced free-trader all his
life until he entered the Government of
this country. It is possible we may have
upon some future occasion a two hours
sermon on the subject of loyalty from the
hon. gentleman, whose name was removed
from the Militia list in the year 1849
by Lord Elgin, because of his annexation proclivities. However, I am not
going to transgress the rules of this House
by further remarks on that point. Whpt
we are called upon to consider to-day is
the effect of the tariff of 1879. There
can be no doubt that the Reform party, of
which Mr. Mackenzie was the first minister, made a very grave mistake in resisting
the public sentiment of the country at
that period when they found the Domi-

29,0

The industries and [SENATE]

Manitf'r8 of Canada.

nion overrun with American runners, un- ers will benefit by it; but we do not want tO
derselling our manufacturers, and shutting produce that result by our tariff. No One
up the workshops of the country. I am desires to see too many enter into anY
sure that many of the members of the particular branch of industry, and bring
Reform party, and even Mr. Mackenzie ruin upon our most enterprising n-cg"
himself, whom the country looked up to The practical statesman will always framfle
with the greatest possible respect as an the tariff to stimulate only a sufficient
honest public man and a very experienced amount of enterprise, but not to induce
statesman, must feel now that he made a manufacturers to destroy each other. So
mistake, and that it would have been with regard to sugar ; and I may say that
wiser, had he at that moment enneavored I differ somewhat from my hon. friend who
to modify the views of the party of which has just taken his seat with regard to the
he was a distinguished leader, according to manufacturers of agricultural implements,
the dictates of his own honest conviction. because I have met personally some Of
It was quite evident in 1878 that the those gentlemen who begin to feel that witt
country was rapidly drifting into a most the large amount of capital they have Put
serious condition. It was quite evident that into their establishments at Ingersoll, Galt,
our manufacturers could not hold their own Guelph and other places, they really have
against the great enterprise of the neighbor- produced too much. A considerable stock
ing Republic, and I quite agree in regard to of their mowers and reapers is lyingL no
that point with the remarks of fhe hon. in the North-West without demand. Tht
gentleman from Alberton, whose views are I know as a fact from some of thOse
always practical and based on former ex- manufacturers who are personal friends Of
perience as leader of the local Govern- mny own, and whom I have known for
ment. I am bound to confess, and we must upwards of a quarter of a century. The
all confess that with regard to the National population of our country is still limited'
Policy very favorable results have followed and the immigration into the North-West
from the adoption of the tariff of 1879. has not been what was expected , and
I do not go so far as to say that the tariff consequently we find a large number O
was perfect, that the duties imposed have our establishments are suffering because
not been too large and have not led to a their products are lying there, and thel
certain amount of disaster to which I will may continue to lie there for some timfe to
refer in a few minutes. Now we have to come. We know that the present state O
consider whether the present tariff is the the North-West is, that while we have got
wisest under existing circumstances. There a large prairie country, it is lying north Of
can be no doubt that we have shut out a latitude 49 with certain geographic an
large number of the American runners. climatic difficulties, while the territory
it cannot be denied that a number of south of us attracts the lion's share O
domestic industries have sprung up in the immigration coming from Europe. No''
country, that a large number of mechanics as regards revenue duties, I regret verY
have been employed, all tending very much that I cannot quite agree with w)
much to increase the wealth of the country. hon. friend who has just taken his seatl 1
So far the National Policy has done good, always regret when I cannot agree With
but in what stage do we find some of our him because he is a gentleman of large
manufacturers at this moment? Do we not practical experience. When we look t
find with regard to the cotton manufac- the present position of affairs not only 1
turers that from the natural enterprise of Ontario but in other parts of the DomTinion'
those men who have gone into that special I do think that the duty upon coal ought
branch of industry, and in consequence of to be removed. It is very easy to assUtf¶e
the very limited population of the Domin- that the country is prosperous. Wen
ion, we are manufacturing too much for have some evidences of prosperity, b
the consuming population? I should be will anyone say that the multitude have
glad to feel that there was a prospect in not a heavy struggle in life ? Will anyone
the future for our cotton industry. It is al] who knows the cities of Toronto, Halmilt0,
very well for hon. gentlemen to say that London, Kingston, Montreal or Quebec'
if the cotton manufacturers will ruin them- say that the masses of the people
selves, no one can help it, and the consum- have not a hard struggle for existence
HON. MR.

ALEXANDER.

The lndustris and [MARCH 13, 1885]
jManuf'r8 of Canada. 291
My experience of those cities has been,
that at this moment life is a heavy struggle
W.th the multitude. The fact that a few
8liages and livery servants are floating
,bout the streets is no evidence of a prosVerous condition of society. Merchants
ln Quebec tell me that it is most difficult
to ive, such is the. competition in trade.
Stme hold that almost no one can live at
this moment honestly unless he has reCourse to what is called "the tricks of the
tr e." The floor of Parliament is the
1roper Place to express the views of our
0
nest enterprising men who are struggling
Wlth life. Then with regard to clothing,
Wil any man say that the price of clothing
a lot been increased by the present
tarif? So with regard to drugs, you cantot go into a drug store and
buy the
ordiliary articles of consumption that the
éhemist will not tell you the duties are
80 high that they are obliged to put on
3o or
or 40 per cent more than they used to
Now with regard to wines-this is a
ubJect 1 should like to touch upon. It
tat very popular principle to announce
high the Government are going to put
Sul ?duties on wines, but what is the res8t? Take the duty upon Champagne,
ex a basket ; one of the results of that
.iessive tariff is that spurious and inferior
to es are offered that are most injurious
4O ealth. How many of you, hon. gentle!hic, are exposed to wines at state dinners
Punish you pretty severelynextmornto rhe effect of the high tariff on wines is
,re,,ake some of those who give dinners
jureent wines to their friends of an insuchus character; I think myself that
Say thdiner givers should be indicted. I
stin at no man-a man of proper inh' sWould invite his friends to his
and give
jlireeir health.them wine which will inBetl
My hon. friend from
eville (Mr. Flint) will say that he
is
Y glad if they suffer ; he hopes such
Sto stop all importation, but it does not
IMPortation, and until society is very
t ently constituted we shall find people
nllg their wines, and if they cannot
a
un"Irt o pay those high duties they will
""Part lower classes of wines, liquors calvulated to injure their health.
MR. FLINT-D)o not drink them.
in
MR. ALEXANDER-I do not
4rally accept invitations to state dinners
•iON

and do not intend to do so, because I
think there could be nothing more calculated to injure the health of members than
the use of such wines. Upon the whole
I think the tarif might very well be revised. I do not think it is the wish of the
Parliament of the country to give the
government of tbe day or .any government too much money. The imposition
of such high duties as will give the Finance
Minister a surplus of $5,ooo,ooo is a grave
mistake, for as certain as he gets possession
of the $5,ooo,ooo will it increase the extravagance and wastefulness of the Government. We have seen how the public
moneys are wastecd in every direction.
I heard the other day casually
of a
most extraordinary instance
of extravagance. We are erecting, below,
a new departmental block, and while the

best material for the erection of that
building can be obtained near the residence of Mr. Alonzo Wright, about two
miles distant, the present Government, in
order to get the support of one or two
New Brunswick members, are actually
going to carry the stone for the erection
of that building hundreds of miles over
the Intercolonial Railway, all the way
from New Brunswick. Could there be a
greater evidence of the corruption of the
present Government, thus buying up the
members at the expense and waste of
many thousand dollars? They impose
high duties upon coal ; they thus take the
money out of the pockets of the poor
people for their fuel and clothing, to waste
it buying up two or three members from
New Brunswick. This manner of administering the government should surely
be stopped. I think the tariff ought to
be in some matters revised, and I think
the less surplus we give the Government
the better it will be for the interests of the
people.
Hox. MR. POWER-I do not propose
to trouble the House at any great length
on this subject. I do not think that very
much is to be gained by the discussion of
the question of free trade and protection,
particularly in the somewhat abstract way
in which it has been debated in our House.
I think a discussion upon the principles of
free trade and protection is something like
an argument about religion-that it leaves
the parties on both sides just about where

1292

The Industrie8 and [SENATE] Manuf'r8 of Canada.

they were before it began. I have never you not in opposition to the present
known of anyone being led to change his Government in 1878?
views by a religious controversy. I arn
glad to see that we furnish in this House
HON. MR. HOWLAN-No.

E rhaps one exception to that general rule,

cause the hon. member from Woodstock
who was a very enthusiastic protectionist
at one time has got at least half way over,
and I hope that if he keeps on and is true
to the light afforded him he will get over
all the way in another year. Talking of
converts, reminds me that the hon. gentlemian from Alberton (Mr. Howlan) who
ôpened the debate to-day offers us a case
of perversion. That hon. gentleman as
late as 1878, was not an admirer of a
protectionist policy, but at that time was
a very decided believer in a tariff at least
as low as that imposed by Mr. Mackenzie's
administration.

HON. MR. POWER-I did not questhe hon. gentleman's right to change his
mind; I was only pointing out that he
had changed his mind.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-No, I have nOt
changed my mind.

HoN. MR. POWER-I think I find, as
is generally the case with converts, that he
is more enthusiastic in advocating his nee
belief than are old believers.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-Since the 1'
troduction of the National Policy, i have

HON. MR. HOWLAN-I was always always been a strong advocate of it.
an advocate of the National Policy.

HON. MR. POWER-I am not contraPOWER-The hon. gentle- dicting that. Then the hon. gentlenan's
man then must have stood almost alone in principles changed I presume about 1878
Prince Edward Island ; because at the or 1879, when the policy was introduced.
election in 1878 the hon. gentleman
who led the party of my hon. friend, deHox. MR. HOWLAN-No.
HON. MR.

clared himself an ont and ont free trader;

HON. MR. POWER-I do not thin.k,
as I say, that there is much object in dis'
cussing the general question. I think
that if any hon. member of this gIouse
can rise here to-day and say that this coU'
try is prosperous, that business is in a
satisfactory condition and that the peoPI
generally are satisfied with their material
HON. MR. HOWLAN-Yes you may condition, there is no use arguing the

and I have always understood that he was
a believer in that Policy. I find that
before the hon. gentleman came up here
his name was signed to a document which
was submitted to the Home Government
in which the free trade doctrine is laid
down in a very clear way.
fiid that.

question with that hon. gentleman ; bcause the facts are plain, and if any.one
HON. MR. POWER-Then I think I denies them he is not open to convictioI-

am right in saying that the hon. gentleman We have got into a way-and the systee
from Alberton is an instance of perversion was introduced by hon. gentlemen OPPe'
on the subject.
site-of laying down the doctrine that
governments should take the place of PrO
HON. MR. HOWLAN-No, I rise to vidence. That doctrine was first laid
set my hon. friend right. What my down I think about the year 1876, by the
opinions were when I was a Minister of hon. gentlemen opposite when they were
the Crown in Prince Edward Island is in opposition.
When the depression
one thing. Many gentlemen who have which spread over the whole world e%
been strong advocates of free trade support tended to Canada, those hon. gentleffei'
the National Policy-notoriously one and their friends in the other branch of
occurs to my mind now.
Parliament and all over the country de'
clared that it was the fault of the GovernHON. MR. DEVER-What Govern- ment, and that if they were put into power
ment were you in favor of in 1878 ? Were they would remedy the evil-that theY
HON. MR. POWER.

The Indu8tries and [MARCH 13, 1885] .Manuf'8r of Canada. 293

Were able to do the work of the AI- the argument of the hon. gentleman from
nlighty. These hon. gentlemen got into
POwer, and my hon. friend from British
Columbia who brought this matter before
the House told us that as soon as they
e into office a pall was lifted from the
fae of the country, that the country
bkunded at once into prosperity. What
are the facts ? The tacts are that in the
Year 1879, the depression was greater
tha it had been in any previous year and
tht we did not reach bottom until i88o.
0N. SIR
1879.

DAVID MACPHERSON-

"ON. MR. POWER-I beg the hon.
gentleman's pardon, we did not reach it
uti 1880, when this policy had been in
existence for some time ; so that there
al ot any bound ; and we did not go
UP any sooner than they went up in Eng't1d and the United States, so it clearly
rnot the result of the National Policy.
was somewhat surprised at the argument
,f the Minister of the Interior. Every-

Ottawa and the hon. gentleman from
Prince Edward Island is a sound one,
that our prosperity is not due to the change
of our fiscal policy, but to causes which
are in the hands of Providence and beyond the power of the Government to
control.

I do not blame the Government

because we are not prosperous now. They
cannot make the country prosperous ;
though they have made it worse than it
would have been if they had let nature
alone. I feel a sort of unchristian satisfaction in seeing the Government worried
as they are to-day by the dissatisfaction
that has arisen throughout the country
because the Dominion is not prosperous.
These gentlemen assumed to themselves
the functions of Providence ; and now
that the people find they are not gifted
with these functions, they are angry with
them. It serves the Government right,
and they should continue to suffer for
their dishonesty.
HON. SIRALEX. CAMPBELL--When-

1g that happened after the introduction ever they have an opportunity they return

Pocy was due to it, and the fact a supporter of the Government.
lthie
at these things did not happen before
Was attributed to the want of that policy.
HON. MR. POWER-That is another
question which I do not propose to argue.
.1ON.SIR DAVID MACPHERSON- The hon. member from Woodstock did
Pointed to the trade returns.
advert briefly to the manner in which
supporters are occasionally secured. The
sl'N· MR. POWER - That simply argument from thereturning of Government
hWed' that trade improved, but trade supporters is not worth very much. I can
ProVed in England and the United speak for the county of Halifax, at any
pjtS where they had not adopted a new rate. That county owed a great deal ta
the Government of Mr. Mackenzie. There
had been a great deal done for Halifax ;
1 'lN' SIR DAVID MACPHERSON-- but times were rather bad-not as bad as
- hey had it in the United States.
they are now in the country. But the
people of Halifax were assured in 1879
p"ON· MR. POWER-It was an old that Mr. Mackenzie's Government were a
tha cy there. There is one answer to all set of miserable incapables, that they were
aking our own country ; we fortun- ' flies on the wheel,' and that if the gentleatel
1878 d not begin to live in 1877 or men then in opposition were put into
187a Canada had existed for a great power everything would be lovely and
oif years, and there have been periods they would be all rich and happy. The
the sPerity and periods of depression in people suifering from business depression
hoPast. Under the Government of the and hard times were ready to lend their
18 gentleman opposite in 187 1 and ears to the voices of those deluding char872 the country was prosperous,
just as mers, and they voted with them. If two
p
rousas it has been under the National men of straw had been up in the county
t y, but they had no National Policy of Halifax in 1878 against the Liberal
t% that prosperity could not have candidates of that day, they would have
de to that policy. This shows that been elected. It was not a question of

294A

The Industrie8 and

[SENATE]

men ; it was simply voting against hard
times. The Minister has referred to the
second election, that of 1882. The hon.
gentleman who leads this Government
whatever else he may be, is an exceedingly
stute politician, and I fancy he saw the
clouds gathering in 1882. There was no
sufficient reason apparent on the face of
things for going to the country at that
time, and he went to the country before
the tide had turned. He saw that it was
about turning, and he went to the country
while it was at the flood, and came back
successful. But talking of the county of
Halifax, I ask the Minister of Justice why
it was that a little while ago when there
was a vacancy in the Government for
Nova Scotia, and it was expected that one
of the gentlemen representing Halifax in
the House of Commons was to fill it-it

was so understoodHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
understanding was wrong that we so
intended.
HON. MR. POWER-I am glad for the
sake of the gentleman who lost the seat
in the Government, that he has a seat
which, if less comfortable, saves him the
iecessity of appealing to his constituents.

Manuf 'r8 of Canada.

HON. MR. POWER-I understood
that was the substantial change. I have
never made any inquiry as to the details,
but there was to be that general levelling
up to 20 per cent., I understood. No*
there is another fact with reference to that
proposed change of tarif which has not
been adverted to here that is worthy Of
The hon. gentleman1
some attention.
who acted then as the financial critic for
the Opposition-the gentleman who is no*
High Commissioner in England-under
standing that the Government were about
to raise the tariff, was prepared to go it
blind as a free trader, and he undertOok,
in the House of Commons, to intilate
that something which was being done
was the introduction of the thin end Of
the wedge of protection. Now the policY,
I have no doubt, which would have been
adopted by my hon. friends opposite, if
the Finance Minister of Mr. Mackenzies
Government had raised the tariff, would
have been to have gone in for free trade
They would have said that this ruinOns
tariff which had been imposed by the administration, was placing an additiona
burden on an already over burdene
people ; and I have no doubt that thel
would have carried the country on the
free trade issue just as well as they did On
the protection issue. Hard times would
have done it.

HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONDid not the county of Halifax return a
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONmember to support the Government, since I think the hon. gentleman is altogether
1882 ?
incorrect in what he says as to Sir Charles
Tupper's intentions. He cannot have hsd
HON. MR. POWER-Yes, by compro- an opportunity of knowing them, and I, a
ise. The statement has been made one of those who had, believe the hotthat there was a want of wisdon shown gentleman is in error-know that he is in
by Mr. Mackenzie's Government in not error.
raising the tariff in 1876. The hon. Minister of the Interior as well as the hon.
HON. MR. POWER-I have not the
member from Alberton spoke of that. Lt officiai report of that day by me, but I think
is generally understood that the Finance 1 can establish the fact that the hon. gentk
Minister at that time did propose to raise man who was then menber for Cumbe
the tariff from 17 Y2 to 20 per cent., with land and doing the financial work for the
a view to make the revenue equal the ex- Opposition did indicate that he thought le
penditure, and the Minister would have saw the thin end ofthe wedge of protection,,
been justified in doing it. It was not and was prepared to denounce the conduCt
done, owing to the representations of the of the then Finance Minister for introdU'
members from the Maritime Provinces. ing that wedge. A good deal has bee%,
saîd both here and in other places as tO
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONtlie example aforded us by the United
Theri I was right. Was 2!/ per cent. the States. I think it is absurd to compare e
only increase he proposed to make. ?
country like ours, with a populationl Of

HoN. MR. POWER.

The 1ndnetries and [MARC i 13, 1885] Manuf'r8 of Canada. 295
'orne five millions or less, strung out from
te Atlantic to the Pacific in a thin line
along the edge of a great and populous
nation, with the United States, a compact

eOuntry of some 55,ooo,ooo of people,

the great increase in the deposits in the
savings bank is due to circumstances,
none of which are benefits resulting from
the National Policy. One fact is that at
the present date you can get 4 per cent,
for money in the savings bank, while in
the chartered banks depositors can only
get 3 per cent. That is one reason of
this increase, but the more substantial,
and the more important reason is that the
people who have money to invest, and
who wish to invest it with a moderate degree of safety, cannot find any better investment than to put it into the savings
bank. If there were good opportunities
to invest in real estate-if there was any

'ntaining every variety of soil and climate,
d with consequently every kind of
Production.
The they may the
thhough people in have United States, even
a high tariff which
ecludes the products of other countries,
ha'e free trade amongst themselves, and
Coflsequently they have suffered less from
PTtection than they would have suffered
nAfder other circumstances. But there is
'»k fact that I think hon. gentlemen who
us to look at the example of the United speculation going on ; if business was
States leave out of sight, and that is the prospering, there would be opportunities
t that in the free trade period of the! to invest money at a better rate of interest
ni1ted States, in the decade from i85a to than 4 per cent ; but because there are
86, the Unted States were as prosperous no better investments to be had in the
ahd the progress of their manufactures was province, people put their money into the
great relatively as during any decade savings bank where there is no appreciable
4der the protective system, and the risk even though they get only a small
S1 bler classes-the mechanics and work- interest.
m
Ien-were better off in the Republic
Going back to the question as to what
186o than they are to-day. There is the state of things is, I do not think
a510ther fact which we areaptto leave out of there is much use in arguing with gene-ht in talking of the United States-that tlemen who say we are prosperous now.
rtigrants from Europe have been pouring Hon. gentlemen must he aware of the
iito that Country since 1848 in enormous fact that the boards of trade in Halifax
ers rs; and it has been estimated by and St. John have been, during the last
e s8who give their attention to those couple ot years, passing resolutions which
uestions, that each adult immigrant is indicate that trade with them at any rate
hl he
rch about $i,ooo to the country to is not in a very flourishing condition, and
comes.
asking the Government to make certain
There have been years in which as mo<ifications in their trade policy, with a
y as 250,ooo immigrants have settled view to improve things. We are discusse th wealthwhichthatrepresents? the im- ing the trade of the country, and hon.
5'ense Uited States. Look at
Valu- gentlemen who have preceded me have
each emigrant at $i,ooo, those 250,- taken a pretty wide range, and perhaps
limmrigrants would represent $250,- the House will allow me to quote from a
rOoo added to the country's wealth. I a resolution passed on the 4th of March,
Plesume however that as they are not all 1885 by the Halifax Chamber of Comaduîlmaea
edc
tion - one would have to make a reduc- merce with reference to the duties imof tn that anount, but that is a feature posed by the Spanish West Indies on
.thi prosperity of the United States Canadian goods. The resolution reads
ish deserves to be considered. There as follows:
tr One Pont upon which a good deal of
otess has been laid both by the Minister
" our Comniittee regret to learn that dis.
Ofthe Int erior and the hon. gentleman criminating duties in favor of American fleh
fro
and other products etill exist in the island of
A.berton, the
th e savings banks. increased deposits in Cuba and Porto Rico, and that representations
There are different of the Chamber to the Dominion Government
Ways ho
i.
Wever, 0f laoking at that subject. last year on the subject do not appear to have
S nPP to have had something to do produced any efeet. In the present depressed
b ldually with deposits in the savings condition of the West India trade. these dis•

staple
are
; and our experience, in Halifax, is criminating duties on our cal Iforproducts and
prompt
a very heavy burden, and

296

-

Te Industries and [SENATE]

Manuf'r8 of Canada.

energetie representation by the Dominion have large political influence-the heads
Government, who can alone deal with this of big manufacturing concerns, and large
matter."
contractors, who have the most influence

The sugar business is in wretched condition in Halifax. Last year a deputation
representing the sugar interest came to
the Capital, and had an interview with the
Minister of Finance as to their grievances,
and he gave them to understand that some
change in the mode of testing sugars
would be introduced this session. They
asked that sugars should be tested as they
are in the United States, and in most enlightened countries now, that is by the
polariscope. They applied to the Minister
this session, and notwithstanding the resolutions of the Chamber of Commerce
the reply of the Government is " we will
not do anything this year either." With
the permission of the House I will read
the comment of the Montreal Herald on
this resolution-a paper which cannot be
accused of being friendly to the Opposition :"As this is only a movement to secure fair
play for Canadian products in foreign countries, and not for the purpose of increasing
the price of bread ail over Canada, we presume
that it has been let pass as a matter of no
moment. True, the complaint is that a blow

at the fishing and trading and shipping interests of a very large and important section
of Canada has received no attention and led

to-day with the Government, and whose
interests are most looked after.
There is another point to which I might
revert before I turn to this report of the
trade commissioner, and that is, that the
boards of trade of Halifax and St. John
have urged upon the Government the desirability of doing something towards procuring reciprocity with the United States,
and the Government have declared that
they do not propose to do anything in the
matter. This question of reciprocity was
a matter that was particularly brought
before the notice of the people in the
Lower Provinces some years back. In
1877, when Sir John A. Macdonald propounded his National Policy-his resolution favored a policy which looking towardS
a reciprocity of tariffs would ultimatelY
secure reciprocity of trade. We have got
very near to reciprocity of tariffs ; and I
think the time has come when the right
hon. gentleman who leads the Government
should see whether the result of his reclprocity of tariff has made it easier to get
reciprocity of trade. The resolutions Of
the merchants of Halifax and St. John
are deserving of some attention, and theY
have a right to expect that the Premier
will now do what he said his policy was

to no action, although the grievance is of such
long standing, but the fact that the com- intended to do several years ago; because
plainants are not millers and irich, and are if after so many years of the operation of
moving for the benefit of a whole province, the National Policy the United States are
instead of nerely fighting for their own
pockets, tells against them. They ought to no more disposed to make a reciprocitY
get up rings, and scnid monster delegations to treaty with us than they were before, the
Ottawa, and bully members of Parliament feeling must be that to that end at any
and members of the Government, and leave rate the National Policy has been a failure
no stone unturned to increase their individual The notice which the hon. gentleflan'
wealth at the public's expense. Then, perhaps, their righteous grievance would stand from British Columbia placed on the
table was a notice that he would call
some.chance of being considered."
attention to the report of the commission'
HON. MR. HOWLAN-Who moved ers relative to manufacturing industries in
that resolution ?
Canada, and I have been led to follow the
example of my predecessors, and to wanHON. MR. POWER-The resolution der away from that report to some extent.
was adopted by the Halifax Chamber of I shall not deal with the report of Mr.
Commerce on the 4th inst. A similar Blackeby who made the inspection in
resolution had been adopted by them on Ontario and Quebec, because I do not
the 4 th of March, 1884. There is no know much about the industries of those
difference of opinion in Halifax on that provinces ; and further, I have not had
subject, and politics have nothing to do the opportunity to examine the repOr
with it. I think there is that to be said But Mr. Willis says that he made his,
about the policy of the present Govern- investigation i'i St. John a thorough onement as a general thing, it is people who I may say to begin with that this report is
HON. MR. POWER.

The Industries and [MARCHF 13, 1885] Manuf'r8 of Canada. 297'
one that is to be looked at with some
suSPicion. The policy of the Government
has been in operation for some considerable time. They were naturally anxious
to make it appear that that policy was a
success, and they appointed two gentlemen,
whom they paid very handsomely, to go
Ott and inquire. • I think these gentlemen
Were prepared to look at everything
through a rose-colored medium. They
Were doing very well out of the policy ;
they were getting very good salaries ; and
We mTay be quite sure that where there
Was a doubt the policy would get the
beflefit of it, and things would be very
black ndeed when those gentlemen would
report that they were of any dark color.
I

the condition of the industries now with
their condition in 1878.
Again, he
says :" The result will be found set forth in detail in the statements of the parties interviewed. A few, as will be seen, dislike the
policy; some acknowledge partial benifits;
some give full credit for success, and othere
are too candid to blame the policy for disasters caused by errors of judgment, lack of
foresight, or unlooked for troubles in unezpected quarters."
Then he goes on, and I call the attention of my hon. friend from British Columbia to this part of the report :-

" The bad crops of the past two years, overproduction, the diminished purchasing power
do not know that it is necessary to give of the industrial class from this cause, the
evidence that times are not good
locking up of capitai oy investments in nonin the productive enterprises, over-production in
4er
Provinces, but perhaps as this certain industries, depression in the lumber
report has been quoted in the teeth of trade, and the revolution which the substituevery day experience and common
sense, tion of stamers for sailing craft lias brought
't May be well to quote it again to show about in the carrying trade of the world, are
tlat even these commissioners do not among the leading causes variously assigned
for the troubles
report .general prosperity. This is the the year 1884." which have clustered around
Way Mr. Willis speaks about St. John,
taking the place as a whole
Does that read like the report of a pros"liven in St. John, notwithstanding the perous year or a prosperous city ? I will
eeptional circumstances which surround the now refer to what he says about the sugar
with which 1884 is contrasted, evidence refineries
brs-ar progress is not wanting, though the
"
refinawaflesa stringency of the year just passing eriesThere are four well equipped sugar Moncin the Maritime Provinces-one in
mliakes it difficult for persons unacquaintton, New Brunswick, one in Dartmouth, Nova
to thth industrial methode togi ve ful] credence Scotia, one within the limits of Halifax city,
e statement."
and one outside of the city limits, on the
That means that the ordinary; business western bank of the north-west arm. The
refinery is
in size and capacity
Jo andithe ordinary workman in St. latter the others. smaller four establishments
Al
Jht*who has felt the business stringency, than
bg
unacquainted with the industrial were in operation when visited, even though
the
ethods finds it hard to believe that he is at pricetime refined sugars were ruling lower
than for many previous years. The
in
dot worse off than he was in 1878. I am managers of the respective establishments did
iesposed to agree with the ordinary " busi- not appear to be at aIl despondent at the condition of the trade. They mndulged
The ian, and the ordinary workman." hopeful spirit, seemingly confidenta cheerful,
that.the
which this troubles which had arisen nnder a new order
*see the comparison
romissioner makes in order to make it of things were not insurmountable."
Pear that affairs are better than they
Hon. gentlemen will see by this that
e> when he says

troubles had arisen ; and I may mention
ri
,Notheg but a personal and painstaking that at the time I left Halifax two of those
i the part of those
coat4 back ten fifteen orwho can carry their refineries were not working ; and since I
twenty years, and
have
Dectivert the producing capacity of the res- came up here I of the read a report of the
Nova Scotia Sugar
.Industries then with their condition annual meeting
aa
Wl
4liner." do this in anything like a thorough Refining Company, from which it appears
hrog
that that institution lost $2o8,ooo during

nIow
of

oow, the commissioner was not sent
sto make a comparison of the business
s'. ohn to-day with what it was twenty
ago ; he was sent out to compare

the last year ; and if it had not been that

the shareholders were men of very considerable wealth, that industry would have
gone by the board.

9!98

The Indu8tries and [SENATE]

HManuf'rèe of Canada.

HON. MR. PLUMB-I thought the production, which gives rise to keener coflu
cut
contention of the hon. gentlemen of the petition bassufferinto prices. Employers and
in consequence, and the
workmen
Opposition at first was that these refi- general public enjoys only a seeming benefit.
neries would make too much money.
called

This Balaam seems to have been

HON. MR. POWER-I took the oppor- upon to bless the National Policy, and

tunity of stating some four years ago, I instead of doing that he curses it.
As to the furniture industry he says:think in reply to something that fell from the
hon. gentleman from Hamilton, that I pre" As furniture manufacturere are protected
sumed the course of things in this country by aduty at 2.5 per cent. they cannot colis
would be the same as elsewhere; that during
the beginning of the period of high tariff,the
people who were first in the field and got
the advantage of the tariff at the beginning
would make money; that in a little while
there would be great competition-too
many people would run into the business
of manufacturing, and then there would
be losses, and ultimately the weaker
establishments would go to the wall, and
the stronger would survive, and I think
that experience has shown that that is just
about what has taken place. The weeding
out process is now going on ; and as my
hon. friend from Lunenburg has a good
deal of stock in the Nova Scotia sugar
refinery, I should like to know if he
relishes the weeding out process when
applied to himself?
Taking the cotton industry as to which
the hon. gentleman from Alberton spoke
with a good deal of force of language and

cienciously complain. But in this view those
who profess to be seriously pinched by the
tariff mnthe direction named are not inclined
to concur."

Then he speaks of the iron and nail
industry and reports that as being
prosperous. As to certain works, the steel
works and the iron works of New Glasgow,
the Starr Manufacturing Company's works
at Dartmouth, I agree with him that they
are fairly prosperous. As to the most
important iron industry of all in the LoWer
Provinces, the Londonderry Iron Works,
the commissioner could not have had his
eyes as open as he should, because it is
only a short time since that company was
obliged to make a compromise with its
creditors. He further reports:" In some instances, peculiar circumstancOs
aside from general depression, affect certain
branches of the trade. In ship's works there
is an undoubted drop so far as St. Johl,
?ortland and Quaco, New Brunswick are

gesture, and with considerable force of concerned, the revolution in the shippilg

argument; what does this commissioner interest caused by the introduction of cheaP
iron steamers, and cheap iron shipe having
report as to that industry ?
paralyzed the building of wooden ships--an
" This industry has for some time been in industry in which for many long years St.
rather an unhealthy condition. The decline John stood proudly pre-eminent."
is due to a number of causes. Firet, to the
Now, why is it that the Minister of
failure of certain important crops for a cou ple
the
of years, and to the depression mn lumbr Finance who assumed to be gifted with
trade; secondly, to the miscalculation of the powers of Providence, has allowed that
mauiufacturers as to the consuming powers of great industry-the most important Inthe world's cotton centres in a time of short
crops and general business depression; thirdly, dustry of his own province, and in his oWO
to the large sameness in the cotton product of city-to get into a state of depression ?
the Domion, and the shortsightedness of Of the clothing interest the Commisusuallyshrewd meninoverlooking the variety sioner reports:
requirement when taking advantage of the
" The clothing trade is affected injuriously
stimulating influence of the tariff; fourthly,
to the too great dependence placed upon by the general depression, and to a very conspecial centres to distribute the manufactured siderable extent. The purchasing power Of
Ontario
usual
is
goods, and the inadequate efforts to secure theirQuebec markets arecurtailed, and
and
dealers
forced to throw upoB
more extended markets, etc."
a tard market competive goods at 0oW
Then I come to another great industry, prices.

the boot and shoe industry, and what

does he say about that ?
"The boot and shoe business in New
Brunswick and Nova Scotia is not so flourishing as in some former years. The general
depression bas retarded its progrese, and over-

This does not seem to indicate that
these moneys deposited in the savings
bank represent the surplus funds of the
working classes to any extent. He speaks
of Messrs Morrison & Co. proprietors of

The Indutrie8 and [MARCH 13, 18851 Januf'r8of Canada. 299
the Mammoth Biscuit Works at Halifax
and says:
«'lhe duty on wheat diminishes their gain
on1 manufacture of flour in their own mill
the
"t Bedford, and the duty on hard coal used
In their bakery, adds to the cost of production."
I might add that this concern has been
in the hands of an assignee for two years
noW. Dealing with the lumber interest
Of New Brunswick, Commissioner Willis
reports .

"The demand for vessels of large tonnage

s n0 longer what it once was, and the ship-

Yards do not resound with the busy hum of
aldustrial lite. An occasional large vessel

lnds her way from the blocks in one or
nflother of the almost silent ship-yards to

17 some special trade requirement of the
ager purchaser. The prostration of this
1 der or his friends rather than to find an

ade in wooden ships-how important can
.st be appreciated by those engaged in ship-

Ping ventures-had naturally a detrimental

et upon the prosperity and progress of the
ke0ples of the two cities. Commercial polic'es could not bring back the lost trade,
4.overnment edicts could not be made to
b8ckle the wheels of progress, legislative
afl8ctments were unsuited to revivify waning
stries, though capable of stimulating

*Ubtitute enploymente."
I do not think hon. gentlemen will
'need any further evidence that down in
St John, and of course as in St. John all
Over the Province of New Brunswick,
business affairs are not very bright. To
Show that these industries that I have
tnentioned are not exceptional, I will just
quote from page 43 of the report what he
Says about the number of persons emPlOyed.
SThe total number of persons employed all
he
tar city and county of St. John, at the
1o'us industries, with the exceptions already
Th Was 8,555 in 1878, and 8,562 in 1884.
ti thtotal weekly wages paid to the operators
ir e repective years amounted to $63,749.16
78 and $61,980 in 1884."
Se that it will be seen that the number
.St n employed and the wages paid in
John i 1884, are both less than in the
yeprt1878. I notice further on in the
report that in several industries
the
tobr
cf men employed is reduced. As
ifax the Commissioner says
dTO those who knew Nova Scotia's capital
stati urroundings in the olden time, they (the
-lanotC8 given) will furnish a pleasing, and,
eWinstances, a surprising record."

If I am not mistaken Mr. Willis is a
native of Halifax, and has been out of it
for some thirty years, and the Halifax with
which he is comparing the Halifax of today is the Halifax of more than a quarter
of a century ago; but if he would compare the Halifax of to-day with the Halifax
of say 1867, I do not think he will find any
improvement, although we ought to have
made considerable progress. He speaks of
the three sugar refineries. I have dealt
with that industry already, but I imagine
that the shareholders of two of those refineries would be very glad indeed if they
had never had anything to do with them.
The Rope and Cordage Manufactory is
doing very well, and the Steel Works of
the Star Manufacturing Co'y are also
doing a good business ; as they were before the National Policy. He speaks of
the well equipped Tobacco Factoriesone or two of them have been closed up ;
of the Boot and Shoe Factories-I think
there is only one solvent concern of the
kind in the city. The others have been
closed up by competition from the Upper
Provinces.
Then Mr. Willis goes on to say:" With the return of ordinary commercial
proeperity, all of the establishments enumerated and all others of greater or lesser note,
will, doubtless, prove fairly remunerative to
their several investors."
There is all that this commissioner can
say, that with the return of ordinary commercial prosperity these establishments
may prove fairly remunerative. I did not
intend saying as much as I have done
when I began ; but I thought it was to a
certain extent necessary to call attention
to the other side of this report; because
if the report with the comments that are
made upon it by Ministerial speakers and
writers were allowed to go to the country
without any other notice, people in the
Upper Provinces might think we are not
so badly off in the provinces below; and
people in the Maritime Provinces might
imagine that some confidence could be
placed in what is reported about the Upper
Provinces. The hon. gentleman from
Alberton said that he felt proud and
pleased to have been present at the inauguration of this grand policy. I think
that the report from which I have just
read goes to show that there is nothing in
the present working of the policy in the

300

Tke Industrie8 and

[SENATE]

Maritime Provinces to make any hon.
gentleman to feel pleased and proud to
have been present or to have had a part
at its inauguration. My hon. friend has
used an expression which aptly describes
the policy of the Government in sending
out these commissioners and getting this
report to prove that the country was prosperous, when he spoke of galvanizing
trade into life. It was an attempt to get
up an artificial appearance of life in our industries, when in reality life was not there.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-The House
must be weary of this long debate, and I
feel myself that I can add but little to
influence, not the minds of members,
because they are already convinced, but
the minds of the country upon our fiscal
policy. That there is a depression, is a
fact that cannot be denied-there is
depression the whole world over, in every
country, and it would be strange, even
with our National Policy which has done
so much good to the country, that we
should not feel the effects of the depression
in Canada. It would be strange indeed
if we could boast that the want of purchasing power in other countries to buy our
products did not affect us, and that we
should not suffer as well as other countries
do, to a considerable extent. But we must
look at the facts that show the great
development the country has made under
the National Policy. Can my hon. friend
shut his eyes to the facts everywhere
apparent, that the country is more progressive, that we are more independent,
that our industries are more numerous
and more prosperous, that there is greater
demand for the labor of working classes,
and that the working man is better fed,
better clothed, and better housed than he
was in 1878 ? These facts are patent to
every one whose eyes are open to what is
passing in the country ; therefore I say
that it is folly for the Opposition to fight
against the policy adopted by the Government, and as long as they oppose the
present Administration upon that line,
they must remain in the cold shades of
opposition. The policy of the country is
fixed, and the Government have nailed
their colors to the mast. The National
Policy is not only their policy, but it must
be the policy of any Government, and
the Opposition can never attain power

HoN. MR. POWER.

fanuf'r of Canada.

We know that the
by opposing it.
Government cannot interfere with the
ways of Providence ; that they cannot
make the rain to fall and the sun to
shine ; there must be clouds, and there
must be depression at times.
These
things will occur, but like a careful mariner,
who, when he sees the clouds coming prepares for the storm, the Government
must be prepared to meet exegencies that
may arise in the administration of the
affairs of the country. The late Government did not do anything of the kind ;
when depression came they declared that
they could do nothing ; that they had nOconfidence in themselves or in the country,
or in the productive power of the people,
and they allowed the country to become a,
mere slaughter market for the surplus
manufactures of the Americans. Every
little industry in the country was almost
driven out of existance. I have heard IY
hon. friend, the leader of the Opposition,
say that the people benefited by that
slaughtering process-that they got cheap
goods by it. Why then should the people
complain now if under the National PolicY
those who put their money into manufacturing industries, and suffer by overproduction and a glutted market lose
money if the masses get their goods as
cheap by it as when Canada was a slaughter
market for the American manufacturers ?
The National Policy was not sprung upon
the people ; it was the issue at the polls
in 1878 ; it was the issue which the
people had been educated to. They were
not deceived as to the question before the
country, and the moment the Government
came into power they fully and fairly
carried out their pledges to the people.
We were told before the last election, in
1882, that the Government dare not
appeal to the people again on this policy;
that the policy which was sprung upon the
country under peculiar circumstances il
1878 would not be endorsed on a second
appeal to the people, and that theY
would reverse the judgment they had
given in 1878.
Feeling confident that
the people would sustain their policYr
the Government went to the country,
and were returned by a larger majority than on the previous occasionà,
and that policy continues to be the
policy of the Dominion.
My honfriend from Halifax depicts nothing but

The Industrie8 and [MARCH 13, 1885] .Manuf'r8of Canada.
"lin in Nova Scotia. We have had four
by elections since the general election of
1882, in that province, and in these electiOns two candidates were returned by
acclamation and two by immense majority
to Sustain the policy of the present Goveflrnent. Does my hon. friend tell me
that if the policy was so detrimental to
the ;nterests of the country that the
'Government would be sustained by such
1
jorities when they appeal to the people ?
- say there is a fair amount of prosperity
in the country, and that every man who
Wishes to work and can work finds plenty
to do, and that the farming portion of the
Community are growing rich. There is
depression in the West India trade, no
'doubt, in consequence of the poverty of
that country, and the inability of the
People to buy our fish ; but this is only
a rnomentary depression. We in the
Maritime Provinces are wealthy; we have
Ot Plenty of fish, but there is nobody to
y it. Sugars are
.any fault of the policydown, not through;
of the Dominion
the refiners cannot sell their products, but
1 Say that in spite of all that the Province
' Nova Scotia is generally prosperous.
't may not be quite so much so in Halifax
s in other parts of the province, although
n'Y hon. friend will recollect that it is
'only a very short time ago that a member
Of the late Government declared that the
laboring men were better off than they
.d been for years before ; that they re
ceived better wages and could live cheaper
tarn they could during the term of ad1imistration of the late Government.
.rherefore that the condition of HaliI say
is not so bad as my hon. friend would
th the House to believe. He knows
that lalifax is not Nova Scotia. Although
tere may be a little depression about
alifax, it does not prevail throughout the
p ovmce. The prosperity and enterprise
fother parts of Nova Scotia have
oably .worked

rather detrimentally

nthe
terests of Halifax. Instead
Ilalifax being the centre of the
o'nI0rt of Nova Scotia, and the distrade
utng port of the province, Truro, PicYarmouth, and a dozen other towns
until recent years depended on Halit
he for their supplies, instead of going
.now to get their goods at second
"tnPortindependently for thenselves,
u
for that reason Halifax may not be

301

doing as prosperous a trade as when it had
all Nova Scotia for its customers. I say
that to a large extent the depression in
Halifax has been in consequence of a
want of enterprise on the part of the
people in not turning their attention to
other industries, and not being as energetic in business as other parts of the Provvince. The people of Nova Scotia get
their goods from Montreal. If the merchants of Halifax cannot sell goods to the
dealers throughout the province as well as
the Montreal merchants can, they deserve
to lose that trade. If goods can be imported from Europe and other countries
and taken up the St. Lawrence to Montreal, and from there sent down east again
to Nova Scotia and sold cheaper than the
importing merchants of Halifax can afford
to sell them, it is not the fault of the
fiscal policy ; it is the fault of the merchants of Halifax, who are deficient in
enterprise. As I said before, there is not
even in Halifax, I believe, a man in possession of his health and able to work
The
who cannot find employment.
poor are always with us and we should endeavor to do them good, but I say that no
laboring man, unless disabled by sickness
or accident, need be without employment
whiéh will enable him to provide for his
family, even in the City of Halifax. The
hon. member from Halifax (Mr. Power)
says that he will not argue the question
with those people who are satisfied with
the material condition of things ; well we
are not satisfied with the condition of
things. It was the policy of the late Government to be satisfied; the despondency,
the depression in trade, men clamoring
everywhere for work and unable to find it,
every industry paralysed-the late Government, of which my hon. friend was a supporter, were satisfied with that condition
of things. But we are not satisfied that a
depression should exist, and the people,
through the National Policy, will be enabled to devise ways to improve their
condition. Even in England, they say,
the cloud is lifting, and I know it is lifting
on this side of the Atlantic. People living under a free trade policy believe that
the cloud will disperse on this side of the
Atlantic before it will disappear in Europe.
My hon. friend from Halifax says that the
year 1879 was bad, but people were fools
enough to expect that immediately on the

302

The Consolidation (SENATE]

gf the Laws.

introduction of the National Policy, prosBill (52) " An Act respecting the Sault
perity would prevail everywhere.
St. Marie Bridge Company."-(Mr Power.>
Bill (38) " An Act to amend the Acts
HON. MR. POWER-I did not say relating to the Great Western & Lake
that. I said that the hon. gentleman Ontario Shore Junction Railway Co'y."from British Columbia stated there was (Mr. McMaster.)
an immediate rebound on the adoption of
Bill (54) "An Act respecting the Canada
the National Pol'cy.
Congregational Missionary Society."-(Mr.
Vidal.)
Hox. MR. KAULBACH-The hon.
Bill (23) " An Act to amend the Act
gentleman said that those who advocated to incorporate the Wood Mountain and
the National Policy claimed that it would Qu'Appelle Railway Co'y."-(Mr. Plumb.>
have that effect-that with a bound the
Bill (24) " An Act to incorporate the
people of this country were to spring from Lake Erie, Essex and Detroit River Raila state of almost penury and want to that way Co'y."-(Mr. Plumb.)
of affluence. My hon. friend from British Columbia (Mr. Macdonald) never
The Senate adjourned at 6 o'clock.
could have expected a thing like that. I
say the country had lost all confidence
and courage through the supineness and
indifference of the late Government, but
THE SENATE.
the moment the National Policy was
adopted the people were inspired with

fresh energy and hiope, and looked around
to see which way they could better them-

Ottawa, Monday, March 16th, 1885·
The

SPEAKER

took the Chair at three

selves and improve their industries, and o'clock p.m.

prevent themselves being made any
longer mere hewers of wood and drawers
Prayers and routine proceedings.
of water to the United States. Whenever
they had attempted to start a factory, THE CONSOLIDATION OF THE
American manufacturers combined to
LAWS.
crush it out, making Canada a slaughter
market, and then, having destroyed comMOTION.
petition, ran up the prices of mauufactured
goods. My hon. friend cannot say that
HON.
SIR ALEX.
CAMPBELL
the change in the policy of this country moved :has not been due to the National Policy.
That a message be sent to the House Of
Commons requesting that House to unite
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is with the Senate in the formation of a Joint
examine and
now nearly six o'clock and as there are Committee of both Houses toCommiesioners
report upon the Report of the
some Bills from the Commons to be in- appointed to consolidate and revise the Stw
troduced, I would suggest to my hon. tutes of Canada, and to inform that HOuse
friend that he should move the adjourn- that the Honorable Messieurs Carvell, DickeY,
Girard, Gowan, Lacoste, Macdonald, (B.C.h)
ment of the debate.
Odell, Pelletier, Power, Scott, Trudel a0 d
mover will act on behalf of this Hoise au
HON. MR. KAULBACH,I move that the
members of the said Joint Committee, should
the debate be adjourned until Monday the House of Commons agree to the creation

of such Joint Conmittee.
He said-In making the motion of
which notice was given for the reference
to a committee of the report of the COrnBILLS INTRODUCED.
mission appointed to consolidate the statutes
of Canada since Confederation, I think it
Bill (39) " An Act to incorporate the desirable to endeavor to present to the
Synod of the Diocese of Qu'Appelle, and House some statement of the previous Pofor other purposes connected therewith." sition of matters in regard to consolidation
in each of the different provinces of the
-(Mr. Plumb.
next.
The motion was agreed to.

HON. MR.

KAULBACH.

The Con8olidation [MARCII 16, 1885] of Me Laws.
Dominion, and also some account of the
labors of this commission, and if in doing
this I detain the House somewhat longer
than I would like to do, I hope hon.
l'emlbers will excuse me because of the
IrOPortance, as it seems to me, of preser11g Some record of what has been accomPlished by the commission, and also of
Placing a statement before the House
.oncerning the labors of previous commisons upon the same subject. The thought
adding a part of this history, that is,
giving an account of what had been done
ty previous commissions, was suggested
to Ie by finding, as I did, the difficulty
'f ascertaining by the debates in the local
!egislatures of the time, anything concernlg the history of the work of those gentleti en who, in the different provinces from
tirne to time in years gone by, were con8tituted commissioners upon subjects such
218 which we have labored to accomthat
Plsh, and the results of which are now
"Pon the table of the House.
I am
happy to know that in the House I shall
the advantage of the assistance of
taegentlemen
who have taken a part in
S'tnilar work-my hon. friend from Barrie
(MrGowan) who took a nost distinpart extending over many years,
the revision and consolidation of the
tatutes of Ontario, and the hon. gentleman
the senior member from Halifax (Mr.
J¡ower), who took part in one of the commisSions for the revision of thestatutes of Nova
ventIa. I think, perhaps, the must contenient way for me to state the history of
the efforts to consolidate the laws in
the
different provinces will be to
commence
at ova Scotia, as I did with reference to
anOther matter on a previous occasion,
tIat then to follow up the statenient as to
the province by coming gradually west to
de other provinces and noticing or eni ng to notice, what has been done
refeh province in that respect. With
therene to Nova Scotia, I find that
erent had been four commissions at diffolid times engaged in the work of conating the statutes. The first was
ied

.Wjl51. the work was done by
when

Young-the
YO lam J W. Ritchie. present Sir Wm.
. lu
formerly a Judge

303

Wilkins, William A. Henry (the present
Justice Henry) and James R. Smith. Mr.
Wilkins I believe is still alive.
HON MR. POWER-No, he died some

three years ago.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
third commission in Nova Scotia was in
1873, when the work was done by Alonzo
J. White, Henry C. D. Twining, James W.
Johnston, and Lawrence G. Power, our
colleague in the House, whom I am very
glad to meet here, and I am. glad to
believe that we shall have his assistance in
the revision of the work now before us.
In 1884 the work was done by J. W.
Johnston, Otto S. Weeks, and J. W. Longley, with B. Russell as secretary.
That is the state of the matter in Nova
Scotia, and these are the successive commissions which have been appointed there
for the purpose of consolidating the
statutes.
In New Brunswick part of the public
laws of that province were revised in 1854
by W. B. Kinnear, J. W. Chandler, and
Charles Fisher, all of whom are deceased ;
and the remaining acts were published in
a second volume called the Public Statutes
of New Brunswick, and a third volume of
local and privatestatutes of New Brunswick
up to that date was published in 1855.
The work of consolidating and revising
the laws of New Brunswick was completed
in 1877, the work being done by C. N.
Skinner, Frederick E. Barker, E. L. Wetmore and George W. Burbidge, who was
secretary to the commission, now Deputy
Minister of Justice, and who has taken an
active and very useful and important part
in the commission whose work we are
now considering. Frederick A. Morrison
was one of the commissioners as at first
constituted ; but he died during the progress of the work.
Then coming to Prince Edward Island;
there seems to have never been a consolidation of the laws there.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-Oh yes.
HON.

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My

of "tuity, Jonathan McCully, whom many hon. friend from Prince Edward Island
hoUs remember as our colleague in this says yes, but I think I shall satisfy my
s
i 8and J. Whidden; the second was hon. friend in a moment that it is not so-

5 , when it was done by Martin

J.

that the Acts of Prince Edward Island

.304A

The Consolidation [SEN ATE]

of the Lnws.

bad never been revised and consolidated, can be told at the same time.

There

but all the Acts up to 1878 have been re- was some work done anterior to the union
published and printed in four volumes.
with Upper Canada, which took place in
1841. A revision of the Acts and Ordin
HON. MR. HOWLAN-No, they have ances in force in Lower Canada at the
been consolidated under three commis- Union was begun in 1842 and completed
sioners.
in 1845 by a commission consisting of
HON.

SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL-I

shall pass over Prince Edward Island for
the present, as I thought otherwise.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-They were
consolidated under three commissioners.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I will
read what is said about that :The first volume of the Local and Private
Acts from 1773 to 1862, and the second volume
of the Local and Private Acts containing
those from 1863 to 1868. The three volumes
first nentioned were ublished under the
authoritv of the Acts of that Province, 23rd
Victoria, chapter 10, and 24th Victoria,
chapter 3rd, by Edward Palmer, John Longworth, and W. H. Pope, Commissioners, and
the second volume of the Local and Private
Statutes were published by Edward Palmer
and Joseph Hensley. Comniissioners.

Messrs. A. Buchanan, H. Heney and G.
W. Wicksteed. The commissioners made
two reports, which, as well as a prefatory
notice, were printed with the volume of
Revised Statutes compiled by them.
Now that is what was done in the
Province of Quebec anterior to the union
with Upper Canada. In the Province Of
Upper Canada anterior to that union :The first revision of the statutes in the
new Province of Upper Canada was made il'
1818. It coneisted merely of a collection .

the Acts of the Province of Upper Canada i
force at that date, together with such Acts O
the Imperial Pariament and Ordinances
the former Province of Quebec as effecte
Upper Canada.
In 1831, a collection of the statutes O
Upper Canada, in force at that dite, W&O
published in Kingston by Me'ssrs. fu«h .'
homson and James ilacfarlane, wicb
though a private enterprise, long supplied
the place of a revision by authority.
There was no consolidation in the sense
I dare say the hon. member fron Bellethat we mean. They simply took the laws ville can remember when the laws were
that they found on the statute book and collected in a large octavo volurne
For many
eliminated those that were no longer in published in Kingston.
force and published the remainder. There years it was the vade m;ecwn for
was no revision, no placing of the statutes judges and lawyers, doing away with the
that had been passed on one subject necessity of having a large number O
together and forming a chapter of it, and volumes of acts which had been passed
going on from that and forming another anterior to that date. That was the state
of thing with reference to the tY'O
chapter on another subject.
provinces which now constitute OntarIO
HoN. MR. HOWLAN-No, there was and Quebec anterior to their union.
There had been published, as I have said,
not.
in Lower Canada a revision of the Acts
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That and Ordinances of Lower Canada, bY
completes the history of the work which Messrs. Buchanan, Heney and Wicksteed,
was done in the three lower pro and in Ontario a revision of the statutes,
vinces.
Then comng to Quebec, I apparently without authority, and in 1881
find that the union of these pro- again without authority, as a private en
vinces in 1842 rendered the labors in terprise, by Mr. Hugh C. Thomson and
this consolidation of the statutes in the James Macfarlance. In 1840 the union
two provinces identical. They took place took place between Upper and LOwer
at the same time, and, although entrusted Canada, and from that time up to 1867
to different individuals, were reported upon the labors for the revision of the statutes,
together, and constituted a joint labor; as regards those two provinces, were joint.
and after 1842 the history of the labors of In the preface to the work which was
these gentlemen who undertook to consoli- accomplished in those provinces, there
date the statutes of Upper and Lower is a note as to the state of the
Canada, and of the then Province of Canada Statute law in the Province of UPe
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Thte CoJnsolidation [MARC H 16, 1885] of the Law.

305

Canada, of very great interest, which I

The result of the labors of the commission was embodied in two volumes, the
first containing Public Acts, and the second, Local and Private Acts. The report
tohe history of the Statute Law applicable
the
,. nee territory nov comprised in the Pro. to the Governor-General, in which the comof Ontario, dates from 1791.
announced the completion of
&fter the treaty of Paris, 1763, by which missioners
he Prench possessions in North Arnerica the work, is dated 8th March, 1843, and
were ceded to Great Britain, a Royal Procla- was printed as a preface to the first volume.
tin vas issued on the 7th October, 1763,
In this, as in former revisions, no conairodcing the law of England, botli civil solidation, strictly speaking, of the statutes
ter.eminal, into the whole of the ceded was attempted. The various Acts in force
tritory, and forming a portion of it, lying
heards the east, into the Province of Quebec. were printed as they had been passed,
Governor of the new coloiv received omitting only such portions as had expired
1wer and direction "l soon as the state or had been repealed, with notes stating
so
th circunstances of the colony would admit the reasons for onissions, and giving the

a"

sure hon, gentlemen will allow me to
"ead to the House :

ereuft to summon and call a General As- provisions, if any, which the Legislature
bly," but until this was done, the Gover- had substituted for repealed clauses; errors
Council were invested with " authorO
ity

a

Shouîd make such rules and regulations as in the text were left uncorrected except by
appear to be necessary for the peace, way of a note directing attention to them;
ord
Ser and good governiment of the rovince."
as'74, the Quebec Act, 14 Geo. Ii. c. 83,
nt Passed, by which French law was re-

thephIce d incivil matters, and the limits of
to ¡ rovince of Quebec were enlarged, so as
ude the whole of the territory alterwa

Quebs formed into Upper Canada. The
ec Act produced disatisfaction. especially

lo4

the Britisli colonists, and in 1791, the

by bial Act, 31 Geo. III. c. 31, was passed,
exichthe Province of Quebec as it then

, vas divided into the two Provinces

of

leg Per and Lower Canada; the powers of
tak ation by the Governor in Council were
roe away, and a legislature granted to each
aytivece consisting of the governor, a legish connil and a legislative asseinbly.
et firt Parliament of Upper Canada met at
Niagara, on the 18th September, 9
C
3 9.
7

A 3 ln 1840 was passed the Imperial
c
& 4 V. C. 35, to re-unite the Provthof Jpper and Lower Canada; and

the

n'on took effect by proclamation on
th February, 184 1. A revision was
Can after begun of the Statutes of Upper

A

a in force at the date of the Union.
J rnimission for the purpose, dated
2 th
5

evrUl 40, was issued to the Hon. John
c
Robnson, the Hon. James B.
brauay, the Hon. William Henry
and der and John Hillyard Cameron, Esq.,
irected the commissioners "diligently
4sedcarefully to examine and revise
the
an eral statutes from time to time passed

Canadacted by the Parliament of Upp2r

anda, and then in force and effect;
Il.ed tom
Tfake such report upon the premf tsh
a
their opinion should be most

tfent e interest welfare and good governthe province."

and the revision did not receive authority
by legislative adoption, but was nevertheless, by general use, practically substituted
for the preceding volumes of statutes.
4. A revision of the Acts and Ordi
nances in force in Lower Canada at the
date of the union of Upper and Lower
Canada was begun in 1842, and completed
in 1845, by a commission composed of
Messrs. A. Buchanan, H. Heney and G.
W. Wicksteed. The commissioners made
two reports, which, as well as a prefatory
notice, were printed with the volume of
Revised Statutes compiled by them.
5. In 1856 was begun the first con-

solidation, properly so called, of the
Statute Law.
Two commissions were then isued,
one on the 7th February, 1856, appointing
Messrs. John Hillyard Cameron, Joseph
C. Morrison, Adam Wilson, Skeffington
Connor, Oliver Mowat, and David B. Read
to examine, revise, consolidate and classify
the Public General Statutes affecting
Upper Canada only ; and a second, dated
28th March, 1856, appointing Messrs. A.
Polette, Gustavus W. Wicksteed, Andrew
Stuart, T. J. J. Loranger, Robert Mackay,
and George de Boucherville, to examine,
revise, consolidate and classify the Public
General Statutes applying exclusively to
Lower Canada ; and each commission
directed the commissioners therein named
jointly with the members of the other
commission to examine, revise, consolidate and classify the Public General
Statutes which applied equally to both
sections of the province.

30

The Consolidation [SENATE]

of the Law8.

Subsequently the Messrs. Cameron instance of the late Hon. William Henry
md Morrison resigned, and in their stead Draper, Chief Justice of Appeal, the Hon.
espectively the Hon. J. B. Macaulay and Samuel Henry Strong, Hon. George
S. H. Strong, Esq., were appointed. William Burton, and Hon. Christopher
Afterwards Dr. Connor and Mr. Mowat Salmon Patterson, Justices of Appeal, the
Mowat, and
ilso resigned, preparatory to their becom- Hon. Attorney-General
ing candidates for election as members of Messrs. Thomas Langton, Charles R. W.
The commis- Biggar and Rupert Etherege Kingsford,
the Legislative Assembly.
sioners were in a later stage of the work, Barrister-at-Law.
The Hon. Thomas
and especially during its final revision, :Moss upon his appointment as Justice of
assisted by His Honor judge Gowan, Appeal, the Hon. Samuel Hume Blake,
County Court Judge of the County of Vice-Chancellor, and His Honor Judge
Gowan, County Court Judge of the CountY
Simcoe.
The first report of the commission of Simcoe, were subsequently added to
was made on the i 9 th April, 1858, and the commission.
The work of the commission was
drafts of the Consolidated Statutes for
Upper Canada and the Consolidated three-fold :
First. To examine, revise, consolidate
Statutes of Canada were in 1859 subnitted to the Governor-General, accompanied and classify such of the Public General
respectively by a report, dated January, Statutes, passed by the Parliament of the
1859, by Sir J. B. Macaulay, the chairman Province of Canada and applying to
of the Upper Canada Commission, and a Ontario as were within the legislative
joint report dated 3rd March, 1859, by authority of the Legislature of Ontario.
Sir J. B. Macaulay and Mr. Wicksteed,
Secondly. To examine and arrange 1n
the acting commissioner of the Commis- the manner most convenient for reference
sion for Lower Canada. (See Sess. Papers, such of the Public General Statutes passed
by the Parliament of the Province of
1859, No. 9.)
At the session of 1859 these two Canada and applying to Ontario as were
volumes were laid before the Legislative not within the legislative authority ot the
Assembly, and Acts were passed to pro- Legislature of Ontario ; and also the
vide for their coming into force by Statutes passed by the Parliament of the
Dominion of Canada and affecting Ontario;
proclamation.
Pursuant to the provisions of the last
Thirdly. To examine and arrange in
mentioned Acts, the enactments of the the manner most convenient for reference
then session were incorporated with the the Statutes of the imperial Parlialent
consolidation ; and the two volumes were printed with the Consolidated Statutes o
by proclamation declared to corne into Canada in 1859, as well as all Statutes
since passed by the Imperial Parliament.
force upon the 5 th December, 1859.
This commission made three reports
On the* st July, 1867, by proclamation
8 4
issued under the Imperial Act, 30 & 31 dated respectively 12th December, 1 7 '
with 1 1th December, 187 5 ,and 3 oth Decemlbert
V. c. 3, the Province of Canada was,
the Provinces of Nova Scotia and New 1876. The first report was accompanied
Brunswick, formed into the present by tables showing the consolidation in
Dominion of Canada. By that Act known outline. The second report announced
as 'The British North America Act, 1867,' the completion of the collection of Imperial
the two divisions of the Province of Canada Acts, and contained suggestions for
were once more constituted separate legislation
to
remove
discrepancies
provinces, Upper Canada being called the discovered in the course of the work, a" d
facilitate consolidatiol•
Province of Ontario, and Lower Canada otherwise to
he Province of Quebez, and the power of Specimens of the work done were also
With the
legislation was divided between the 'submitted with this report.
Parliament of the )ominion and the 'third report was submitted a draft of the
legislatures of the provinces in manner Revised Statutes, which was laid before
defined by the Act.
the Legislature at its session in 1877. .
A volume of 633 pages, being a portion
6. "The Revised Statutes of Ontario"
were prepared by a commission appointed of the collection of enactments of.the
24th July, 1874, composed in the first I)Dominion of Canada, and of the P)rovinCe
HON. Six ALEX. CAMPHIELL.

The Con8olidation [MARCL .16, 1885.] of the Laws.
of Canada which were not within the
legislative authority of the Legislature of
Ontario, was presented with the second
report ; but the completion of this portion
of the work of the conimission was
afterwards abandoned, in view of the
Preliminary steps which had been taken
by the Dominion Government for a
consolidation of statutes that would
'nClude the Acts of which the Ontario
Collection would have been composed.
The enactments of the session of 1877,
were, pursuant to the Ontario Act 40 V.
C.6, icorporated in the Draft Consolidation
above rnentioned, by a commission
appointed by the Lieutenant-Governor,
ComnPosed of the following members :
Chief Justice Draper, Hon. Mr.
ustice Strong, Hon. Mr. Justice Burton,
on. Mr. Justice Patterson, Hon. Mr.
Justice Moss, Hon. Vice-Chancellor Blake,
i Honor Judge Gowan, Hon. Attorney,eneral Mowat, and Thomas Langton,
sq., Barrister-at-Law.
The completion of their work was
reported by the commissioners on the
2
oth November, 1877, to the Lieutenantvernor, and the revision being approved
y him, a proclamation was, on the 7th
ecember, 1877, issued, declaring the
evised Statutes to be in force on, from
and after the 31st December, 1877.
Now, that brings the history of the con'Oldation in the old Province of Canada,
o1w Ontario and Quebec, down -to the
titie of the union. I therefore leave it
there and take the next province going
testward. In the Province of Manitoba
the statutes were consolidated in i88o,
the Act authorizing the preparation
Othe Work is the 41 Vic. cap. 43. It
PrOvided that any judge of the Court of
tobeens Bench for the Province of Maniith his consent might be appointed
Ommissioner. I believe that the work
done by the late Chief Justice Wood,
but I an not absolutely sure on this
point.
ae

but

hR. Gwas
s
RON'.
GIRARD-It wclassify

307

commissioners were Henry Pering Pellew
Creose, Andrew Charles Elliott and John
Foster McCreight. There is a note here
that this consolidation has never been
considered authentic and having the force
of law in British Columbia-not yet at all
events. I have gone over slightly the
efforts made in the different provinces of
the Dominion to consolidate their laws
anterior to Confede-ration as regard
them all and anterior to their coming into the Union as regards British
Columbia and Prince Edward Island.
Now, the first effort that was made
after the union of all the provinces to consolidate the various statute
laws affecting the Dominion was on the
the 15th November, 1881. A commission was issued to the late Mr. Cockburn,
formerly Speaker of the House of Commons, a gentleman well known and highly
esteemed by aill who knew him, and well
known to every member of this House.
He was appointed a commissioner to
perform the preliminary work necessary
for the revision and consolidation of the
laws of Canada, and Mr. Ferguson, a
barrister of this town, who was a member
of the last commission, was his secretary.
Between them they did a great deal of
work which was afterwards used by the
Commission who consolidated the statutes
and by whom it was found to be of the
greatest possible value. I was Minister
of Justice at the time and I had from Mr.
Cockburn a report showing the labor
which had beeni done by himself and Mr.
Ferguson during the time that they were
employed in getting together the materials
for the work which was afterwards to be
done by the Commission. I will venture
to trouble the House with reading a passage or two from this report. It is dated
the 3oth September, 1882, and is addressed to myself as Minister of Justice:
Sir,-The commissioner appointed by a
commission issued under the Great Seal of
Canada on the fifteenth day of November, in
the year of Our Lord one th'ousand eight hurdred and eighty-one, to collect, examine and
in the manner set forth in said Commission, the statutes passed by the Parlia-

SIR ALEX.

CAMPBELL-In

ment ofthe Dominion of Canada, since the

Colunibia the laws were revised in first day of July, one thousand eight hundred
e7.1, the colmssioners being Henry and sixty-seven, and unrepealed, and the
a
elwCr
es Gerg
Phllo ostatutes in force in the several provinces of
e Pelle
w

a.fuddvard

Creose, George Phillopo Canada at the time of their respectively
raham Alston. There was becoming members of Confederation, relatin
ercns77ain n1
when the to subjects which u
lnder the Rits Nt
,y

orl

308

The Consolidation [SENATE]

of the Laws.

Ainerica Act of 1867, are within the exclusive enactments and the stautes passed subse
jurisdiction of the Parliament of Canada, lias quent to such consolidation only are set forth
said shedules, and the nnth schedule
the honor to report as follows :-in
The Commission recites in substance ''that containinc a Iist of ail the Public General
whereas it has become necessary to revise Statutes ofthe Dominion of Canada, from the
and consolidate the statutes of Canada, and first day ofJuly, one thousand eight îundred
whereas each of the provinces of Canada be- and sîxty-seven, down to the inclusive of the
possessed legislative Parliamcntary Session of one thousand eiglit
fore Confederation
authority over and passed laws in respect to hundred and seventy-seven.
The Iisus ofthe statute8 of the several pro
matters now within the exclusive legislative
vînce8 are contined in the first eight sc4dU
control of the Pariament of Canada;"
s
p
IlAî wereaé the British North America les as follows
1. The Consolidated Statute of Canada.
Act continue these laws in force until repeal2. The Consolidated Statutes of Upper
ed and altered by the Parlianent of Canada,
some of wStich bave heen so repeaDed or alter- Canada.
3. The Consolidated Statutes of Lower
ed, monte reniain stili lawf of the province in
which they were enarted, soine are local in Canada.
4. The Statutes of the Province of Canada
taeir nature, not capable of being extended to
5. The Revised Statutes of Nova Scotis
the whole ot the Dominion of Canada, while
others miglit properly be extended to the (3rd edition), and subsequent statutes of that
whole, or other parts of Canada, and it is province down to the first J ly, one thou and
pohble avine of the should be entire- eigt undred and sixty-seven.
that
6. The Revised Statutes oftNew Brunswcl
]yreplesed ;
of the
whereas certain schedules of Acts vAnd vear 1t4, nd nbsequent statutes
Tequiring examiiiation have already ben. îre- tliat p5rovince down to d'e tiret day of Jutly,
for the proper revision 1867.
pared, and whereas
7. TheCevised Statutes of British Colunbi
and consolidation of tne laws of t1fe Dominion
of Canada, it is necessary that lurther exam- ot 1871, when that province entered Confedr
ination, collection and clamsification of the eration
8. The statutes of the Province of Princ
several statutes of Canada should be ade;"
vear
1873, whe
The Comihsion then proceeds to define Edward Island, down to the
oub6tantially in the language folloeing, that that province entered Confederation.
I each province of the DofirisJon excePt
iw rh uired to be donc by the conmi ssioner
one, there had been at lest one general col
e
m o
that is to sa
1. 1e is to conplete the Scedules ai- solidation ofthe Provincial tatutes prior tO
sudAcprovince beco14 ing a portion of the
ready prepared as above entioned."
,
r
2. ITo examine the statutes passed by the Dominion, Lut in the Province of Prince
ve bee
ward Island there neyer
Parliament of Canada since the first day o! 18
Juy, in the year of Otr Lord oe thousand any such consolidation, a ithough ti e statuti
of that province have at different ties prioer
ueeven.
h
eight hundred sd sixt
ail those enact- to the entry thereof into Confederation, en
n3. "To collect therefro
revised, claenified and reprinted.
ment which are still in force."
mientione
The firot eigt schedules aready
ote the enactments of the old Prov4.
eTo
incial etatute which have be:- repealed or in addition to containinglisti of gue consol'
tatuto
ta
dated and subsequent Provincial
altered?"
Pd
Pie
2. "To classif ait nre eald enactnent pssed prior to the ConPfederation of
accordinzt to gubijects, care being taken to dis- vinces respectivey purported to show whe
of a purely provincial
ucere
tinguish those applying to the whole Doi- ofthes statutes
or0!l
ion frond those applyi g to one or more of character, ad wich of thei related s
or îjartiallv to subjects now within the juflK
the provinces onl'y.."
0
6. "And generally to make tcl examina- diction ofthe Parliament o Canada, and aIP
eions, classifications and ollections of the which of the iad been repaled, su rseJe
eihither bd ubrequent enactinedt
aid "tatutes as may be necessary and preli- or afient
rninary to the proper revision and consolida- of the saine provinces passed prior to Co
tion thereof, and in accordalce with such in- federation or by legislation of the Parliaet
be given fron tine to time ofCana a in any Session thereof betwee tih
cay
Atructions as n
nt
day fiJUlY
p
ly, 1867, auJ the
Honorable the Minister st day of
ne
in that behaf by
1877.
of Justice of Cayada."
tben
i
.
The schedules referreo to as havip
So that the Houc will Canathat uP to
prepared before the ismae ok'the Consiona,
isd which were recei ved by the cownh issione that tme a fist had been prepared of de
ic
fromn yotr Department, were nine in number,
.c
statutes 1)assed by the provine
*ightof themn containiiig lists of the Public gcneral Confederation on subjects which
General Statutes o each of the provinces before
payed before the reisiof their respect- after the Confederation fel within the gelof the Parliament Jly,tst
rat or
ively entering Confederation, except as
1-t d of
the
of
day
the provinces o lwere consolidaregard
Sto
ewilsehate
Se thatther H
iad
taken
tion of the Provincial statutes o
case the consolidated utes of Canada, the Conolidated Stt
place, in whic

HoN. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL

The Con8olidtion [MARCH 16, 1885] of the Law8.
"tes of Upper Canada, the Consolidated
Statutes of Lower Canada, the Revised
Statutes of Nova Scotia ; New Brunswick
and British Columbia, and the Statutes of
Prince Edward Island down.to 1873 were
all transferred to Mr. Cockburn, as a
commissioner, for the purpose ot his work.
Then he recites his work
11) order to carry out the requirements of
the Commission the first work devolving upon
the conmissioner was the completion of the
schedule already mentioned as the ninth,
eOntaining a list of ail the Public General
t atutes of Canada down to and inclusive of
the tast Session of Parliament, which he accordingly completed.
The commissioner, as the second branch of
the work required under said Commission to
ýe done, then examined the statutes set forth
in the last-nentioned schedule so completed
and prepared as the result of such exami'
nation, a new schedule indicating in the proPer colunns thereof (in addition to its being

a

309r

The first, second, and fourth branches of
the work having been so deait with they
formed the basis or material for " the collection

and classification ofall unrepealedenactments'
required as the third and fifth branches of the
comissioner's work, and these latter requtirements, as well as the one last nentioned in
the Commission,*were partiallycomplied with

by the comnmissioner in the following manner:1. By the preparation of an analytical
digest or " classification of ail unrepealed Acte
of a public general character, passed bv the
Parlianent of Canada, and ot Acts of the
Provinces of Canada, Nova Scotia, New
Brunswick, British Columbia, and Prince
Edward Island, passed by the legislatures of
these provinces prior to tneir respeotively
joining the Confederation, and relating to
matters subject under the British North
Anerica Act to the legislative authority of the
Dominion of Canada," arranged so far as the
order of subjects therein Is concernted as
nearly as practicable in accordance with the
plan of arrangement or classification adopted
in the Consolidated Statutes of Canada.

islt of ail the s tatutes passed in each year This collection, classification, or digest,
tween 1867 and 1882 inclusive).
contains eleven chief tities and
hitred
h. Those of which were of a publie general and fifty-seven subjects or titles twochapters,
of

horaetor.
2. Those wahic had ble repealed and the
atatutes by which they had been repealed.
. Those which had become effete.
'
• Ihose which had been passed for only a

indicating all the subjects of legislation which,
in the commissioner
opinion, should be
consolidatei in order to forn the Consulilated
Statutes of the Dominion ol' Canada, and each
and every statnte or portion of a statute
and yafecting these subjects nece.sary to be c.onsiih had been a
tr
dered and taken into account in carryin out
Whstatutes the amedments were made.
6 A
the said consolidation.
Aorn
nd,
provinces of
In respect of sone subtjects of Donîiinion
pneinion tolastly, the said statutes were the le*,isation, the Provincial statutes paed
which the
reb.
The thl requireinent of the Commission fore Confederation have not been repbeale-I. no
Wa Complied with as incidental to the pre- laws having been passed by the Parlianent

Pration of the schedule last

nentioned, of Canada in resp»ect of such subycts, an t as

indicating as it does which of the statutes so
eanmined remain in force.
The schedule last mentioned containing
What hasjust been described and complying
ith tle second and third requirements of the
a"niss4ion, involved necessarily the exof over seven hundred Acts of
t, or, in other worde, of aIl the
g'~iaon of a public general character
sed by the several Parliaments of the
a linion ot Canada which have e> isted at

a result accord ing to the British North
America Act of 1867 the Provincial laws
remain mnforce.

In respect of other subjects, although Acte
have been passed hy the Parliament ut Canada, the old Provincial laws have not len
expressly repealed, the enactment4 ether
superseding in effect that Provincial law-, or
enacting that said Provincial laws are thereby
repealed only so far as inconsistent with th~e
new enactmnents.

In soime of the Provincial statutes passed
anl time between the lst day of July, 1867,
end the dissolution of the last Parliament.
before Confederation, the main sutbjeots of
The fourth branch of the work to be done which are still within Provincial legisbilative
'ioier the Commission was carried out by the jurisdiction, clauses were enacted constitutng
notnmi88îoner concurrently with the exami- felonies or nisdemeanors, or otherwise affecta 'on0DominionStatutesdirectedto be made ing the criiminal law, or affecting some other

othe second requirement, consisting as said subject, which is now exclusively one of
rth branch did of annotations made in the Dominion legislation, and although the statoper cOlimns of each of the eight schedules tutes themselves îmay have since Confederarai
s tt

enitioned, indicating which (if any) of tion been repealed by other Provincial enact-

Provincial Statutes therein-mentioned mpnts, as in sone cases is the fact, so far as
1
been repealed, superseded or amended by could thereby be done, these particular
ion legislation, and by which of such sections or clauses still remain law in these

arere they were no repealed, superseded or Provinces, and should be dealt with in carrying out the general consolidation.

310

2%e Con8olidation [SE NATE]

of the Law8.

In preparing, therefore, the said classifica- caption, chronological description and protion or digest, and in order to call attention vince to which these statutes requirng to
to ail the enactments required to be consi- be investigated relate, are so placed on the
dered in carrying out the Consolidation, the opposite pages aiready described, when as
plan adopted by the commissioner was to in- was the case in respect to some of the Prodicate in the digest opposite to each subject vincial statutes it was impossible to procure
any copies of the said printed volumes.
therein and on the sanie page thereof,ilhe books just described are thirteen In
First, in black ink, alIl the statutes or portions thereof which clearly had to be consoli- number, of about three hundred and fifty
dated under that particular subject, and when pages each, containing "in extenso " as
they applied to only one or more provinces already set forth, aIl the legislative enacttlat also was indicated in the saie colored ments indicated in the digest or classification
on the subjects mentioned therein which
ink.
Second, in red ink, al] those statutes or constitute the matter of consolidation and
portion of statutes relating to the subject, but consideration in the course of such consolidaas to which it was uncertain whether they tion.
Each of said books is properly indexed by
had been impliedly repealed or superseded,
and whiich the Commissioner considered subjects and pages, so as to afford a ready
should be carefully examined in the course means of reference to the statutes relating tO
of the actual consolidation, mentioning also each subject contained in the said books resthe provinces to which the saie were appli- pectively.
British North America Act of 1867,
,The
cable.
Second, after making the collection and and the amendments thereto are placed on
classification in the formn of an analvtical the first pages of the first of said books, as
digest of the unrepealed statutes of the Domi- these Acts will doubtless be frequently renion of Cai.ada and th- proviices before their ferred to in the course of the consolidatioln,
respectively entering Confederation, on sub. and will, no doubt, be published ir the openjects now under the lgislative control of the ing portion of the first volume ofthe Consoi
Parlianient of Canada, under their respective dated Statutes of the Dominion.
In consequence of the imipossibility alreadY
subjects, as already at length described, the
Comiimissioner having been provided by your referred to of procuriîng any copies of the
Department with the requisite number of the printed volumes containing some of the Proprinted volmnîes ofthe statutes, and also with vincial statutes requiring to be referred to,
suitable blank bools for that purpose, took with the exception of the volumes in the Par
froi the printed volumes ail the statutes and liamentary Library, the commissioner In
portions of stattutes in eacl particular object accordance with authority received from your
and idicated opposite to eac subject in the Department, procured written copies to be
classification or digest, and placed thei in made of some of said Provincial Statutes,
the bi ýînk books, so as to exhibit in these which are required lor reference or otherwise
books not only the subjects of legislation to in the course of said consolidation.
The commissioner has the honor, therebe consolidated and the Chronological order
and description of the siatutes relating there- fore, to submit the above as the result of bis
to, but also the actual statutes as aniended labors up to this date under the CommissiOut
fro.m time to tinie, omitting, where any repeal to him directed, as before mentioned, that il
had taken place, any clauses so repeated, to sav:
1. The nine schedules completed as di
and inserting the niew clauses suktituted
therefor or when the original clauses were rected by th*e Commission.
2. The new mchednle already described of
amended only by subsequent legislation,
then leaving the original clantes in the body the statutes of the Dominion of Canada.
3. The classification or analytical digest
of the statute so transferred to the blank
book and placing in the opposite or subse- aIso fully described.
4. And lastly, the thirteen books contalû
quent pages thereof the aniending clauses or
enactments witht a reference in the margin of ing the material to be consolidated as the
each page of the book identifying the amend- statutes of the Dominion of Canada, or which
ments with the original Act, in the iargin ; requires to be referred to in the course o
also, ofthe page at the beginning of each such consolidation.
There remîains still to be performed a very
statute so embodied in said books, the naines
of the provinces to which these statutes important portion of the work directed to be
apply are annotated, as well as the amend- done under the Commission before the con
ments thereto, aud the extension thereof, by templated revision and consolidation takes
place, that is to say, the preparation and
any statutre to other urovinces.
lie statutes, or portions of statutes, indi- arrangement of the actual Statute law s co
cated in red ink, iii the classification ordigest lected and placed in the said books into the
which require to be considered in the course form of new chapters as nearly as possibles
of the consolidation, are also either taken as the same will appear in the comilbodily from the prinîted volumes containing volumes of the proposed Consolida
the same and placed on the pages of these Statutes.
This last branch of the work, which Wl
blank books opposite to those showing the
statutes to be consolidated, or else only the - require great care and consideration, is JU
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Th/e Consolidation [MARCH 16, 1885]

of the Law.

311

teing entered upon, but whîeu it is completed, Campbell being chairman, and William
the actual revision and consolidation can Wilson, secretary.
I may observe that
then Proceed without delay and with ail the
anrterial therefor, in a complete state of the part which I took in the Commission
was not of an active character,and I am free
preparation.
That indicates, in an insufficient man- to speak of the work which they did in the
ner, the great work done by Mr. Cockburn. terms of praise which it deserves. My name
I desire to dwell upon it, because Mr. was placed on the Commission simply
Cockburn, I think, gave a great deal of that there might be some means of intertirne and industry and ability to the work, course between the Commission and the
arnd because I think at the time the extent Government, and that we might keep
Of his work, and the merit of it, and the control, so far as necessary, of the Comresults which he had accomplished, were mission and not that I could myself give
nlot generally appreciated, and therefore I
desire and have endeavored to dwell at
sone length upon the value of the work
Which Mr. Cockburn rendered to the
Country during the time that he was the
8
0le commissioner. He was not appointed for the purpose of consolidating the
statutes, but to perform the preliminary
Work necessary for the revision and conslidation of of the laws of Canada. His
comnission ran -

" To complete the said schedules already
Irepared, and to examine the statutes passed
Ytheg Parliament of Canada since the first
4 of July, in the year of our Lord one
thOusand eight hundred and sixty-seven', and
colleet thertrom all those enactments
Whlch are still in force, and to note the enactÛeIts of the old Provincial statutes which.
alle been repealed or altered; also to class iy
11l nrepaIe enactments according to subJect@, care being taken to distinguish those
aPPlying to the whole Dominion from those
&PIYmng to one or more of the provinces only,
&dgenerally to make such examinations,
ass"'ifications and collections of the said
ateltutes as nay be necessary, preliminary to
e proper revision and consolidation thereof,
d i accordance with such instructions as
abeY given you from time to time in that
be
4haîfby our Minister of Justice of Canada."

The House will see by the statement I
have made that he performed his work
VWth great industry, and I am sure that
anyone who examines the work will
say
With great ability. The results of his
labors forn thirteen volumes of matter
Which were afterwards the basis on which
the commission, whose work is now on
the table framed their work. On the
O6th. 1883, a Commission for the
f June,
P-evision and Consolidation of the laws
,of Canada was constituted, consisting
of
ryelf, the Hon. James Cockburn, Q.C.
G a Messrs. J. L. Ouimet, Wallace
Graham, Q.C., Geo. W. Burbidge, Alex.
rguson and William Wilson ; Sir Alex.

time to assist them in their labors.
The
Commission was constituted with the
names I have -mentioned.
Not long
afterwards we unfortunately lost Mr. Cockburn. The Hon. Mr. O'Connor, who has
since been appointed a Justice of the
Queen's Bench Division of the Iligh
Court of Justice of Ontario, was named to
succeed Mr. Cockburn. Shortly before
his appointment, and before he became a
member, the Commission met in Ottawa
and divided the work amongst them. I
was present at that meeting, and we
thought thcn that the better way would be
to divide the work-each commissioner
taking so many chapters.
They were
divided in such a wav as to give as far as
possible groups of subjects to the same
person, so that those matters with which
his mind had become familiarized might
be more or less those which would constitute the whole of his labors, and with
that view, at our first meeting, the work
was divided, and each commissioner took

certain subjects and all the statutes relating to those subjects. The commissioners
then separated and the work of each commissioner, on the individual labor which
he had assumed to discharge for himself,
was afterwards submitted to the general
commission and revised by them-gone
over in detail by them-each chapter and
each line of each person's work gone over
by the Commission at large. This was
repeated twice.
Therefore each chapter represents the
individual labors of one comniissioner in
its preparation and the labor of all
the members of the Commission in
going over the whole of the work

on two different occasions. It was
thought necessary to do this to avoid, as
far as we could, mistakes and omissions. Our first report was presented
to Parliament in the Session of 1884. We

312

The Con8olidation SENATE] of Me Law8.

had then arrived at the 62nd chapter and are found to exist that they will nOt
the report that was presented to Parlia- be very numerous, and that
nO
ment that year contained 62 chapters out public inconvenience may result.
I maY
of 178, of which the work now consists. say confidently that every effort has beenl
Great pains were taken to distribute these made by the commissioners to avoid
62 chapters throughout the Dominion. errors.
They were sent to all the judges of all
Then the House will be glad to knOW
the courts, to the professional men, to the what the expense of the Commission ha5
recorders and to the stipendiary magis- been as compared with the expense Of
trates-in fact to everybody we could former Commissions upon the sane subthink of who was at all likely to take an ject. It is very difficult to get at the expense
interest in this subject. I had hoped that of the former Commissions accuratelY
we should have been favored with some apart from the cost of printing. SUCh
advice as to the then result of our information as I have been enabled tM
endeavors, and that we might have obtain I will give to the House. The
had the opportunity,
perhaps, of House will of course understand that the
having the opinions of others, and cost of printing varies very much accord,
of being assisted by them in the final ing to the size of the volumes. The cOst
revision of our work ; but men are so busy of consolidating the Statutes of Canada
with their own affairs, and their own duties and of Upper and of Lower Canada
and labors, that we were disappointed, amounted to $40,7 14, chiefly, I apprehend,
and we received no comments upon the in salaries, because I see the total votes
subject whatever. The work was finally for the purpose amount to $128,400.
finished as it is now laid upon the table That revision in which my hon. friend
shortly before the beginning of the present from Barrie (Mr. Gowan) took part ran
session of Parliament. Some delay oc- over apparently by the sums voted the
curred in the printing, and I believe that years from 1856 to 1865, and during those
the second volume is not yet complete in years the sum voted for the consolidation
French though it is nearly ready. Two of the statutes, as I before stated, amounted
volumes are prepared in English, as hon. to $128,400, while the apparent sum paid
gentlemen have seen, and one of the for salaries-I do not assert it positivelYr
volumes in French is ready. That is the but the apparent sum paid for salaries was
state of the work which has been accom- $40,714 leaving the difference between
plished by the Commission. That it is that and $128,400 for printing contingen'
absolutely correct, I cannot for a moment cies, or other purposes, but it may also be
contend ; that it is approximately correct that the whole of the sum may not have
I earnestly trust and believe. I know been expended ; it may have been a surthat very great pains was taken by the plus vote. The last vote seems to have
commissioners, who were men eminently been in 1864-65, for $6,ooo. I have tO
qualified for the work which they under- information as to the cost of this service
took, and they applied themselves with in the Maritime Provinces. I am obliged
wonderful industry and continuous exer- therefore to confine myself to the cost of
tion and attention to the task which was what has been done in Upper and Lower
placed before them. I may say to the Canada. Now, as to the cost of the
House that in addition to the labor which revision of the statutes in Ontario which
each individual commissioner undertook in has been accomplished (I did not mention
the revision of particular statutes which that in my little historical account of the
were set apart for him, and which was Statutes, because it has been done since
very great, and which occupied his time Confederation) and which are contailed
very much during the interval between the in two large volumes, amounts to $74,78
meetings of the Commission-there were as appears in the accounts of Ontario.
256 meetings of the Commission itself, The gentlemen who were upon that Coneach of which meetings lasted-for we mission were not paid. The commissiolers
counted the meetings-upwards of five were Justices Strong, Burton, Pattersonr
hours for the purpose of going over the Moss, Gowan, Vice-Chancellor Blake and
work of the individual commissioners. I Attorney-General Mowat. And they gaVe
hope the result may be if errors their services without remuneration. The
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL

Thie Consolidation [MARCH 16, 1885] qf the Laws.
gentlemen who were remunerated, and who
did the work, were Messrs. T.
Langron,
C. R. W. Biggar and R. E. Kingsford.
The cost of the work which is now under
Consideration will be about $7q,ooo. The
arrount which has been already voted is
about $58,ooo, but there is the printn8 of the statutes and the completion of
the translation, which, it is estimated, will
cost $12,00o more. The votes for this
SuI 1 were taken in the years 1881-82-8384. Included in thisisalarge sum,$1i,ooo,
or the type. The type upon which the statUtes were printed was purchased by the
Queen's Printer-I cannot explain to the
1
ouse why that was thought best, but the
Pe was purchased by theGovernment,and
longs to the Government. The expenses
Of Mr. Cockburn, whose name I have
rnentioned, amounted to $8,483, and of
br. Ferguson, the secretary of Mr. Cockrn, $1,666, and of Mr. O'Connor,
uring the time he was appointed on the
'Commtfission, $3,973-making a total of
$14,122. To thisisto be added the expense
of the present Commission, and which
sWells it up to, as I said before, $58,ooo,
and the further sum which it will cost'to
Publish those statutes, and the nunbers
wch we desire to see published,$12,ooo,
thlaking the total expense of consolidating
the laws of the Dominion some $7o,ooo,
80 that the House will see that while the
*W0rk
, We hope. has been done well, we
tifle not spent apparently out of proporto the expenditure which has taken
IP te on similar and previous occasions.
Our expenditure is put down at $7o,ooo
whole expenditure in consolidating
o
ou" laws; the statutes of the two provinces,

ylper and Lower Canada, and the
at vince ofexpense amounted to $128,000,
the Canada of consolidating the
atotes of Ontario, done since Confeder"ave amounted to $74,788, I think we
haenot

exceeded much in regard to ex-

thatse. Then it must be borne in mind
1-i consolidating the statutes -of
hi %1o my hon. friend from Barrie and
not Colleagues on that Commission did
hareceive any pay. As we in Ontario
r ad the statutes of this province
Pro- incse Confederation, so, in the
tatutce 'OfQuebec, they have had their
k ute revised since Confederation, the
kr.

nthere, I believe, was entrusted to
ustice Loranger. I believe he has

313.

been going on with the work for some
time, and is still engaged at it, so that we
will have before long a complete consolidation of the Statutes of Quebec as we
now have of Ontario. I have alluded to
what has been acconplished in other provinces. With reference to the character
of the work that has been done by the
present Commission, I desire in the first
place before alluding to the work itself,
to read to the House the commission under
which they acted, or some passages from it
to show exactly what they were to do. They
were constituted and appointed a Commission to examine the statutes passed
by the Parliament of Canada since the
1st July, 1867, "and to collect therefrom
all those enactments which are still in
force, and to note the enactnents of the
old Provincial statutes which have been
repealed or altered ; also t: classify ail

unrepealed enactments according to subjects, care being taken to distinguish
those applying to the whole Dominion
from those applying to one or more of
the provinces only, and generally to make
such examinations, classifications and collections of the said statutes as might be
necessary, preliminary to the proper
revision and consolidation thereof and
they"were to revise and consolidate them."
Acting upon that Commission several
very serious questions at once presented
themselves-questions which the commissioners had at once to deal, and I
trust that the mode in which they dealt
with them will meet with the approbation
of Parliament. In the first place a difficulty presented itself almost immediately
with reference to the course which was to
be pursued in regard to the code of
Lower Canada, which has the force of a
statute. It was put into operation by a
statute passed in the 29 th year of Her
Majesty's reign. The code, as hon. gentlemen 'know, embraces laws of all kindsand descriptions, and with reference to
every possible subject, not of Statute law
only or principally, but what may be
called the common law of the Province of
Quebec-the whole of the laws which
govern the Province of Quebec are supposed to be found in the code, save those
which have been enacted by Parliament
since. These laws, most of them, were in
force in the Province of Quebec without
reference to the statute which gave the

:314A

The Conbolidation [SENATE]

of the Law.

Code effect-that is the laws upon all Wherever we found them touched upon by

kinds of subjects existed in Quebec previous to 29 Victoria, laws relating to marriage ; laws relating to commercial matters; laws relating to land matters ; and
governing the relations between parent
and children-all these were in force by
the common law of the province, derived
partly from the old Roman law partly from

statute law we dealt with them as with the
laws of other provinces ; but when theY
were not touched upon by statute law We
left them as standing in the same positiOO
as the common law of other provinces.
Then there is the measurement of luniber
in the Provinces of Nova Scotia and New
Brunswick. This matter was referred tO

the Coutume de Paris,
and partly from the council by the Commission, and the cou"-

decisions of the judges at different times cil decided that it was a matter for legisin Lower Canada. It ail existed there and lation and not for consolidation. Then
the code only placed it in a convenient we found laws which it would be very
way for the purpose of being studied and difficult to re-enact, and which some holfollowed, and the question came before gentlemen might have conscientious scrUthe commissioner; what are we to do ples against re-enacting, and these laws
with the code of the Province of Quebec ? we thought should therefore be omittedWe thought it related to so many matters I refer now to the law of divorce which
as to which it did not derive force as a exists in Nova Scotia, New BrunsWick
statute that we should not include it in and Prince Edward Island, and on which
our revision. We thought it should be no statute of this Parliament exists ; but
treated as the common law in other we thought it would be very inconvenient
provinces. One subject which pressed to propose to Parliament to legislate with
very much on us was the law with regard to them, and to re-enact by
respect to buis of exchange and prom- Dominion legislation, laws which eist
issory notes. There is a law in Quebec now in those provinces upon so delicate
found in the code, dealing with that and comphcated a subject, and therefore
subject from its foundation,-fundamen- we have left those laws as they are. We
tally, and also practically, saying what propose to publish them as they are
constitutes a promissory note, and what -laws
originated in those provilces
constitutes a bill of exchange, and what anterior to Confederation and on sUtI
are its necessary features, what are the jects over which they had then control,
things that may be dispensed with, and and which it is not desirable to In'
what cannot be conclusions which we corporate with our work, because our
in other provinces have arrived at by work we hope is about to receive the e '
common law, and by the resuit of dorsation of this Parliament. The cotrse
judicial decisions. It seemed to us to we have pursued is the ordnary one which
be an unwise thing to seek to enact for has been taken in every case where the
the Province of Quebec alone a law with statutes have been consolidated.
reference to bills of exchange, and that as
Those statutes which we did not tOuch
we had no power of codifying or legislating for reasons such as I have mentioned, or
it would not be a wise thing for us to try for other reasons which we thought g0od'
to deal in this consolidation of the statutes are classified and put in scheduleswith laws on bills of exchange at large schedules at the end of the second voluo.e
or with the commercial code-that we of statutes. Hon. gentlemen will find it
should leave them aside. On guch sub- in the second volume of the Consolidated
jects the Parliament of Canada will no Statutes which were laid on the table
doubt, in due time, pass laws which Schedule B contains all the Acts Which
will affect every province of the Dominion, for such reasons as I have mentioned, Or
which will be general, and which will be for other kindred reasons, it was though
identical in all the provinces ; and there- best not to include in the consolidated
fore we thought we were relieved from work. It would have been very difficultthe necessity of endeavoring to deal with impossible--for us to have sought the
the law of Quebec as affecting promissory legislative sanction of Parliament had .e
notes or bills of exchange, and commercial introduced into cur work any legislaticl
subjects generally, unless we found these on such subjects as these that I hav
were subjects touched upon by statute law. mentioned ; and with reference to col
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL

The Con8olidation [MARCB 16, 1885] of t/e Law8.
Ilercial subjects, so far as any legislation
thas dealt with them, we have inserted
them. Where no legislation has dealt with
them, and in the case of bills of exchange
and Promissory notes, we hope to have
Presented to Parliament hereafter some
general law which shall touch on that
Subject and be universal for thp whole
htihmon. In the meantime the work
thih we offer to Parliament will include
the whole of the Statute law of the Domi''on with the exceptions that I have
nentioned and those exceptions, which
ras aPpear in these schedules and the
tea$On for them, and these reasons are
the same in substance as the reasons I
ave nentioned, and which have been
Îtven in every consolidation for the omisthO from the work of certain Acts, save
that I think in the case of a consolidation
'f this kind of the laws of the different
?Provmces the reasons are stronger than
th
can have been for omissions from
part.onsolidation of the laws of any one
icular province. These were the
.easons which actuated us in omitting
fronI the work certain statutes
from the
de Of Lower Canada, where it has hot

stat

affected by legislation, and certamn

315

information which I propose to place before the committee to whom I hope the
work will be referred, which will be of
great use in guiding them as to the course
which was pursued by the Commission. I
vill take chapter i, " An Act respecting
the form and interpretation of Statutes."
This chapter is a consolidation of sections
1 to 8, and 16 of the Interpretation Act, 31st

Vic., chap. 1, and the several Acts in amendnient of those sections. A few provisions
from 35th Vie., chap. 27, relating to quarantine; 37th Vic., chap. 9, relating to elections;
37th Vie., ehap. 10, relating to controverted
elections, and 42 ic., chap., 47, relatin
to Dominion Day,' have been incorporate
with the chaoter. The l3th, 14th and 15th
paragraphs of section 7 are new, and are introduced for the pur pose of making the
statutes applicable to the North-West Territories.

The 20th and 21st clauses of section 7, of
the "Iterpretation Act" have been oumitted
!'rom the Interpretation Act,and incorporated
in their proper place in the Criminal law.
Clause 35, ot section 7 which makes provision for limitation of actions for penalties
anbd forteitures,

is consolidated

fron

the

several Provincial Acts relating to that subject in force at the time of the Union.
Then, Chap. 5.-An Act respecting representation in the House of Commons.

utattes of the different provinces which
Tkis draft chapter is
Acts of
'wh be found in the schedule to which the Par lianent of Canada,made up ofProvince
of the late
the ave referred. It is not expected that of Canada and oî Lower Canada, which, with

Whietwo

volumes of the Consolidation

ogch are on the table should be the end
the matter. We propose to publish
nother volume which shall contain:'a The Imperial Statutes affecting

Canada

the provisions of the British North America
Act, constitutte the present law on this subject.
The provisions of the British North America
Act are proposed to be taken in the draft as a
re-enactment, with a reference in each case to
the section of the British North America Act

with which they

correspond, it being, of

2. Imperial treaties and Imperial Orders course, beyond the power of Parhliment to
cmnsolhdate, as such, any provisions. of the
Council affecting Canada;
A considerable
British North America Act.
rocamations and Orders of Coun- amount of re-drafting and re-arrangement had
ti. 4. Canada
having the force of law ;
to be done, as is apparent in the drafting of
he Acts and parts of Acts men- this chapter. The order in which the districts
ti
oed I Schedule B in the second are taken in the drait is, as far as possible, the
à

Umne of the Consolidation on the table. geographical one. The legislation as to the
electoral districts in the Province of Quebec
.thi
Sched flow that any of the Acts in is given in the original Acts respecting them,

'dealt wi u, as the subjects come to be
t aWlth

by general legislation applicable
Parts of Canada, would be repealed,
P
We at i course of time we should have, as
gen ,,,gt to have as far as possible,
Ceral laws applicable to the whole of
I-Io a. Now I will read to the
Rivs some notes which have been
Wh.
to me showing the manner in
ch the work was discharged with re1eice to a few chapters, and
giving the

anti owing to the nunierous amendinents
made in the inetes and bounds of these districts renderina it impossible for the Commission to &ive ettect to them otheswise than by
re-enacting the provisions as to the boundaries
by reference to the origial Acts and anendIt was found to ae impractimîîents thert to.
cable to describe the present boundaries of the

constitnencies of Quebec wherever they had,

as was very frequently the case, been amîended
by having portions of counties, townships,
parishes or lots taken away from or added to
theni. The draft chapter, however, re-enacts,

316

The Con8olidation [SEN ATE]

of the Law,.

b'y reference, as already described, the exist- change is made. Now, we take the chaP
ing provisions in the statutes on the subject. on Customs. Chap. 30:
Chap. 7.-An Act respecting clections
of Members of the House of Commons.
This chapter is the result of a very considerable re-drafting and re-arrangemtent of the
present legislative provisions on the subject.
It is thought that the arrangement subn.itted
in the dratt will be found misch more natural
and convenient than that ofthe original chaiters. Attention is drawn by the aid of italics
to a few additions and changes throughout
the Act, which are submitted as necessary to
carry out the evident intention of Parlianent
in tue original Acts, althongh lnot therein
fully expressed ; such as. for example, in
section 65, where we hiavedistinctly provided
for the carrving out of " a final addition " by
the judge of the votes as shown in the Platements of the deputy returning officers, instead
et a recount of the ballois, il the applicant so
desires, which final addition it is qutte apparent by line 19 of section 14, ot 41 Vic., chap.
6, was intended to be provided for as well as
a recount of the ballots, althoungh fite further
necessary provisions to carry out the final
additionî by the judge are oitited in the preThere did not appear to the
sent law.
Commission to be any gooi reason for the
distinction in the penalties provided for in
sections 97, 98 and 99 of' this chapter, and it
is therefore suîggested, as appears in the note
to section 98, that the penalties should be
male the sane. 1' this suggetion is adopted,
sections 98 and 99, as tiey appear in the
draft, nust be amended accoringiy lit section 131 power is given to the commissioner
for taking affidavits il aniy provincial court
to administer oaths requisite under thiis Act.

Chap. 27.-Consolidated Revenue and
Audit.
This is the principal financial Act of the
Atter preliiiinary matter.
consolidation.
the several charges upon the Consolidated

Revenue Fund, in the order of their pîiority,

The Act respecting the Departrnt,-nL Si
Vie., chap. 43, is taken, except s. 4 (sIpet
seded) and s. 6 (repealing clausle) Til

Customs Act of 1883, as airended by 47 Vic.

chap. 29. forms the greater part of the chapter. This has beet entirely rearratigedig

as to obtain a more convenient sequentce-

The varions branches of the sbiject have
been groued under sueutitles. Certain J .'
tions hitherto placet in the several Ta r
Acts have also been consolidated here, as
more properly beloniging tu the sibject oi shio
ciapter. These are 31 Vic., chtp. 7, P.
(importation of ai-rits); *45 Vic , chap 2, es.
4 and 5 (Trsaty o. Washitngtmî); 37 Vic.r
chap. 6. M. 9 (value for duty of certain arti
cles); 42 Vic.. chap. 15, s 9, 10, Il
part of sciedule (vatiation fortyti ); 43 Ycj
c<hp. 18, s. 1, part (vaination for duty); a"
47 Vie., chap. 30, s. 4 (allowance fo:- deter
toration).
Section 5 of trait ; canal tolls were traS

ferred

tu the Departitment of Ilandlv.

Reveintn

by Order-in-Council ni 31si Decentber, i$f61'
Section 141 of dratt vas re-dratted so that
tlie provisions respecting writs of assistance
ight be lite same in tie utistotis and 11In8ad
Revenue Acta.
Section 159. The termn " incorporated coin
pai-y," instrad of "nincorporated
cotpan'Y.
appears to hav:- been inseried in fite conoîr
dation of 1883 b-v a clerical error. It has lee
changed lback tu what it was in the Act 40
Vic., chap. 10, s. 142.
.Sectioni 218, "two justices," is recommeide
instead of - one or more justices," so that this
section mllay be iuniform, with the rest, there
appearing to be no reason for a ditfering Pro
vision it thlis case.
Section 245. An appeal froni the Circuit
Court in the Province ut Quebtec, to the Cour
or Queen's Bench should be provided for.
This has been done and the new matter
printed in italics.

These have been collected
Take Chap. 34.-Railways and Canals*
from the Acta creating thenm and the authorof the Department of Publio
The
ity is gtiven in eaci instance. Then foilow Works,division apecial legislation respectin
the
provisions respecting the public delbt and the
are set forth.

raising of loans.
The remainder of the Act Governmenit railways, and the extensio" 0'
directs how the publie revenue is to be dealt the powers of the official arbitrators tO su *
th
wiitu, and is alimtost entirely fromt the Audit jects other than those under the control of
Act, 41 Vic., chap. 7. In sections 25 and 28, Departments of Public Works and RailwaYer
the Minister of Finance it sulbstituted for the rendered it necessary to prepare a consolidattoU
to tle
Governor in Council; thi iis done for uni- of the provisions relating respectivelyto Gor
formity. See note at Lite end of sec. 25. Departument of Railways and Canals,
&
to Public Works,
Section 71 of the draft r-equires aniendment; ernment Railways, to the official arbitrator?,
and
see note at the end of that section. The Acts eminent domain,
and sections taken are mientioned in the in separate Acts.
The first of these is c. 34, respecting the
table at the end.
Department of Railways and Canals.
On every occasion where there was any portions of the Public Works Acts, ic
change, it is either printed in italics, c. 12, and 35 V., c. 24 (see table at endO
here, are made to apP
or there is a note calling attention to it, so chapter), consolidated Railways by 42 V, Cto the Department of
that when the conmittee go through the s. 5. They, therefore, appear both here
volumes they will find at once where a in the following chapter respecting Public
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

The Consolidation [MARCH 16, 1885] of the Lawa

317

'rks, the necessary changes being made. statistics, crossing other railways, penalties,
ne Parts of 42 V., c. 7, which relate to the etc. Varions changes throughout the Act
Peartment, are also taken, together with are suggeeted in italics and in notes to sections.

ofeheal sections (see table at end of chapter)

As the draft now appears, many of the sec-

'fihe Government Railways Act, 44 V , c. 25, tions of part three wiIl be made applicable to

6 ieh are more appropriately placed here. companies and railways to which they are
4
C.5, relating to certain pjwers of the not, under the existing law, applicable. The
ster, is also consolidated.
arrangement in the Consolidated Railway Act
Then we come to Chap. 38.-An Act of 1879 was very complicated, and it is believed that the present arrangement, with the
respecting Indians.
sub-headings which are inserted throughout
will
un'I resent laws respecting the Department the drait, and make the Act more easily The
derstood
more easy of reference.
Indi ian Affaira, the government of the commissioners could see no reason why al]
PertanR, and respecting their rights and ro- of the provisions now constituting part two of
e, have, except in so far as containe in the Act should not be made applicable to
Pter 20 of the drart. been consolidated in all railways and companies incorporated for
re-a chapter. A great deal of re-drafting and the construction thereofunder the legislative
thirrangent lad to be done in preparing authority of Canada. The chief distinction
ýc Chapter. The sections in the original between part one and part two is, that part

ivol were, in inany cases, very long and
tiO ved, and although soie of the draft secdone are also lengthy, a great deal has been
an to make them more easily understood
dedOnvenient for purpose of reference, by
ecti ing themi into iew sections and suibitotna, as far as practicable. and by arrantg them under sub-heads aud re-arranging
Order of them.
th

Will not detain the House by reading

as
ech Whole of this paper,but
Particular chapter,

it goes into
I desire to
ht a passage here and there in order'to
8ow What has been done. Take Chap.
103'An Act respecting Railways.
he;note in the draft to sub-section 4 of
draftn describes the plan upon which this
lerit, a8 been prepared. The Consolidated
ed, ay Act of 1879, as subsequently amendtuoas been completely re-arranged, and to a
Part erable extent re-drafted in this chapter.
Stu e 0f the draft applies to railways conrnor , or to be constructed, under Acta of
of C Poration obtained from the Parliainent
for %,,na and to ail companies incorporated
dA, a Purpose by the Parliament of Canan
o uchifncludes provisions as to the powers
eb corpaniea, the expropriaton of proPante by them, tolla, organization of the comthe , their stk, calla on stock, officers of
rilwanPany, and the general working of the
omay. Part two of the draft applies to ail
th5 parles Under the legislative authority of
aÞplicatient of Canada, including in its
onae i-

on, Of course, those to which part
Icable, as well as many others built
tooder Provincial or others charters. It relates

brideste for the acquiring of additional
rconstruction
rdge and to highways of snow fences and
e arr, e
and crossings, trafOtiangeents, railway constables, the
tittee u'on and powers of the railway comaceif the Privy Council, the investigation
and the railway fund, etc. Part
00% rated to ailthe purposeand all companies
y, 'PPes for railways of building
rail%
includes provisions as to railway

one contains onily provisions necessary for the
organization ot the company and the construction of the railway, whilst part two contains provisions for the working of the railway and fbr the public safety alter the railway bas been pat in operation, the latter provisions being, of course, equally applicable to
railways constructed either under the author.
ity of an Act of Parliament of Canada, or
otherwise, so long as they are subjeet to the
legislative authority of Canada. Part three
applies to the railways and companies included in the first two parts, and to all other railways, whether otherwise under the legislative
authority of Canada or not.
Another to which I may refer is Chap.
117. Bils of Exchange and Promissory
Notes
This ia one of the least satisfactory of the

Although care has been
chapters prepared.
taken to brimg the several provisions which
could be made to apply to al] Canada together,
the greater part ot the Act is taken up with
provisions applying to single provinces. In
addition to this there are sixty-nine articles
of the Civil Code of Lower Canada (chiefly
enunciative of the common law) which relate to
thissubject,as respectsthe Provinceof Quebec.

These have not been introduced into the con
solidation, as the code in question, though
prepared under a statute, is. not found in the
Statute Book. The provisions consolidated
are as set forth in the table at the end. As to
the sections recommended for repeal, s. 3 of
38 V., c. 19 refers to pending cases and is
effete; s. 1 of 46 V., c. 22, is an extending
section and now unnecessary; s. 4 of C. S. C.,
c. 57, is superseded by the Civil Code of Lower
Canada, and s. 5 by 38 V., c. 8, and 42 V., c.
47. 0f C. S. U. C., c. 42, sections 2, 3 and 4
are considered unecessary ; sections 9 and 10
are superseded by 38 V., c. 19; sections 17,
18 and 20 are superseded by 35 V.,c.8, 42 V.,c.
47,and46V.,c.20. Inuadditiontos.14,set downi
as provincial, sections 23 to 36 both inclusive,
should have been so classified. S. 1 of R. S.
N. B. is superseded by 38 V., C. 19; s. 2 is
un.ecessary, and s. 3 is already repealed. Of

318

The Con8olidation [SENATE]

22 V. (N.B.), c. 22, s. 1 is superseded by 38
V., c. 19; s. 2 is a repealing clause, and s. 3 ie
superseded by 38 V., c. 8, s. 8, 42 V., c. 47, s.
3, and 46 V ., c. 20, s. 11.
S. 4 of the draft;
so far as relates to New Brunswick and Prince.
Edward Island, the provisions of this section
are extended to foreign as well as inland bills
of exch ange. S. ilof the draft; it is suggested
that this provision should be made applicable
to ail the provinces.
Then Chap. ii8.-An Act respeeting
Insurance. 'Fable, p. 1638.
Two Acts have been consolidated in this
chapter, 38 V., c. 20, relating to fire and
marine insurance, and 40 V., c. 42, relating to
life and other kinds of insurance.
Certain sections providing for winding up
insurance companies formerly in these Acts
before there was a " Winding-up Act," or an
inso!vent Act relating to companies, have
been transferred to the " Winding-up Act,"
irí which there were already certain sections
relating to insurance companies.
S. 2. Certain clauses indicated have been
An attempt to define inland marine
added.
P (i) is taken
insurance has been made.
from a former Insurance Act of Canada.
S. 3. Contains changes suggested by the
Superintendent of Insurance. It is now more
apparent that the Act applies to lite companies incorporated in a province effecting
insurance on lives in other provinces.
S. 6. Upon the report of the Superintendent
inserted.
S. 8. See note at'foot of sub.-s. 3.
S. 11. Amended.
S. 16. Sub.-s. 2. This we added to obviate
difficulties as to service which might arise.
Such a difficulty had arisen.
S. 19. Re-drafted and broken up into paragraphs, in consequence of consolidating
sections which were different in respect to
different companies.
S. 22. Sub.-s. 2. In order to enable the
penalties to be recovered summarily, words
See note at foot
are inserted in this section.
of section.
S. 24 is re-drafted, to make it more easily
Important words added to
comprehended.
sub.-s. 12, to inforce its provisions.
Ss. 25 and 33 are new.
S. 38 re-drafted. Power is given to enable
the Minister to apply to companiesother than
life, tire or inland marine insurance comnpanies, the provisions of this Act. This only
indicates the mode in which lie will carry out
powers he had under the original section.
38 V., c. 2C, ss. 16 and 17.
40 V., c. 42, ss. 15 and 16.
These sections have been transposed to the
" Winding-up Act."
Chap. 1 3 3.- An Act respecting 'evidence.
This chapter is takein principally froni the
Documientary Evidence Act, 1881. Of that
Act, section 4 is omitted from this chapter
and included in the Act respecting forgery.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

of the Laws.

To the provisions of the Documentary Evidence Act, are added the following :
Section 5, taken fron 41st Vic., chap. 7,
section 6, by which it is provided that an
order in writing, signed by the Secretary Of
State of Canada and purporting to be written
by comnand of the Governor-General, shall
be received as the order of the GovernorGeneral.
Section 6, a provision from 32-33 Vic.,
chap. 7, sec. 4, whereby copies of official and
other notices in the " Canada Gazette" art
made primafacie evidence of the originals.
Section 8 is new, and makes provision that
in ail proceedings over which the Parliament
of Canada bas legislative authority the laws
of evidence in force in the province in which
such proceedings are taken shall apply te
such proceedin gs, subject to the provisions O
any Act of the Parlianent of Canada in that
respect. This provision is, in respect of evy
dence, similar to the provision contained ii
the Procedure Act with respect to juriesr
whereby the provincial jury laws are adopted
as the jury laws in criminal cases, except so far
as the Parliament of Canada may make special
provision. It was thought advisable to add
this provision so as to remove any doubt
upon questions arising in matters of evidence.
Chap. 148.-An Act respecting Perjury
This chapter is a consolidation of sections9
1, 2, 6 and 7 of 32-33 Vic., chap 23 and part
of 33 Vic., chap. 26, section 1. Section 4, Of
32-33 Vic. chap. 23, will be found with the
chapter respecting Extra-Judicial Oaths, 3.
and sections 8 to Il and part of section 1 0 1
33 Vie., chap, 26, will be found in the chap
ter relating to Procedure in Criminal cases.
Section 5 of 32-33 Vic., chap. 23, rovides,
that anyone who wilfully and corrupty makes
a false affirmation, affidavit or declaratiou
required by any fire, life or marine insurance
company shall be guilty of wilful and cOrrupt perjury. This provision, as well as a
great number of similar provisions, occurring
in different places in theStatutes,it is thought
could be properly left for repeal as being realîY
covered by section 2, chap. 148, of the consOb

dation, that section providing for the punishment for taking any false oath, affirmatioDr
declaration or affidavit in any case in which
of a Prj
by any Act or Law of Canada, or authoriz
vnce of Canada, it is required or
that any matter be verified, assured or ascertained upon oath, affirmation, declaration or
affidavit.
Chap. 150 -An

Act respecting offen'

ces against Religion.
Section 1 and 2 of this chapter are taken
fron section 36 and 37 of 32-33 Vic., chap. 20r
intituled : " An Act respecting oflencee
against the Person." Section 3, respecting
the desecration of the Lord's Day, is taken
from the Revised Statutes of Nova Scotia and
New Brunswick, with the addition of a Clause
from the Consolidated Statutes of Upper Cao
iada, chap 104, relating to the conveyance

The Consolidation [MARCIL 16, 1885] of tMe Laws.
travellers and of Her Majesty's mails by land
-?Water and to the selling of drugs and
ediînes. The section covers the more imCriant provisions contained in the Imperial
tatutes, 29th Charles II., chap. 7, which is
re in Britih Colu bia and
ssibly in
C're fhe Province of Qulebec.
ini
'o th e extht to which this provision goes it was
hAOught that this section mi ht be made to
ole general application t hroughout the
cf Canada.

3190

Section 31 provides for the punishnent of
private prosecutors, who in Quebec, discontinne qui tam actions without the permission
of the Crown. IL is taken from 27-28 Vic.
(Canada) chap. 43, section 2.
Chap. 174.-An Act respecting Punishments, Pardons and Commutations of
Sentences.
Sections 1 to 3 relate to punishment
generally. Sections 4 to 22 relate to capital
the
Chap- 158.-An Act respecting Larceny punishnment, and are chap. provisions on that
subject contained in
29 of 32-33 Vic.,
d sirnilar offences.
as amended by 36 Vic., c ap. 3.
f
Th rincipal Act upon which this cha ter
Sections 23 to 28 relate to imprisonment.
un ed is chap. 21 of 32-33 Vic., intitu ed: Section 23 is part of section 88 of 32-33 Vic.,
n Act respecting Larceny and similar chap 29. Section 24 is the remair.der of seces,1"
From that chapter have been tion 88, and to the extent marked in italics is
ted wrecks
procedure,
p trM8, the provisions respecting accessories, new. By seotion 26 it is provided that:and salvage,
" Every one who is liable to imprisonment
Prferhments and summary convictions. By for life or for any term of years or other term.
cferenc table it will be seen, too, that
to the
sentenced to
for
ar nhber of other provisions of the Statute may be terni ; provided,imtprisonnient shallany
hat no one
be
SecIave been incorporated with the chapter. shorter
sentenced to any shorter term of imprisonment
1at'n 91, is taken fron the Statutes of the than the nini.mum terni, if any, prescribed
'%ei rovince ot Canada. Sections 93, 94 and
for the offence of which he is convicted."
9y
't tproposed to continue as applicable
By section 28 it is provided that:
an t97o Province of Quebec, and sections
the
"28. Every
sentenced to
only to prisonment for one who isa term of years, imthe Province continued as applicable
life, or for
the P9 are of British Columbia.
not
less than two, shall be sentenced to imprisonment in the penitentiary for the Province in
nCap. 167.-An Act respecting Threats, which the conviction takes place:
ntlinidatioin, and other offences.
,N
" 2. Every one who is sentenced to im1 to 8 relate to threats and the prisonnment for a term less than two years
%e
fln
of threatening letters and are taken shall, if no other place is expressly nentioned,
a chaps, 20, 21 and 22 of 32-33 Vic.
be sentenced to imprisonment in the common
of the district, county
intimidation and
arectlons 9 to 14 relate to chap. 20, 35 Vic., gaolsentence is pronounced, or place in which
taken from 32-33 Vie.,
the
or if there is no,
31 and 39 Vic., chap. 37, and also from comnon gaol there, then in) that common
ie ,le. (Canada) chap. 2, section 33, and 43 gaol which is nearest to such locality, or in
chap. 28, section 55.
some lawful prison or place of confinement
oe etions 15 to 19 relate to criminal breaches other than a penitentiary, in which the sen0
Of eOntract and constitute the consolidation of tence of imprisonment may be lawfully
le.,
X chap, 35.
executed :
8
ections 20 to 24 relate to frauds with
"3. Provided, that any prisoner sentenced
to contracts and business with the for any term by any military, naval or militia
GO
of 46met,
and constitute a consolidation court martial, or by any military or naval
authority under any Mutiny Act, may be
ec., chap. 32.
eaction 25 relates to the wilful violation of sentenced to imprisoniment in a penitentiary 1
" 4. Imprisonment in a penitentiary, in the
letes, and is taken from 31 Vic., chap. 1,
veton 7, paragraphs 20 and 21, and from 31 Central Prison for the Province of Ontario,
in the Andrew Mercer Reformatory for
',chap, 71, section 3.
e
.tion 26 is the general provision now Females, and in any reformatory prison for
tofrined in the Procedure Act with respect females in the Province of Quebec, shall be
gauds, cheating and conspiracies.
with bard labor, whether so directed in the
onection 27 and 28 are at present in force sentence or not:
" 5. Imprisonment in a conmon gaol, or a
the in Ontario. They mak e provision for
altesunishment of anyone who destrovs or public prison,other than those last nentioned,
his books or makes away with bis shall be with or without hard labor, in the
pr
ty witl intent to defraud bis creditors. discretion of the court or person passing
roection 29 relates to the punishment for sentence, if the offender is convicted on
the conduct by sheriffs and other officers in indictment, or under the 'The Speedy Trials
xecution of legal processes. This pro- Act,' and if convicted sumnarily, may be
4iSi
chao i taken from 27-28, Vic. (Canada), with hard labor, if hard labor is part of the
g . 8, section 31.
punishmer.t for the offence of which such
tkeetton 30 relates to embracery, and is offender is convicted, and if such imprisonUpen froln the Consolidated Statutes of ment is to be with liard labor, the sentenca
rper Canada, chap. 31, section 166.
shall so direct:

9tions

.320

The Consolidation [SEINATE] of the Laws.

I will not detain the House by reading any more of it. I propose to enclose
to each member of the committeehope it will be a joint committee ultimnately-at an early day a copy of the
"7. Every one who is sentenced to imprison- paper from which I have been reading,
ment in any penitentiary, gaol or other public which will convey the fullest information
or reformatory prison, shall be subject to the as to the course pursued with reference
provisions of the statutes relating to such
penitentiary, gaol or prison, and to all rules to each chapter of these two volumes
and regulations lawfully made with respect fron the beginning to the end. I per*
thereto."
haps ought to say that there has been alsO
; :By putting these provisions in this form the a consolidation of the whole body of the
Commissioners have been able to omit from
the concluding clause of alnost every section Criminal Law. This was effected by Sir
of the cr'iminal law the provision with respect John Macdonald in one of the earlier
Many of
to imnprisonment in the penitentiary and in sessions after Confederation.
the connon gaols, thereby lessening to a those members of the House who were
yery great extent the volume of the criminal here then will remember that that work
law. It is thought, however, that the effect
of the law is substantially the sanie as it was was introduced by myself. I was then, as
previously. The reniainder of the chapter I am now, by the favor of the House leadrelates to imprisonment in reformatories, to ing the Senate, and the work was placed
"6. The term of imprisonment in pursuance of any sentence, shall commence on and
fron the day of passing such sentence, but
no tiie durng which the convict is out on
bail shall be reckoned as part of the term of
imprisonnent to which he is sentenced:

whipping, to sureties for keeping the peace
and fines, to solitary confinement, pillory,
deodands, attainder, pardons, and the comniutation of sentences. By reference to section
34, it will be seeî that an amendment is
proposed, whereby the punishment of solitary

continement will, if the amendment is adopte
be abolished. This punishment is seldom, if
ever, in practice inflicted, and while it is a

convenient punishment for prison offences it
is not thonght desirable to continue it with
respect to the general criminal law.
Chap. 1 7 6.-An Act respecting Public

and Reformatory Prisons.
This chapter is a consolidation of a number
of Acts with respect to provincial prisons.
Part 1 deals with subject of insecure prisons,
the employment of prisoners and the improvement of prison discipline.
Part 2 is a consolidation of the provisions
of the Dominion Acts relating to the Central
Prison for the Province of Ontario, the
Ontario Reformatory for boys, the Andrew
Mercer (Ontario) Reformatory for females
and Indîistrial Refuge for cirls.
Part 3 is a consolidation of the provisions
of the Dominion Acts relating to the reformatory schools in Quebec, to reformatory
prisons for females in Quebec, to the employ-

in my hands. It was late in the session
and a complaint arose that there was
not time to consider it properly. That
romplaint was strongly enforced in an
eloquent speech by an able friend of ours
now deceased-whose voice, as I mention
it, many of us will hear again ringing in
our ears, Mr. Sanborn, from Wellington
Division-who enforced with
great
earnestness the necessity of further
delay.
The Bill was postponed, and
it was not until the following session
that the acts were passed consohdating as they stand now (very much) the
whole of the Criminal Law of the Doiniion into one series of acts, which I think,
for the most part, still rernain in force. To
allude for a moment to another poilt
which we often hear mentioned in the
Senate.; that was one instance, at all
events, where the majority of the Senate
were not with the Ministry of the day.
Although the Government was exceedinglY
strong in both Houses, yet here on the
suggestion that there was not sufficient
time, and notwithstanding such humible

ment of prisoners and to the comnion gaols in exertions as I could use, we were defeated,
that province.
and the work was laid over until the
Part 4 is a consolidation of the provisions
It was then passed,
session.
of the Dominion Acts relating to the Halifax following
Industrial School and to the Halifax Reform- and as I say constitutes now one of the
It was a
atory School for boys of the Ronian Catholic Criminal Laws of the country.
'faith.
work in which Sir John Macdonald took
Part 5 is a consolidation of the Acts of the, the deepest interest.
Dominion, rel sting to the proposed ReformaI have now given you a fair outline of
tory Prison in Prince E<dward Island and also
all the work which has been done con,
of 17 Vic., chap. 13 (P.E.I.) section 1, relating
to the removal of prisoners to the gaol of cerning consolidation anterior to and sile
Queen's county.
Confederation, in the several provinces
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL

The Consolidation [MA RCI 16, 1885] of the Law8.

321

Which caine into the Union, and all the among its members, bring in a comprework
which has been donc since the
thnion in the Dominion.
Certainly
the Work which I now present to the
"ouse, if it is correctly - done, as I
hope and believe it to be, will be of the
greatest possible value to all professional
Men, and also to laymen, because it presents in two volumes not too bulky, the
ýhole statute law of the country. That
't llay be found correct, and that we may
Ome out of the great task which as entrusted to us with some credit is my
earnest hope.

1oN. MR. ALEXANDER-I desire
o, avail nyself of the opportunity to offer
ti e or two observations upon this resoluion. It is no doubt very desirable and
Very necessary for the Bench and the Bar
that every fifteen or twenty years there
should be a consolidation of the various
enactments and laws passed by this Parlia'ent.
The necessity arises from the vast
mber of enactments and amendments intoduced session after session to every law
a the statute books, but this involves a
Very large expense, and I would take this
vportunity of observing that it would be
y desirable if the Government of this
iion would, in the future administra'ofPublic affairs, remember that this
vrot a rich country. We should endeaar not to load unnecessarily with trivial
aft ding Bills, the statute books, session
s.ession. I have had occasion, and
th etmes perhaps by so doing, brought
t obloquy of the House upon myself,
Ocal attention to the fact-I remember
ontesting against the Minister of Militia
bringing in
that abrnging in a Bill simply to declare
lai p'stol found on a person carrying it
sor f'ully, mnstead of being delivered to
Lie tone else should be delivered to the
lou tenant-Governor. How truly ridicu! I
toùldlegislationa of such a character simiPoint
l aracterto number of Bills of a
'od
introduced from time to time,
lng the statute books with unnecessary
to ation. It certainly is not creditable
che Parliament of a great
Dominion

erin.as this. Then with regard to the
erbal la', we find, session after session,
With ers of the Goverment coming down
ny special acts. I ask this House
all
could fnot the Government of the
"on
with the most astute lawyers

hensive Bill embracing a number of the
criminal laws ? Why I make such a remark at this moment is that we see the
President of the United States, the head of
a great nation of 5o,ooo,ooo of people, one

of the wealthiest countries in the world,
declaring to the people of the United
States his determination to curtail even the
numbers of newspapers taken at the White
House in order to save the public money.
And while the Government of the United
States find the necessity to act with
economy, the Government of this country
appear to be acting with reckless extravagance in everything that they do. We are
a people of only four and a half millions
to-day, yet our Government are acting
totally regardless of their present circumstances, which are not so prosperous as
they may appear to be. It is very true
that we have a valuable territory in the
North-West, but immigration cannot be
induced to go there sufficiently rapidly to
fill up that territory as we would all like to
see it.

Now I come to a more important

point. I have to observe that the Dominion Government should in the future be a
little more circumspect and careful of
their.legislation. Surely an administration
composed of the most astute lawyers in
the country ought to know when their
Is it not
legislation is constitutional.
unseemly that at this moment there should
be litigation in the higher courts between
the Dominion and Ontario Governments
Can anything be more unseemly than to
behold the Province of Ontario obliged to
call in question the constitutional right of
the Dominion Government to legislate on
the licensing question ? Such antagonism,
may, if carried on, break up Confederation.
Here we have the Dominion Government
enacting a license law, while the Provincial
Governments maintain that that subject
falls within their exclusive jurisdiction. It
is not for me to impute motives, but it has
the semblance as if the Dominion Government wanted, if possible, to checkmate the
Premier of the Ontario Government, and
here we have the hon. gentleman introducing a consolidation of the statutes containing the very license law which the
highest court of the land has pronounced
to be unconstitutional, and which we are
told is to be referred to the Privy Council
for final decision. The Government seem

822

-Evidencein [SEN ATE]

to go on recklessly, and care not what
money they spend in order to obtain party
victory, and if they continue their present
course much longer they may produce a
spirit of discontent which will ultimately
break up the Confederation.
HON. MR. WARK-No one will charge
me, I think, with a desire to be extravagant, but we made a great mistake in
New Brunswick on this question which I
am very glad to see the Government here
are going to avoid. We appointed a
commission of very efficient and able
men. The Minister of Justice has named
them--the late Mr. Kinnear, who stood
very high at the bar, Judge Fisher (Mr.
Fisher he was then) and Judge Chandler
- all very efficient men, but there was no
revision whatever of the work before it
was presented to the legislature. I remember how frequently the judges put a
different construction on the wording of
the laws, a construction which the commissioners never expected nor intended,
and I came to this conclusion that one
set of men, or one man, may express an
idea in words which he thinks perfectly
clear and correct, and if another man
reads the same words over without knowing what the intention of the wricer is, he
may come to a different conclusion and
give a different meaning to them. For
that reason I think that the course pursued by the Government in this instance
is a very necessary one. I have no doubt
that the Minister of Justice has looked at
what was done by the Government of
Massachusetts in the consolidation of the
laws of that state. They appointed a commission just as has been done here, and
certainly their work was not half so intricate as the consolidation in this country
where the enactments of so many legislative bodies had to be considered. The
Government of Massachusetts appointed
a commission, and then a joint committee
consisting of so many members of both
branches of the State Legislature. In
1832 my attention was called to it and
I pointed it out then to the Attorney
General of New Brunswick as a very satisfactory way of consolidating the laws.
That committee of the legislature, a conmittee such as you are now about to
appoint, spent 81 days their work, and
when they consolidated on the laws again
HoN. MR.

ALEXANDER.

Divorce Casms.

in 1858, they spent 8o days For that
reason I question whether a commitWe
appointed in this way can by any me8Il
overtake the work during the session 1
think if the course pursued in Massachusetts is adopted it will prove much more
satisfactory if a joint committee is appoifte
tositduringtherecess. Whenthecomltte
of the Massachusetts legisiature did ge
through with their work, the legisiature did
fot immediately adopt it, but examined it
very carefully. On the last occasion they
spent iî days in which they re-enacted the
work of the commission. However, it i9
for the Parliament to decide when ts
joint comrittee is to sit, bct I think it
would be better for them to sit during the
recess as the Massachusetts committee
did, and give their whole time to the work
At the last revision in Massachusetts the
time spent was not given. This is a ques
tion which ought to be gone into deliber
ately, and the question of expense ought
not to be considered. It is much bette
to have the work properly done than tO
have bills brought in every session explail
ing or amending the laws-very iflUd
better, even at a considerable expense, to
have the work properly done at the outSet
T'e motion was agreed to.
EVIDENCE

IN DIVORCE CASES
MOTION.

The order of the day having been called,
that in future, where the evidence takel'
before a comrittee on a bill of divorce iS
directed by the committee to be prirtedt
it shah be printed apart from the minutes
of the proceedings of the buse and 0nlY
in sufficient numbers for the use Of Ilielbers of each House, that is to say: a coPY
for each member.
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL
That motion, if the bouse will aLlOW nie,
1 will amend. The Speaker has poifle
out that it would not accomplish the
object 1 had in view, and I propose to
move it now in these words
That in future, the evidence taken before
Committee on a Bil or Divorce @hall be r' t
ed the House, and Minutes of the ProOe in
of apart froin the only in sufficient flp,eI
for the td ay: a copy for eachof each 11019e.
use of the members
that
es
nember.

Evidenee in [MARCH 16, 1885] Divorce Case8.
My idea was that it would save a good
deal of annoyance, and some scandal peraps, in certain cases if we kept the
l'n'nutes of the evidence out of our proCeedings and published them separately
so that it would be only members of the
liouse who would get theni and not the
outside public, as far as we could avoid it;
and I also thought that in this way we
should meet what seemed to me to be the
Just objection of my hon. friend, the junior
J1enber from Halifax, against giving a
Vote on a Divorce Bill when he had not
an Opportunity of seeing the evidence. I
sUggested when that objection was made
that miy hon. friend might see the evidence
by going to the table of the House. Of
course there is more or less trouble in
reading the evidence in manuscript, but I
thnk in this way, by printing it separately
a
the clerk being charged with the
lstOdy of these copies and seeing that
t
hey only go to members of the
House,
shall adopt a middle course which will,
far as we can conveniently go, avoid
troucing a scandal and yet at the same
e enable each member of the Housç to
ead the evidence which has been given.
to hpe the suggestion will commend itself
.the
favorable consideration of the
louse.

32e

not that discretionary power. Then I felt
atter what was said in the House with regard to that discretionary power, after the
business had commenced, it would not be
proper to allow reporters to be present to,
spread abroad throughout the country the
proceedings before the committee ; and
acting, under the direction of the committee, I requested strangers to retire,
and in that instance we carried on the
business of the committee without the
admission of strangers. In support of what

I have said with regard to their being no
discretionary power vested in the com-

mittee, I would refer to the rules which I
think govern the committee on these occasions. Rule 94 distinctly says :"Senators though not of the Committee are
not excluded from coming in and speaking,

but they must not vote; they sit behind those
that are of the Committee."
There it distinctly states who are to be
admitted.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL
Read rule 95.

-

HON. MR. ODELL-That rule distinctly states who are to be admitted.
Then if you come to rule 95, it distinctly
says that " No other persons unless commanded to attend are to enter at any
meeting of the Senate Committee or at
any conference ;" so that the first rule
states who may be admitted, and the 95th
rule states that no other persons, and the
" no other," it seems to me, makes the
rule absolute. " No other persons, inde.
pendent of inembers of the Senate, are to
be admitted."

tIoq. MR. ODELL-In connection
wth the question now before the
uld desire to call the attention House,
of the
Satetoete other rules that govern the
thiree Committee in the discharge of
duties. The House is aware that
s
here little time ago there was a discussion
thee with reference to the rule governing
t sittimgs of those committees, and at
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Does
oPin" tilme there was an expression of
a discretionary not that give the power to exclude
eOn that there was
gard r vested in the committee with re- strangers ?
cord to the exclusion of strangers.

In

wsequence of the observations which
a

mnade in the House, as chairman of
Mlittee on which I was subsequently
th
I thought it my duty to refer to
entrules and bring them before the
ration of the committee, because
in
thrng the rules, I came to the conclusion
Ste s no discretionary power placed
k
bands of the committee with reequtothe exclusion of strangers. I put
the etbon to the committee, and I think
pinon there wasunanimousthat wehad

HON. MR. ODELL-It gives the power
of excluding, but it does not give the
power of admitting. The opinion of the
committee seems to have been that there
is a discretionary power on the part of the
committee not to "see " strangers.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-If
you want to allow strangers to be present
we do not " see " them, the same as in
the House here, but if you do want to
exclude them then you can "see " them.

Evidence in

324

[SENATE]

Divorce Case8.

- HON. MR. ODELL-It appears to me construction of the rule, it might be held
that the rule is absolute. You first say
who are to be admitted, and then you say
that no other persons are to be admitted,
and that appears to be an absolute rule,
and I bring it to the attention of the
House so that there will be no misunderstanding in the future. Another point is,
I think, that under any circumstances the
members of the other House ought certainly to be admitted to those committees.
HON. SIR

to exclude even members of the House of
Commons, still I think the spirit and
meaning of the rules should not be held
to exclude them, and I certainly as chair
man would not exclude them, and I would
not put on my spectacles to " see " thefi,
if they were present.

HoN. MR. BOSTFORD-I think a
provision ought to be made for recording
the proceedings of the committees. CerALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes. tainly there ought to be a copy on fyle-

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
HON. MR. ODELL-I think that
ought to be distinctly stated in the rule. mauuscript will be on fyle.
However my object now is to get an exTHE SPEAKER-The rules as th-Y
pression of opinion from the House to
govern committees in future as to how stand provide for that.
far that discretionary power exists.

HON. MR. POWER-As to the die-

ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
culty which occurs to the hon. gentlel>an
would prefer that the expression of opinion from Fredericton, and which His Hounor did
should come from the Speaker.
not go into-the difdiculty with respect to
members of the House of Conmons beil'g
THE SPEAKER-I quite agree with present at Divorce Committees-I do
the opinion expressed by the Minister of not think it is a serious one, because the
Justice. I look upon the rule as giving committee have the right to exclude alt
absolute control of the subject to the and have the right to admit all; and
committee as to the admission or exclu- I think between these two limits they
sions of strangers, and as is the case in have the right to admit whom they pleas'
both branches of the legislature, strangers and the committee could simply order al'
are always admitted, and although admit- except members of the two Houses t
ted are not supposed to be seen until such withdraw. I do not rise for the purpose
time as their exclusion is required. I of objecting to the resolution moved bl
think the same construction is to be placed the Minister of Justice, but to express n'y
on the rule that governs the committee regret that such action has been fOuP"
that is placed on the rule that governs the necessary. For the last two or three s 1
sions we seem to have got along very
House here.
with divorce cases without any prind
HON. MR. GOWAN-The matter came evidence, and I regret that it is deeine
up before a committee of which I was necessary now to print this evidence,
chairman, and although the rules may though printed for the use of members 01lY
literally go towards excluding members of as it will in many cases get into the hanlds"0
the House of Commons, still I did not other persons and the evil we are desirthink that the spirit and intent of the ous of preventing will occur. I Ca'
rules is to exclude them, and for this not see any good end to be served by the
reason ; although, for convenience sake, publication of the evidence taken in thes
divorce proceedings originate in the Senate, divorce cases. I have not yet found an
stillthe matter isdisposed of by Parliament, one who is able to point out what Public
and the gentlemen from the other House end is to be served by printing it. Thei?
might desire to have an opportunity of is really no necessity for it, because al
seeing the manner and the demeanor of though theoretically the whole Flouse ce
the witnesses under examination, that they constituteda court toconsider these DivOrce
thst
might not have to pass merely on the Bills, every hon. gentlemen knows
Therefore, although substantially that is not the case.
written evidence.
literally, and perhaps under a very strict Bill is referred to a committee, and that
HON.

HON.

SIR

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Evidnce in [MARCII 16, 1885] Divorce Ca8es
o"mittee is really the court, and there
has hardly been an instance within my exPerience here, where the House did not
concur in the action of the committee.
If the committee are satisfied as to the
evidence, then the members of the House
as a rule do not investigate it and there is
no reason why they should.
lON. MR. ALMON-I am sorryto have
to differ so frequently in opinion from the
henior member from Halifax.
He does
nOt vote on these questions, but I do. It
's very hard that because he does not consider it his duty to vote on these bills that
he Should oblige me to go it blind on a
Uestion that I have had no opportunity
o. getting information on.
I do not
think that a committee appointed to try a
vorce case are judges. I think they are
ev e simply to collect evidence, and that
dence whether it satisfies them or not,
s to be laid before us, and we try the case
Uon it, and after we pass our judgments
Upon it it is laid before the House of
tobaons. I am very much astonished
tu hear inembers who regularly attend the
eetings of those committees and hear'all
teProceedings-a thing I have never
ne except when on a committee myself
_suPPose that we wish to have the eviaence printed to gratify a prurient taste
a encourage prurient ideas. I am very
yleldnow that the Minister of Justice has
to ded to the suggestion that I have made,
oahave the evidence printed and in the
rnds of members.
I should
onYself guilty almost of perjury in think
voting
a question that I had not an oppor'u'ty of informing myself on properly.

t l.o"- MR. PLUMB-I am very glad

o't this natter has taken the shape of a
b.I
know that it is very painful for
sitbers of this House to be compelled to
thinkP

divorce committees.

I do not

with It is a duty which anyone performs

a C Pleasure. The Senate is constituted
oert of Divorce, and it so happens that
iitedof its members-and a somewhat
Core . mumber they are-who have no
th cientious scruples against sitting on
p
comittees have the duty thrown
ain then. The proceedings are all of a
character-all the details are painr it is an nan to be compelled every
inded unpleasant duty to to sit

325

and listen to the evidence. I believe that
there is no gentleman in this House that
will not corroborate what I have said. Up
to this session I have not sat upon any
divorce committee.
It happened that
there were several cases before the Senate
this session, and it was necessary for every
hon. gentleman to take his part in the
work on some one of the committees. It
is most distasteful, I presume, to those
who do it, because it involves in all cases
some family trouble, some wreck of happiness, and any sympathetic person wilk
feel that it is desirable in all cases of the
kind to spare, as far as possible, the feel.
ings of those who are compe'led to
come to this body to ask for relief
in cases wherein it cannot be avoided.
I think it was only acting in accordance
with the expressed wish of the Senate that
the community at large should be excluded
from those proceedings, and from making
these examinations a place for idie cur^
osity to come and listen to that which did
not concern them at all. I think it was
very proper that reporters should be excluded from those committees, and I was
very glad that it was done. I believe that
it was done in conformity with the wish of
this body, of every member of it. I do
not think that there is an hon. gentleman
here who desires that the evidence in these
divorce cases should be bruited about the
country, served up in scandalous tit-bits
to satisfy the prurient taste of irresponsible
persons who only select those portions ot
the evidence that they think will be most
salient and stimulating ; if it is to b
brought before the Senate in the form in
which the Minister of Justice proposes, it
is quite sufficient. That it should go to
the Commons is absolutely necessary,
because the Commons as weil as the
Senate must judge of the merits of the
case on the evidence. If the evidence is
printed in the way it is proposed, it will
no doubt satisfy every member of the
Senate ; but it does not satisfy some
other people. I was very much surprised
to find in one of the leading newspapers
of the country an article that I could
scarcely conceive could have found its
way into the columns of any respec:able
journal. The article in question is of a
character so astounding that I cannot by
any possibility believe that it could have
received the approval of, and been placed

326

E vidence in LSENATE] Divorce Ca8e8.

there by the responsible editors and proprietors of a respectable family newspaper.
Even at the risk of taking up some little
time, as I imagine this article has not
tome under the cognizance of senators
generally, I shall give some idea of what
has been printed in a journal that purports
to be a guide to public opinion, in regard to
the exclusion of the public from those committees. I may say at the same time that in
the committees I sat upon there was not for
a moment a question as to what decision
the committee should come to. In each
of those cases ample proof was given of
the service of the notice upon the respondents. Ample proof was given that
the respondents were living in utter disregard of their marriage vows-that they
were living in shameless adultery. In
ànother case where I was not a member
ëf the committee, I was present when
somé of the evidence was adduced-evidence that a young and respectable
woman had been maltreated by her busband who had disregarded the law from
the very beginning, and there was no
hesitation on the part of the commit
tee in reporting in favor of the Bill which
was introduced, and it seemed to me that
it was an act which ought to be considered praiseworthy that these unfortunate persons who were compelled to corne
before the Senate, should be protected
(rom being made a gazing-stock of by
prurient people with prurient curiosity,
who are there simply for the gratification
4f a vitiated taste. In two of those cases
the petitioners were brought there by, and
were under the protection of their own
fathers. Nothing would be more proper
than that the committee of the Senate
should try as far as possible in administering that law to protect people who unhappily have to come before them under
such circumstances. Having said this
mnuch I will, if I am allowed, read to the
House the view that is taken of these
matters by one of the leading papers of
the country ?

the ioth of March. (Mr. Plumb here
read an article from the editorial colun
of the Globe headed " The Senate and
the Reporters.") I think the House will
unite with me in thinking that an article
of that kind is utterly disgraceful. It is
an imputation on the honor and dignitY
of this House ; it is an imputation that
the gentlemen who compose this bodY
are not capable of rendering a proPer
decision in cases which are brought before them; that they endeavor to bide
and screen their work, and I would suggest that such an article as that should
not be permitted to go unrebuked by this
House. I believe that the Senate will utanimously sustain the committee in the
course which they adopted, because I
think there was ample authority for it in
the rule itself ; and I think it was as well
the expressed intention of this House that
the public should be excluded from the
committee, and if there was anything tO
convince me, and I presume to convince
others who are within sound of my voice
that we are right in what we have done, it
is just such an atrocious article as that tO
which I have drawn the attention of the
Senate. I believe that the interests of
society will be best protected by the course
which the Senate is pursuing, and I
believe that those persons who are conpelled to corne before this body for the
purpose of obtaining relief from the bonds
of matrimony are entitled to the protection of this court, and they should not be
made subiects for public scandal, and for
prurient and impudent curiosity.
HON.

MR.

READ-There

is

one

thought that occurred to me when this
discussion was going on, and it is the
necessity that bas arisen even in this
House for the publication of the evidence
taken before divorce committees. In one
case that bas been before Parliament this
session, the evidence was of a character, I
am told, that was considered unfit for
publication ; and I am informed that
when it went to the other branch of the
HOS. MR. POWER-Dispense.
Legislature members there said that they
had not had an opportunity of seeing the
HoN. MR. MACFARLANE-What evidence, and consequently they oWuld
paper is it.
not vote upon the Bill. Now, in a clear
case such as this was for relief under our
.IoN. MR. PLUMB-It is an editorial laws, it seems to be a pity that tbe
article published in the Toronto Globe of petitioner should be frustrated in that
HON. MR. PLUMB.

Evidence in [MARCH 16, 1885] Divorce Case8.
rnannier and prevented from getting relief.
Course if the motion of the Minister of
.ustice is adopted such a thing will not
o<Ccur again. Then with regard to the
rivacy of divorce proceedings, I happened
iorning to take up a paper in which
*as Published the evidence in a celebrated
ee that has been going on in Englandthkt of Lord Durham. I notice in it that
Up to a certain stage the examination was
Publie; but after a certain point the
2ihination was on two occasions made
With Closed doors. This would show that
r' England it is considered only right not
to allow certain evidence to go to the
ess, and I am very glad that the Minister
Of Justice has introduced his resolution,
of ause I know that there are a number
re.gentlemen in this House who, frorn
reiigous convictions, vote against divorce
"h Matter what the evidence may be.
There are, however, others who do not
think the same way, who have to decide
0' those cases and who should have the
Pi.nted evidence on which to form their
Opnion.

327

tboth Houses are equally deserving of this
trust to keep this evidence as much as
possible frorn the outside public. As
t o the article which my hon. friend from
Niagara has brought to the notice of the
House, if the object of the writer of that
irticle was to give it greater publicity he
could not have secured that end any
better than to have it quoted here, because
[ venture to say it may be transferred by
the reporters to the records of the debates
of this Flouse. I do think it is such an
irticle as should not be quoted in the
debates of the Senate.

o()N.
MR. O'DONOHOE-I apptove
mfluch 0f the discreet course proposed
au the Minister of Justice. I do not at
egee with my hon. friend, the senior
rerber for Halifax, in the view he has
PrOPOUnded upon this question. I think
el while the committee should hear the
edence and become conversant with it,
ehti every member of the House is equally
entled to read it and understand it.
ïen divorce bills come before this
Ouse, although certain members may
the choose to take a part in deciding upon
still every member is entitled to
Stem
wi: upon every one of those cases if he
#othes to do so. For that reason there is
deg more proper than that the evit8
ae should be in the hands of every
ha mber of the House. How shall I, who
base ot been on a committee, decide how
It s lvote unless I can see the evidence?
vt the light which must govern us in

HON. MR. PLUMB-Why not?
HON. MR. O'DONOHOE-My hon.
friend asks "why not?" because of its
character. Why does my hon. friend take
objection to it? He takes objection to it
because of its character-because of its
reference to the feelings that actuate men.
bers of this House, and because it is
against the honor and the dignity of this
House. My hon. friend brings it before
our notice on that account, and reads it
on that account ; but if we take it after
reading it, and transfer it to the records of
the Senate, we are giving it a sort of
immortality.
HON. MR. PLUMB-My hon. friend
knows it is published in 25,000 issues of
the daily Globe, and in probably 50,ooo

issues of the weekly Globe.
HON. MR. O'DONOHOE-My opinion
is that it has been published in 75,000

papers too many, and that we should not
publish it in any other, and I think if we
were to treat it as it deserves, we should
prevent it from appearing on our record
at all, because if we allow an article of that
sort to be read out word for word and
transferred to the Senate Debates, what
kind of an article may not be written, be
it of ever so foul a character, that may not

be referred to in a debate, and therefore

%al On cases of this sort if we vote at transferred to our record to be preserved
ig

ru and Particularly so must it be in
oead tO the other House. They are not
ndte comrnittee investigating
those cases,
a necessity that they shall
Sthbcomes
the evidence, and if the members of
dis mnittee are entrusted with certain
entioI, surely the other members of

there for all time to come ? I do not propose to move any resolution to ehiminate
it from our Debates ; I am merely expressing my opinion as a novice in this House,
but I do not think it is an article that we
should chrystalize, or make lasting by
incorporating it in our record.

328

Evidence in

[SENATE]

HoN. MR. BELLEROSE-My intention is not to discuss the question that is
now before the House-that is the distribution of the printed copies of the
evidence taken before the Divorce Committees-but I rise to say that I have no
doubt that hon. gentlemen in this House
who speak the French language would
have no objection if the French version
were not published at all. I am sure there
would be no objection to that. I would
not like to have this made a rule, but I
believe that it might be undertood by the
French translators that they need not do
it, and that if they do not do it they will
not be liable to any blame. I may say
that even the English version of the
evidence is not necessary for me to have,
because according to my views on the
subject of divorce, no matter what the
evidence may be, I am not allowed to
vote for such a Bill-I am bound to vote
against it under all circumstances.
HON. MR. SMITH-No, not at all.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I am not
discussing that point ; I speak merely for
myself. If it were only for a separation,
such as we have in our province, then I
could vote for it ; but under our law no
man separated from his wife, or wife from
her husband, no matter what the cause
may be, can marry again. As divorce
bills that come before the House permit a
second marriage, I say that in every case,
without any exception whatever, we are
not allowed to vote for such measures.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I am very
glad that this motion has been made by the
Minister of Justice. I think I may take
to myself some credit for having brought
the hon. Minister to taking this step.

HON. MR. ALMON-That
" thunder."

is my

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I remember
an occasion on which I was very much
brought to book. It was a case reported from a committee of which Senator
Dickey was chairman, and the committee
were unanimous in their report ; but I
disapproved of the House voting upon
that report before the evidence was in the
hands of hon. menbers so that they could

Divorce Case8.

read it. In that case I was sustained
most emphatically by the junior rnember
froni Halifax (Mr. Almon.) As regarde
the article that has been quoted by the
hon. member from Niagara, I am sur
prised to learn that it is an editorial in
what is considered the leading organ Of
the Liberal party. It certainly is beneath'
the character of any paper that aspires tO
the position of a leading organ in the
country. It must have been inspired bY
the reporter of the paper who attended
the committee ; but even if the reporter
has not discretion enough not to Pub.
lish such an article, the editor should have*
certain supervision over everything that
goes into its columns, and the Sonate
should not be subjected to commentaries
of such a low and degrading character.
I do not approve, however, of reporters,
being excluded from our committee rooms.
HoN. MR. DEVER-It is quite clear
that there is great diversity of opinion 10
this debate, and perhaps I may be per
mitted to make a few remarks that maY
throw a little light on the subject. With
reference to that article that was read a
minute ago by the hon. member from'
Niagara, when I look back to the occurrences that took place at a meeting of a
certain committee of this House, I think
there was sonie cause for the exciteneint,
and dissatisfaction that existed amongst the
newspaper reporters, because while the
evidence was being taken, some two or
three gentlemen representing prominent
newspapers happened to corne into the
committee room, and by order of the
chairman of that committee they were
peremptorily told to retire from the rooi"
I happened to be present as a member of
the House, not as a member of the co0'
mittee, to hear the evidence. ImmediatelY
after the reporters had withdrawn from the
room, a certain amount of disapproval
was expressed by members sitting there,
at excluding the press so peremptorlYt
and the consequence was that it was decided to admit the reporters, and a iessage was sent to them to that effect to the
corridors.

The decision of the commX3it'

tee was communicated to these gentlemen
but they were evidently indignant at the
offence that had been given them, and did
not wish to return-in fact they felt S
aggrieved and offended by the actionf

Evidence in [MARCH 16, 1885] Divorce Cases.
Certain members of the committee, that as
gentlemen they could not consent to come
back, but ultimately they were prevailed
uPOn and did come back. I am quite
aware that in consequence of the proceed'fgs that took place on' that occasion
there was certainly a strong feeling roused
1aIst the Senate amongst journalists,
who believed that the committee had no
a1thority for the action that they had
tRken at that time. I think it is due to
Vyself and to the House that this explanto 11 should be given, and to say that there
s 011e cause for the grievance that rePorters have against the committee.
ION. MR. ODELL-According to the
on. gentleman's view, he wishes all rePorters to be admitted, and the proceedings to be published in the newspapers.

ION. MR. DEVER-With reference

to'that I have nothing to say ; that is for
e Senate to decide.
liON. MR. GOWAN-I think the best
olution of the question has been offered
1 the resolution of the Minister of Justice.
t do not at all understand my hon. friend
e senior member from Halifax to put
(Orward the view that every hon. member
fvthis louse is not entitled to see the
eVldence, and I feel with him that if it
Were Possible to confine the printing
of
athe evidence to a few copies it would
well to do so; but every hon. gentlethn of this House, and every member of
the Comons has a right to pass upon
the evidence. It is perfectly true that
te report of a committee is rarely quesniofed by the House. The committee
a the opportunity of hearing the wites and of observing their demeanor,
it rarely happens that a decision
'ved at by the committee-is not mainevned by the House. At the same time
theery hon. gentleman has a right to see
yeevidence, and it may not be conYenient to refer to the few copies that
are
thely

printed. Therefore I think that
resolution of the hon. Minister of
it otce entirely meets the case, and puts
etrua safe footing. Something must be
e ted to hon. gentlemen, that they
den i ossession of copies of the evil
the Winot allow them to go out to
Public. I think we may trust to each

Js

399

hon. member of this House to keep for
his own use the evidence which is necessary for him to determine the question
when it comes up.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I do not
rise to express any opinion as to the wis
dom of the motion now under consideration. It is well known that I do not
profess to be a partizan of either party. I
do not certainly assume the responsibility
of defending the organ of any political
party, but I should like to look at the
matter from a broad standpoint. Whether
the article which has been referred to by
the hon. member from Niagara appeared
in the Ministerial organ, or the Opposition
organ of Toronto, I should treat it exactlyfrom the same standpoint. What we have
to ask is, what is the prevailing custorn in
Divorce Courts in England ? I am not
thoroughly posted in regard to that, but I
think in reading the London Standardor
the Morning Post, or other leading organs
of public opinion in England, we have
often seen details of divorce cases which
have been tried before the courts in
England. I believe that public sentiment
is in favor of the publication of some of
these details, and no matter what diversity
of views may exist with regard to such a
practice, the public sentiment of England
is in favor of having them to some extent
made public. Now we have to inquire, is
the Senate to be regarded as a Divorce
Court ? It certainly is, until a Divorce
Court proper is established by the Government. This House is virtually a Divorce
Court ; and we come then to inquire what
is the public sentiment of the country in
regard to this question. I myself individually have held the opinion for a long
time that it is very detrimental to the
cause of order and morality, the sending
broadcast through the columns of the
press the details of various crimes. I
believe the very fact of relating the number of murders frequently impels people of
weak minds to commit murder. The fact
of hearing the details of people throwing
themselves over precipices or under
railway trains, medical men say has the
effect of leading some people peculiarly
constituted to destroy themselves. But,
as Senators of the Dominion, we are only
public servants here to represent the peo.
ple of the country, and if the great body

380

Evidence in

[SENA TE] Divorce Case8.

of the people really believe that it is in out before circulating them. I have been
the interest of society that the details of on but one committee appointed to deal
these divorce cases which come before the with a divorce case ; and I believe that
Senate should be made public through the is the one which called forth that article.
press, then I question the wisdom of our Acting for what we believed to have been
refusing to conform with public opinion, the best, we excluded from the commitbecause we may rely upon it public opinion tee room all except the parties interested,
is generally right. We individually may the witnesses and the attorneys, and I
believe that public opinion is wrong but think we were justified in doing so. The
my experience of three score years and petitioner who came there was a young
ten is that public opinion is generally lady ; she was accompanied by her father,
right. With regard to my hon. friend's a man who has been long in the emplOY
strictures on a certain political organ in of the Government of this country-a
Toronto, he cannot surely suppose that man I have known for over forty yearsany editor would write an article of that and I am sure, taking everything into concharacter without feeling that he was sideration, there was nothing said or done
reflecting public opinion. No man would there which could injure the feelings Of
be foolish enough to do so. I am quite the most fastidious lady if she had been
sure that the general manager of the Mail, present. There was nothing of the charor Globe would never consent to any writer acter described in that article. We went
putting forward merely his own views, there for the purpose of obtaining eviwhich do not reflect public sentiment, in dence and reporting upon it. From beeditorial articles. Such a managing editor ginning to end everything was conducted
would not be fit for his position and with the greatest propriety, and I must
whether we hold different views or not, I say, in justice to our chairman (Mr. Odell)i
do not think the hon. member for Niagara who was very reluctant to take the chair,
is justified in expressing his indignation in that he acted with the greatest prudence
such terms and pronouncing it a disgrace. and caution with reference to this matter,
Now, if that article is reflecting largely the and I believe the committee was unanipublic sentiment of Ontario, what disgrace mous in deciding that the lady should
could it be for that writer to publish it ? have her Bill ; consequently I do nOt
The parties who publish it differ from know what benefit or advantage the public
him, but does he mean to say that they would have derived by reporters being
are doing a disgraceful act because they present.
They could not publish the
differ from him ? They may be less whole evidence ; they could not have
enlightened or more enlightened than he been there all the time, and consequentlY
is, but I do not think he is warranted in they could not have stated the case fullY.
indulging in such a tirade of indignation This is the first case in which I have acted
against the editor of a leading newspaper as a member of a committee, though I
as he has done.
have had something to do with other
cases, defending one or two. Taking it
HoN. MR. FLINT-The article which all together, I can say that there was nthas been read by the hon. member from thing of an immoral tendency in the
Niagara I think should be treated in evidence in that case-nothing to offend
he same way that the Irishman treated the most delicate ears ; and I think the
the donkey when he kicked him. He article which has been read here shoulid
turned round to resent it but seeing the be buried in oblivion.
quarter from which it came, he said he
would say nothing about it. I should be
HoN. MR. POWER-Before the quesvery sorry indeed that such an article tion is put I wish to make an explanation.
should be published in our officiai re- My hon. colleague when speaking a little
port. It was a disgrace to the paper in while ago, used language which might
which it appeared, a disgrace to the man
that I was in the
who wrote it, and would be a disgrace to lead to the impression
our official report if we gave it publicity. habit of attending these committees an
If it should appear, when I receive my listening 46 the evidence. I wish to sa$
copies I will take my scissors and cut it that I have not spent this session altogether
HON. MR. ALEXANDER.

J'iver St. Clair R'y, etc., [MARCH 17, 1885] Company'8 Bill.

331

fve minutes in the rooms where this evi- before Justices and other Magistrates."
dence was being taken.
-(Mr. Gowan.)
The motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjourned at 6 o'clock.
THE SPEAKER-I wish to understand
Whether it is the intention of the House,
THE SENATE
or rather of the French members of the
Senate, that the suggestion thrown out by
Ottawa, Tuesday, March, I7th, 1885.
the hon, gentleman on the other side of
the room should be adhered to-that the
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
eideace need not be printed in French.
o'clock p. m.
SEVERAL FRENCH MEMBERSPrayers and routine proceedings.
We do not want it.
lION. MR. PLUMB-The article in the CANADA SOUTHERN & ERIE &
Globe to which I referred, I read merely
NIAGARA RAILWAY COMfor the information of the House and
PANY'S BILL.
'lot with any intention of placing it
'o record in the Official Report of the
THIRD READING.
Itebates.
HON. MR. DICKEY, from the Conmittee on Railways, Telegraphs & Canals,
reported Bill (9), "An Act respecting the
THIRD READING.
Canada Southern Railway Co., and the
Erie & Niagara Railway Co.," without
"ON.
MR. READ moved the third
T
-ading of Bill (E), "An Act for the 'relief amendment.
tairy Emily Jane Terry." He said:
e Corrmittee to which the Bill was
HoN. MR. PLUMB moved that the
referred came to a unanimous conclusion said Bill be read the third time presently.
that the divorce ought to be granted
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
e evidence has been before the House
tOr Some time, and I therefore move the was read the third time and passed.
third reading of the Bill.
The motion was agreed to on a division
RIVER ST. CLAIR RAILWAY
d the Bill was then read the third time
BRIDGE & TUNNEL
passed.
CO. BILL

THE TERRY DIVORCE BILL.

NSUS OF MANITOBA & NORTH
WEST TERRITORIES BILL.

THIRD READING.

HON. MR. DICKEY, from the Committee on Railways, Telegraphs and
0N. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved Harbors, reported Bill (8), "An Act retoe third reading of Bill (21), "An Act specting the River St. Clair Railway Bridge
u provide for the taking of a census in and Tunnel Co.," without amendment.
e Province of Manitoba, the North-West
rritories and the District of Keewatin."
HON. MR. PLUMB-This beinga Bill
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill simply for the extension of the time for
read the third time and passed.
the completion of the tunnel, I beg to
move that it be read the third time
BILL INTRODUCED.
presently.
THIRD READING.

1iii (L), "An Act to make further prolOý respecting summary
proceedings

The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the third time and passed.

382

The Short [SENATE]

Line Railway.

STANDING ORDERS AND PRIVATE "dy not exceeding $170,000 per annun'
"for fifteen years, or a guarantee of a like.
BILLS COMMITTEE.
"sum for a like period as interest on the
"bonds of the company undertaking the
REPORTS PRESENTED.
work."
I do not think it necessary to read anyHON. MR. READ, as acting chairman
of the Committee on Standing Orders and more of the statute. Hon. gentlemen will
Private Bills, presented their 13th, 14 th observe that it provides a subsidy for the
shortest and best practicable line from
and i5th reports.
Montreal to St. John and Halifax, after
HON. MR. PLUMB moved that the the report of competent engineers. I
think that there might have been soiie
14th report of the committee be adopted,
and that in conformity with its recommen- question as to the policy of the Governdation the 49th rule be suspended n ment and Parliament of Canada aiding aline which is to be a rival to the Interrelation thereto.
colonial Railway-a road owned and
The motion was agreed to.
operated by the country-and if we were
discussing that policy anew, I might be
THE SHORT LINE RAILWAY.
prepared to say something upon it ; but
the policy has been decided upon and
MOTION.
Parliament has granted a subsidy for a
line which is to be a rival to the Inter. HON. MR. POWER moved:colonial Railway ; and now I think it is
That an humble address be presented to His clearly the duty of the Government in
Excellency the Governor General praying whose hands the power rests of selecting
thai he will cause to be laid belore this House, the line to be adopted, to select the best,
copie of the reports of the various surveys, the one which will best serve the interests
made by engineers under the direction of the of the country at large, and
particularlY
govern mernet, for a ine of railway consnecting
Montreal with the harbors of Si. John andi the one which will most fully meet the
Halifax by the shortet and best practicable requirements of the statute, and which
route (inluhding the reports of Messrs. A. L. will give the shortest and best practicable
Light and Verion Smiith on the fines sur. line from Montreal to the lower provinces.
veyed by thern, respectively, running up the
valley of the EtchAmin River and Iron Can- That was the object of the subsidy.
terbury, New Brunswick, to the northern end Hon. gentlemen will remember the discussions which took place both in this
of Chesuncook Lake, in the State of Maine)
together with a stateunent a'hoving the height House and in the House of Commons,
of the sutmnit level, the maximuum grade per and the agitation which was aroused in
mile, the nuimnber of riles wila a grade ex- the cities of the Lower
Provinces when they
ceeding fifty.two feet, the average grade per
mile, and the nunber and position of the found that the Canadian Pacific Railway
curves with a less radius than nineteen which was receiving such immense subsihundred and ten feet, upon each of etsch sur- dies from Canada was taking steps tO
veyed lines, as well as uponi any existing secure an outlet for its business in the
railways proposed to be used in connection
The people of the
with any such surveyed lines ; and also a city of Portland.
detailed statenent of the distances fron Lower Provinces had got no benefit
Montreal to St. John and Halifax by each whatever from the construction of the
of sauch surveyed lines and the existing Canadian Pacific Railway; and they inrailways proposed to be used in connection sisted that something should be done to
therewith.

enable them to share in some small

He said-the Subsidy Act which was degree in the benefits that other parts of'

passed by Parliament last year contained,
amongst others, the following provision :
that the Governor in Council might grant
" for the construction of a line of railway
" connecting Montreal with the harbors
of St. John and Halifax by the shortest
"and best practicable route, after the
" report of competent engineers, a subsi-

the country were expected to receiVo
from the construction of that work. The
Government feeling the force of their
representations, introduced into the Railway Subsidy Act of last year the provision which I have just read. I may be
pardoned if I quote at some length fror
the speech delivered by the Minister OU

-The Short [MARC1 17, 1885] Line Railway.

388

Railways of that day in the House of ComAfter which he said :" I have stated the position in which this
fons, last session. He said :
A very strong feeling bas grown up in the question stands from its national and larger
point of view, and I believe I may confidently
earitimà,e Provinces, and not only in the rely not only upon the kind support of our
aritime Provinces but throughout Canada, friends on this side of the House, for carrying
b5cause,I believe, that from :iritish Columbia out a measure which has been considered by
down throu h the North-West Territories, the Government in all its aspects and in all its
through the'Province of Ontario, and in the

T

Province of Quebec, there bas been a strong bearings, with a view to the promotion of the
best interests of the country, but I believe I
and general sentiment that this great inter- can rely with equal confidence upon the sup00

eanic line of the Canadian Pacific Railway
in carrying out
Would be incomplete if we were obliged to port of gentlemen opposite most. important,
what we all recognize as
bave our Atlantic

terminus in a foreign making a complete line of communication

0Untry. I believe that sentiment is not at
a" confined to the Province of Nova Scotia,
,r Prince Edward Island, or the Province of
4ew Brunswick, but I believe it bas taken
et as deep a hold of the minds of our friends
the other provinces almost as it lias in the
arZitime Provinces.

through Canada, and enabling us to have the
great ocean termini, on the Atlantic as weil
as on the Pacific, within our own border@.

The result of this short line railway will be
to bring the port of St. Andrew's, which is
not only an admirable harbour, but the port

Although every effort of all the ports in Canada the nearest to

4 been made to render the operation of the
successful as ps4ib reolonial Railway as been accomplis lied
inle although more'has
de the developinent of the country, in the

Montreal, within 377 miles of Montreal, and

I believe that it is only seventy-seven or
seventy-eight miles further than it is from

Montreal to Portland."

development of the trade and business of the
I need not trouble the House with any
contry through the agency of the InterBnial Railway than any person on either further extracts from the Minister's speech ;

e

this House a few years ago supposed but he went on to use various arguments

possible, still we have founid we were in favor of this subsidy.
15e
t00 heavilv handicapped by the distance, and
The shortest line from Montreal to
tht we could not-reluctantly as we were
1r ten to the conclusion, we have been giriven Moncton will be the shortest line to all
the conclusion, by the force of circum- Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island,
ýt&nces and by the practical results, that it is and the shortest line to the County of

'08sible for the ports of St. John and
'alfaxto comniete witb the nearer ports of
ortld and Boston, in the United States.
nder these circumstances, the attention of
the Government bas been drawn, as I have
6aid on one or two occasions before in this
nouse, to the best means by which we ought
4esure a realization of that which we al
«j*sire, the Atlantic terminus being in Casia'an territory as well as the Pacific terminus,
Sthlius be placed in a position to fairly come for the great trans-continental trade and
nee that we all know must flow over that
aAthough that may involve the neces-

8ity 01 a5jfg for a certain portion of that
lae through a foreign country, we believe
tant even that is a com paratively insignifiPoint compared with the great imporce Of havin the ocean ports. both on the
Zf&c and Atlantic coasts within the borders
o.or oWn country, and using the trade and

einess of that great railway to build up
t Ports and points of communication for
rafic of the eastern and western world,
purp e of practically extending the
__
CA4d4 Pacifie Railwav, irom Montrea 1,its
nbit
terminus, to St. Andrew's, St. John,
axand Sydney."

en the Minister went on to say that
eY had been driven to seek for the best
Ir1ean.

ias to mieet the views of the public on
POin and he discussed the question

sulsidy.

Westmoreland in New Brunswick.

Monc-

ton is the common point through which
all the trade going by rail to Nova Scotia
and Prince Edward Island has to pass,
and it is the railway centre of the County
of Westmoreland. I presume that hon.
gentlemen have nearly all taken the trouble to look at the map with a view to
seeing where this short line should run.
Any hon. member who looks at the map
will see that a straight line from Montreal
to Moncton will pass close by Richmond
in the Province of Quebec ; thence it will
pass through the eastern portion of that
province, and through the northern portion of the State of Maine ; and then
close north of Fredericton-the capital of
New Brunswick-and thence north of
Grand Lake, to Moncton. Montreal,
the point of departure for this road
indicated in the statute, is in latitude 45X degrees, and Fredericton and
Moncton are both about 46 degrees ; so
that hon. gentlemen will see that, if nothing
stands in the way, there is no reason why
the line should be deflected either north
or south. It runs almost directly fron
west to east. 0f course the closest ap-

33 A

The Short [SENATE]

Line Railway.

proximation that we can get to this line ation I have received leads me to believe
will be clearly the shortest line from. that the difficulties in the way of a route
Montreal to Moncton, and will be the by the Rivière Ouelle are very considershortest line from Montreal to all points able, and that the other line by Rivière du
in Prince Edward Island and Nova Scotia; Loup, although a little longer is really a
and if such a line be good and practicable, better and more practicable line than the
and if it is as short and good a line to St. one by Rivière Ouelle. I shall speak Of
John as any other, that is the route which this line as the Quebec and Edmunstol
should be selected. It fulfils the terms line. The next line is one going by
of the statute, and therefore is the line Quebec, and from Quebec across the
which should be adopted. From looking State of Maine to a point on the
at the map I came to the conclusion St. John River, which point has been
some months ago, that this line-running differently located at different timesnearly due east from Montreal-was it has never been put further north
that which ought to be selected, as being than Hartland, nor further south than
certainly the shortest line ; provided there Fredericton. As far as I can learn
was no serious obstacle in the way of from what I have heard of the reports of
its construction ; and I thought, if on engineers and others who have been over
inquiry-I presumed that a proper inquiry the line, the best route for this line frorn
would be made-it was found there was Quebec to Hartland, or to a point betweel
no serious obstacle to the construction of Hartland and Fredericton, would be by
the road by this line, that it was the one the valley of the Etchemin River, which
which should be selected by the Govern- runs from the neighborhood of Point Levis
ment. In the latter part of February I almost to the border of the State of Maine.
saw-as I presume most hon. gentlemen I shall speak of this as the Quebec and
here saw-a letter in the Montreal Star, Etchemin line. Then another route, and
written by a Mr. Graham, of Richmond, probably the most formidable competitOf
in the Province of Quebec. It would the shortest line has, is a line by way Of
appear fron this letter that that gentleman Lennoxville, Megantic, Moosehead Lake
had given a good deal of attention to the and Mattawamkeag, which I shall call the
subject of the short line; and he made a International Line. There is a modificavery strong argument in favor of the route tion of this line which, following an identito which I have been referring, and stated cal course to a point between Megantia
very broadly that there was no serious ob- and Moosehead Lakes. would then run tostacle in the way of the construction of this the northern end of Chesuncook Lake in
Une ; but that on the contrary a very favor- Maine, and thence to Fredericton and
able route for the railway could be found, Moncton by a line common to it and that
adhering closely to the air Une from which I advocate. This line I shall cali
Montreal to Moncton. This letter led the Compromise Line. Owing to its
me to inquire further into the matter ; and location, and as a matter of convenience,
I have used the best means that have I shall designate the route which I advo»
come in my way of ascertaining the facts cate as the Central.
in connection with the different routes;
There are a number of elements that
and the inquiry has satisfied me, and I enter into the consideration of the route
have some hope that I shall be able to of the proposed railway. The first Ol
satisfy the House that this line by Rich- which is mentioned by the statute is thý
mond or some point in the neighborhood element of length. I shall deal with that
would be, in the words of the statute, first. It must strike every one that the
the shortest and best practicable from. Central Line, being as I have indicated
Montreal to St. John and Halifax. The the nearest to a straight line, would be
other lines on behalf of which claims have the shortest. The Quebec and Ednun'
been put forward may be reduced to four. ston Line represents two sides of a trianThe first one, in favor of which we have gle, one side being very much curved, of
had some petitions recently presented to which the Central Line forms the base:
this House, is a line by Quebec and and the Quebec and Etchemin River
Rivière du Loup or Rivière Ouelle and Ed. Line also makes two sides of a trian iw
munston, N. B. I may say that the inform- one running up to Quebec and the 0 ee
HON. MR. POWER.

The Short [MARCI. 17, 1885] Line Railway.
running down to Hartland or Fredericton,
'Of which the Central Line is the third
side. In the case of the Quebec and
Etchemin road the second side of the
triangle is much shorter than in the case
of the Quebec and Edmunston Line.
The International represents the arc of a
very irregular curve, of which the Central
forrns the chord.
Prima facie, the
Central route is the shortest. Let us
take the measurements and see whether
they verify our first impressions.
Of
eourse the figures which I submit are not
accurate to the fraction of a mile, but
they are fairly accurate. I am certain
that there are none of them very much
out Of the way. I may remark before
,king up the lengths of the different
unes, that the air line from Montreal to
oncton would be 425 miles, very nearly;
"nd I rmay add that the distance from
Montreal to Moncton by the Grand Trunk
afnd Intercolonial Railway is 670 miles,
the distance to St. John 760 miles, and
that in every case the distance to Halifax
eart be got by adding 187 to the figures
given for Moncton. The distance from
Montreal to Halifax is 857 miles. I'shall
&Elve
tables of the distances from Montreal

336
MILES.

Montreal to Quebec.... ........... 172
Quebec to Canterbury,by Chesuncook
Lake(about) .......... ...... 221-39U
27-426
Canterbury to Harvey..........
66-486
Harvey to St. John......
......
BY INTERNATIONAL.
Montreal to Chambly Basin, by Lachine (about) .
...........
30
Chambly Basin to Marieville, by
7- 37
South Eastern ...... ..........

Marieville to Sherbrooke, by S. E.
Extension ...... ............ .. 69-106
3-109
Sherbrooke to Lennoxville .........

Lennoxville to Maine Border, by International .... .... ..... .. 81-190
Maine Border to Mattawamkeag.... 120-310
Mattawamkeag to Harvey ......... 84-394
25-419
Harvey to Fredericton (,bout).....
95-514
Fredericton to Moncton....... ......
Or, if the road from Harvev to Fredericton
and thence to Moncton is not built
Montreal to Harvey ...... .......... 394
Harvey to St. John, by N. B,....... 66-460
89-549
St. John to Monct>n ..............
460
...
Montreal to St. John...........
BY COMPROMISE ROUTE.

Montreal to Maine Border.......... 190
Border to N. End Chesuncook Lake
tO the lower provinces. By the Quebec and
60-25e
(about) .... ...... ............
Chésuncook Lake to Canterbury.... 111-361
lYlunston Line they are as follows:
Canterbury to Fredericton......... 40-401
l8ýTANCES FROM MONTREAL BY Fredericton to Moncton........ 95-496
Montreal to Canterbury ............ 361
QEBEC AND EDMUNSTON LINE.
Canterbury to St. John.... ..... .. 93-454
MILES.
Hon. gentleman will observe that that
&trCat to Quebec by G. T. R. or
. 8hore R ...............
172
route is shorter to St. John than those
4uebee to Rivière du Louby I.C.R. 116-288
which I have previously mentioned. The

ère du Loup to 'dmunston
whose
75-363 distances by the Central route, to
ld (about)...... ................
e net1hton to Fredericton by N. B.. 164-527 advantages I am callirg the attention of
endericton to Moncton by Urand
the House would be as follows :Lake

...
................
95-622
Br cENTRAL.
to Moncton ...... .......
622
eal to Fredericton (as above).. 527
Montreai,to·Richmond by G. T. R..
to St.
l (erion John....... ...... 68-595 Richmond to Maine Border.........
Maine Border to Chesuncook Lake..
Or
Chesunook Lake to Canterbury....
363
Canterbury to Fredericton..... ....
d4*lt) Edmaunston..........
ltluns8toin to
Baterbury to Canterbury .......... 141-504 Fredericton to Moncton ............
Harvey (by «cut ofi')... 27-531 Mon treal to Moncton............
vey to si. John................
66-597
MONTREAL To ST. JORN.
By QUEBEC AND ETcHEMIN RIVER.
Montreal to Canterbury. as above...
Canterbury to St. John ............
.......... 172
ue, to Quebec...
Pred e to Fredericton (about)...... 240-412
ert'On to Moncton ............ 95-07
FROM QUEBEc.
9 <S1to Fredericton ..........
To Chesuncook Lake, by Etchemin...
412
ricton to St. John'.......... 6480 Che8uncook Lake to Canterbury...
e

Miles.
76
95-171
50-221
111-332
40-372
95-467
46r
332
93-425
118
111-22*

The Short

336

[SENATE]
MILES.

Line Railway.

without sharp curves, the journey for
Montreal Or

40-269 passengers from Halifax to
95-364 vice versa would be reduced
40 hours to 24 ; the journey
Quebec to Canterbury, as above..... 229
-Canterbury to St. Jon ...... ...... 93-3221 John and Montreal would

Canterbury to Fredericton..........
Fredericton to Moncton ...... ......
To St. John.

SUMMARY OF DISTANCES.

Montreal to.....Moncton, Halifax, St. John,
By G.T.R. or N.S R.
and I.C.R..... 670
857
759
" Quebec and Edmunston .
622
" Quebec and Etchemin ...... 507
International .. 514
549
Compromise
Route.... .. 496

809

595

694

480

701

460

683

454

... 467

654

425

Central....

736

Quebec to........Moncton, Halifax, St. John,
587
685
By G.T.R. & I.C.R. 498
" Quebec and Ed423
637
munston.. . 450
leQuebec and Et-.
308
522
chemin ...... 335
" Central & Conpromise....... 364
551
322
I shall give the House in round num-

bers, the savings in distance which would
be effected by taking the Central. I shali
put Moncton and Halifax together ; because the saving would be the same in
each case, and shall put St. John after :
SAVINGS IN DISTANCE IN.ROUND
FIG URES.
3Y CENTRAL FROM MONTREAL

To Moncton
and
Halifax St.John

Less than by G.T.R. and I.C.R. .. 200
"
"
Quebec & Edn'ston. 155
dé
4
id & Etchemnin. 40
International.... .. 47
"d Compromise(all west
"
ofChesuncook Lake) 30

330 National Policy members of the House.
170 The general effect of a reduction in the
56 length of the railway, and the advantages
30 of it are so clear
that I need not say anY
30 more about it.

FROm QU"EBO.

Less than by G.T.R. à I.C.R..
130
"i
"c Quebec & Edm'ston. 100

Excess over Quebec & Etehemin
(about).... ...... 30
I have reason to believe that the excess
over the shortest practicable road from the
Etchemin river to the St. John river would
be almost nothing. W have to consider
what the effect of these reductions would
be. I shall not detain the House at any
length upon that point, but briefly state the
effect as regards passengers and freight.
If the road can be built by this
Central route with easy grades and
HoN. MR. POWER.

from 36 or

between St.
be reduced
from 35 hours or thereabouts to about 15
Hon. gentlemen can see that that would
be calculated very much to promotc
intercourse between the Upper and Lower
Provinces. Then as to the effect of the
reductions on freight ; there would be the
advantage of getting light freight, things
required in a hurry, much more speedilY
than we can now, partly owing to the
shortness of the line and partly owing to
the competition, and there would be the
reduction in cost. I have not, unfortunately, had the opportunity of making
inquiries as to other kinds of freight ; but
I understand that it costs about half a cent
a mile per ton, to carry coal. If that
calculation is accurate, it will be seen that
to carry a ton of coal from Moncton
to Montreal would cost $1 less than it
does at present, and the House must sec
that that would place the minets of the
Lower Provinces in a much better positiOn
to compete with their United States rivals
than they are at present. If you could
take $1 a ton, or even 50 cents a ton, of
the price of lower province coal in
Montreal and the neighborhood, it would
naturally tend to increase the consumptiOn
of that coal to a very considerable extentI commend that argument to my friends
from the lower provinces and to all the

HON. MR. KAULBACH-What would
the distance be across the State of Maint,
by the Chesuncook lake line ?
HON. MR. POWER-About

16o mile

In addition to the length of the road,
we should always consider the summan

level to be overcome by the railway; that
is, the greatest height that it has to surmount; and also the gradients of tee
road and the number of sharp curves; and
hon. gentlemen will notice that in rfn
resolution I have asked for a statement to
show what the gradients and curves of

The Short [MARCHR 17, 1885] Line Railway.
these several proposed lines are. The
"alue of any road which is intended either
to transport mails and passengers and
light freight speedily, or to carry heavy
loads will depend very much. on the sumrait, gradients and curves-almost as much
SUpon the length. There is not much
definite information upon that point; but
1 find that Mr. O'Sullivan, a Quebec engineer, who has been interested in this
Matter, in a circular which no doubt all
flenbers of the House have received, says
that the summit on the Quebec and Edtnfston line is not less than 1,500 feet

above tide.

On the International line he

ÎYs it is about

2,ooo

feet.

I

find

a letter written from the works
0f the International railway about the
sumnit-written by a friend of the comPany the height stated as : i,8oo feet;
8 I have put it down as not less than
'8 feet. The highest sunimit to be overe0mle on the Quebec and Etchemin river
road line would be 1,200 feet, on the Cen'ne not over 1,200 feet-I doubt if so
u1ch. So that there will be a difference
'lfavor of this central road over the
el ebec and Edmunston of 300 feet less
r vation, and against the International
ralWay of 6oo feet.
Mr
en r. O'Sulhvan says, "lIt is'given by
t 41eering authorities that, on freight
raqn tovement, every 20 feet elevation is
eCual to an extra mile of level line, that
eh degree of curvature is equal to o.o5
r

100 feet of elevation, and that the
forcstance of curves is equal to i per cent.

each degree of curve occupied by train."
th 0 that we have to add to the length of
fo.Quebec and Edmunston line 15 miles
fatt excess of elevation, and to the Intertiolonal 30 miles, and when these addia a are made it will give the Central line
he greater advantage over these two.
to Central will then be 170 miles shorter
tha Oncton than the Edmunston, and 75
Stn the International, and 185 shorter to
a ohn than the former and 6o than the
Tr. maximum gradient for each
he
he,Quec as ascertained, would be, on
te as far
t ebec and Edmunston line, 52 to 8o
te gOn the International railway 8o to
ro eet, and on the Central and Etcheto 6o feet. To quote from Mr.
van again: "The importance of
th
a rern gures will be appreciated when it
1 ernmbered that the heaviest class of

w

337

freight engine now in use will haul 35
loaded cars up a grade of 52 feet per mile,
whereas it could only haul 20 loaded
cars up a grade of 8o feet per mile.
So that supposing the freight on a car
load of goods from Montreal to Halifax to
be worth $40, the comparative earnings of
a train, with the same expense for engine
and train hands, wages and fuel would be:
Via Lachine and Sherbrooke, 20 cars at
$40, $8oo ; via Quebec and Hartland, 35
cars at $40, $1,400."

As far as I can

gather, the curves would be much less on
the Central road than on the Edmunston
or the International. So hon. gentlemen
can see that, at first sight, it would seem
that in the matters of distances, of summit
elevation, of gradients and of curves, this
Central line is the best, and offers the
greatest advantages.
If the House will permit me, I shall
consider the advantages and drawbacks
of those different lines somewhat more
in detail. First there is the Quebec
and Edmunston line. The claims made
for this line are pushed with that energy and vigor with which the claims
put forward by the friends of Quebec
It is claimed
are always pressed.
that it would be all on Canadian soil.
That is one thing that is claimed for it,
and the other advantage claimed is that
there would be but little new road to be
built. I venture to think that there is not
a great deal of weight in the first argu.
ment, that this road would be all on
Canadian soil. It is a matter of some
consequence whether the tennini of the
road are on our soil or not ; but if
the west end and the east end of the line
are both on Canadian soil it makes very
little difference in time of peace whether
all of the intermediate road is on Canadian
territory or not, provided the line is not to
be tapped by railways in the foreign
countrv. Now for military purposes and
war time we have the Intercolonial Railway ; and that road, owing to the substantial way in which it has been built, and to
its comparatively low grades, and to the
workmanlike way in which it has been
lo:ated, is shorter for all practical purposes
to Moncton and to all points below than
this proposed Quebec and Edmunston
line would be. I think, hon. gentlemen,
that one Intercolonial Railway is enough.
The argument of the late Minister of Rail-

338

Thfe Short

[SENATE]

Line Railway.

Then a very important consideratiOP
ways, which I have read, is to that effect,
and I presume in that respect at any rate is that the length of this Quebec an&
I shall have the feeling of the Govern- Edmunston road, and the steep grade
ment with me.
Most people think that and sharp curves which exist on the
we made a great mistake in building the present New.Brunswick une, would prevet
Intercolonial Railway by the long route trafic from adopting that route, and woUkl
which we adopted.
After so many years tend to keep freight going as it dues noW
experience of the mistake, we surely can- to United States ports. I do not think We
not propose to repeat the blunder by can ever prevent the great bulk of the
building another and inferior Intercolonial freight going that way. A littie does g0
Railway. As to the second argument, to our Atlantic ports nuw- and if we
that littie new road need be built, I do fot improve the facilities and shortn tbe
thiak there is very much in that either. distance to our own ports, we shal get e
It would apparently involve the construc- larger proportion of the freight; but if we
tion of onlY 75 miles, from
df tRivirre this Edmunston route we Shl9'
adopt
Loup to Edmunston, and 95 miles fronsimply leave ourselves where we are now
Fredericton across tu Moncton ; but in 1There is nu reason to suppose that a tOe
reality it would involve a great deal more, more of freight would pass over this roadte
Any hon. gentleman who is faîniliar with our ports thangoesnow hythe Intercolofe
the character of the railway fromn Freder- Railway. That is one great disadvantage Of
icton Up to Edmunston knows that that it-- that in fact it is not a short une at allh
road could not be used as a through freight that iscthe sd and substance of the obje
The New Brunswick tion. It woiild be of some littie advantage
or passenger line.
Railway, or at any rate the principal part of t a portion of the Province
New Bruf e
;f
it, was originally built as a narrow gaue wick : but it Eould u
practically f
railway-a three feet six road. It was advantage at al] to the Provinces of No'va
buil as those roads usually are, with very Scotia and Prince Edward Island. SuCh t
sharp curves and very steep grades.
least is
oI
i view about t e matter.
of
notice, looking at the tise tables, that thu course it is only the vew of an individUal
express trains on that iu
dof ot rakee who is
Thot
supposed to know uch abot
t1'hat
road, railways but hon. gentlemen will have
more than 15 miles an or.
to be used for a through freiglit and pas- osered that this Quebec and daounste
s
t
senger line, would have to be located over line lias been ephatically condevned bY
again, and aery largely re-built and th chanibers ofhoirimerce of Halfax al
improved. The work tb e don would St. John.
uil
elegats from Quebec wfnt
be equivalent to not less thawi
down
a00 to get th l to endorse this Queo
miles of new road ; sua le shold have, and Ed iunston routEw and in both cities
In Halifax theY
if we adopted this line, to construct it was condemined.
about 270 miles of new road or its
wish d t be kind to the strangerS,
valent. The objections to this Qbecad thly said they hoped the would geta
Edmunston
inthne,
addition to its lesth bridge over the St.
wawrence
at Quebec
-o
the fact that it is nt
in any sers a r sincr y
e so too ; but
(10 ha
thort line- are serious. It would open think it is wise to mix up the two thinq
think it is dsirable that th
e
oatever. ovle together.
Up almost no new countrv t
ifoup and
only new country that it wold devlop link between Rivière dio
would be a portion of the County of Edn)unston D g he uilt
should
Qe a c e
Temiscouata, in the Province of Quebec. road ; a d niay add that in that sale
i understand that ther are sonse peuple statute fronm which
I qulotid jst t
in Kanouraska, 'Islet and other counties there is a suad
sidy for this local road fro
oa
on
stis inde
of
abuletoa
ount of Emunson sould
ofthe
aporton
wouldbe idniscouata who are Rivière or Loup or e Rivire Ouelle to
anxious that this route slîould 1)e selected; Edmnunston, Of $3,2o0 a mjile ;Irathe
but the fact that more freight trains passedahi snero
hoerso tov a but fro nte
two, the
over the line through those couties would think te ruswickseris ute
re that th5
it
tik
the slightestoet B
lot serve the inhabitants in
which I quotedfjst not
degree, and the desire of those people for they will
the selection of this lie is based on a this road, and whatever advanta ote
misapprehension.
be derived from it will be secured.
HON, MIR. POWER

Th~e hrtt [MARCH 17, 1885] Line Rai/way.
As to the second route which I spoke
of the Quebec & Etchemin river line,
,here is this to be said in its favor, that it
Lathe shortest practicable route from
Quebec to Halifax and St. John: the
difference in length between it and the
Central is almost inappreciable, but it has
rather the advantage. Of course this
"Oad being much shorter from Montreal
than the Quebec and Edmunston line,
WOUld fnot tend as much as that would to
throw freight into United States ports. It
tnight help a little to bring freight over
Dur railways and to our harbors. It would
nt have the same tendency that the Ednfston and the International would, to
throw business into the American ports,
t
he formennihelte
e frer indirectly and the latter directly.
eh.Principal objection to this route is
t It is considerably longer to Prince
"dWard Island and Nova Scotia, and to
d John too, than the Central. It is two
froes Of a triangle again. You run up
R ontreal to Quebec, and then down
Znac Quebec to Fredericton, or some
dirce lear there, instead of going across
etly from Montreal to Fredericton.' I
dSay here that some hon. gentlemen
ta dscussing this question, are apt to
e out of sight the fact that the statute,
which these surveys have been made
arovthis road is proposed to be built,
Ip0vides for the shortest line from Monto
quebe the lower provinces-not from
ec, not from Callendar, but from
th treal--and although I hope that in
future the expectations of our friends
bebec city and that neighborhood
uay
orre e realized, and that a new line of
Zaîî 4o miles or so from Mackay or
sarndar direct to Quebec will be con%ued,and that a bridge will be built at
*ealth ; still at the present day the
tat o this country, and the business
stifyaPsses from west to east does not
al e, that work, and for the present at
cial hents, Montreal must be the commerepeadquarters of Canada. What the
o *e 0f the lower provinces want just
Miotrthe best possible connection with
i theshortest and best. That
ere e iterests both of the people up
l and of the people down by the sea.
la ha at in ten years or so the centre
'he e oved east towards Quebec.
1

339

that it is shorter than the lines by way of
Quebec; and I notice that, in discussing
this matter, writers in the newspapers, and
speakers on platforms, and speakers in parliament,almostalwaysspeakasthough there
were only two lines-the International
and the Edmunston lines. They take the
two extremes-the one furthest south, and
the one furthest north, and talk as though
those were the only two which we are to
consider, when the fact is, it is plain to
any one who looks at the map, that prima
facie at any rate, the line in the middle is
the best. The advocates of the International line claim for it that it is shorter
than the lines by Quebec. It is shorter
than the Quebec and Edmunston line;
and to St. John it is about 20 miles shorter
than the road by Quebec and the Etchemin
River, but it is about seven miles longer
to Moncton than that line would be; and
as I have said it is some 47 miles longer
than the Central route to Moncton: while
if we allowed for the excess of elevation it would be about 75 miles longer
to that point, and 6o miles longer to
St. John than the Central. I see it is
claimed in the Montreal leraldthat there
is very little of this line to be built; that
while other people are sleeping the International people are working. It is not
true that there is very little to be built. In
the first place a road has to be built from
Quebec Gate Barracks, Montreal to La
chine; and a bridge has to be built across
the river at Lachine. I presume that
bridge will be built altogether independent
of the short line ; but at all events this
road and bridge are yet to be built. That
is some 15 miles ; and then there are to
be built about 15 miles from Lachine to
Chambly basin; and from Marieville to
Sherbrooke the new direct road which
they propose to build would be about 69
miles ; and there remain to be built in the
State of Maine about ioo miles from the
west side of Moosehead Lake to Mattawamkeag. If they went to Fredericton, as
they propose to do, there would be 25
miles or thereabouts from Harvey to Fredericton, and 95 miles to Moncton, making

altogether 319 miles. So far for the advantages of this line. The objections to
this route are very serious. In the first
place, it is 47 miles longer to Moncton and
adext route is the International. 30 longer to St. John than the Central; and
avntages claimed for that are, first, hon. gentlemen will sec that every mile

34A0

Pie Short [SENATE]

that is added-if the additional length is
not compensated for by advantages in the
way of gradients or curves-is very much
against the road, and against its prospects,
and every mile that you add to the length
diminishes the advantage to places along
the line, and at both ends. Then the new
road from Marieville to Sherbrooke,
would be giving a new railway to a
district where there are already enough
railways. There are now two railways from
Montreal to Sherbrooke, and there are a
number of railways running down through
that part of the country, so that this new
-route would open up no new country in
Canada at all. Another objection to it is
that, for the reasons which have been
partly given already-owing to its heavy
grades and its short curves-it is altogether unfit for fast trains or through
freight. To give hon. gentlemen some
idea of the character of this road I might
inention this fact, that from Lennoxville
to the boundary of Maine, the distance by
an air line is 6o miles, and the distance
by this Megantic road is within a fraction
of 82 miles. Now it is clear that that
must be a very crooked road indeed; and
it has to get up in that distance a good
nany hundred feet also, so that it is perfectly absurd to talk of carrying heavy
freight over a line of that kind. Upon
this point I may be allowed to quote again
from Mr. O'Sullivan's paper :" It is evident that Line No. 3 (the International) traverses the highest summit between
Montreal and the Atlantic seaboard, for as
ehown on the plan, the rivers Chaudiere, St.
John, Penobscot, Kennebec, Andrascoggin
and St. Francis, all take their rise in the
region traversed by the International Railway
and drain it in every direction.
The plan and profile of said railway shows
at a glance that the great number of sharp
curves and steep grades, render it impracticable for the through freight traffic of the great
North-West."

A third serious objection to this road,
arising out of its character, is that before
getting to the border of Maine, while still
i Canada, it would throw freight going
from the interior to the seaboard, over to
American Unes. From Sherbrooke there
are two lines running down into the
United
States-the Passumpsic, and

Line Railway.

steep grades of that road. Then, supPOS'
ing that a considerable proportion of the'
treight going to the seaboard did go O"
across the border of Maine by this road;
the effect of adopting this route would be
still to send that freight to the ports of the
State of Maine. Since the beginning Of
this session the gentlemen who are prorio
ting the International Railway got an
amendment to their charter from the
Maine Legislature. This amendment Ws
to allow them to bridge Moosehead Lake
instead of going around it. The charter
was granted to this company only upo>
condition that they should built a brancb
from their present terminus west of Moose'
head Lake to connect with the Bangor
and Piscataquis Railway at Greenville, St
the southern end of that lake. The people
of Maine were wise in their generatiOn-

One can see what the effect of that Can'
nection would be. Before the road e05
finished so as to make the best connectioP
with New Brunswick ports, this connectioP
would be made with American ports'
Bangor, which is an important port IP
Maine, would be over ioo miles nearer to
the International at Moosehead Lake,
than the city of St. John would be.
HON. MR. DEVER-Bangor is not
O
seaport.
HON. MR. POWER-It is a seaport i"
this way that large sea-going vessels go
there and load. I was just going to sar''
HON. MR. DEV ER-It is frozen over

in winter.
HON. MR. POWER-Bangor is a large

lumber port. I was not going tO I
myself to Bangor; a very little distanc
down the river from the city of Bangor '0
Bucksport, and a little further down
Mt. Desert and Belfast, which are
good harbors.

In order to show that the

people of Maine are quite awake tO the
importance of this International road to
their state, I may mention that I see froi
late papers that the Maine Central "a«
way Company are trying to negotiate the
the Nova Scotia Government for
purpose of acquiring a railway in14$

another, and naturally freight would go Scotia which they propose to connect tl
over those roads, which are much superior steamers with Mt. Desert, and thet'e
to the International, in order to avoid the with Montreal by way of the Internatiîow
HON. MR. POWER.

The Short [MARCH 17, 1885] Line Railway.
ailway. I may add, that Portland would
be as near to the International at Moosehead Lake as St. John, and by a better
road, and that Wiscasset harbor would be
Oearer. Hon. gentlemen will see then,
that after freight got into the State of
Maine it would have the choice of Port'nd, Belfast, Bucksport, Bangor and these
etiier in Maine, all, with the excepports
Of Portland, nearer than St. John to
1oosehead Lake. These Maine harbors
are as a rule just as easily accessible at all
seasons of the year as St. John. Arny
stea mship owner would just as soon, or a
Pote sooner, send a steamer from LiverPool to Portland than he would from LivePool to St. John. It is clear that the
eight from the interior to the seaboard,
hich got over into the State of Maine by
hs road-which had not been turned off
re reaching the border-would in a
fXeat i
Stat measure be deflected to ports in the
thie of Maine ; and I must say that I
the people of St. John manifest a
je deal of shortsightedness in their
Jealousy of Halifax, and that their dread
O alifax influence, and their jealousy of
"astfax hinder them from secing things
Shey really are. If they could perceive
1 Wthings are, they would see that if this
fa ternational route, which I understand is
!asred by the Board of Trade of St. John,
adopted they would be much more
nred by the competition of those
be bican ports than they could possible
p Ythe competition of Halifax if the
ientrai route were adopted.
thing
Perfectly plain on the face of The If the
it.
beral route was adopted, St. John would
Ra3 oMiles nearer Montreal than would
Irt 1ax ) while, as already shown, if the
rnrational is adopted St. John will be
ha than oo miles further off than

341»

adoption of that line which I commend to
the gentlemen of the City and District of
Quebec. It would afford no connection
whatever with that city and would give
no practical benefit to the Province of
Quebec at all. It does not go near the
City of Quebec, and could not in any way
shorten the distance from Quebec to our
Maritime ports: and if by and bye the.
hope of the people of Quebec is realised
and the line is built from Mackey or
Callendar, and the bridge is built at
Quebec, this International road could:
have no share in the business. I think,
considering the character and the probable
future of this road, that the International
has already received a sufficient subsidy
from the Government of Canada. It has
received some $150,000 ; and I may mention that that subsidy was included in the
same statute as the one for the short line.
One cannot but feel, looking at the
history of this question, that it would be a
gross outrage on the people of the Lower
Provinces to use the subsidy which was
intended to bring the harbors of St. JohWV
and Halifax nearer to the business centre
of the upper provinces, and to give them
a larger proportion of the business that

comes over the Canadian Pacific Railway
-to use the subsidy intended to build a
road for that purpose-to assist in building
a road the effect of which would be to
carry more business to the United States
ports. This subsidy is being granted on
account of the agitation in the lower
provinces against allowing the business to
go to Portland and Boston. And here are
the Americans coming under this Inter.
national disguise and asking to get this
subsidy t3 build a railway which would
practically have the same effect as the
South Eastern or the Grand Trunk Raili Or and only 240 miles nearer than way, which would take the business down
ax. If the Central route were selected, to American ports. The very name of the
but
light freight might go to Halifax; road indicates its object-the International
freiglf the International were selected -a road intended to do business betweenx
theght of all kinds would be sure to go to Canada and the United States.
,,i.orts of Maine. This is not a view
HON. MR. DEVER-Are not ail the
thilh 1 am singular in holding; because
4aae thing was pointed out very clearly railways international ? Do they not all
inrmed and practical corres- go through Maine?
Ponde
er ~writing to the St. John Telegraph HON. MR. POWER-They don't end
Of 18g signature of " B " in the summer in Maine.
ag 83 The International line would
lthat in1 usefui connection with Quebec.
HON. MR. DEVER-Neither does the
s a very serious objection to the International.

3A2

The' Sort

[SE NATE]

HON. MR. POWER-They do not connect with harbors in Maine. I feel that
this International route would have no
chance of being adopted were it not for
the fact that a gentleman very prominent
in politics, and a member of the Government, is supposed to be very deeply interested in that road. If it were not for that,
no one would seriously propose to
adopt that route for the short line. I
hope that the Government will be equal
to the occasion-that they will refuse to
adopt this road until much stronger
grounds appear for doing so than have
yet been given.
As to the Central route, one objection
often made to it is that it would
involve the building of more new road
than either of the others.
It would
involve the construction between Montreal
and St. John of 283 miles of road as
against about 200 by the Quebec and
Edmunston line, about 25o by the Quebec
and Etchemin line, and about 225 by the
International. To Moncton the length
of the new road to be built would be 349
miles as against about 270 hy the Quebec
and Edmunston road, 330 by the Quebec
and Etchemin line and 32o by the International. On the other hand, it wopld be
a line easier of construction and costing
less per mile than any of the others. So
that the cost of construction would not
be appreciably greater than by the two
former lines, and would be probably less
than by the International. Another argument against it is that it passes through
United States Territory. In this respect
it resembles all the proposed lines except
the line by Edmunston. The effect of
its passing through the State of Maine
would be to bring the business of northern
Maine into Canada. The people of that
region would have no connection with
United States ports, and their business
would corne, as part of it comes now, to
Quebec and part down to St. John. The
advantages which I claim for the Central
route, and which are claimed by gentlemen
advocating it, are, first that it would give
the shortest and best practicable route
from Montreal to St John, Fredericton
and Moncton, and would also give the
ghortest and best practicable route from
Quebec to the same points, with the possible exception of the Quebec and Etchemin
route. I have said that this would be

Line Rilway.

the shortest and best practicable road. I
have given the figures. As to the character of the road I have not official inforiation, but I have quasi-official informationi
got from gentlemen who have heard frol
those who made the survey; and I am informed that Mr. Vernon Smith's report
of the survey from Canterbury to the
north end of Chesuncook Lake will show
that a line has been found between these
points easy to build, with light grades and
few curves. I am further informed that a
very good and cheap line can be got frOrn
Richmond to the Abenakis pass or another pass at the Maine border ; and
there is no reason to expect that any
difficulty will be found between the border
and Chesuncook Lake. I am also reliablY
informed that an easy connection can be
made at that lake with the line from Qu'
bec up the valley of the Etchemin River
surveyed by Mr. Light.
Besides giving the shortest and best
line to St. John and Moncton, the Central
route would give needed railway facilities
to the counties of Richmond, Megantic,
Beauce and Dorchester in Quebec, and
York, Sunbury, Kings, Queens and Albert
in New Brunswick; would give them the
shortest possible road to Montreal and
Ontario, and aid largely in the develoP'
ment of those valuable portions of the
Dominion.
By the construction of only twelVe
miles from L'Avenir, and thirty fr01o
Arthabaska it would put Sorel and Thre
Rivers in connection by the shortest rOute
with our seaboard and all intermediate
points, while by the building of someo
thirty miles from the present terminus O
the Levis and Kennebec railway near St.
Francois it would give Quebec a like connection, somewhat inferior it is true tO
that which would be afforded by the
Etchemin Vallev. I may add that there
is now a subsidy of $3,200 per mile for
the construction of this line fromfl the
present terminus of the Levis alnô
Kennebec to the boundary. It WOeu
make northern Maine, a fine lumberi8
and agricultural country, tributarY to
Quebec and St. John, and would cause
the lumber and farm produce of, and the
supplies for that country, to go and came
to and from Canadian ports, instead
naking use of Canadian business tO bulô
up United States ports, as would be dolli

The Short [MARCH 17, 1885] Lin e
by the International. The writer in the
St. John Telegrah, to whom I have
already referred, says, "What the interests
of St. John port require is the shortest
POssible trunk line and feeders that will
cOrnand the largest amount of trade."
That is true not only of St. John, but also
Of .Halifax and other ports, and in my
Opmfion the Central route will give these
desirable advantages. i may add another
argument, which I think should have a
SoOd deal of weight with the House; that
18 that Sir Charles Tupper, in the speech
*hich he made at Halifax last spring, just
before leaving for England, recommended
the Central line to the favorable consideratOn of his hearers, and said he thought
that the people of St. John were standing
l their own light in advocating a line by
Mattawamkeag. This Central line would
ircrease the through traffic between the
1
Pper and lower provinces, and give to the
1'Wer province ports a larger proportion
!han they now get of the freight from the
Interior to the seaboard, and would build
%'Pinter-provincial trade; and it would
'8 develop a good local business. It
uld open up a valuable country in Que, in Maine, and in New Brunswick;
e' it is the only route of all those that
-rve been spoken of which I think would
recoramend itself to a practical business
an who wanted to build such a road as a
slmess enterprise, and not for political or
8eltimental reasons. We have had too
Of
0ythese unbusinesslike undertakings;
bus. I hope that this time we shall have a
'flesslike one. I feel certain, if this
rort ine, so called, is built by any other
e than the Central, that after some
s we shall have to build the
t , the Central one. If Ishortest
have
'aveconyimced
hon. gentlemen who
e listened to me that the line
hih 1 advocate is the best, I think I
dave at least shown that
'dean to be said for it. there is a great
I am satisfied
reyelf that it is the best, and I think
any
roadieman no matter how opposed to this
e may be, must admit that there are
0
hg
1 d# arguments in its favor. It seems,
these circumstances, a wonderful
ovg that, when, early last summer, the
t

mverlient
were sending out engineers

t'ake surveys for the shortest and best
et1cable route from Montreal to St.
' and Halifax, while they sent out

ailway.

843

eight engineers to survey different routes,
no engineer was sent to survey this one.
It is something that I cannot understand.
Mr. Smith made a survey of the eastern
end of the route from Canterbury to
Chesuncook Lake, and found a good line;
but no survey has been made in anything
like a direct line from Chesuncook Lake
to Montreal. An engineer did make a
survey to meet Mr. Snith's, but that
engineer started from the end of the
International road ; and I may say that
from Chesuncook Lake to Montreal by
this Compromise route, which is the one
on which the survey has been made, is
over 25o miles, and by the Central route
it is only 221 miles. So there is a difference of 30 miles in favor of the Central
route as against the International ; and
how it is that no engineer was sent to
make a survey of the short line I cannot
really understand. I hope, hon. gentlemen,
that the Government will see that
engineers are sent out to make a survey of
that route from Chesuncook Lake to
Richmond or Montreal. Hon. gentlemen
may say "Well, you will lose time." What
we want to get is the best line ; and it
would be better to lose a few months than
to make a great blunder, whose effects
would be serious and lasting.
The Compromise route of which I
have spoken is longer than the Central.
It is identical with it from Chesuncook
Lake east.

It is 30 or 40 miles longer

from Montreal to Chesuncook Lake than
the line by the Central route would be,
and the gradients are much steeper, and
the line generally is a much inferior one;
but, if there is any reason that we know
nothing about why the Government feel
that they are bound to choose the International so far as it goes ; why then i
hope that, if they will not take the Central
route, they will take the Compromise line,
and connect the present terminus of the
International with the north end of
Chesuncook Lake. One effect of adopting
the Compromise line would be to accommodate the City of Quebec. It would
give the City of Quebec by the Etchemin
River about the best line it could get to
the lower provinces; and it would also
give a Canadian outlet for the lumber and
farm produce of northern Maine, and a
short line to Moncton; because it would
not pass south of Fredericton. Any ine

34A4A

The S/tort [SENATE]

that goes south of Fredericton cannot be
as short a line to Moncton as one that goes
north. It would also be less liable to be
tapped for the benefit of Maine harbors
than the International.
I am sure I have trespassed on the
patience of the House at too great length ;
but the subject with which I have had to
deal, and which I have not dealt with in a
way that is satisfactory to myself, is a very
important one ; and I hope that, although
it has not been put before the House or
brought to the attention of the Government as forcibly and effectively as it ought
to be, the Government will give the matter
their attention-that they will see that the
people both east and west get fair play;
and that if the Central route is the best
line, that that line shall be adopted, and
that we shall have for once a railway built
honestly and on sound commercial principles.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I must say

that this question is an exceedingly important one probably the most important
one that the Government of the day will
have to decide this year. For the last ten
or fifteen years there has been an engagement on the part of the Government and
Parliament of Canada, that the large sum
of money which the construction of the
Canadian Pacific Railway would involve,
would be expended for establishing a great
international artery which would run from
the Atlantic to the Pacific. That engagement having been entered into, we should
endeavor to carry it out effectually, and
for that reason the line should be constructed as far as possible on our own
territory. We have built a road north of
Lake Superior at a very heavy cost, probably as heavy as the cost of that section
crossing the Rocky Mountain Range. It
is for Parliament to solve the question of
constructing a national highway which will
at the same time be a good commercial
road. Already we have really a national
line, and we might probably dispense with
making a new road from ocean to ocean
exclusively on Canadian soil. It is not an
'absolute necessity; but what we have to,
look at is the promise that has been made,
and we should endeavor to fulfil it at as
small an outlay as possible. The present
eastern terminus of the Canadian Pacifie
Railway is at Montreal, and it is for
HON. MR. POWER.

Line Railway.

Parliament to say by what route it shall
be extended further eastward. On the
north shore of the St. Lawrence 150 miles
of railway is already in existence, and no
public money need be expended upOn
that ; because, although a political crime
was committed in the sale of the North
Shore road by the Quebec Legislature,
yet there is in the contract of sale a clause
which provides that the Canadian Pacific
Railway may run its trains to Quebec by
paying a tariff, which the Government i5
authorized to establish. Owing to the
heavy tariff, the Canadian Pacific RailwaY
have been prevented hitherto from running
their trains to Quebec, but the Goverment have power to establish fair rates
under the contract of sale. I know it is
said that there are difficulties in the way,
and I am not surprised, because whereve
a lawyer puts his hand difficulties are
created; but while difficulties may exist,
there is no reason why they should be
allowed to continue, because Parliament
possesses power to amend the law by stating that the clause under which the difficulty arises is to be understood in a certail
way, and the amendment can be effectuallY
made now when the Legislature of Quebec
and the Parliament of the Dominion are
both in session. There is nothing, therefore, to prevent the Canadian Pacifie Raiway from reaching Quebec by the existing
line. I would hold the Governnent
guilty of wrong-doing if they should do
what rumor says they are asked to dO
namely to give $5,ooo,ooo for a road
which was sold for $4,000,ooo not long
ago. Providing that the Canadian Pacific
Railway use the road, it is no matter
whether it is their property, or the
property of the Dominion Government,
or the property of another company i
they can carry the freight from the we5t
to Quebec. They can, therefore, reach
Quebec without any further expenditure
and the money which would . otherwise be expended in the construction of a
road might be put into a bridge over the
St. Lawrence at Quebec. The brid
would not cost so much as the road.
would cost probably $3,ooo,ooo, whereas
the line could not be built for less than
$4,0o0,000

or $5,ooo,ooo.

We woul

then have a national highway from Ocea
to ocean by the Intercolonial and the
Canadian Pacific Railways. I admit that

The Short [MARCII 17, 1885] Line Railway.

at

would not be a commercial Une except
'n the summer season, when it would
Pssess great advantages over Portland;
but in the winter season Portland would
Probably be the seaport. L am opposed
to that because I believe, after building a
rlational highway at the enormous expend-

Itulre

of $i5o,ooo,ooo, that the terminus

345

Shore to altow the Canadian Pacific Railway to reach Quebec over their une, and
thus save that large arnount which could
be more properly expended on the construction of a bridge over the St. Lawrence at Quebec and the building of the
section to connect Rivière du Loup with
Edmunston. I am sure the Government
wilt give proper attention to the matter,
and that they will see that the best
road in the interests of Canada will be
adopted. I know that there are very conflicting opinions on the subject, but with
so strong a Goverument as we have in
power at the present time, there should be
no difficulty in the way of doing what is
right. I regret that I canno agree with
the hon. member from Halifax, and I ar
sure if he looks into the matter more
closely he will see that Parliament and

Of that line should by all means be not
Ony paper, but in effect, at a Canadian
On
seaPOrt. That may be accomplished by
Constructing a line from Quebec to
Moncton. Now that would afford one of
the shortest practicable roads on Canadian soil -or rather almost all on Canadian Soil, because for a short distance it
Would run through the State of Maine.
The objection is, not to a portion of the
lie being in a foreign country, but to the
yirrYingour freight to a foreign seaof
POrt. By constructing the line which
have suggested, the freight from thethGvrnetaeomiedtth a different line frorn
1 hZe sugesed,reigt fom. he construction of quite
he
sest Would find its way to Quebec in the that which he has advocated.
Summer season, and a portion of it to
Fialifax and St. John, and in the winter
HON. MR. TRUIEL-I do fot intend
leason St. John and Halifax would get to enter into the merits of this question
the Whole of the freight from the west. I now. I merely rise to cail the attention
lot see how any objection can' be of the House to a simple fact. The hon.
tQken to that line. If I understood the member from Halifax has dwelt upon the
of being
bon. member from Halifax aright he said importance in these matters getemconfrcig line from guided by the reports and
ay o
eOuld be in favor of a te Nrthbemen advoaedry ene onopinions of
onfltreal to Halifax, and St. John and St. specialists-men versed in railway contAndrews by way of Sherbrooke. I believe struction-and he holds that their advice
at WOuld be a bad choice, and for this atone shoutd
foltowed. Up to
t on, it would pass so near Portland that present time there has been but one reat City would be the nearest seaport to port before the public-the report of Mr.
Our national highway, and would attract our O'Sultivan, from which my hon. friend
Western traffic. If Parliament wished to quoted. I think it woutd be better to
esbl ish a still shorter line than the one wait untit ail the reports upon the surveys
I have just indicated, the shortest for a short une are laid before the public.
old lines from the west to the seaboard Mr. O'Sullivan speaks of three different
""cd be secured by building a line fromnes: the one by Edmunston, which he
eon ute to Quebec. That line could be catis No. i, the one by Moncton which
$3 structed for between $3,ooo,ooo and runs 112 mites of its length through
$3,50oooo, and it would not only be the American territory, and a third by Lake
hortest Practicable route, but it would be Megantic which runs for i 8o mites through
More favorable to our own seaports the State of Maine.
Mr. OSuiiivan
northse it would pass about fifty miles makes what, in my opinion, is a very probec of Montreal,and wouldsecuretoQue- per remark and a matter of common
bulk Ufnmer and Halifax in winter the sense when he says that in such matters
Ofe the western traffic. The projeci is the tength of the road is fot the onty
h
deserves the careful considera- question to be considered, but that the
tion
the there will and Parliament, elements ; grades are also important
tfhope Governmentbe noofnecessity to curves andand he does fot hesitate to
tje nd ethree or four millions of dollars on say that the curves are so sharr and the
SUe I hope that the Government grades so steep on the une which las
their
wyeet reaechQuebe
the
inelan

84A6

The 8hort [SENATE] Line Railway.

from Halifax, that it would not be wise to, trains to carry one-half as much freight as
adopt it.
they should, and it would be practicallY
using Canadian money to huild in a foreigA
HON. MR POWER-Mr. O'Sullivan country a road which would be of nO
never mentions the line I have spoken of. practical use to Canada. Under the circumstances, recognizing the fact that this
HoN. MR. TRUDEL-He mentions question of the shortest route is one which
the locality.
can only be decided by practical men, and
that we have but one report before us yet
HON. MR. POWER-Excuse me; I an and that favoring a line by EdmunstOO,
quite familiar with Mr. O'Sullivan's report; passing through Canadian territory excW
he does not refer to it at all; he makes sively, we ought not to come to a conclucomparisons with the International road. sion before having the superiority of other
routes clearly established by professionaW
HoN. MR. TRUDEI-I think if my men.
hon. friend will look more carefully at Mr.
HON. MR. BAILLARGEON-I au
O'Sullivan's report, he will find that mention is made of the height of the mountains fot familiar with the route which has beo
which would have to be crossed.
advocated, but I concur in what bas bec»
said by the hon. gentleman on my righl
HoN. MR. POWER-By the Inter- (Mr. Bellerose) that this is a question Of
national?
very great importance to the whole Dowi'
nion, and one in which the Province afld
HON. MR. TRUDEL-He speaks of City of Quebec are peculiarly interest
the heights to be crossed passing through It is a question which has been discuSeo
Maine as great obstacles. As the hon. for some time past by the press and the
gentleman himself says the road which he members representing our provinces, bu
advocates has not been surveyed.
I tbink that we ought to wait for tht
report of the engineers wbo made th'e
HoN. MR. POWER-Part of it had not surveys of tbe various routes before ent!»
ing into the consideration of a question Of
been surveyed.
such importance. We should have 5 0 e
HON. MR. TRUDEL-The hon. gentle- reliable information on these matteO
man said it was the only one of the routes before attempting to decide against a rOte
which had not been surveyed by the which is exclusively within our own te''
Government. I imagine that it would be tory. Lt was understood at the time thf
a waste of time, without an official report Province of Quehec constructed the NOrb
before us, to discuss details, but I will Shore Railway and it bas ever since be»
call attention to the fact that Mr. O'Sulli understood, that it would form a conne<t
van, who is a surveyor of large experience ing link between the Canadian P
and great ability, and whose position as Railway and the Intercolonial RailwaY*
superintendent of surveyors in the Province The Government have expended an enor
of Quebec establish his high reputation mous sum in the construction Of tht
amongst the members of his profession in Pacifie Railway and in building the Ite
the province, does not hesitate to say that colonial, and the country has a rigbt t9
the difficulty of the grades and curves is expect ail the advantages wbich can 1%
such that it presents no advantages over derived from its outlay. After what ho
the northern road, so that the difficulties to been said by my bon. friend on my right
which we are exposed in carrying a line (Mr. Bellerose) that the Canadian
across the State of Maine, practically Railway bas a rigbt to run over the NOrtb
makes the line which the hon. gentleman Shore une to reacb the City of QuebeCadvocates no shorter than the one through do not see the necessity of con5trUCtiol
Canadian territory. As he very properly another une from Lachute to Quebe
remarks these difficulties as to curves and The Canadian Pacifie Railway bavifg rie,
grades on a road which would carry the of way over tbe North Sbore, what reina
trade of the west through a foreign coun- to be done? To build a bridge adOS5 th"
try are so great, that it would not permit St Lawrence at Quebec to confleCt
HOHN. MB. TRUDEL

TA Short [MAROHI 17, 1885] Line Railway.

347

North Shore with the Intercolonial Rail- vinces. We are not likely to enter with

Way. Although we have not all the facts
before us, yet I think we are warranted in
saYing that the route which lies altogether
withmn Our own territory is the one which
WOuld be of the greatest advantage to
Canada-it would at all events make us
n'Ore independent. It would be a great
Pity if our traffic from the west should go
a winter seaport in a foreign country
suich as Portland or Boston.
We should
leep Our own trade from the west to ourselves and derive some benefit from the
!enorrnous sums which we have expended
In the construction of a transcontinental
Iighway. Quebec aflords many facilities
a summer port. Large docks have
been constructed there by the Harbour
CoImmissioners. We have a magnificent
harbour, and in a short time we will have
_ graving dock in which large steamers
'an be'repaired. For these reasons, theretore, I believe it would be well to
bring
e traffic coming by the Canadian Pacific
ilway from the west down to Quebec
*n d keep it entirely within our own territory.
kUON. MR. ALEXANDER-We all
nOW the difficulties which surrourd this
question of selection of the route for the
Canadian Pacific Railway from Montreal
*ttward to the seaboard. My own views
ke Pretty well known as to the policy of
tu6hing such a colossal work fron ocean
Ocean with such speed. My
Uiat the Government are about views are
bringing
U the country a burden which I hope
nY o*t be found to be too heavy for the
1
)ý4nion to bear. With regard to the
lstruction of the road east of Montreal,
Ie have first to consider what the
country
really afford to construct, and secondeathe reasons which ought to weigh most
lect.y with the Government in the
ettion of such route.

We have to

pry how we can do entire justice to the
vince of Quebec, and to our valuable
arltime Provinces, because we cannot forthIrthat they are responsibly bound for
eîr share of the enormous debts
thrown
%Pon this Dominion by the present Gov'pIenti ; and any of us who live in
provOnls Ofof Dominion distant from the
Pro'nce the
Quebec and the Maritime

Snces cannot perhaps thorougly underthe claims of those respective pro-

that justice and liberality into the views
of the population of those provinces who
share that responsibility, and who of
course must be alive to their own interests.
From the limited informatior. which I
possess of the Province of Quebec, and of
the City of Quebec where I have spent a
portion of my time, I think that the Gov.
ernment should study how they can do
entire justice to the oldest province of
the British possessions and to the City of
Quebec, the oldest historic city, which is
one of the finest ports for sea-going vessels
in the world. I am aware, from having
resided in that city occasionally, that its
trade has been very much withdrawn, and
that with all its great capabilities as a port
for sea-going vessels, its commerce has
fallen off to a very great extent,
and I think it ought to be the study
of the Government, which ought to
take a paternal interest in all the cities
of the country, to see that they all
receive even-handed justice at the hands
of Parliament. It is our duty and it ought
to be our pleasure, to protect all the cities
in every part of Canada, that we may see
an equai state of prosperity existing over
ail. I think it would be a sad mistake, if
in the course which the Government now
pursues, or may in the future pursue, they
do not do their very best to see that a
large share of the freight and passenger
traffic going over the Canadian Pacific
Railway should reach the City of Quebec,
as a port more favorably placed for ocean
going vessels than any other to be found
on this continent. Montreal is a city of
great enterprise and has become very
wealthy from the fact of its having secured
the lion's share of the trade of the Dominion. We are obliged to spend annually
a large amount of public money in dredging Lake St. Peter to enable the Allan
steamers and other large vessels to carry
their cargots up the St. Lawrence to
Montreal. Now Quebec has this superior
position to Montreal that vessels of any
tonnage can come there with perfect
safety except during the winter, and I have
always felt, and I feel it more strongly
every day, that, however the trade of the
City of Quebec may appear to languish at
this moment, Quebec must eventually
become an important shipping port of the
Dominion.
With all the ostensible

34A8

Tke Short [SENATE]

superiority of Montreal and its enterprise,
I feel confident that Quebec, with a harbor of such depth, and with such commercial advantages, must in the future become
a much more prosperous city than it is
now; and it should be our pleasure and
our pride to facilitate a portion of the
trade of our great North-West finding its
way to that shipping port, where we are
doing no injustice to any other part of the
Dominion. Perhaps this is not the proper
moment to go into the subject more fully,
but I am quite sure that unless the Government of the day exercise great discretion
and pursue a disinterested course, irrespective of all private interests and all
political considerations-unless they pursue a statesmanlike, upright, just course to
the Maritime Provinces and the Province
of Quebec, they may be the means of
laying the foundation of a widespread
discontent which may bring about results
that none of us desire to see.
HON. MR. KAUI#BACH-I am with
my hon. friend (Mr. Baillargeon) so far as
this, that until all the reports come down,
and we have the returns of the engineers
who have gone out to survey the different
routes, we can hardly be prepared to express an opinion on this matter. As for
the City of Halifax, I do not agree with
my hon. friend (Mr. Power) that the
Chamber of Commerce of that city has
expressed a formal opinion on this question. I think the City of Halifax is at
the present time quite uncertain on the
subject. They want the best and most
direct route they can get, all things con
sidered, but as to where that route should
be, I think they are still in doubt. If
they could be sure of a bridge at Quebec
I think they would rather prefer that route
to any other but without the bridge at
Quebec, a road up to Point Levis or
Rivière du Loup would be useless to
Halifax. Notwithstanding all that has
been said in favor of the more southern
routes, I have a great objection to going
through the State of Maine, if we can avoid
it. By way of Edmunston, at all events, you
would have very little more road to build,
and it would be on Canadian territory.
There is a great deal to be said in favor
of that route. You cannot build a
straight line from Montreal by way of

HON. MR. ALEXANDER.

Line Railway.

Richmond without bringing your road
nearer to Portland.
HON.

MR. POWER-Not at all.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-Every mile
you go from Montreal eastward brings yotr
nearer and increases the facilities of carrying trade to Portland.
HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentleman is altogether wrong.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-My hon.
friend may think so, but if he looks at the
map he will see that you cannot build a
road from Montreal eastward without that
result. Montreal is situated four degrees
west of Portland, and in travelling eastward from Montreal you must approach
nearer to Portland, and thereby increase
the facilities for carrying trade to that port.
There is a great objection therefore tO
going through the State of Maine, if we
can only get over the trouble of the bridge
at Quebec. I think the whole of the provinces are interested in this question. Ve
should not consult the interests of St.
John or Halifax alone, but we should endeavor to promote the commerce of the
whole Dominion. The question should
There haS
be very carefully considered.
been a great cry in this House, in whiclr
my hon. friend (Mr. Power) himself joined,
about encouraging trade to Portland. lie
objected strongly to the legislation of last
session and the session before on that
very ground, and there was a cry raised
against members from Nova Scotia who
voted for a road that would aid the Grand
Trunk Railway and Maine railways. Al
though I am not committed to any particular route, I hope the Government Wll
delay their decision until they have all the
information available on the subject
before them. Still I am disposed to thinl.
that if by any means that bridge could be
built at Quebec, in the interests of the
whole of the provinces we should construct
our railway altogether upon Canadian•
soil.
HON. MR,. POWER-I must confessch
am a little surprised at the remarks whiCh
have fallen from the hon. member fronfl*
Lunenburg. He undertook to tell us that
Halifax had not pronounced an opiniol

Te Skort [MARCI 17, 1885] Line Railway.
on this matter. The truth is that delegates went down from Quebec and asked
the. Halifax people to join them in advocating the construction of this Quebec
and Edmunston line ; and the people of
lalifax refused. They said " We want the
shortest line to Montreal," and yet my hon.
f3end after that says, while he does not
know which is the best line, that it is the
route by Edmunston the people of Halifax want.
LION. MR. KAULBACH-I

sRy that.

did not

1
oN. MR. POWER-My hon. friend
shows his want of familiarity with the
Whole business in every sentence that he
has uttered. It is true that the line comrnonly known as Pope's Line, which goes
o'wn into the State of Maine by Moosehead Lake, does afford easy and close
connections with Portland, and other
Amnerican ports, but a line going directly
east fron Montreal-east and a little north
by Richmond, and the north end of
Chesuncook Lake, through the northern
Portion of Maine-gives no opportunties
east Of Richmond for connection with
ortland at all, because the high land in
te central portion of Maine cuts that
route off completely from the ports in
Maine; and that is the shortest and most
irect line. My hon. friends opposite
have talked about building a road from
sornewhere up west to Montreal and
neec, a bridge at Quebec. I think
and
i an unfortunate thing that the advotes of Quebec have mixed up things
Whlch really have nothing to do with one
another. This subsidy was given, as I
have said, chiefly to the lower provinces.
Wa.s to make the shortest practicable
9o"nection between the Maritime ProVfnces and Montreal.

KAULBACH-Not with
o100 miles of it built in the State

ION. MR.

aine.
liON

MR POWER-It will make that

ot C of Maine tributary to Canada and

be tanada tributary to Maine, as would
,S the case mith the other line. Why
PgIld this bridge at Quebec be mixed up
W it ? The subsidy has no connection
tever with that enterprise. I hope

349

the people of Quebec may get a bridge if
it is going to do them any good. I do
not believe myself that they will derive
much benefit from a bridge situated four
miles above the city. The traffic crossing
it would be between points east and
points west of Quebec, and I fail to see
what benefit Quebec would derive from
its construction. The hon. member from
Lunenburg seems to see, with that clearness of vision which is peculiar to him,
that it will have the effect of building up
not only Quebec but the lower provinces.
But I cannot see that for the life of me.
Hon gentlemen talk about compelling
business to go here and go there ; you
cannot deal with trade that way. Trade
will follow its natural channels. It is absurd to talk of turning off the traffic at
Lachute or any other place and sending
it to Quebec, Unless trade wants to find
its way to Quebec you cannot make it go
there.
HON.

MR.

KAULBACH-Or

to

Halifax.
HON. MR. POWER-No, you cannot
make it go to Halifax either. As it is
now there are so many outlets it will find
the best and cheapest route. There is
first a road from Callandar down to
Toronto. Then there is the Canadian
Pacific Railway to Brockville, then there
are roads from Montreal to Portland and
Boston and other lines, all of which afford
outlets to United States ports. If you
lengthen the road at the eastern end, you
send the business down by one of these
cut-offs to American ports. The only
way to get a larger proportion of business
to go over the roads to our own ports is to
make the line as short as possible; but the
people of Quebec want to make it long
and that is practically to force business to
go by another way. I do not think myself that we are ever going to get a large
proportion of that business. The bulk of
it will go to American ports as a matter of
course, but give us the shortest road we
can get, and we shall secure a fair proportion of it. I thnk it is unfortunate
that in connection with this short line
which is the only thing that the lower
provinces expected to get out of this
whole Canadian Pacific Railway business,
other people should have stepped in to

350

The Late

SEN ATE]

head us off and to prevent us getting that
trifling benefit for all our large expendiof money. Let the bridge business and
the road from Callandar to Quebec stand
on their own merits, but let us in the
Maritime Provinces have what Parliament
decided last year and the year hefore that
we should get.
hon.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-My
friend will see by Mr. O'Sullivan's plan
that the distance from Montreal to Halifax
is 700 miles, hy way of Quebec-the
shortest route.
HON. MR. BAILLARGEON-I agree

that the best line should be selected, and
I think it would be obtained by building

Senator Benson.

FEDERAL BANK OF CANADA BILL-.
TIIIRD READING.

HON. MR. PLUMB, fron the Select
Committee on Banking and Commerce,
reported Bill (10) "An Act to reduce the
capital stock of the Federal Bank of
Canada, and for other purposes," without
amendment.
He said: As there was no amendment
made in the committee to this Bill, I
move that it be read the third tirme
presently.
The motion was agreed to, and the
Bill was read the third time and passed.

BILLS INTRODUCED.
It is as much in
the bridge at Quebec.
the interest of Halifax as of Quebec that
the
Bill (59), "An Act
that route should be adopted, because it Brantford, Waterloo & to incorporate
Lake Erie Railway
is clear if Quebec becomes the summer
terminus of the Canadian Pacific Railway, Co'y." (Mr. Plumb).
Bill (51), "An Act for granting certain
Halifax will be the winter terminus, as
powers to the International Coal Co'Y
we all wish it to be.
(limited)."
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
an sure my hon. friend in moving this THE LATE SENATOR BENSON.
Address did not imagine that 1, as representing the Government would go into
MOTION TO ADJOURN.
the question ?
FION. SIR ALEX. CAMIBELL-I beHON. MR. POWER-No.
lieve we are through with the motions,
and would now proceed to the orders of
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-With the day under ordinary circumstances, but
reference to the papers they will be since the House met last we have lost one
brought down as far as possible. We of the most respected members of the
have the surveys and some of the infor- Hou3c by death. It has not been our
mation which he asks for, and we will custom, during late years at all events, tO
bring down a statement of the maximum adjourn in connection with deaths which
grades. I an told that a statement of occurred during the vacation, but where
the curves will be more difficult to furnish, death has visited us during the sitting Of
but so far as we have got the information, the House it has been the custon tO
the returns for which he asks will be adjourn out of respect to the departed
brought down.
member. In this case we have to deplore
The motion was agreed to.
the loss of Mr. Benson,. whose familiar
face will no longer be seen amongst Us.
The Senate adjourned at 6 o'clock.
Mr. Benson was elected to the Legislative
Council of Canada, if I remember right,
before the Union, although he never took
THE SENATE.
his seat there. At the first election which
occurred after Confederation, I think Mr.
Ottawa, Wednesday, March 18th, 885. Benson was returned to, the House Of
Commons, and afterwards, within a year
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three or so, he was appointed to a seat in the
o'clock
Senate, and has been. a member of this'
Prayers and routine proceedings.
House ever since. Mr. Benson was a
HON. Mp. POWER.

7he Tate [MARCH 18, 1885] &nator Benson.
"an of sterling sense, whose advice and
Judgnent were sound and good and valuable, and he rendered constant service to
the Flouse upon committees, although he
took no prominent part in debate; but bis
eOnduct here and bis intercourse with us
had endeared him to all of us very much,
and we all unite, I ai) sure, in deploring his
ss. It hasoccurredatagood old age,when
hewassurrounded with "honor, love, obedi.
eiee, troops of friends," I believe, in his own
part of the country and here. His is the

351

House can that his demise bas taken,
place. We must all feel that the hon.
gentleman discharged his.duty as faithfully
as he possibly could considering the illhealth he bas been laboring under for the
last two years. I am sure we all feel
regret at bis loss.

HON. MR. PLUMB-As a near neighbor of the deceased gentleman, I can
hardly permit the Senate th adjourn without saying a few words which I wish to go
eornmon fate to which we must all subnit. on record as indicative of my great esteem
'lPPily for him, he departed, as I under- for him, and of my regret at his loss.
stand, without pain and suffering, and we Coming from the same district in which I
Ire here to mourn bis sudden death, and live, I have had occasion to meet him
to iritate, I hope, the example which he frequently. I have known him well in
set to all who knew him. I move that this House, in which bis seat next to mine
Dit Of respect to the memory of Mr. is now vacant, and I knew him well before
tenson this House do now adjourn.
I came to the Senate. As the leader of
the Government has said, bis amiable
liON. MR. SCOT''--I am
ecPressions of regret which sure that the character and gentle disposition endeared
have fallen him to us all. Such sudden summonses
" the lips of the leader of the House as this are among the sad occasions and
eet an echo in the mind of every occurrences which must gradually become
hfator who is present. Mr.
%1ith kind, genial man that Benson was familiar tous in an assembly like this, largely
a
he won, bis composed of men past the meridian of
Way to the esteen and affection of every life, to whom the shadows lengthen as the
One with whom he was associated.
I day declines. My bon. friend bas left us
have had the pleasure of knowing him for as he desired to leave us-left us while
Very long period ; and to know hin was fulfilling the duties which he assumed here
tO entertain the warmest feelings towards immediately after Confederation. He bas
en . e was a man who made
no discharged unobtrusively, but I think
ge'ieTes, and his kindly manner and faithfully and well, according to bis ability,
agerous character won him the esteem those duties, and he has left behind him
aid respect of all. I deeply sympathize an honorable record which we must all
1his family in their loss, and I beg to admire and I am sure which we would al]
sendthernotioniof myhon. friendopposite desire to emulate. I think that the feeling
among us all is that of great regret that
i O. MR. FLINTwish to pay a one of the oldest and most respected.
iute to the memory of my hon. friend members of this House has been removed
ha as departed from amongst us. I from among bis collegues. I am happy
¼eknown him for over fifty-five years inti- to believe, as I have learned to-day from
da
We weregreat friends, and only the bis friends with whom I had communihi Y4fOre yesterday, in conversation with cation, that he died without suffering, and
I While he was sitting in his chair here, that, at the last moment, there was a
whSid " Mr. Benson I can hardly tell i return of consciousness fron the coma intooI,,of us two will go first, we are so which he was thrown at his first attack that
Of us He said " No, we cannot tell which he recognized the friends who were around
Well,,till go first, but I trust we shall go him, and that he seemed to be fully preI believe he was a Christian at pared for the great change. His friends
at; 1 believe he was a sterling good have suffered a most serious loss and I
te heart, and all through life, during am sure that there is in this House a
hirnyfive years of my acquaintance with universal sympathy for them in their
ai ave never known anythingto besaid bereavement.
rga8 bis Moral or religious character, I
The motion was agreed to.
as nMuch as any member of this
The Senate adjourned at 5 p.n
•i

Real Property [SENATE]

352

y. W..Territories.

BILLS INTRODUCED.

THE SENATE.

Bill (M)" An Act respecting proof of
entries in books of Account kept by offitook the Chair at three cers of the Crown." (Sir Alex. Campbell.)

Ottawa, Thursday, March i 9 th, 1885.
The SPEAKER
o'clock p.m.

SENATOR POIRIER.

Prayers and routine proceedings.
TIDAL OBSERVATIONS.

HON.

SIR

ALEX.

CAMPBELL

moved :-

That the Honorable Mr. Poirier be added
to the Joint Committee of both Houses 00
the Library of Parliament ; and also to the
HON. MR. DICKEY-I have been Committee on Standing Orders and Private
asked to present a petition of some consi- Bille.
The motion was agreed to.
derable importance to the Maritime
Provinces as well as to the Dominion at
large. It is a petition of the officers and REAL PROPERTY, NORTH-WEST
members of the Royal Society of Canada, TERRITORIES TRANSFER BILL.
praying that such action may be taken by
the Parliament of Canada as may secure
IN COMMITTEE.
the taking of tidal observations on the
coast of the Dominion for the practical
The House again resolved itself into a
benefit of navigation, and in the interest Committee of the Whole on BIII (A) " An
of science. As this petition relates to a Act respecting the transfer of Real Promatter of public importance, which has perty in the North-West Territories."
received the imprimatur of the British
Association for the Advancement of
In.the Committee,
Science, at their memorable gathering in
Montreal last summer, I trust that there
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELI-.When
will be no objection to its being read at the committee rose last, I went over the
the table.
various clauses which it seemed to me the
committee desired should stand, and I
The petition was thereupon read by:the have marked them in my copy of the BilL
Clerk, and received.
I took occasion also to ask some hon.
gentlemen who took an active part in the
INTERNATIONAL COAL COM- debate to give me a list that they cons'dered stood in that position, and I foUInd
PANY'S BILL
that the lists agreed almost entirely, and
where they did not agree I adopted the
PLACED ON THE ORDERS OF THE DAY.
larger one so as to allow all to stand that
HON. MR. OGILVIE-I have to anyone thought required further considerapologize to the House for not having ation. I think it was also understood
attended to a Bill which I should have when the committee rose last that the
taken charge of yesterday, when it came principle of giving the Torrens systemT to
up from the Commons. I was in the the North-West Territory was adoPted,
United States at the time and could not and the questions of detail only remained,
be here, and the Bill was laid on the table. so far as regards that system. There are
I beg leave now to move that the Bill (5') some provisions in the Bill which do not.
" An Act for granting certain powers to necessarily belong to the Torrens systern
the International Coal Company (Limi- but which, nevertheless, have to be disted)," brought up from the House of posed of, and now stand for the opinion
Commons yesterday, be placed on the of the committee. Amongst these is clause
orders of the day for second reading to- 5 which provides that all lands shall be
dealt with as chattels real, and shall go to
morrow.
the executor or administrator of any PerThe motion was agreed to.
son dying seized or possessed thereoPETITION.

Real Pioper'ty [MARCH 18 11885.] S. W. Territores.

353

Now With reference to that clause I can, as owner in the interim. I think they
a few words, present my view to the ought to be joined together because this
Co1rmittee, and I should hope that
after is a part of the whole scheme of the Bill.
lon.
members have expressed their views
on this and other clauses we may go on
and dispose of then according to the
OPinion of the committee, and possibly
triake Some considerable progress with the
rneasure.
The estate, upon the person
dying stands in his name, of course, upon
the registry books, and some
provision
rst be made for the next stage of the
tte. The provision in this Act is that
the 'ourt shall appoint some person.
th atS iixed up with this clause although
is another clause dealing with it.
The whole scope of the Bill is to deal
wth lands as chattels, -to deal with lands
0
nta and quickly.
Gentlemen, from
ntarlo, at all events, know that it is a
erY colmnon thing to provide that the
eak estate belonging to a person who is
ching his will shall he treated as a real
chattel. I do not see myself that the
ange miakes any great difference. The
rernains
t a chattel, orterra firma whether we call
real estate. That it shall
thito an executor or administrator is, I
tern , convenient under the Torrens syseit, inasrnuch as it must go to somebody,
oither aProadministrator or an executor,
or to to an
ob
If a person to be named by the court.
e'Ou take the last case. there is some
XePense necessarily incurred and there is
Oguarantee that the person so appointed
8 !Ore
trustworthy than an executor
WO0Id be. In fact, I think the executor
"'1dbe better, because if a person apan executor to carry out his will it
n t that he, at all events, has confidence
he tperson he names ; so it seems to
way that it is better to deal with it in that
an to treat the land as real estate
.a
owt to go to some person to take
thte
niPosition of the heir or the devisee
ot t gets the land. So in my judgvei that is a clause which is more conto t than any other which could be

is,Ÿ*tsted. The plan in British C'olumbia
execut i, the same--the land goes to the
o or or administrator. Under Mr.
that ths ill, in Ontario it is proposed
On
to
aster of Titles shall name a perJoini
it shall go.
I am rather
sube in mny mind, this clause with a
-eu tent one which requires that the

I move that the clause stand part of

the Bill.
HON.

MR. PLUMB- -I would ask the

hon. gentleman if, under the ordinary

system, the title would not vest in the
heirs without the intervention of an administrator or executor ?
Hox. SIR ALEX. CAMPBEL-Yes,
under the present system.
HoN. MR. PLUMB-I see no reason

why the title should be taken from the
persons to whom the estate belongs, and
put in the hands of any person intermediary, either an executor who may be
chosen by the devisor, who may be recreant
to his trust, or to an administrator who
may be chosen without the intervention of
If it
the person who makes the will.
could be managed in such a way as to save
the persons who are the legitimate owners
of the property from the consequences of
mal-administration of the trust, it seems
to me we would be taking a step in the
right direction and affording protection to
those whom we ought to protect, infants
and others incapable of acting for themselves.

That is to my mind on of the

serious objections to this whole system.
I have heard no argument yet in favor of
this radical change-that is, no important
argument-except that it quiets titles and
saves the expenses of search, and also
does away with the cumbrous English
system of dealing with real estate. We
are not now, and we have not been under
the English system for some time. The
Ontario system is the one in force in the
North-West at the present time, a system
which is understood by the people, and is
quite in conformity with all our laws and
usages, and the practice of our courts.
Now, the objection has been raised that
we cannot, under the prevailing system,
avoid the expense of a search, and in
order to avoid the necessity of a searchbecause that is really the point-we are
striking at the whole system of transferring real estate.
We are making real

estate a chattel, and we provide that there
shall be an absolute transfer from every
"t'r shall be entered in the register holder to the next holder, and that there

354A

Real Property [SENATE]

N. T

erritories.

It seems attention to a statement on this point in
this very pamphlet before me. In order
to devise a system by which a search, once to bring the legal profession into harmolY
made, may be registered and held to be with the gentleman's desire to have this
absolute as to the property to which it re- Bill become law, he tells thern that so far
lates. Certainly it would not be a greater as the experience of the Australian colonies
departure fron the ordinary rule than a is concerned, lawyers have done better
Bill of this kind. I express my opinion since the system was adopted than they
about the Bill with some hesitation be- did before.
cause I am not a lawyer; but as this
HON.. MR. DICKEY-I do not profess
system is mainly the invention of a gentle1
man who was not a lawyer, I suppose we to argue the principle of this Bill at al,
may all look at it from the standpoint of and I am the more inclined to take that
laymen. Stress is also laid on the fact course, whatever my private opinion 11aY
that the adoption of this Bill will largely be, from the fact that with regard to this
relieve those who wish to make transfers particular clause 5, I distinctly understood
of land from the necessity of obtaining the leader of the House to say, when the
legal advice. Well, the argument in favor question upon that clause was raised.
of the Bill has been very largely repre- before, that it was not an essential part O
sented by a gentleman who is the author the Bill.
of a pamphlet I hold in my hand-a
E.- -did
Hox. SIR ALEX. CAMN
gentleman largely connected with loans
It is perfectly natural say so.
on real estate.
from his standpoint that there should be no
risk about the titles he takes, and that he
Hox. MR. DICKEY -- I am very glad
should desire to make it possible for him, to find that my recollection was corret,
or those he represents, to come into pos- because although I do not agree altogether
session of land if the loans are in default, with my hon. friend who has just sat doW"
in the easiest possible way. Therefore, with regard to his objections, I confess
we must accept his statement cum grano share very much with him the feeling of
salis-as the statement of a person who is surprise that a Bill which is intended t0
directly interested in facilitating some simplify the transfer of real estate 15
kind af legislation like this which is be- encumbered by so many provisions that,
I fear, it will make confusion worse Col'
fore us to-day.
I shall therefore say nothing
founded.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMIBELL -The about the principle of the Bill ; but With
.principle of the Bill, I thought we had regard to this particular clause, Upon
adopted, and we agreed that we should thinking it over, I am of opinion that the
only discuss these items of detail. I have weight of argument is altogether against it.
mentioned the object of this clause, and I do not see the necessity of such a proit seems to me that we shall not save time vision, which will itself help to nake
by entering into a discussion of the whole confusion if it is introduced into a Bill o
this kind. I think it would be far better
Bill again.
to have this eliminated from the Bill, and
HON. MR. PLUMB-My hon. friend the clauses which depend upon it, and let
will see that this particular section is one the Bill go as regards other portions of the
of the cardinal points of the whole system. arrangement that is proposed to be introduced into the North-West Territories,
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPELL--Oh, and not embarrass the measure by theseLand is declared here to be sifply a
no.
chattel real. In the first place that upsets
HON. MR. PLUME It seens so to all our previous notions with regard to
me. It has been urged that the adoption land, and it is very difficult to tell how far
of this system will save expense to those it will interfere with the constructionthe
who are engaged in dealings in real any question which depends upOn but
estate and passing it from hand to hand. po nt, what is land and what is not; t
Now, I would call the hon. gentleman's there is a more serious objection than that
shall be no going behind that.

to me that legal ingenuity should be able

HON. MR. PLUMNIB.

Real Property [MARCH 18, 1885] N. W. Teritorie8.

35&

to it, because this provision, if it goes into kind an element which can only have the
effect, will inevitably lead to very serious effect of making it distasteful to the people
expense and inconvenience to all parties of the North-West. They desire to have
concerned. Now it is declared here abso- the same safeguards in transferring their
lutely that lands are a cliattel real ; that property that a man has in the older
the persons to whom these lands are provinces-that is, the right to make a will
devised shall have no title to them at all and to say to whom their land shall go
until he derives that title from the execu- Let the will be the title to the land without
tor or administrator. It therefore becomes going to the unnecessary cost of having a
absolutely necessary before that man to probate and having lettersofadministration
Whom the land is given shall get a title made out at an enormous expense to the
that there shall be probate taken out, or estate, for which somebody must pay. I
letters of administration. Look at the do not see any necessity for it, and I do
nnllnecessary expense which this will entail hope that my lion. friend, as he is kind
oni the transfers of land ' I can speak on enough to tel] us that I was quite correct
that point with some confidence and fami- in assuming it was no essential part of the
'arity, because I was for many years a measure, will consent to let that clause go.
JUdge of probate connected with the settleMent of estates. Why in the nanie of
HON. MR. SCOTT-Having spoken so
common sense is it necessary that when a fully on this Bill at the former stage I do
flan desires to give a piece of land to his not propose to repeat any observations
son or daughter, or divide it among his that I then made; but I will call attention,
children, that he should resort to this by way of illustration, to what occurs very
roundabout way of carrying it out ? Why frequently. Take the case of a man who
not allow a man to make a will to transfer owns lots 1, 2 and 3 and has three childreni
tis Property to his children without going to whom he wants to leave his property.
through the process of calling in some He cannot make a will giving one to each,
ilitermediate party ? I can speak of my because his object is entirely defeated by
own county, which is very much further this clause. If be does not make the will,
advanced in the way of property than the but dies intestate, at present the land
o40rth-West at present is at all events; would be divided equally among -his
and I know that with regard to at least children,assuming they are minor children.
half the estates of the county the people I speak of a case which occurs, as every
content themselves with making either a lawyer kiows, very frequently; a man dies
deed to their children or a will giving the intestate leaving a number of minor
property to their sons; and there is no children ; his widow marries again. Nowý
Probate taken of that unless it is necessary under this Bill she is the one-of course
1o COllect debts or for other purposes of that she is the only representative who is of
kind. It is a simple matter; the man age-who is entitled to take out letters of
tnakes his will and his son goes into pos- administration, and under this Bill the
of.S.sion of hisshould not that simple pro- property would become absolutely hers.
it.
Why estate; and that is the end Now I ask you do you not offer a premium
Cess be carried out in the North-West ? to the second
husband to make ducks and
WhY should you, in a country like that, drakes of the property?
l the name of making things easy, simple
inexpensive, place this additional
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-She
ercumbrance in the way of acquiring becomes merely the channel through
ti'es to land? I feel that it is an argument which to convey the property.
hat is very difficult to answer, and I do
41e that my bon. friend the Minister
HON. MR. SCOTT--She can dealwith
it as tbe absolute owner.
ithas charge of this Bill will be impressed
it ; because it will really furnish a
aery strong argument for the agitation
Ho.. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
tgamnst the Bill. While we are endeavoring because anyone can stop ber by a caveat.
ae things as simple and as easily
edout as possible, I think it is not " HoN. MR. SCOTT-It would be
Iale to introduce into a Bill of this necessary to apply to a court, and who is

Beal Property (SENATE] N. W. Territories.

356

to look after the interests of the minor
HON. MR. PLUMB-Supposing she is
an executrix, she does not give security.
childi en ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Any

HON. MR. VIDAL-I

should like to

ask the Minister of Justice if clause five is
found in the law as it has been in operaHON. MR. SCOTT-We find in our tion in Australia for a number of years, or
every day experience that minor children is it a new feature of the Bill ?
are generally left to the care of the court.
one who is concerned for them.

HON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is

found in one or two colonies, but not in
Supposing it was £io,ooo of bank stock all of them, and it is not tound in the law
of British Columbia, but it is presented in
-that would go to the executor.
Mr. Mowat's new Bill.
HON. MR. SCOTT-The court would
HON. MR. POWER-I quite agree with
compel the executrix to give security that
the property should be distributed the hon. members from Cumberland and
Ottawa, and I must express my surprise
properly.
that, after the almost universal expression
HoN. SIR ALEX, CAMPBELL- of feeling, one who is generally so conserSo it would here. The law would compel vative as the Minister of justice is, and
who is so slow as he is to depart from the
her to provide security.
example of England, should persist in
HoN. MR. SCOTT-Under this mea- making this sweeping change where, as he
sure ?
admits himself, it is not an essential part of
his measure at all. I do not see why you
HoN. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELLcannot introduce the Torrens systel
Yes, because this land would become the without overturning the systeni of dealing
same as any other chattel, and the law with property which has been in vogue
which requires her to give security for the in all the provinces. The people have
due administration of the estate would taken up to the North West with them the
apply to this, the same as to bank stock Ontario law, and I think we ought to
leave them that law and allow them tO
HON. MR SCOTT-Assuming that distribute the property of a deceased
the property is willed in a particular way, person according to the system with which
If they want this
she would be entitled to come in and take they are familiar.
that property herself, wholly irrespective change by and by, they have a sort Of
of the trust created, and might hold it for representative government up there and
life. She would get it absolutely. It they can effect it ; but I think the GOVseems to me that point has never been ex- ernment ought to be satisfied to give themn
plained, because the general features of the Torrens system and let the other stand.
the Bill require that a person pro tem.
holding the property in a representative
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I was trycharacter takes it absolutely, and that it ing to persuade myself that it was essenis only in the event of danger of the tial to the proper working of this Bill that
person holding that property conveying it it should contain this clause. In the
to some person else that an application first place I opposed this clause during the
can be made to the court. The represen- debate on this principle of the Bill, but I
tative for the time being is the absolute thought it was essential to its working, so as
owner. There is where I find the danger, to leave no doubt as to how the title stands
that a person holding a property may con- in consequence of the owner dying in'
vey it away and defeat the object of the will. testate ; that there should be somne
means by which the title should reach the
HON. MR. GOWAN -Before the widow recqrd. But if it is not essential for that
is in a position to act as administratrix she purpose I am much opposed to changing
must give security for the faithful adminis- the present order of passing the title to
tration of the trust.
real estate, and calling real estate a chatteL
HON.

SIR

ALEX.

HON. MR. SCOTI'.

CAMPBELL-

Real Property [MARCHI 18, 1885] N. W. Territorie.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-The other
day when I had the honor of addressing
this louse, I expressed a view which I
think is a very sound one,,that we ought
to endeavor in legislating for any part of
the Dominion to assimilate the laws with
respect to real estate.
As to the assertion that the lands are now of little value
in the North-West, that is no argument
at all in favor of adopting such a clause
as this, to declare that real estate shall be
held as common chattels. I remember
the time in the early settlement of this
country when lands that are now selling
for $oo an acre could be purchased for
-5c an acre-a smaller price than that

Obtaining in the North-West at present.
hY are we including in this statute a
clause so different from the statutes govern"'g all the lands of the Dominion ?
.1 ON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
think it lamentable that an hon. gentle-

Inan should stand up an discuss a measure
of this kind, and not know that it is imPossible for the Parliament of Canada to
deal with the laws regulating the lands of
the various provinces of the Dominion.
If the hon. gentleman knows anything he
"ust know that that cannot be done by
ls ; that the law of real estate is a subject

With which the local legislatures alone
can
deal.

ferON. MR. ALEXANDERferrng to the future.

am re-

hON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-In
the future and in the past.

35
357.

to shape the Bill so that no inconvenience
will result from omitting this clause.

The clause was allowed to stand.
On the 7th clause,
HON.

SIR

ALEX.

CAMPBELL-I

tthink we shall have to allow this clause to
stand until we deal with clause 5, as it is
very difficult to arrange the machinery of
the Bill without adopting such a clause

One of the principal features of the
measure is the carrying on of the chain of
titles. It is necessary now, before you
buy a lot of land, that your conveyancer
should be satisfied as to every. link in the
chain of titles from the patent from the
Crown down to the last transfer, and the
great object of this is to avoid all that
trouble and to take the title from the last
transfer. In all these Bills it is necessary
to insert some provision to meet the case
of a title from the deceased owner. Somebody else must be registered as his representative as the owner of the land, and
different plans are adopted in different
places. In one it is provided that the
Master of Titles shall name this person,
and in others it is provided that the
executor or administrator of the deceased
person shall take the title. [t seems to
me that it is safer to adopt the provision
that is here, because in the case of the
executor you have the security that he ià
the personal representative ofthe deceased,
and in the case of the administrator you
have the security that he is the representative appointed by the court.

HON. MR. DICKEY-I should like, as
ON. MR. ALEXANDER-With regrd to the future government of the the Minister is going to consider the
matter, that all that may apply to cases of
oIninion lands.
intestacy ; but this covers the question of
a will. It is said that it is necessary to
liON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The have some document on record; why
S of the Dominion of Canada has noth- should not a will when registered carry the
"'g to do with real estate, and the hon.
same force as a deed ?
gentleman should know that
the only
ason that this Bill is before us at all is
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-SuprtUse it is dealing with land in the ter- posing that in the will there is a devise
v ories, and not in a province. After the to two or three people; then you want
rious Opinions expressed by hon. gentle- some person to carry the title for these
wh 'iexcept that of the hon. gentleman people. You cannot do it otherwise; yo;
te' spoke last-I would ask the commit- must have some person to carry the title
tea to POstpone the consideration of this as owner under this system, in the neanuse for the present, and I will endeavor time, until these persons become entitled

368

Rea1 Property [SEN AT E]

to their land. I am fortified in that opinion by finding in all the laws on the subject that there is some provision of
this kind.

_X. W. Territories.

that three hundred pounds shall be paid
to so and so, why should we not have the
willregistered. Then the registration of the
will would create a lien in favor of the
grantee of the £3oo.

That would involve

HoN. MR. PLUMB-That is the weak. but one registration of the will. Under
point of the Bill.
this system it will be necessary to appoint
an administrator. That will create unHON. MR. SCOTT-If A, the testa- necessarily a fiction of law which puts a
tor, is the owner under this system, and man in a place which is not really his true
he made a will devising say to three of his position. He is represented as the prochildren, the will would entitle them to a prietor of the property, though he is not
certificate from the registrar without any the proprietor; while on the contrary, if
roundabout conveyancing from any repre- there are three heirs, or three legatees,
sentative. If that will is registered it then they are joint proprietors of this
speaks for itself just as much as the immovable, and there is this mortgage
debt against them. By the registration 0
assignment.
the will, the position is as clear as it would
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Just be by the passing of half a dozen titles.
in that simple case I should say yes ; but
The clause was allowed to stand.
where you find in the legislation of the
different colonies that some system of this
On the 8th clause.
kind is universal, then it shows, at all
events, that in some cases that have not
HON. MR. TRUDEL-There is an
suggested themselves to us, there must be objection to this clause. This will nOt
sme necessity for or convenience in that prevent any party from creating what we
plan, or we should not find it so general. call in our province a dowerprefix, a gift
of a certain sum in which the wife shall
HON. MR. DICKEY-But in the caes have a life interest.
of a will to three persons, there must be
some provision to divide it among them ; HoN. MR. DICKEY-This will not
and the same objection would apply to an interfere with that principle. This applies
ordinary deed to two or three or four to the common law right of dower.
persons, but there is no objection to that.
There is no provision in the Bill which
HON. MR. SCOTT-With regard to
prevents that being done, and why should thisquestion of dower, I would like to have
a different rule be applied to a will ?
the sense of the House on it, and I giVe
notice that on the third reading of the Bill
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-There may I will move to strike out that clause.
be a difference in this-suppose the will
itaxes the land with certain legacies or
On the i îth clause,
charges.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-This
clause respecting conveyance by husband
to wife or vice versa makes no difference
in the North-West, except that the intervention of the trustee is done away with.
They can transfer title now through the
intervention of a trustee. I move that
- HON. MR. TRUDEL-I would call the clause stand part of the Bill.
-the attention of the hon. Minister to this
afact, that the principle which is objected to HoN. MR. TRUDEI-I give notice
tby the hon. gentleman opposite is not a that on the third reading of the Bill I wIH
good one; the system in force in our niove to strike out this clause.
province is a great deal more simple. In
HON. MR. POWER-I think this .15
the case which is mentioned, supposing
there is a clause in the will which provides one of the most objectionable clauses in

ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,
suppose a case such as that put by the
hon. gentleman from Lunenburg, some
provision of the kind would be necessary
to carry on the title.
HON. SIR

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Real Property [MARCH 1S, 1885) N. W. Territori.

359
35

the Bill. It provides no guard or protect'on whatever for the wife against the
'nnfuence of her husband. A man may
iarry a woman who owns property simply
for the purpose of getting' hold of her
peOrty.
He brings his influence to
on
o her and compels her to transfer
der property to him and then he may
esert her. On the other hand, a man
property, and he gets into debt and
ps
te only means he has to satisfy the claims
'f his creditors is his land ; under this
hlie can, without any notice or cereny, transfer his property to his wife,
and his creditors have no recourse. I
think this is an exceedingly objectionable
POision, and I suggested when we were
Considering this Bill before, that if it was
PrOvided where a woman deeded her proPerty to her husband that there should be
e acknowledgement such as is now used,
that she had executed the deed of her
<>l Will, without any threat or compulh011 the part of her husband, that
On
at WOuld diminish the objection to it.

Such transfers
vention of the trustee.
can be made now, with the intervention
of a trustee. As a gerieral rule wives
are as able to take care of their own property as husbands are. Has my hon. friend
ever known a case in wh'ch a magistrate
succeeded in frightening a wife and stopping the transfer of property when she
wanted to transfer it ? I have never
known of it in my experience. It is a
mere form. The wife goes to a magistrate,
and she is asked " Do you make this transfer through fear or coercion ?" And the
woman never says that she does. I think
it is far better to make it easy, and to
allow the wife to transfer her property
without any intervention.

"ON- MR. KAULBACH-I made the
Urne objection myself to this clause, and
thOught the Minister of Justice had
ed a provision that a woman should
convey to her husband.

HoN. MR. GOWAN-Thousands of
cases have come before me in my capacity
as judge, and I do not remember at this
moment a single case in which any objection was made.

.t

NN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--No;
was not adopted.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I

know a

case in which a woman came before me
acting in my capacity as magistrate, to
transfer her property, and from the way
she spoke I was satisfied she was acting
under coercion ; she would not admit that
she made the transfer without coercion.

HON. MR. POWER-My hon. friend
will see this, if the wife objects to execute
the paper, she declines to make an acknow
oN. MR. KAULBACH-Then I ledgement, and consequently would not
raust take the same objection to the clause have to appear before the judge.
that raised by my hon. friend from
lifax The deed from a wife to her
HoN. MR. O'DONOHOE-It seems to
sband should be guarded. It will be me that the object of the clause is to some
nd that very often the wife, for peace's extent misunderstood. At present a wife
, will be tempted to give a deed of may convey to her husband, but she is
eproperty to her husband, and when a driven to a circuitous mode of doing it.
can, simply by a stroke of a pen, get She agrees to convey to her husband, but
le to his wife's property transferred to in order to do that she must convey to
riself,thcre is danger of the woman's A, and A conveys to the husband. Why
hts being interfered with. A man may should she be put to that inconvenience?
chi tO provide for his daughter and her The object of this clause is simply to get
anren and may will his property to her, rid of the expense and inconvenience. I
under the provisions of this Bill she can understand a great difference between
t iely to be influenced by her husband that conveyance and one requiring her to
transfer the title to him.
go before a magistrate. This is simply to
get rid of superfluous and expensive conoi . SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do veyancing ; she is allowed to do that
Î_ Joi with my hon. friend in the view directly and cheaply, which our mode of
"eakes of the matter. The object of the conveyancing would allow her to do cir'sSimlply to do away with the inter- cuitously and expensively ; therefore I

Real Po?'(perty [SE NATE]

360

think if there is any clause in the Bill that
we should gladly pass, it is this one simplifying the mode of conveyance, which
does away with the necessity of two sets of
deeds, two sets of registrations, and two
bills of costs instead of one.

W.

Territories.

such legislation as that. In my opinion
there are hundreds of difficulties in conr ection with it apart from those I have
nentioned.

HoN. MR. DICKEY- I do not wish tO
discuss a matter which has already beei
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It is for her so thoroughly debated, but I should like
to call the attention of the Minister of
protection.
Justice to the position in which this Bill
HoN. MR.' O'I)ONOHOE-It is no will be placed if ail these clauses remain ;
I wish, in other words, to call his attentiol
protection.
to clause i i, in connection with clause 5·
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It is, in this Clause 5 enacts that ail lands shall be

way-that this circuitous mode of transfer
requires that the wife should declare that
she makes the transfer of her own accord,
and without compulsion, and in that way
it is a protection against the husband
coercing her to part with her property.
If the husband knows that before he can
get the deed she must make that acknowledgment, he may be deterred from using
undue influence. We know how far the
criminal law goes in providing that a wife
is not liable for certain crimes done under
compulsion exercised by her husband
That principle should be adopted in this
case to protect a wife from having her
property taken from her under compulsion
by an improvident and profligate husband.

chattels real. Very well, if that clause
passes, clause i i is quite unnecessary.
HON. SIR AI

EX.CANI PBEl1 --Ohno.

HON. MR.
)ICKEY-I say oh yes.
If lands are chattels, surely the wife Can
dispose of them to the husband, and he
can transfer chattels to his wife.

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
does not follow-l-not with reference tO
chattels real.
[ION. MR. GOWAN-It must be evldenced by a deed.

)ICKEY -It has onlIy
HON. MR.
occurred to me this moment whether

HON. MR. TRUDEL-I would respect- those two provisions would not be ConÇully ask if we are here to do the best we flicting, or at ail events one of them ui'
can, or to adopt the system in operation necessary. Then'with regard to the 13 th
in Ontario? I think ail the conveniences clause, if that clause passed there would
s
which are mentioned by my hon. friend be no necessity for the i th. I confes 1
myself, but
on the other side will not exist under a was impressed with that view
system which permits the wife to sell to the I understand the Minister of Justice to
husband or the husband to the wife. I say no, that the i1th would still be
think it is not a proper system. Treatises necessary. Why if the wife is treated as
have been written on this subject, and I afemme sole, and has all the powers of a
think the principle is admitted in most femme sole, should there be any necessity
civilized countries of the world that the for the i 1th clause ? I think it would be
wife cannot sell to her husband. If the well to consider the whole framework of
reply is that it is otherwise in Ontario, or these clauses together to see how mucl 15
the North West Territories, it seems to me necessary and how much unnecessary.
the question arises whether it is right or
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
wrong, and even though the principle is
recognized in some parts of the Dominion, very much obliged to my hon. friend for
if we consider it wrong we should change the suggestion. When I bring up clause
it, Then, with regard to clause 13, the 5 and 7 again, in case it should be neces
gentlemen from Ontario say that they can sary to make any alterations in the 11th
see no objection to it, but to my mind and 13th clauses I will propose to the
there are so many objections to it that I committee to do so. In the meantine
cannot conceive how we can sanction the hon. member from DeSalaberry wishe&

HoN.

MR.

O'DONOHOE.

Real Property [MARCH 18, 1885] N. W. Territories

3
361

it, We might take the opinion of the com- that under this system trusts could be
rittee on clause i .

created, but that the land itself is held
free ; so long as that is the case the title
"ON. MR. TRUDEL-I think it would passes from owner to owner. If you combe a waste of time.
plicate it with trusts you leave the Torrens
system altogether, and go back to the preThe clause was adopted.
sent system of dealing with real estate. I
hope, therefore, that the committee will
On the 22nd clause,
adopt the clause as it stands.
11ON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
HoN. MR. DICKEY-I hardly under'Ove that this clause be amended by ad- stand how this could be worked. If trusts
ding the following words after the word are to be created I do not see why it is
council "not necessary to have them on the face of
' Provided nevertheless the obligation the register. I am disposed rather to
theany guarantee company approved of by think that the answer to this would be that
teGovernor-mn-Council to the like effect the trust is to be filed in the office.
1Y be substituted for the said bond."
The motion was agreed to and the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes.
Clause as amended was adopted.
HoN. MR. DICKEY-That is the only
On the 31st clause,
way, but certainly the trusts should be
made known otherwise. My hon. friend
1
1oN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That says that the transfer of lands should be
Clause is essential to the whole Bill. It is free on the register, but if it is made freeOne of the great features of the Torrens what provision is there that the trusts
sYstem that trusts should not be entered should be an encumbrance on the land ?
.the register. That I find is universal. I suppose the provision that a duplicate
Isone of the features of Mr. Mowat's of the trust shall be filed in the office for
lill, and the Registration Act of British inspection will obviate that.
Colunbia and it is universal in all the
Australian colonies. It is an essential
HoN. MR. SCOTT-The only trust
ature of the Torrens system, and one for apparently that is recognized is that of the
Cich that system takes to itself great mortgagee. I should have less objection
tedit, that these trusts shall not be entered. to it if the trusts created by will were
lthe
House concur in introducing the better guarded. If trusts created by will
yStem in the North-West Territories, I do were allowed to prevail the objection to it
"nt See how we can omit that clause. would be largely removed.
t'hose gentlemen who think that some
Oter provision might be made will perHoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Per
has allow me to suggest that the
clause haps the committee will not think that I
berig generally found in all those Acts it
am detaining them unnecessarily or inconý
th est for us to introduce it, along with veniently if I read a passage from a report
erest of the measure, into the North- made by Mr. Henry Gawler, barrister, for
West Territories, and there after they have many years Examiner of Titles in South
nd some years experience of it, if they
Iid that it does not act satisfactorily they Australia. It is as follcws :a repeal it ; but in the meantime it is " Settlenents nay be divided into two
essential feature of the Torrens system, classes-First, those in which the legal estate
Without which I do not think the Bill is vested in trusteeis, the' cestui que trusts,'
COuîd be worked at all. The great merit or persons beneficially interested, taking only
equitable interests; this is the most cornnon
System is that transfers are made forin of settlement at the present day. Second,
fr
interin which the
og person to person without any chain those take the legal personsinbeneficiallyin postItie and that the trusts are not entered ested
estate the land
be à-use they would complicate the title. session or remainder each one in his own
right, without the intervention of trustees;
•
expl aied to the HouseP- when the
Bill and this is the forn most conmonly used1
UP for the second reading how it was when land is to be strictly entailed.

:362

Real Property ( EN ATEJ] N. W. Territories.

" Settlements under the first dass most
usually contain provisions empowering the
trustees to sel] or to make exchanges, and
exempting purchasers from such trustees
from a]l lhability to inquire into the bona fides
of any sale, or to see to the application of the
purchase.money ; consequently, if the title of
the trustees be otherwise correct, a purchaser
from them cannot be ejected by the cestui que
trusts, on the ground of a breach of trust or
improper sale by trustees. Under the Torrens
Act such a settlement would be effected by
the settler conveying to the trustees by memorandum of transfer, and the trusts would be
declared in the usual form, either in such
memorandum of transfer or in a separate
deed, and the trustees would receive a 'declaration of title.' Now, in what respect would
the cestut que trusts in this case be in a worse
position t han they would have been under
the old system? In either case they must
depend principally upon the honor of the
trustees, and would only have a personal
remedy in the event of a breach of trust. But
ceatui que trusts under the Torrens Act, so
far front being in a worse position than they
would have been under the old systen, are
actually in a better position, because they, or
any person on their behalf, may enter a
caveat, and so prevent any improper dealing
by the trustees. This is the systeni adopte
at the Bank of England in the case of stock
in the funds, and it has been found by experience that pro rty so circumstanced Is practically safe. Can it be believed that what is
safe for beneficial interests in such property
will be otherwise than safe when applied to
land ? The second class of settlements can
be effected under the Torrens Act with the
saame facility as under the old system. The
Torrens Act in no wav interferes with the
principles or rules of law, or with the powers
of landowners or their rights or liberties, but
only with the machineryby which such rights
or liberties may be created or protected: conaequently the second class of settlements is
fuliy and effectually provided for, without. the
intervention of the Statute of Uses. Instead
of conveying to A, for the use of B for life,
with remainder to the use of C in fee, it
conveys direct to B for life, with remainder
to C. Upon the execution of such a settlement the Recorder of Titles would issue a
"«declaration of title" to the first tenant for
life or owner of the first estate of freehold
vested in possession. Such declaration would
set forth the nature of the estate, and all
powers given to the tenant for life by the
settlement, such as powers of appointing the
fee or of releasing. Each remainderman as
his estate became vested in possession, would
receive a declaration of title, and in the meantime he could deal with his interest, though
a purchaser would not receive a declaration
of title until the estate fell into possession.
The only difference, in fact, between a seulement of land under the Torrens system and
of land under the old system is, that in the
former case no estate would pass or become
HON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

vested until the settlement was registered;
but so soon as registered, the settlement would
have exactly the same eftect; estates and
interest wouid vest or be divested exactly as
under the old system."
HON. MR. SCOTT-You do not alloW
it to be registered.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-TheY
do not allow it here to be registered ; they
only allow an accompanying memorandufl'
to be registered.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Those interested in the cestui gue trusts can alwaYs
appear and dispute any conveyance of the
trustee. In this case I believe it is essential to the Bill that the clause should pass,
and therefore, though I have strong and
pungent objections to it, yet it being necessary to carry out the system, my objections
must give way.
HON. MR. GIRARD-I would take
the liberty of reading Sir Robert Torrens'
opinion on this point. On the occasion of
a meeting of the Association in England,
in the year 1882, he said :-

" The declaration of trusts could not be re
gistered, but might be deposited for saf*
custody and reference, and the cestui qg'O
trusts, or beneficiaries, were protected, first,
by caveat, forbidding the registration of any
dealing by the trustees unti notice had bees
given to named parties, or except in accordance with the deposited declaration of trusts,
and secondly. by a ' no survivorship ' clause,
which barred registration of anydealing until
any deficiency in the number of trustees Ocom
sioned by death, insolvency or otherwise,
had been filled up with the sanction of a
judge of the Supreme Court ; greater security
is attained by this mode, and at the samne

time legitimate dealings are not impeded iS
any appreciable degree."
Now, that is perfectly applicable to the
present case. Everyone present at the
meeting agreed in the opinion expressed
by Sir Robert Torrens, and I do not Se
why it should not be adopted on the pre
sent occasion.
The clause was adopted.
On the 74th clause,
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-If there
is anything that we ought to attend toq,t
is to protect the poor man, who may have

Real Proper-ty [MAIRCH 18, 1885] N. W. Territorie8.
n unfortunate, in the possession of his
•d. I have seen many cases where
deP'ty sheriffs, not having properly adverted lands for sale, have got their friends
te bld in the property and buy it in at oneteth of its value. If there is any sympathy
at al, it should be with the poor man and
'lot ith the capitalists, and we ought to
PrOVide that land sales shall be advertised
theciently so that the poor man may get
Value of his land.
The clause was adopted.
On the 91st clause,
do'OI• SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL -I
not see what we can do but adopt this
ase. We labor under this disadvantage
Indscussing the subject, that none of the
bs, so far as I know, (and I think I
r e read them all) gives at any length
ons for the course which the Bill proposes in this respect, but in all the laws
Ih have seen the provision exists,
I
erefore I take it for granted that and
ex-

363

vide some machinery, where a man dies,
for carrying on the estate. I will read to
the House the provision in Mr. Mowat's
Bill in that respect:" On the death of the sole registered owner
or of the survivor of several joint registere
owners, of any freehold land, such person
shall be registered as owner, in the place of
the deceased owner or owners, as inay on the
application of any person interested in such
land, be appointed by the Master of Titles,
regard being had to the rights of the several
persons interested in the land, and in par.
ticular to the selection of any such ersons as
maV for the time bein appear to the Master
of titles to be entitle, according to law, to
be so appointed."
Now, it is a choice between a person
appointed by the court or an executor or
an administrator.
HON.

MR. SCOTT-As I read that

clause the Master has to see in the will
who is the owner.
Ho-.

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes.

therence has shown it is a necessary pat of
HON. MR. SCOTT-And if there are a
e system. It is desirable, therefore, that
number of owners for the different parts
sa
re-enact it and we have the
of the property each one would be conlt1sfaction of knowing that if it is found sidered.
acOnvenient the people of the North-West
't"ater it.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-He
•should

POWER-Has the Minister
fo 'Ï0.M'.
d this particular provision in the
tjsh Columbia Statute ? The reason
ark that question is this-we must refar
that these Australian colonies, as
1egs 1 know, had not the system of
.utStration

looks to see how it is divided, but he
nevertheless registers the executor as the
owner. " On the death of the sole regis"tered owner, or of the survivor of
"several joint registered owners, of any
"freehold land, such person shall be
"registered as owner, in the place of the

that we possess and which "deceased owner or owners, as may on
"the application of any person interested
"in such land, be appointed by the Master of Titles."

Us in such a more advantageous
Us
than the people of England were
n Australia they were not familiar
With
abir system of registration, and prohav Y if they had been they would not
chu, introduced this Torrens system to
tent as they did.

HON. MR. SCOTT-Each person is
appointed for his own
property.

piece

of the

o . MR DICKEY-The adoption
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is
clause depends entirely on the not the devisee, but some other person
e StluckWhich arises under section 5. If who is appointed; because, if it had been
Out clause 5

inethis

it would be entirely the devisee, the clause would have gone
h tis 11
8tent with it to maintain this clause; on to say that in the event of the death of
e to must run together.
the owner the devisee shall be registered.
The clause says that the Master shall
i olon*
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
choose-that is, if he found there were
'dot think that follows. We must pro- two or three children interested
in the

364A

Real Property [SEN ATE]

land he would have regard to their
interests and choose some relative of
theirs, some person in whom they would
have confidence or who would deal
honestly and fairly by them. He does
not choose the devisee hiniself, but some
person to represent the devisee. Now,
under the Bill which is before the committee it is provided, instead of the Master choosing it shall be the executor or
the administrator. The executor is supposed to be a person in whom confidence
can be placed. The provision is as good as
this one in the Mowat Bill, and it saves the
expense of a reference to the Master of
Titles. The Master is probably a stranger
to the parties; why should we suppose
that he would choose a person more
entitled to trust and confidence than the
deceased hinself who had named the
executor, or if the owner died intestate
that the Master would choose a better
person than one named as administrator?
It seems to me that he would not choose
a better person than the executor or administrator, and therefore I think the system in the present Bill is better than that
of Mr. Mowat.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I understand the
clause in the Mowat Bill in this way : take
for illustration the case of a man who
leaves three pieces of property to three
sons. Each of them would be mentioned
as the person entitled to his particular
property.
If there was but one property
left I could understand that one person
would be selected as trustee ; but if three
or four pieces were left, as is commonly
the case, I take it for granted that each
devisee would be the representative of his
own property.

N. W. Territories.

t
HON. MR. DICKEY--I think it musu

do that, because it gives power to the
Master of Titles to investigate the rights
of the several persons. But here YO1
undertake to say that the land shall lot
by this Bill belong to the person to whon
it is devised. The 91st clause Says
"Whenever the owner of any land die
leaving a will, such land shall, subject to
the provisions of this Act, vest in the
personal representatives of the deceas h
owner." Then, at line 20, " upon suc
entry being made, the executor or a
mmnistrator, as the case may be, shall be
deemed to be the owner of such lands.
Now the whole of this thing depends UP0
the question, whether you are going to
treat lands as chattels real.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-NO'
it does not follow at all. This clause about
chattels real does not exist in all of the
Australian colonies, but only in a few o
thein; but this one of transmission throug
the executor or administrator is universal
The clause was adopted.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Supposingq
person dies intestate and no one applies
for administration, is there any machinery
in this Bill by which the court can stake
hold of it at its own instance?

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLThere is no machinery here, but the le«
outside would provide for that. When We
were last in committee a suggestion as
made that clause io6 should be amended
so as to provide for an insurance fund. 1
propose to add the following to the clause:
Page 29, line 38.-After "securites" insert, "and the fees under this Act shalb
those which may, from time to time, be s.e
tied bv the Governor-in-Council, to ether w
one-fifth of one per cent. on the value of the
Real Estate, where such value arnounts to or
is under five thousand dollars, and onetene'

HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-Oh
no. The object is to let the property go
from owner to owner, and therefore some
person must corne and represent the deof one per. cent on the additional value whele
ceased man.
such value exceeds five thousand dollars.
HON. MR. DICKEY-With regard to
HON. MR. POWER-Along with that
this particular point the provision in the
I presume the Minister would strike out
Ontario statute seems to leave room for the provision in the early part of it Proany party to corne in to contest the title to
forlled
the land in that cheap way through the viding for an assurance fund to be fees go
by deducting from the registrars'
Master of Titles.
per cent., because up to the present tirle
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--No, the fees paid in the North-West have beef
it does not do that.
very small.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Te Evans [MARCH 18, 1885] Divorce Bill.

365

oIN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The divorce itself. Whatever reason may have
registrars are paid by salary.
existed in England for that I think exists
more strongly here, because the several
b(N. MR. PLUMB-If there should provinces have different laws in regard to
any deficiency how will it be made up? the custody of children, and we would be
dealing with a question on which we are
"ON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We much less informed than a court of law is
ae the assurance fund will gradually when it comes to consider such a subject.
gain; it has been the case in other colonies. For instance in the Province of Quebec, if
there was a Divorce Bill to be decided
rhe clause was adopted.
here and we were to grant the custody of
children we might be running contrary to
On the 127th clause,
the laws there without knowing half as
well as those who made the laws of the
lON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
province or those who have to administer
ProPOse to add to this clause the words those laws what was usual in the Province
which 1 found in Mr. Mowat's Bill:of Quebec. And so in the other provinces;
age 36, line 19.-After " petition " insert, we are not informed-we are not in a
SUch a case the words 'no survivorship' position to deal with theEe questions.
In
ih e entry shall be construed to mean that fact that is a defect of the system which
no gistered disposition ownere should die, we are
ab case any one of the of the land or change granting obliged to use, faut de mieux, in
divorces. But we might with
,t.,e made except under order of the
advantage avoid going any further-we
might avoid passing any Bill relative to
The clause as amended was adopted.
the custody of the children, but merely
grant the divorce and leave the parties to
rION. MR. READ, from the coninittee, obtain their rights in that respect from the
?etorted that they had made some progre'ss courts of the
province in which they live,
1 asked leave to sit again to-norrow.
courts much better able to do what is
right.in the matter than this House can
HE EVANS DIVORCE BILL. be. Therefore I suggçst to my hon. friend
who has charge of the Bill that it would
THIRD READING.
be wiser to leave out this paragraph with
reference to the custody of the child.
.oN. MR. GOWAN moved the third

ora1g of Bill (G), "An Act for the relief
desice Alvira Evans."

HON. MR.

KAULBACH-I am very

He said: the glad the Minister of Justice has suggested

ee has been printed, and the case, this course. When a Bill came up before,
i 11k, will commend itself to everyone giving property to children, I was very
the House.
much opposed to it, because we were
interfering with property and civil rights.
is » -SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-There I am very glad that this House is to be
fri that 13ill a clause to which my hon. relieved of some of the duties of a divorce
at t who has charge of it drew attention court, which I think it is very important
ar
.second reading-that is, the clause we should be relieved of. As I have
i ding for the care of the child. I think stated, on the occasion to which I referred,
ct onild be wiser for us not to pass a Bill I was very much opposed to interfering
1
tonaining such a provision. We have with a matter of this kind further than
dePhP8 We have or two occasions, and granting the divorce. If we cannot be
so on one
s
the power. By stretching relieved entirely of those divorce cases, we
it s argument a little, it may be held that should be relieved at all events of matters
gr Ie of the incidents of the power of with which we cannot deal as satisfactorily
geting a divorce. I find in England, as the courts of the provinces can.
Ilouse of Lords dealt with the
esthe
c io of divorce, that they were very
HoN. MR. GOWAN-When I first took
t
about making any such provision, charge of this Bill I pointed out to the
ey confined themselves to the parties promoting it that the clause was
t

366

The Evans [SENATE]

Divorce Bill.

At the same time, niy hon. triend on Enf
right, (Mr. Gowan) said there were soal
legal objections to it and I asked that it
might be left in the Bill and we would get
the opinion of the Minister of Justice la
regard to it. My object has been attaine4
The clause has been left in the Bill an.
the Minister of Justice now thinks that It
would be prudent to omit it. I will do
my hon. friend from Barrie the justice to
say that he stated from the first that he
considered as a lawyer (which I am no)O
that we had no right to legislate in this
direction. I wished to save the Poor
woman the expense of going to the courts
to obtain that which our assent to the
petition and our recommending the Bi1î
seemed almost to carry with it as a niatter
of course. I wanted to save her cost an
trouble. That was one of the cases which
we have been abused for having shut OUt
the public from, where we desired te,
screen a most unfortunate womanl
would call her a lady-from'the observtion of impertinent curiosity when she
came to ask for a right to which I though
HON. MR. PILUMB-When this Bill she had fully established her claim.
was oefore the committee I observed this
clause which gave to the woman, who was
HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentlethe petitioner, the right to the custody of man from Barrie said something as to the
her child. She unfortunately had married scruples of members of the church to
a profligate man. She had a boy, who which I belong. I wish to inforim that
was the issue of the marriage. She was hon. gentleman that while we may have
separated from her husband before or scruples as to voting for a ¿Divorce Bill,1
about the tine the child was born. No do not think any member of the churcb
support was ever given to her or the child. to which I belong would have any scruPîe
For several years she had to maintain about voting for the 3rd clause of the Bill,
herself and the child, and she would have which gives to a deserving and virtuonS
applied for a divorce long before she did, woman the care of her child instead 0'
but that she did not learn ot the residence giving it to her scoundrelly husband.
of her husband until several years after he think my hon. friend may dismiss frorn
had lefther. Thenshefound himliving with his mind any feeling that we have a scru
another woman, having a family which he ple of that kind. I was going to subint
acknowledged as his own. It was a great this to the consideration of the Minister
misfortune for the woman to have her life of justice : I quite agree with the hOn'
blighted by a scoundrel. That clause in gentleman from Niagara that we have in
the Bill was spoken of as being one which the past been in the habit of passin
might be objectionable : I believe that divorce bills containing clauses of thÎç
Bills with similar clauses have passed this character with respect to the custo oyf
House. My only desire to have it retained children, and I think the present is a
was to save that woman from the vexation where the wife is peculiarly entitled tO
and expense of going to the courts for an have the custody of her child and whce
obvious right, a right which I think nature the husband has really no claim whatevc
gave her, and concerning which, I think, The wife is a comparatively poor worn
she would have the sympathies of this body who has been maintaining herself by
if her case was known to them as it is own exertions. I think if we can save
known to us who were on that committee. the expense and annoyance that Ieay arl
open to the objections which have been
referred to by the Minister of Justice. I
have seen the solicitor for the petitioner
since the Bill passed through committee,
and told him that I certainly could not
support that clause. He said he was
perfectly willing to have it struck out. In
addition to the reasons which have been
mentioned by the hon. Minister of Justice
why such a clause as that should not be
inserted in this Bill, I think one may be
found in the fact that certain members of
the Senate have conscientious scruples on
the subject of divorce ? It is necessary,
however, to deal with the subject of
divorce, Parliament having the exclusive
jurisdiction ; but in certain incidental
matters arising out of divorce, it is not
necessary, the ordinary tribunals of the
country being competent, and indeed
better able to deal with it. We should
not, therefore, needlessly force the members of this House who have objections
to take any action. We should, I think,
respect their religious sensibilities.

HON. MR.

GOWAN.

The Evan.s [MARCH 18, 1885] Divorce Bill.
to her from striking out this clause, that
We Ought to -do so, and I feel disposed
mYself to think that it would be wiser to
let this Bill pass as it is, and let the staternent made by the Minister of Justice now
be a rule to guide us in the future; but I
r'eally think we should not make this poor
WoIman the first example under the, new
rule.

HON.

367

SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL -

1

think we had better adhere to the rule.

THE SPEAKER-As the question now
stands before the Hous2 a regular motion
would be required from some other member, which motion should be in writing.
Perhaps the other gentlemen will take the
suggestion of postponing the order of the
day until to-morrow and have a regular
ON. MR. GOWAN-I cannot under- motion prepared to strike out the 3rd
stand the logical position of the hon. clause.
gentleman from Halifax. He is willing to
HON. MR. VIDAL-I move that the
allow this clause to be retained because it
is a case which appeals to him and a said Bill be not now read the 3rd time but
divorce has taken place. If he or any that it be referred to a committee of the
Other gentleman has scruples of conscience whole House presently, with instructions.
GO point of the power of the civil to strike out the 3rd clause of the said
the
atlthority to grant divorce and believes Bill.
t
hat our action here is valueless and
HoN. MR. DICKEY-That is a round11Ugatory then I cannot see how he can
ask to have that done which is only the about way of making the amendment, and
consequence of divorce. If no divorce it is quite unnecessary.

has

taken place in

foro

consientia, then

this Clause would be absurd and meaningless, but if he asks us to retain that clause
he admits logically the power and duty of
th's House to grant a divorce. I say it is
a dilemma that no one can escape from.
110 divorce has taken place, then we
ve no power to deal with it, but I believe
0ror the standpoint of some hon. gentlenerl in this House that they do not recogrizein conscience the power of any
egilature to sever the marriage tie. The
soicitor who is the promoter of this Bill
desires that the third clause should be
Wthdrawn ; he told me so himself.
it

THE SPEAKER-

I did not intend

that.
HON. MR. DICKEY -The
proper
course would be to inove that the Bill be
not now read the third time but that
clause three be struck out.
THE SPEAKER-The simple course
would be, after the hon. member from
Barrie moves the third reading of the
Bill, for some other member to move in
amendment that the Bill be not now read
the third time but that it be amended by
striking out the 3rd clause.

iNR PLUMB-He is willing that
HoN. MR. VIDAL-I beg to put my
uld be withdrawn.
motion in that form.

ION. MR KAU LBACH-As the hon.
lrenber from Niagara has stated, this is
al, eeptional case, and if we would just
thoW this Bill to pass as it is and let it be
le understanding of the House that
ful
hreafter we will not take cognizance of
anything further than divorce-let
it be
'41de1.tood that this is not to be a precede that We

The House divided on the amendment
which was adopted by the following vote:
CONTENTS:

Hon. Messrs.

Alexander,
McKindsey,
Almon.
MeMaster,
Miller (Speaker),
in future will not recognize Archibald,
Campbell, (Sir Alex.),Montgomery,
O'Donohoe,
td rghts of property or rights to the cus- Clemow,
Plumb,
dy of children from the consequence of Dever,
Smith,
d4vrce I think my hon. friend, the Dickey,
Ferrier,
Turner,
might allow this Bill Flint,
er of Justice,
Vidal-19.
to

Pass as it is.

Gowan,

Sault Ste. Marie jSENATE] Bridge Co.'8 Bil

368

NoN-CONTENTS:

Hon. Mslightest
Boucherville, de,
Boyd,
Haythorne,
Kaulbach,

no member of this House could have the
hesitation to adopt the report of
the committee.

Nelson,
Odell,
Pelletier,
Poirier,

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I may saY
that having carefully looked over this matter, and my views being very strong in
the first instance, I fully endorse what
Stevens.-13.
McCielan,
has been said, that the petitioner conMcKay,
nived at the amours of his wife, and that
The Bill was then read the third time he is the last person who should corne tO
the Senate to ask for a divorce for the
on a division and passed.
offence which he was largely instrumental
HATZFELD DIVORCE BILL.
in bringing about.
THIRD READING.

The motion was agreed to.

HoN. MR. KAULBACH moved the
third reading of Bill (D) "An Act for the
relief of Georg Louis Emil Hatzfeld."

The motion was agreed to on a divi-

Sion and the Bill was read the third time
.and passed.
THE SNIITH DIVORCE BILL.
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ADOPTED.

HoN. MR. GOWAN moved that the
-second report of the Select Committee to whom was referred Bill (B)
"An Act for the relief of Charles Smith,"
be adopted. He said: It was unanimously agreed upon by the committee
that it was one of the grossest cases that
it is possible to conceive that any man
could have the audacity to corne before
the House and ask relief upon. There
was evidence before us that the petitioner
intended the adultery which he complains
of should take place; that he not merely
did not interfere, but that he encouraged
it by his criminal connivance. He had
a willing mind, he acquiesced, and now
he comes before Parliament complaining
of his wife's adultery and seeking to have
the tie dissolved on that ground. Voleniti
non fit injuria. He who was an accessory
before the fact seeks to take advantage
of his own wrong doing; he who encouraged his wife to commit an act to his
own dishonor now asks i'arliament, against
all authority, human and divine, to sanction his base connivance. I think after
reading the exhibits which appear in the
Minutes in connection with the evidence

Hox. MR. REAL) moved that the 5 th
report of the joint Comiîuittee of both
Houses onthe Printîng of Parliaent bc
adopted. H-e explained that it merely re
commended the printing of certain docu[he motion was agrued to.
SAULT ST. MARIE BRIDGE CON!

'LCOND READING.

HoN. MR. POWER nOVed the second
reading of Bil (52) "An Act respoCtifl,
the Sault St. Marie Bridge CompanY
He said: This is a bil to extend the tirne
1
within vhich the work at this bridge sha
be begun and completed. The charter
8
the company was granted i 18 2, and
the 32nd section of the charter, cap. 89,
of the Acts of that year, provided that the
bridge should be begun and compheted
before certain dates s)ecihed, after the
This amendmeflt 15
passing of the Act.
to extend the time so that the work shotld
be commenced within three years, and
completed within six years from the pasS
ing of the Act.
7

The motion was agreed to and the
was read the second tine.

{

Hianilton Pirovidnt [MARCH 20, 1885] & Loan Societie8 Bill. 369
GREATI WESTERN & LAKE"ONT- WOOD MOUNTAIN AND QU'APPELLE RAILWAY CO.'S BILL
ARSHORE JUNCTION RAILWAY COMPANY'S BILL.
SECONt

READIN.

RON. MR. McMAS'TER inoved the
Ond reading of Bill (38) " An Act reating to the Great Western and Lake
n1tario Shore function Railwav ComPany."

0

tie said: 1 took charge of this Bill in
the absence of the hon. gentleman from
ntreal.*It
provides for constructing
a short line of railway from the main line
of the Great Western to Lewiston, to conflect With a line far advanced now on the
Arrerican side. A bridge, however, is to
beconstructed, and the Grand Trunk
Railway tCompany, now in possession of
e Great Western Railwav, do not feel it
advisable to expend monev in constructing
this short line until the bridge
is near
r-ornletion. The only other provision in
it refers to the substitution of the name
of
John Burton, of Montreal, for Frede'rick
roughton as one of the directors.
T
he motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Was read the second time.

NADA\ CONGREGATIONAL MIS-

SIONARY SOCIETY'S 1IL.
SECLONi

REAiING;.

SEcOND READING.

HoN. MR. PLUMB moved the second
reading of Bill (23) "An Act to amend the
Act to incorporate the Wood Mountain
& Qu'Appelle Railway Company." He
said -This is a Bill which has passed the
other House, and is here with the petition
all right, I understand.
The company
ask, in the first place, that the second
section of their Act shall be repealed, and
that they shall have power and authority
to construct their railroad starting from a
different point, giving them a wider choice
of the point at which they shall begin.
In a big country like the North-West, it is
not possible always to designate, in the
first instance by survey, where is the
most important point to begin a railway,
but i believe we are all of opinion that it
is desirable to give railway companies in
the North-West every facility for constructing their lines. This Bill merely gives
this company the right to begin in any
one of four townships, instead of limiting
them to one township. They also ask
that the time for the commencement of
the railway be extended for two years from
the passing of the Act, and that the same
be completed in five years after the commencement thereof.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time.
The Senate adjourned at 6 o'clock

r UON.XR VIDALI moved the second
thng of- Bill (54) " An Act respecting
THE SENATE.
S.anada Congregational Missionary
y.
He said-This is a Bill which
O//aWa, Friday,March 20/, 188f.
Seta. y in Hon. Mr. Sullivan's charge,
eahe is not here, and I move the second
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
it - g of it according to the notice. It o'clock p. m.
theIPly a Bill to sanction the union of
ro ngregational churches of the lower
Prayers and routine proceedings.
ncI es, and to give them power to
HAMILTON PROVIDENT AND
eln their mision work throughout the
e extent of the Dominion. It conLOAN SOCIETY'S BILL
0
o clauses but those which are quite
4cMKfon in similar Bills.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.

The 'notion was agreed to and the Bill
read the second time.

HON. MR. PLUMB, from the Committee on Banking and Commerce, re-

Cape Traverse [SENATE]

370

ported Bill (J) " An Act to comprise in
one Act a limitation of the share and loan
capital of the Hamilton Provident and
Loan Society," with certain amendments.
He moved that the report be concurred
in.
HON. Mî. DICKEY--It has been
usual, in accordance with the rule, that
the chairman presenting a report from a
committee should state to the Senate the
effect of these amendments. We are
called upon at present to decide in what
way the amendments affect the Bill.
HoN. MR. PLUMB-The effect of the
amendnents may be briefly stated in this
way: there was a clerical error in the Bill
where 1,ooo shares of capital stock cf the
company was inserted instead of ro,ooo.

The other is striking out from the Bill a
declaration of the amount of the deposits
and debentures, which varies from year to
year. As the Committee have had no
evidence before them except as to the
amount of those sums on the first day of
January last, and it was practically not
important in the Bill, it was suggested by
the pronoters that it should be omitted,
and the committee thouglit it was better
to omit it than that they should certify to
what might not be a permanent position
of the company.

The motion was agreed to and the report was concurred in.
CAPE TRAVERSE BRANCH RAILWAY.
MOTION FOR A RETURN.
HON. MR. BOTSFORD moved,
That an humble address' be presented to
His Excellency the Governor-General praying
that he wili cause to be laid before this
House a return showing in detail the total
cost of the Cape Traverse branch railway;
including the sums paid to engineers and for
superintending its construction, the rolling
stock, stations and other buildings.
He said: This branch railway referred
to in the notice which I have given, is a
portion of the road which connects the
system of railways in Prince Edward Island with Cape Traverse, which is the
pbint chosen specially for the winter
conmunication between Prince Edward

HoN. MR. PLUMB.

Branci Railway.

Island and Cape Tormentine. That part
of the road has been constructed by the
Government and I do not ask for this In'
formation to throw out any insinuation
that the moneyhas not been well expendedThe object is not to obtain information
for the purpose of criticising the expend'
ture on this branch, because I believe,
from the information I am possessed of'
that the money was well expended, and
that the road had been well built. MY
object in asking for this information is to
enable the company which is constructing
the railway from Cape Tormentine to the
Intercolonial railway at Sackville, to build
1
1
its road of a similar character. It W'
give the company valuable information,
and that is my object in moving this
address. I may state that that portion Of
the route is 37 miles in length and the
Cape Traverse branch is about 13 miles,
and the distance across the Strait is nine
miles. Consequently when the Cape
Tormentine part of the road is cOn'
structed the distance between Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, by the
branch to Cape Traverse, and from there
to Cape Tormentine, and thence to a
junction with the Intercolonial RailWaY
will be about 81 miles, including the passage across the Straits. When this end o
he road, which is now being constructed
by a private company, is finished, and the
Government carry out the improvelents
contemplated, and a steamboat is put there
of sufficient capacity to carry passengers
and such freight as may offer, trains goîig
at the average rate of speed at which e1press trains on the Intercolonial RailWay
are run, and crossing the Strait in a
steamboat will enable a passenger leavmg
Charlottetown at 12 noon to arrive at the
Intercolonial Railway Junction at 4
o'clock in the afternoon. As a inatter of
course that speed of communication caln
not take place unless the GovernMent
carry out the recommendations which are
contained in the report which I hold in
my hand, made in 1883 by a conmittee
of the House of Commons, consistifng .
gentlemen who are well acquainted .With
the locality, and are personally acquainted
with the difficulties of the navigation, and
who gathered evidence from aliost everY
practical man who had been acquatled
with the navigation of the Straits in the
winter. In their report they have Iade

Cape Traiver

[MAIRCIH 20, 1885] Branch Railwa.

certain recommendations which, if carried
Out by the Government, (as I have no
donbt they will be) will provide very rapid
Postal communication between the Island
and the other part of the Dominion, and
Will be a great benefit to the Island.
Perhaps it will be a satisfaction to the,
Senate to know what progress is being
r1ade on that part of the road which the
Government have permitted a private
cOmpany to construct and to manage. To
be sure it seems rather anomalous that in
a System of railways which is owned by
the Dominion Government, an important
Portion of the communication between
Prince Edward Island and the mainland
should be constructed and owned and run
by a private company. But so it is, and
1 thimik it would be a satisfaction to the
ýenate to know the progress which has
ten made by the company in constructing
he miles of road.
37
11
0)N. MR. NMcCLELAN-1 would ask
the hon, gentleman if I understand him
?rrectly as to the distanceH? I understood
to say it was 59
irn
iti 37
'n'les ira New Brunswick, 9 miles across
the Straits, and 13 miles from Traverse to
'gfthe on. geten c
i I understand him
Charlottctown.

eON- MR. BO SFORI)- was speakîng o thebranh beng 1 miles, and then
When You core to the junction n wit the
dive,
lat sayystwm of Prince Edward Island it

44
miles w Charlottetown, ren made
Nes. progress which has maing
The
the
f
rnpany hias been examined by
t enginer of the Provincial Governnient, and his report was to this effect that
$178 ,00 have been well expended on the
olad by the company, and that the work
WaS done as well as the work on the Intero 'ialRailway. The estimate of the
harpany's engineer was that $200,ooo
been expended bv the companv. I
thry say that the road is graded to within
dMiles of
bOId have beenCape Tormentine, and
ouiree
conipleted last auturn,
t the Governrnent had not established

th

site of the pier at Cape Tormentine.
I believe the Minister of Public
rOrs intencs to do this spring, when the
h ainIng part of the road will be graded.
company have also laid the rails half
the'. and partly ridges havethe road, and ail
ballasted
thenPortant F
been coi, itr
1V0

3
371

ed. Hon. gentlemen will therefore perceive that in all probability this road will
be completed by the autumn, and in running order, and if the Goveinment carry
out the recommeidations contained in the
report of the committee of the House of
Commons, I think Prince Edward Island
members will not have any reason to
complain that they have not as speedy and
secure communication across the Straits
as can possibly be provided in the winter
season.
HON. MR. )ICKEY-I presume there
will be no objection to this address, and
the information wilI be interesting to the
House. 1 should not make any observation on this motion had not my hon. friend
called particular attention to the fact that
le asked for this address and the information contained in it in the interest of a
private company who are building the
railway from Sackville to Cape Tormentine.
Upon
that part of the subject I have
nothing more to say,
but I think it may be interesting, as
my hon. friend has gone into the question
niles--that
at large, for the members fron Prince
Edward Island and the aouse gnerally
to .know that an application was made,
during the present session, to Parliament
for a Bic to inyorporate a company at
another point on the Intercolonilriwy
the town of Amherst wheru
to
construct a branch to connct with this

line at Baie Verte, and if necessary to go
on to Cape 1ormcntine in case their own
line is not finished
Unfortunately for
the interests of Prince Edward Island
objection was taken to that schern by a
leading member, I believe the president
of the lrivate company to which my hon.
friend bas referred. Ie considered it an
encroachment upon bis domain, and because fornial notice vas not given, the
coîpany, whicb was a ver> influential
one, corlosed of leading capitalists in
Amherst, were îrevented from making
that addition-l connection whicb would
be greatly to the convenience of Prince
Edward Island if it %vereestablisbed. The
cffect of that would have been a shorter
route to the Intercolonial railway-the
matter las been sprung on ne and I only
speak trom memoryand I may be wrongthe
lne
would be soe four miles shorter
to Amherst, and it moayld have afforded a
buct-

372

Cape Traverse

double connection, and

the

[SEN ATE]

Branch,Railway.

people of which they have applied for to the Local
Government,and whichwould givetherm an
equivalent subsidy of $3,ooo a mile,
which the Sackville company have clainied
from the Provincial Government, because
it is a railway entirely in the Province Of
New Brunswick, and has no connectiOn
with Nova Scotia or any other province.
With regard to the other point which MY
hon. friend has asked me about, as to its
running side by side with the other railway, I may say to hin that was a matter
of detail. Of course the Bill asks for
power to build the line to Baie Verte and
to Tormentine, but that was a provisiOl
which was w:thin the control of the House,
and probably had the matter been allowed
to go before the House, the Committee
to whom it would have been referred
would hava taken into consideration the
fact as to whether it was right to allow a
competing line to run alongside of the
other, but there was no reason why the
power should not be given to connect at
all events with Baie Verte.

Prince Edward Island would have an
opportunity at Baie Verte to corne to
Sackville or to Amherst. I think that
was a worthy object, an object which
should have commended itself to the
people of Prince Edward Island, but unfortunately it was defeated by the action
of one of the directors of the company to
which I have referred. I an not making
a complaint ; I am not mentionîng it in
the way of getting up a controversy on the
subject, but as my hon. friend has thought
proper to press upon the members of
Prince Edward Island the advantages of
this branch I thought it my duty to
mention the other scheme, which would
have given to the people of Prince Edward
Island a great additional advantage in
their desire to connect with the Intercolonial Railway, whethier for the purpose of
proceeding to Halifax on the one side, or
to Montreal or Ottawa on the other,
which would have been secured, I think I
arn warranted in saying, but for the interference of the president of the other
company I have referred to, and of which
I do not complain at present, because
they have a perfect right to take advantage of the rules of the House.

HON. MR. BOTS FOR D-Does the hon.
gentleman from Amherst really believe
that there is the remotest probabilitY
that the Province of Nova Scotia would
grant a subsidy to any company in aid Of
HON. MR. BOTSFORD--The objec- the railway he advocates ?

tion which an hon. member took to the
Bill for constructing a branch line from
Amherst to Cape Tormentine was perfectly
justifiable.
Sufficient notice was not
given of the intention of the proposed
new company to apply for a charter, and
hon. members who examine the map will
see that more than one-half of the road
which this company propose to build,
would run alongside of the road which is
already almost completed, the locality of
which is in New Brunswick and forms the
constituency of the member of the Commons to whom the hon. member frori
Amherst has referred. I would like to
ask the hon. member from Amherst if he
really thinks that the capitalists of Amherst
were prepared to construct the proposed
railway by their own private means ?

HON. MR. DICK VY-They have giver'
subsidies to other loal roads, in my owfn
county for instance. They had at all
events satisfied themselves that they had
a fair prospect of getting a subsidy, and
that is all I know about it.
ION. MIR. HAYTHORNE-The conpletion of this railway to connect Cape

Tormentine with the Intercolonial Rail-

way is a matter of great importance to the
province with which I am connectedHon. gentlemen can easily understand
what a sacrifice of time and endurance it
is for passengers who cross the Straits ini
winter to pass the following night in OPen
sleighs travelling over country roads
These difficulties will be overcome by the
completion of this road. For my Part 1
HON. MR. DICKEY-1 think they only desire to express my regretthat the

would have been certainly as well prepared
to build that part of the road as the
capitalists of Sackville were able to build
the other, if they had the same facilities,
HoN. MR. DICKEY.

road is not to be constructed by the Government instead of by a company. Had
the work been undertaken by the Goverrment the result would have been that

Real Property [MARCII 20, 1885] N. W. Territoris.
travellers to and from Prince Edward Island would have been on Government
railways all the may from Montreal to
Charlottetown and vice versa. Of course
We may expect naturally that roads run by
the Government will be maintained in 'a
rnore perfect condition than those owned
by companies, and therefore it would have
been more satisfactory to the Island if the
road had been built by the Government.
may say from my knowledge of the
'country that it is remarkably easy for
ra'lway construction, being without brge
rivers or any great natural obstruct'ons. I
do hope that whatever is to be done in
the construction of this branch will be
done quickly.

373

withdraw the two clauses. The 1 39 th
clause would need careful revision, but that
I think the committee will allow me to
have donc by the law clerk. It repeals
some clauses which it would be necessary
not to repeal in the laws of the NorthWest, because chattels real will not take
the place of real estate, and some of these
repealing clauses relate to real estate, so
that the matter will have to be gone over
carefully, and I think the committee will
allov nie to leave that to the law clerk
to do.

HON. MR. DICKEY--I am very much
pleased, and I am sure the committee
will also be pleased that we are relieved
from the necessity of discussing those
, HON. SIRALEX. CAMPBELL-There clauses and that my hon. friend has, in
ISno objection to the address.
arcordance with his usual courtesy, taken
time to consider this matter and concluded
The motion was agreed to.
to withdraw clauses 5 and 7. I would
not make any observation but for the purREAI, ESTATE, NORTH-WEST
pose of fulfilling a duty which the Government will consider I ought to fulfil in
TERRITORIES, TRANSER
reference to those clauses to show that the
BILL
position I took yesterday was correct.
Clause 5 reads this way :
RIEPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
5. Ail lands in the Tprritories, which, by

The House resumed in Committee of the colminton law, are regarded as real estate,
he Whole the consideration of Bill (A) shal lbelielid to le chattels real, and shail go
An Act respecting rcal property in the to the executor or aninitrate. of any person
or persons dying seized or possessed 'thereof,
Orth-Vest TI ritories.''
er
as otiher personal estate now passes to the
In the Committee,
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLWhen the committee rose yesterday there
rernained two clauses which were to be
onsidered again, upon which I promised
ON.

personmalrepresentatives.

I took the position that if lands were
to be regarded-speaking of that clause,
and that alone-as chattels real in the case
of the wife who had lands in her own

right, those lands would go to the husband
obtain some information which would and be sub*ect to his disposal, just the
elable me to judge of thern better than I same as a chose in action, that is to say a
Cold Yest'erday regarding the objections bond or note of the wife, and would be
which Some hon. gentlemen had to
the con- subject to his control and taken out ofher
lance of those two clauses in the Bill. hands. When I raised the point my hon
a have taken a good deal of trouble to friend the Minister of Justice met it by an
a se myself since then on the subject, emphatic no, and conveyed the idea to
in deference to the views express d myseif and to the committee that I was
yesterday I am content to withdraw those incorrect in that position. I repeated it
Wtclauses, 5 and 7. It would entail the and stated that I was quite sure my
thatSsty of re numbering the ciauses, but memory did not deceive me; but I have
Itbled
suppose could be done. I am en taken the trouble since to look at the
the to withdraw the two clauses because authority, and I will refer my hon. friend

coere is a provision in section 9 [ which
WOers the whole case and enables us to
'or k the Bil.
I am ther fore glad to
the views of hon. gentlemen and

to a well known work, Stephen's Commentaries, second volume, page 262, in
which the position I took then is clearly

1sustained :

374

Real Property [SENATE]

" AB to terns of years and other chattels
real, of which the wonan is possesse i at the
timie of her marriage, or which accrue to ber
during coverture, her husband beconies possessed of then in ber right. And lie is entitled not only to the profits and the
ment during their joint lives, but lie
dispose of then as he pleases by
during the coverture, and they are
be taken in execution for his debts."

managealso nay
any act
liable to

I am quite sure that the House appreciates the position which I occupy in this
matter; and while I spoke yesterday entirely from memory of principles which a
lawyer is supposed never to forget, I wish
to put myseif right in all matters of this
kind where I give a strong opinion, and I
am sure the House will excuse me for
showing that I have grounds for the
opinions I expressed at that time.
HON. MR. POWER-I am very glad
indeed that the Minister of Justice has
yielded to the expressions of opinion of
the committee with respect to the 5 th and
7th clauses; and I am sorry he did not
go a little further and yield to the same
expression of opinion as to the ith clause,
or that be did not at any rate provide that
in the case of a wife making a deed to her
husband under that clause there should
be an acknowledgment before a notary
or some other officer. I think there is a
great danger that the i ith clause will be
abused, and I do not think that the insertion of the provision for the acknowledgement would hurt it in the slightest degree.

The motion was agreed to.
HON. MR. READ, from the committee
reported the Billwith amendments.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
that the amendments be now concurred in.

HON. MR. SCOTT-Before the report
is received I desire to test the sense of
the House with reference to that clause of
which I gave notice-that clause 8, which
I move, therefore,
strikes out dower.
that the Bill be not now concurred in, but
that it be referred back to the committee
to strike out section 8 in relation to dower.
I do not propose to enlarge on what I
have already said on that subject ; but it
seems to me we are making a great
mistake when we deprive the wife of the
HON. MR. DICKEY.

Y. W. Territores.

right to say what disposition shall be niadC
of the property which, in the great major
ity of cases, she has assisted to create afld
develop. I am not aware that in the past
it has been regarded that this dower, particularly under the law which prevails 11
Ontario, has been a real substantial
embarrassment, and it tends to disturb, i
my judgment, the family relations which
ought to exist between a man and his wifeI think it is a very serious proceeding,
that dower should be taken away fron ail
lands. The furthest that it has gone is 111
Ontario, where a law has been passed
permitting the husband to dispose of lande
on which no improvements have been
made, if he has acquired them himself,
without the concurrence of his wife, but
the principle that the wife ought nlot
to be consulted in the disnosition of lands
which she herself has probably taken a
very active part in accumulating, is one
which will not meet with much favor with
the vast majority of people of the English
speaking races, and the majority of people
in the North-West. That clause is lO
part of the Torrens system. It does nOt
affect at ail the facility with which land
may be conveyed.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It i5
a very fair question on which to take the
opinion of the House. I mentioned nY
views upon the subject when the Bill was
up for the second reading and I do 11ot
know that it is necessary for me to enlarge
more upon the subject now. There are
The strongest
arguments both ways.
argument for the dower is the one which
is used by my hon. friend from NeW
Brunswick and it has been mentioned
again to-day by my hon. friend fr0n
Ottawa ; but there are abundant reasons
on the other side, and I think we must
bear in mind that under the Bill the wife
will come in at all events for one-third of
the real estate as a chattel.
HON. MR. SCOTT-That is on the
death of the husband ?

eg
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELLT'hen there is the advantage that thd
husband is enabled to part more readily
with his property, and that advantage ria>
We
redound to his wife and children.
know in the majority of instances the wife

Real Property [MARC H 20, 1885] S. W. Territorie.

375

'S Willing to give up her dower.
We do du it ; but I think that the wife is usually
IOt know many cases in which she refuses the protector of the family against the im-

to do so, and we have the statement by
the hon. member from Barrie the other
lay that after the experience of forty years
In examining wives as to parting with their
estates that he never knew an irstance in
which the wife had refused. I seems to
Me that the tendency is towards the legisltion which we propose.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I believe
.there should be no dower in the NorthWest. That was my contention from the
first. The husband and wife are to be
separate parties. Under the Bill as it now
txists, I an opposed to a woman being

Sllowed to convey property to her husband;
ut as that is allowed to exist, her dower
Ould be to a large extent gone under this
ii. The dower is precarious and uncertain, and it hampers land and destroys its
Value in the market largely, and therefore
shall vote against the amendment.
'ioN. MRI. PLUMB-I regret very
'nuch that I cannot agree with my hon.
end the Minister of Justice, to whose
OPilnions I pay the greatest deference, in
regard to this matter of dower. I took
the Position from the outset on reading
the Bill, that dower should not be abolished, and I see no reason for changing my
ýIind with regard to that. I think we lose
Sight, in this matter, of those who are
to
Protected by the right of dower. be
-Ordinary transactions, in the transfer In
of
real estate we may rest upon the assurance
'nmy hon. friend from Barrie, that in a long
'Perience he has never known the claim
Of dower to embarrass any transfer of
Property, and we can set that off against
*hat has been said by the hon. member
t
on Lunenburg. There are cases, I am
fa
where that provision has
ITlily from being utterly wrecked. saved a
'ION. MR.

SCOTT-Hear, hear.

PLUMB-It is for that
n that I feel a conscientious convicfon that we should not lightly take away
pOt• the family the security which that
DrOVision gives. It may not be used : it
%aY not be necessary for the wife to refuse
joJin in a conveyance, because with that
eguard she would not be even asked to
oN. MR.

providence of the husband. We are legislating not for people of wealth or people
who are having large transactions in the
transfer of real estate; but for the humble
householder and his family, and we are trying
if possible not to take away any safeguards
that are thrown about the sanctity of the
household and the safety of the family and
I do not believe it is dechildren.
sirable that we should do that, and I do
not think that for the sake of facilitating
the sale of property and its transfer we
should do even a prospective or possible
injustice to a class who cannot come here
to protect themselves. I think there
have been many instances in which the
right of dower has prevented the wreck of
households---many and many instances of
the kind-and it is hardly a fair answer
to that to say that the wife on the death
of her husband takes her share of the
property. The time when she suffers is
in the life of her husband, not in his
death ; and that is the period in which
it is desirable not to withdraw from her
any of those protections of the law which
she has been accustomed to believe
belonged to her, and which have been
from time immemorial extended to her.
I think it will be a great surprise to the
people of this country to know that by any
legislation, not for themselves, but by the
adoption or affirmation of any principle of
legislation that that right has been taken
away in any part of Canada. I admit that
in the North-West there is not any very
great likelihood that serious hardship
of that kind can occur ; but it must be
remembered that we are here confirming
a principle which can readily be applied
to any other province as well as to the
North-West. Those who want to make
the change--the gentlemen who have
inaugurated this movement, and I think I
know very well who they are-either those
gentlemen or others by and by will wish
to extend this principle, and they will say
that the Parliament of Canada have
already affirmed it and that it is only
because it might be inconvenient in
some of the other provinces that it
Real
was not extended to thern.
property has by a legal fiction been
made a chattel ; all the securities
that have been thrown about it hereto-

3T 6

Real Proyperty [SENATE]

fore have been swept away ; for what ?
For the purpose, as far as I can see, of
saving the expense of examining into
titles. With one-tenth part of the legislation that we are asked to give here, we
could adopt a system of registration of
searches, no more difficult, arbitrary or
onerous than this system-in fact nothing
like as much so-one which wouid nct
change the other principles connected
with real estate and would have answered
every purpose. There would have been
no difficulty about it. That is the only
valid argument I have heard for the whole
change we are asked to adopt, that every
transfer should carry with it an absolute
title ; and it will be a saving of expense.
As to the saving of expense, which we are
led to believe will take place, a prominent
advocate of this measure, the man upon
whose pamphlet all the arguments almost
that have been advanced in favor of the
measure have been based, telis the legal
profession, "Do not oppose this measure
under the idea that it is going to take
away your fees, for I assure you in Australia where it has been adopted the
lawyers have done more since it was
adopted and made more money out of it
than they did before." I can turn to the
very line in which that argument is put
forward. I do not wish to say anything
more on the general principles of the Bill,
but I regret very much that I shall be
compelled, if the matter is put to a vote,
to support the amendments of my hon.
friend opposite.
HON. MR. ALL XANDER-It is not
often that I have the good fortune to
agree with my hon. friend who has just
taken his seat, but I certainly do to-day.
HON. MR. PLUMB-If anything could
alter my position, that would suffice.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Letustake
the instance of a family who have been
unfortunate in the Old Country on account
of the want of thrift and management of
the husband. They sell all their property,

and perhaps the man moves to the NorthWest with his wife and family, and the
same want of thrift and management
follows him there. He invests his all in
the North-West, and manages to run

through the whole of his property; would
HON. MR. PLUMB.

AV.W. Territories.

this House deprive the wife and children
of the right which they would have under
the law of dower ? Why should we interfere with the law of dower in that case?
I think there are many such cases conilg
up ; even in our own past life we have
known in our own counties where a
dower has saved the family from ruin.
HON. MR. SUT HERLAND)-I wOuld
beg to niake a few remarks on this subject,
although I do so with considerable difl'
dence. At the organization of ManitOba,
and for some short time afterwards, We
had the right of dower ; but since that
tine -for several years now-it has beel
done away with ; and I think it is very
possible that the North-West Territories
will be likely to do the very same thing ;
so that I think myself it is not at all u'
likely, even if this amendrent were adOP'
ted, and dower was retain.ed, that il a
short time we would have the law amendet
1'
in the North-West. I may also mentio Y
though it is not exactly pertinent to this
clause of the Bill, that I said the other
day I felt sure Manitoba would endorse
I noticed in the
the passing of this Bi'.
telegraphic dispatches last evening fr01n
Manitoba, with reference to the openifl
of the Legislature there, that there is ai
item in the Speech from the Throne,
showing that the Torrens system is to be
taken into consideration by the Legislature
of the province this session.
HON. MR. POWER-When we first
went into committee on this Bill 1 eX'
pressed an opinion different froni that Of
the hon. gentleman from Ottawa, and t
regret to be obliged to say that I have no
since seen any reason to alter my opinioln
although the appeal made by the honmember from Niagara did move me considerably to-day. I think that the abolitiOîl
of dower is really almost an essential part
of the Torrens system, and I think so 1or
this reason, that one of the great difficulties
in searching titles under the present systen'
is that the solicitor has to know whCther
every man from whom the title has pass
had a wife or not, and if he had a wife
whether she joined in the conveyance.
is one of the most inconvenient things 10
connection with the searching of titles.
My hon. friend from Manitoba has re
ferred to a circumstance which we ought

Real Property [M AROH 20, 1885] N. W. Territories.
to take into consideration ; that is that in
the North-West there are a great many
Men whose wives are not with them there.
A Inan goes up from Ontario or Quebec
and buys land in the North-West, and
after holding it for a year or two he sees
an Opportunity to dispose of it to advantage, and it would be exceedingly inconvenient to secure the concurrence of the
wife in a great many cases.

HoN.

MR.

is With him.

SCOTT-Suppose the wife

HON. MIR. POWER-The wife very
Often does not go with him. If we retain
dower it seems to me that we should as a
natural and logical consequence retain
Courtesy too; and that the other provisions,
the 1ith and 13 th sections, I think should
80 out, as well as the 5th and 7th. I
should like to ask the Minister of Justice
what the law is in the North-West, whether
the law as to the relative positions of
husband and wife there is the same as at
Present in the Province of Ontario, or
learly the same?
ION.

SIR

believe so.

ALEX. CAMPBE1i,-

I

. HON. MR. POWER-Then the positiOn is this ; that under the existing law

in that country and under the remaining
Provisions of this Bill the husband and
Wife are completely separate. We give her
n this Bill all the property she owns when
she marries, to be hers absolutely ; her
hlsband has no right to interfere with it in
anY way. Why should the husband be
treated differently from the wife ? Why
ShOluld she be allowed to interfere with the
disposition of his property when he is not
Perrnitted to interfere with the disposition
Of hers ? There is a good deal of force in
the argument that the wife restrains the
husband sometimes from making a foolish
dISpsition of his property ; but there is
aIso the argument that the husband might
prevent her from making a foolish dispoSitionl of her property.

We have passed a

37T

fifty years ago, dower was practically done
away with in England. The wife's dower
was limited to the land which the husband
died seized of. Under this Bill she gets
one-third of the propery her husband dies
seized of, which is better than the right of
dower.
HON. MR. DICKEY-I agree with the

hon. member from Niagara in what he
said as to their being no practical difficulty
in the transferring of property in the older
provinces with regard to dower, because,
as a matter of fact, we who are familiar
with these transfers know generally that
there is no difficulty at all. It very rarely
happens that such a joining in a deed is
refused. For that very reason the old
doctrine of dower is after all but a very
partial benefit to the wife. If the question
were an abstract one my feelings would be
entirely to retain the right of dower to the
wife ; but the difficulty I have in this
matter is that if you strike out this clause
you interfere with the whole framework of
this part of the Bill. The House for the
present purposes I may say have decided
in favor of the principle of this Bill, and
they have decided to make the husband
and wife for all intents and purposes two
separate individuals, with rights of control
each over their own property ; so that the
wife stands on an entirely different footing
from what she did before, and as regards
the question of dower, while the right is
taken away from her, this Bill deprives the
husband ot the right of an estate for life
in his wife's lands after her death and
gives each the power to convey to the
other; so that I think it would be entirely
inconsistent with the other parts of the
Bill to interfere with this portion of it. I
think that the House would be justified in
retaining that clause It would simplify
matters very much indeed, and if you give
the wife the power to deal with her own
property and give her, by another clause,
at the death of her husband one-third
absolutely of the land the same as she
receives of the personal estate, I do not
see that there is any hardship in the matter.
I am therefore disposed to support the
Government as they seem inclined to press
the matter.

umber of clauses making the husband
?nd Wife independent of each other, and
twould be exceedingly unfair, as it has
en shown that it would be inconvenient,
the general purposes of the Bill, to ren the right of the dower; and I may add,
HoN. MR. TRUDEL-I am disposed
as 1 thinkI mentioned before, that some to vote for the amendment of the hon.

378

Real Property [SEN ATE]

gentleman from Ottawa, because I believe
that we cannot give too much attention to
securing a family patrimony. Of course
I agree that as to what we call customary
dower-that is dower existing by the
simple fact of the marriage-the effect
would be to create a great obstacle to the
working of this Bill, and the moment the
House is of opinion that we should give
the system a trial, I do not think, practically speaking, that the customary dower,
or the dower as it was understood in
England many years ago, is possible ; but
I think b th interests might be secured by
adopting a system which would not at all
prevent the working of the Torrens system
and at the same time would secure for the
wife and children some property in case
the husband might sustain misfortune in
business. It is what we call in our province the prefix dower ; it is a dower
which is somewhat in the nature of a
hypothec on the property, such as would
be created in favor of a man lending
money.

N. W. Territories.

it the character of stability which it would
not otherwise have.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLThere is no difficulty in that.
HON. MR. TRUDEL-If there is no
difficulty I do not see why it should nOt

be adopted.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
does not require it. Supposing a man
wants to make this kind of dower, which
really is, as far as I understand the hon.

gentleman, a settlement which a inal
may wish to make on his daughter prior tO
her marriage, he has only to make a settle
ment-he has only to say that he mort-

gages such and such property in favor of
his daughter, and then he appoints trustees
to look after it, and there is a settlement
as good as could be made now in a very
long deed. The terms of the settlenent
are filed in the registry office by way of
showing to all persons what the settlement
is. That can be completed under the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We Act as it now stands. There is no Ocshould call it a marriage settlement.
casion to amend the Act in the least for
that object.
HON. MR. TRUDEL-You can call it
what you like, but it would secure a cerHON. MR. TRUDEL-Such a settletain sum which could not be expended by ment would have the effect of preventing
the husband, and in case of a wreck of the wife from disposing of that right ?
the family fortunes it would secure to the
wife and children something. For instance,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,
it happens very often, when a man becomes as completely as it could be done now.
insolvent, that he dies leaving his wife
HON. MR. TRUDEL-It does not
with a number of children penniless, and
I cannot conceive anything fairer than the exist under this Bill.
legitimate desire of a father, for instance,
HON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
to secure for his daughter something to
save her from want and misery in such but the Bill does not interfere with the
right.
case.
HoN. MR. PLUMB-You cannot create
HON. SIR ALEX. CAM PBELL-There
is no difficulty in doing that under the a trust which is a charge against the land
Bill.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-You
can file a " no survivorship."
HON. MR. TRUDEL-The difficulty
will be this : the husband may give a
HON. MR. TRUDEL-Would it be a
hypothec one day, but the parties would right belonging to the father of the woman?

have a right to abolish it to-morrow, and

then it will have no stabihity. With the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Cer'
system of allowing the wife to .dispose of tainly.
any of her property-of all possible propHON. MR. TRUDEL-Then the father
erty-I do not see how an advantage of
this kind can be secured, unless you give would have the right to dispose of it after
HON. MR. TRUDEL

Real Property [MARCU 20, 1885.] A. W. Territorie8.

379

aIl. A fortn'ght after creating the trust of the other provinces of Canada. That
his Son-in-law would go to him and pro- would appear from the line of argument
Cure a removal of the mortgage.
which has been followed to-day.
iON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBEILLHoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
10, because it will be in the hands of is So.
trustees, and it could not be done unless
the trustees broke faith. The true trustees
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I am willing
WOuild be the same as trustees appointed to go that far to counterbalance the effect
unider any other circumstances.
of the other evil, which I consider is likely
to spring from the too free introduction of
ION. MR. TRUDEL-I cannot see this kind of law. But I am troubled in
WhY, instead of putting the rights of the another direction, and I would like to
*ife and children into the hands of trus- have an explanation from the Minister of
tees, it would not be more simple to have Justice on this point-whether if this partherm secured by law. According to the ticular clause is struck out it will impair
tystem to which I have alluded, the the general efficiency of other clauses of
Ilolmient this has received the character of the Bill?
a dower prefix it cannot be sold ; the proHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
Perty remains for the children until they
are of age, and cannot be disposed of. think three or four clauses which hang
he moment you appoint trustees, they upon this one would be affected, and it
flay be approached and influenced in would be very inconvenient to strike out
sUch a way as to give their consent to this clause.
Parting with that right, and then what seCurity would there be for the rights of the
HON. MR. PLUMB-I should like
Children ? I think it would be far better ask if the law by which the wife holds to
a
to leave it in the hands of the la* and separate estate does not already exist in
guard it by a provision which, in my Ontario, and by parity of circumstances
'Opinion, would be much more simple.
does not exist in the North-West also,
where the Ontario system has been
.1ON. MR. McCLELAN-While I am adopted ?
favor of the Torrens system, I very
nuch fear that the general tendency of it
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
Wil be towards the separation of man and it does not exist in the direct way that
Wfe-that is to say, it provides for separ- this Bill proposes to put it-that is, the
ete action in cases where joint action is wife can convey to the husband by means
now required. I think anytling that of a trustee or third person. It cannot
WOUld lead to the introduction of the be done in the way that this Bill proposes
ýYstem which prevails in other countries to permit it-directly.
"'that direction will be an objectionable
hely for us to adopt. I am quite aware HON. MR. SCOTT-In this province
Owever, after having listened to the re- the wife is perfectly independent in regard
rnarks of the hon. members from Amherst to her own property.
end Halifax, that in this Bill the wife can
Ofn and convey property in her own right
The House divided on the amendment,
without the assent of her husband, and which was rejected on the following vote:-

W'ithout

the husband being obliged t3 join

er in the transter.

Alexander,
Arniand,
Baillargeon,
t ellerose,
I MR. McCLELAN-If this princi- Chaffers,
s applied to the North-West Territories CaB 'aie,
DeBluis,
SWhich in that country would have privileges diasier,
married women do not enjoy in any Grant,

tlOn. MR. PLUMB-So she can under
2 Ontario law now.

"01.

MR. TRUDEL

CONTENTS:

Hon. Mesers.
Haythorne,
McCleIan,
IcMaster,
Pâ uet,
Pelletier,
Plumb,
Ryan,
Scott,

Trudel.-18.

380

RealI Property [SE N ATE]
NoN

CONTENTS:

Hon. Messrs.
Alnion,

Archibald,
Botsford,
Boyd,

MacDonald,

veau au dit comité avec instruction de 'smender en en retranchant les clauses onze
et treize.

Macfarlane,

MacInnes,
Macpherson
Campbell (Sir Alex.), (Sir David Lewis),
cleniow,
Miller (Speaker),
Dever,
Montgonery,
D:ckey,
Nelson,
Ferguson,
Nort hwood,
Flint,
Odell,

Girard,
Gowan,

_N. W. Territories.

O'Donohoe

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
hope my hon. friend will not press his
amendment.
HON. MR. TRUDEL-I have carefullY
gone all over this Bill, and I do not see

how a father can make provision for his

children under it, particularly when it is
provided that no substitution shall exist.
I do not see how a father or a grandfather
Lewin,
Ross,
will be in a position to make a provision
McDonald,
Smith,
for a child or a grandchild which Will
MeInnes,
Sutherland,
amount to a substitution. I do not see
McKay,
Turner.-36.
how we can say in one clause we abolish
McKndsey,
the substitution, and in another clause saY
THE SPEAKER-The question is now that we establish the substitution. I cariHowlan,
Kaulbach,

Poirier,

Power,
Read,

on the original motion.

not conceive such inconsistency in legislalation. If I had any hope of pressing this

HON. MR. TRUDEL-I beg to move amendment on the House, I may say at

an amendnent which I have written in once L would divide it into three different
French, but I will try to give a translation motions ; but as I do not expect that it
of it so that the House will understand will be adopted, and as I want to have it
on record, I will allow it to stand as a
the drift of it. I move:notice of motion for the third reading Of
Que la Chambre ne concourre pas the Bill if there is any objection to taking
maintenant dans le rapport du dit comité, the vote on it at present. I admit that it
mais que le dit Bill soit renvoyé de nou- is not according to the practice of the
veau au dit comité avec instruction de l'a- House tg put three motions-or the miatter
mender en ajoutant la disposition suivante making the subject of three different mlo-i
à la fin de la douzième clause :
tions a single motion, but I did it in this
" Pourvu que rien dans ce qui précède way to save time. and not to trespass upofl
n'ôte au testateur le droit de créer en fa- the patience of the House. I consider
veur de ses petits-fils une substitution d'un our position is this ; we are taking a new
seul deg-é."
Que la Chambre ne concourre pas
maintenant dans le rapport du dit comité,
mais que le dit Bill voit renvoyé de nouveau au dit comité avec instruction de l'amender en ajoutant la disDosition suivante
à la fin de la centième clause :
" Pourvu que ce (lui précède n'empêche
pas un mari de créer par contrat de mariage un douaire préfixe ou don d'une
somme d'argant, avec les garanties et le
caractère du douaire préfixe, dont l'usufruit sera assuré à la femme et la propriété
aux enfants ; lequel douire sera garanti

par hypothèque sur les immeubles y affectés qui seront désignés dans le dit contrat
de mariage."

Que la Chambre ne concourre pas
maintenant dans le rapport du dit comité,
mais que le dit Bil soit renvoyé de nou-

departure, from soun.d principles of legis'
lation, which unfortunately for some of Us

seem not to be understood by the najority
of the House ; but this does not prevent
the minority from endeavoring to do what

we conceive to be our duty. I would be
very sorry to say anything which mllight be
construed as casting a reflection on the
intelligence of the majority of this House ;
but the minority have been brought UP
with some ideas which we believe to be
sound principles of law. We have a systern
in our province which we consider to be a
perfect one, and if we desire to adhere
that system, and to those ideas, perhaP5 it
is fot altogether our fault. It may be tO
a great extent the fault of the greatest legai
minds in Engiand who have repeatedlY
said and written that the English syste 0
cannt be compared to the one we advoe

Real Property [MARCH 20, 1885] Y. W. Teriritories.
cate, and when we have the almost unanitnous approval of one of the leading
nations of the old world, and when we
have the testimony of most of the leading
mnen of Eng'land as to the soundness of
P
our views, it is hard for us to abandon
them, and to consent to legislation which
's against our convictions of what is right
Without entering our protest against it.
Of course the majority of the House
entertain other views on the matter. I
highly respect their opinions, but that does
not justify me in not doing my utmost to
advocate principles which I consider to be
the best in the interest of the country, and
gIving hon. gentleman an opportunity of
aCcepting or rejecting them as they choose.
UON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
hope the House will allow my hon. friend
to Put his motion now, as I am very
ious to dispose of this Bill as soon as
Possible and send it down to the other
louse.
;ON.
MR.

POWER-I think it would

be enbarrassing to vote on these three

altendments at once; it would be better
tO take them separately.
hoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
hope it will be read the third time to-day.

The amendments, having been translated, were read as follows:_
lhat the
Oticurred in, said amendments be not now
but that the said Bill be re'2O"Iiuitted to a Conrn ittee of the Whole, it.
TirUcinnm to aniend the saine, as follows:
at t'he folloving proviso be added to the
th clause:

Provided that nothing in this Act shall
erive the testator from the riglht of creating
t4vor of is grand-children, a substitution
th firpt degree."
te
That the said amendments be not now
enlcurred in but that the said Bill be re9
Oîilrîiitted to a Connittee of the Whole, with
,utrctions to aniend the sanie, as lollows
o Provided that the preceding sections do
tra Pventtraa husband from creating by conthe. irarriage, a prefix dower, or making
egftof a fixed sun of money with all the
or rantees and characters of the dower prefix,
the wife will have the usufruct and
thch
.e eildren the property, which dower prefix
inA
guaranteed by the hypothec of any
of
'ovable to be described in the said contract
tnarriage "
,o at the' aid amendnents be not now
icrred but that the said Bill be rein,

381

committed to a Committee of the Whole, with
instructions to anend the sanie, as follows:By leaving out the eleventh and thirteenth
clauses.
HON. MR. SCOTT-It would be better
to take one at a time.
The three amendments were then put
separately and declared lost on a division.
HON. MR. DICKEY-I wish to move
the following amendment with regard to
the clause of this Bill, which has been referred to already, which regulates the succession of a property after a will is made :
That the said anendnents be not now
concurred in, but that the Bill he re-conmmitted to a Connittee of the Whole with instructions to leave out the 91st clause.
The anended clause will provide for a
case like this : If a man has half a dozen
children and half a dozen pieces of property, A, B, C, D and E, and he wishes
to give A to the eldest uf his children,
and so on to each one a lot, he makes
his will accordingly. Under the clause as
it stands that will goes to the office. Then
the property vests in the administrator,
who is obliged to give each one of the
childrenaseparatedeed. A more cumbrous
or difficult plan than that I cannot conceive. I do not see why the will itself
should not be fyled and be the measure of
the title of each of these parties, just the
same as if it were a deed. I do not wish
to go into the argument again, because I
am sorry to say, in the words of a friend
of mine, that we have had too much discussion-Torrens of eloquence-on this
Bill. I am content to place the amendment before the House, and unless hon.
gentlemen wish to have their names recorded, I have no desireto call fora division.
I am content to have it declared lost on a
division if the Government thinks that it
will interfere with the frame work of the
measure.
The amendment was declared lost on a
division.

HON. MR. POWER moved:That the said report be not now concurred
in, but that it be re-committed to the said
coninittee for the purpose of leaving out the
eleventh clause and anending the thirteenth
clause by adding thereto the words " except
that she shall not have power to convey the
saie to her husband."

382

Bills Introduced ISENATE]

The effect of that is to provide that the
husband cannot convey to the wife or the
wife to the husband-that she can convey
to anybody but to her husband.

Bills Introduced.

INTERNATIONAL COAL COMPANY'S BILE.
SECOND REAIDING.

The amendment was lost on a division.
HON. MR. POWER (in the absence of
The report of the committee was con- Mr. Ogilvie) moved the second readirig of
curred in and the Bill was then read the Bill (51) " An Act for granting certainl
powers to the International Coal CompanY
third time and passed.
(Limited)."

BRANTFORD, WATERLOO AND
LAKE ERIE RAILWAY
COMPANY'S BILL.

Hox. MR. DICKEY-I should like tO
have some explanation of the object Of
this Bill, because it appears on the face of
it to be a purely local measure. The
property of the company is entirely in the
SECOND READING.
Island of Cape Breton and they should
be dealt with entirely I think by the IC3
HON. MR. PLUMB moved the second
legislature of Nova Scotia.
reading of Bill (59), "An Act to incorporate
the Brantford, Waterloo and Lake Erie
HON. MR. POWER-I think there is a
Railway Company." He said :-This is
a Bill for the construction and operation good deal of force in the objection taken
of a railway from some point in the county by the hon. member from Cumberland,
of Waterloo, or in the county of Halton, but I presume the reason why the co-0n
on the Credit Valley Railway, now leased pany apply to this Parliament, is that theY
by the Canadian Pacific RailwayCompany, have already been incorporated under
thence to and through the city of Brantford "The Canada Joint Stock Companies
to a convenient point on the Canada Act "; and in that way they have been
Southern Railway, in the county of Norfolk, placed under the jurisdiction of Parhiaor in the county of Haldimand, thence to ment. It will be quite competent for the
a convenient point on or near the shores committee to whom this Bill is to be reof Lake Erie. A petition has been pre- ferred, to report to the House whether in
sented and I believe every step has been their opinion the company should have
taken in proper form. The corporators gone elsewhere to procure this legislation.
are Alfred Watts, of the city of Brantford, It is a matter which can be more readlY
in the county of Brant, merchant ; George investigated in the committee than before
Henry Wilks, of the same place, gentleman; the House, and I suppose my hon. friend
John Joseph Hawkins, of the same place, has no objection to let the Bill be read
gentleman ; Thomas Elliott, of the same now and referred to the committee.
place, merchant ; Robert Henry, of the
The motion was agreed to and the 13l
same place, merchant ; William John
Scarfe, of the same place, manufacturer ; was read a second time.
Hugh McKenzie Wilson, of the same
place, Queen's Counsel, and Solon W. McBILLS INTRODUCED.
Michael, of the same place.
The object is to get a road that shall
Bill (15) "An Act to continue the Act
connect the Credit Valley system with the respecting the Albion Mines Savings
Canada Southern system, passing through Bank." (Mr. McKay).
the town of Brantford. It is proposed
Bill (ii) " An Act to extend the juris;
that the capital shall be $25o,ooo, and the
company want the usual powers that are diction of the Maritime Court of Ontario.
(Sir Alex. Campbell).
granted to railways for similar objects.
Bill (6) " An Act to further aiend the
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill law of evidence in criminal cases. (Mr.
was read the second time.
Power).
HON. MR. POWER.

The 1ndustries and [MAIRCH 20, 1885] Manuf'sr of Canada. 383

HE INDUSTRIES

AND MANUFAC- in tariff, that moment they will forfeit the
confidence and support of the people.
TURES OF CANADA.
DEBATE CONTINUED.

The order ot the day having been called
for resuming adjourned debate on the
hOnorable Mr. Macdonald's motion:
That he will eal attention to the report of
the commission issued by the Government
aYt year to inquire into the effect of the tariff
0' 1879 on the industries and manufactures
of the country, and will ask the Government
whether the report will be furnished to memthre0f the Senate and a certain number to
e Country.

hON. MR. KAULBACH said: Of course
Was put out at having my remarks cut
short the other day, and I feel some
hesitation in proceeding to discuss the
subject now, but the hon. member from
IÎalifax failed to show to my mind that
Since the advent to power of the GovernIlent in [878, there has not been a gradual
and steady increase of the prosperity of
!be country. Although trade is depressed
l Some quarters, yet prosperity generally
uOunds, and I am prepared not only to
OW that, but that there was a gradual
Increase ii the general prosperity of the
0untry and a rapid development of the
!ndustries of the Dominion under the
'nftuence of the tariff of 1879. That increase, the expansion of our manufactories,
COntend is largely due to the National
icy, and in addition to the developitnent of our industrial resources, the extts of the country from our farms and
theries have largely increased.
That
tols has been the case must be apparent
t0every hon. gentleman, and the country
Ia shown its confidence in the policy
Mopted

by the Government, as well as
%fidencé in the Government themselves.
sY that the Government vould have
a recreant to the trust reposed in them
1.878, if they had failed to adopt the
thatOnal Policy, which was the policy of
People and not of the Government
t ely. The electors had declared that
thanange was necessary, that they had derlded it of the Grit Government and
e e refused; that they had suffered long
though under one-sided free trade; and
nlonent the Government of the
nof"on departs from the National
lcy, reciprocity in trade or reciprocity

Not only were the Government strongly
supported on that issue in 1878, and
again in 1882, but they have been ever
since strengthened, from year to year, in
their position by the people who have
experienced the beneficial effects of their
policy. From the time the late Government went into power until they left office,
their strength rapidly declined ; but the
strength of the present Government has
numerically increased, and the confidence
of the people in the wisdom of the decision in adopting the National Policy remains unshaken. I ask in the face
of these facts how can the hon. gentleman from

Halifax

contend that

the

people have declared against the policy of
the Government? The experience, the
wretchedness of the few years during
which the late Government were in power
are sufficient to deter the people from departing from the policy which they have
since adopted and which they have found
to work so satisfactorily. The hon. gentleman from Halifax speaks of the large
taxation with which the people are burdened ; but these taxes, I contend are not
imposed on the necessaries of life, but on
luxuries, and the masses of the people do

not feel them. Although we have imposed
large duties on the manufactured goods
from other countries, not necessaries, it
does not impose a burden on our people ;
but it saves the Canadian.market to the
people of Canada, gives employment to
our own people and assists in developing
industries which are natural to the country,
and reduces taxation by millions of dollars
in making tea and coffee free. If the
burden of taxes has increased, the
late Covernment are largely responsible for it. The hon. gentleman
must remember that when his party
were in power we had deficit after deficit,
we were threatened with direct taxation,
and the debt of the country was largely
augmented, owing to bad administration
and the refusal of protection to our country's industries. My hon. friend has referred to the United States, and his references
to the unbounded progress of that country
leads me to believe that he approves of
the high protective policy, the National
Policy which the United States have
adopted, and under which they are mighty

ý384A

ÀThe
Industries and [SENATE]

and prosperous. He has spoken of the
increase of population and the development of manufacturing industries in that
country, and the vast immigration that has
flowed in there during the past quarter of
a century. If the United States is labouring under a heavier taxation than any
other country in the world, and heavier
duties on manufactured goods than we
have in this country, why should the people
of free-trade England and the Continent
rush over to the United States in thousaods
and hundreds of thousands as they have
been doing since 1848, the period to
which my hon. friend refers ? It evidently
shows that the people are suffering from
the free.trade policy of Great Britainthat they cannot find sufficient employment
and inducement in free-trade to remain
in their own country; they found it
to their interest, and to be saved
from starvation, to emigrate to a country
where industries and labour are protected by a high tariff, and where there
was a rapid advancement in the prosperity
of those who settled there.
The hon.
gentleman in explaining the increase in
the wealth of that country tells us of the
25o,ooo immigrants in one year gomg into
the Unitcd States, but as I have said, they
have not come in under a free-trade policy,
but a policy which has protected the industries of the country, and gives a fair day's
pay for a fair day's work.

Ranuf'r qf Canadv

one year represented $25o,ooo,ooo

added

to the wealth of the country. Admitting
that all immigrants coming into the countrY
are not adulis, I ask him what benefit the
Dominion has gained since the advent Of
the present Government to power by
immigration ? As another proof of the
prosperity of this country, now, if we refer
to the immigration statistics we Iill find
that during the whole period of the late
administration they only succeeded in
bringing into the country some 200,000
immigrants, at an expense of about $14 a
head, and the majoritv of theni left this
country. That was under what we cali
the jug-handled frce-trade policy ; but as
soon as the present Government came sto
power, immigration in the first year
amounted to over 6o,ooo, at a cost Of
about $6 per head. I take from the
report of the Minister of Agriculture, s
follows :
The immigration into Canada, inlluding
through passengers to the United States,
and the number of settlers in Canada since
and inclusive of 1878, have been as follow:"
Year.

1879
188o
1881
1882
1883
1884

Inunignt.

Total

1878

se~ttlers

.....

40,032...

....

29,807

61,052...
85,850...
. 117,016.
.193,150.

.. 206,898..
. .166,596..

40,49n

38,505

......
....
. . . .

.

47,991

.
. .133,624

....... 103,824

These facts show that the people cf
free trade Great Britain are not afraid Ot
our National Policy, and it shows what a
protective policy has done for the country
and what is necessary to he done to
develope our fertile lands in the NorthWest. I ask my bon. friend, how much
greater would have been this prosperity,
and how much larger the immigration sto
HON. MR. KAULBACH-My
hon. the country had it not heen for the policy
friend referred to a period since then-to of the Opposition to falsely and Mla period within the last fifteen years, and ciously decry the resources of Canada and
I hope my hon. friend when he interrupts to show, if possible, that the lands 0f
me again will do so with sonething rele- Minnesota, Dakota and other Western
vant to my argument. My bon. friend States were better than those of Canada;
must know that the United States adopted that our people were ilocking into the
protection long before 186o But my hon. United States ; that the Canadian Pacific
friend in his remarks said that those people Railway was a failure, and that the lands
who emigrated from free-trade Britain to along the line were for hundreds of miles
the United States were worth $ z,ooo each worthless ? How much greater would have
adult, to the country to which they came, been the immigration into this cOUntry
and 250,000 immigrants going in there in 1and how much greater would have been
HON. MR. POWER-My hon. friend
will please excuse me ; he is leaving out
of sight the fact which I referred to, that
from 1848 to 186o they had not a protective tariff in the United States, and at that
time the immigration was coming in as
largely as it has done at any time since
then.

HoN. MR. KAULBACH.

The idustrie8 and ( MARCH 20, 18851 Kanufj'rs of Canala. 385
Our prosperity were it not for the policy
of the Opposition to decry the credit of
ur country and put it in its worst
b
even at the sacrifice of truth,
tfore the nations of the world, it is not
di$Cult to see. I must say that such
fuse cries, stimulated and encouraged by
such speeches as that of my hon. friend
frofl lalifax himself, have gone and must
go a long way towards destroying that
general prosperity which we and al true
Patriots are desirous of maintaining. All
the facts and figures taken from reliable
official reports which have been shown by
ry hon. friend from British Columbia and
others who favor the National Policy s
tO the increased prosperity of the country
'ri the development of her industries, have
acted very much like the flaunting of a
red flag in the face of a bull.

Our in

Creasing prosperity appears to have excited
andenraged the hon. gentlemen of the OpP'Stion; they would destroy everything and
them to be desirous to step into power
on
the ruins of their country. If hon. gentleren ever hope to attain to power again, it
. Only be by a change of their present
rilCY of destruction-a policy that wodld
r'ln every industry in the country and drive
'Or fishermen, our manufacturers, our
echanics and our laborers to starvation.
1 ay if they ever wish to regain the conthence of the people they must abandon
thir pocy of decrying the resources of

> Country and show that they have some

ath the future of the Dominion, and
in

adopt the policy of reciprocity in
or tariff with the United States.
the hon, friend (Mr. Power) in talking of
had 'erease in the Savings Bank deposits
indi e audacity to say that it was not an
thation of prosperity in the country;
tin those deposits were rather an indicain hamoney could not find profitable
nestments because of stagnation in busiks and business enterprise, and that the
%Ple were glad to deposit money in the
intvrnment Savings Banks at small
tert for safety. It shows the people
but iGovernment and have faith in it;
o
ny hon. friend knows anything
a ifax or Nova Scotia in general he
larg
have known that these deposits
ngel. represent the savings of the
fishertrious farmer, laborer, mechanic and
they an-their surplus earnings-what
ave saved through the National

Policy, put by from year to year in the
savings bank or to invest in something, or
for a wet day when unable to work.
Where do those earnings come from ?
Were they acquired during the time the
friends of the hon. gentleman were in
power ? I say not ; I say they have largely
accrued since the present Government
came into power, by our protective policy,
and that our people saved nothing under
the administration of the late Government.
My hon. friend will recollect that during
the period the Grits were in power, wages
were very low and employment was scarce,
not money enough to pay rent and taxe-,
and it was all the laborer could do to
drag out a miserable existence, and take
even his small wage in truck at the stores,
and even then he paid more for the necessaries of life than he does at the present
day. The people well remember those
sad days of Grit rule
My hon. friend
from Alberton has shown us that nine
tenths of the deposits of the savings bank
of Prince Edward Island have come from
the laboring industrial classes of that province ; that it represents the savings of the
farmer, the farm laborer, the mechanic
and the working classes generally, and, as
I have already said, it shows their confidence in the Government and our country.
The balance to the depositors in the Governrment savings banks of Nova Scotia,
New Bruswick and Prince Edward Island
in 1878, the last year of Grit rule, was but
$4,371,310, whilst the balance in the
same banks at the end of last year was
the largely increased sum of $12,312,675.
My hon. friend woufd make it appear
that all this accumulated wealth does not
indicate prosperity in a country, but I will
give him an authority which the hon.
gentleman considers to be a good onethe gentleman who is put forward as the
financial oracle of the Reform party, Sir
Richard Cartwright, but who was years
ago styled by their chief organ, a " mixer
and muddler." When he, Sir Richard
Cartwright, went to England in 1875 to
negotiate a loan, he, in a published circular, showed that the amount of deposits in
the savings banks of the country was
an evidence of the prosperity of the great
mass of the people. He said:" It may not be out of place to glance at the
amounts, in round figures, standing at the
credit of depositors in the Post-Office Savings

386

T/he Indu8trieo and [SENATE]

Aan&f u of Canada.

he is shutting his eyes to the facts, and to
the logic of events, and is endeavoring like
my friend (Mr. Haythorne) to bolster UP
his position with book theories of the Cobden school, which may apply,under certain
circumstances, to older countries, but are
not suitable to the requirements of a
young and undeveloped country such e
ours, whose infant industries must be
fostered and are of little effect when comlpared with the practical and profitable
dife
results of the operation of a different
system in the foremost nations of Europe,
in Canada and in the United States. MY
"In addition to the Post Office Savings hon. friend from Halifax referred to the fact
Banks and the chartered banks the returne of that the present Government when theY
the Government Savings Banks and of the
various loan and investment societies show adopted their tarif in 1879, and previoU
a steadv increase in the amount of annual de- to that, gave as a reason for the adoptiO'
of a national protective policy, that it
posits.'
would be a means by which to obtaini
reciprocity of trade with the United States.
HON. MR. MACDONALD (B. C.)That increase is called an indication of The Government, as every reasoning man
poverty by the hon. gentleman from must see, were riglt in 'that contentiol,
for if we had nothtng to give to
Halifax.
the United States in exchange that theY
HON. MR. KAU LBACH- Yes, but did not have already, how could we exPect
when Sir Richard Cartwright went to to obtain reciprocity from them ? The
England to borrow money he presented it policy of our Goverinment was if possible
as indisputable evidence of the prosperity to have reciprocity of trade, in the natural
of the country, and Sir Richard Cartwright products of both countries, and if not <e
was then, and yet is, the oracle of the should have reciprocity in tariffs. NLy h1oflGrit party on finance.
Does he now friend complains that the Government
believe that these largely increased de- have never taken any means to carry out
posits in the savings bank represent the their promise to secure another reciprocity
productive wealth of the country, or does treaty with the United States. It is a
he sec in it an indication of stagnation in question to my mind whether we Wonithe industries of the Dominion ? My have been better off under a reciprocity
hon. friend from Halifax will not venture, treaty up to the present time than we are
nor will my hon. friend from Charlottetown now. I believe that under the present sys(Mr. Haythorne) venture to say that Sir tem the people have gained confidence it
Richard Cartwright was wrong in the themselves and their own resources, and
position he took in 1875, that our pros- we have built up native industries which
perity was shown by- the amount of our we would never have been able to establish
deposits in the savings banks of Canada. in this country if we had reciprocitY with
Since that time the deposits have, as I the United States. But my hon. friend is
have shown, largely increased, and any wrong in stating that the Goveriment have
hon. gentleman whose eyes are open, and made no efforts to obtain reciprocity: the
who knows anything about his country, policy of the Government was to secure
must be convinced that these deposits reciprocity of trade or reciprocity of tariffs.
represent the earnings and savings of the 'The tariff of 1879 was conditional-that
working classes of the community-----earned natural products of the country shoulld be
and saved, the greater portion of it under l'placed on the same footing as the natural
the operation of the National Policy. products of the United States, and the
Therefore I contend, that when my hon. Government took that power to thelselves
friend from Halifax ventures to deny that to provide a reciprocity of exchange 1"
the prosperity of the Dominion has not natural products of the country as soon as
been largely due to the National Policy, the United States were ready and Willitg
Banks and the chartered banks of the Dominion at the close of each fiscal year since, and
inclusive of 18756
Post Ofice
Chartered.
Year.
Banks.
Banks.
1875......$2,926,000
$55,918,000
1876.
2,741,000
59,516,000
58,444,000
1877 ...... 2,640,000
58,946,000
1878...... 2,754,000
58,659,000
1879...... 3,105,000
1880...... 3,946,000
69,742,000
1881...... 6,208,GOO
78,078,000
1882...... 9,474,000
77,078,000
89,553,000
1883......11,976,000
87,341,000
1884......13,245,000

HON. MR. KAULBACH.

The Indu8triesi and [MARCH 20, 1885] Manuf'rg of Canada. 387
to make any such arrangement.
The
record shows that the Government have
done everything that they could do, with
honor to themselves and the country they
represent, to bring about reciprocity of
trade in the natural products ot t he two
countries.
HION. MR. POWER-What did they
doc?

common sense w think that our Government should attempt anything of the kind
under the circumstances. If they did so
it would only be a faiture, and instead of
advancing the prospects of a reciprocity
in the natural products of the country in
the future it would only injure it by our
too hasty action. My hion. friend referred
to the condition of the sugar industry; 1
ask him would hiesupport a government
to-day that would do anything towards
lowering the protective duties on refined
sugar ? I do not think my hion. friend
iwould be recreant to the interests of Halifax, from which hie cornes, by opposing the
policywhich the Governnient haveadopted
towards the sugar trade. I now ask him
again would lie go recreant w the policy
which the Government have adopted with
respect to the cotton industrv ?

'ION. MR. KAULBACH-I have just
explajned, in the hearing of the hion.
gentleman that by our Customs Tarif Act
of 1879 they made it conditional that
t4e moment the United States were ready
taenter into a reciprocity treaty for the
ýexchange of the natural products of the
tWt Countries, the Government took power
tinder that Act to meet them on that
dtound and to arrange for it without first
The GovernHON. MR. POWER-Certainly 1 would
aPpeaîing to Parliament
a
is tdent
could do no more than that.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-The hon.
H'rPossible that they could have done any
'fore. We know that the Hon. George gentleman would on cotton, but e would
grown was sent down toWashington in not on sugar; it is too sweet a subject for
f874 by the Government of that day-I him and Halifax to raise an opposition on.
Wt Over with him at the time; we know He knows how the trade froIn the West
increased under or National
h'8 failure, we know what kind of a treaty Indies lhas
t4e attenpted to secure. His offers were Policy, that whilst our imports frow the
8
uch as our Maritime Provinces peple West Indies entered for consumption for
were only
f8i8
Would not accept. But the Government the five years ending in
Imounted to
af the United States repudiated it, and are $8,394,9O8, since 1879 it
My hon. friCnd must be
e sib to go on our knees and beg tor, $18,759,869.
Bd therey expect to obtain a fair reci- suent as to sugar and the West India trade
PrOcty treaty frorn them? Is that the It is true there has been a dpression in
Way to get reciprocity with the neighboring the cotton manufacturing industry, but I
hifiuc,-by going on our knees and do not admit that that industry has been
heing theni, for the sake of our country, a failure as far as Nova Scotia is concerned;
t rene a reciprocity treaty! Neyer in we at least have cheaper cotton goods. I
tolt way can we obtain anything of the would ask my hon. friend again if he or
even though it were consistent with any of his friends are prepared to advocate
O11r Position. They abrogated the last the abolition of the protective duties on
trWeatYand know too wel our disposition sugars ? He knows that he dare not do
It is absurd to it; hie knows that it would ruin the West
radarhg recipocity.
prect, as my hon. friend from Halifax India trade, and that the trade of alifax
thiks, and s hie says the Chamber of depends largely on the sugar trade with
athe
test
Indies. lie knows that it is due
Halifax seems to think, that
ic-bat
the sNationalcolicy that this
alargely
ug Governmoent should first move in the
t'tter and is to e reproached for delay, trade las revived, and as I have shown
hder the circunwstances, of a change of i as largely increased within the last five
,Idninistration in the United States, when years, and sugars were neyer before so
is coming in, is not the of the tie consumer. tring the time
ounew overninein t office. Ihat and as yet cheap toMackenzie Government, when s
radinsettled
bovernment
of Canada to per cent. of the sugars used in the country
tinse for the
Ofer to ngotiate a reciesrocit, treaty with were brought to us from the sugar refinhetn.
My hon. friend has too much eries of the United States, our ships loaded

388

The Indu8tries and [SENATE]

with cargoes of fish for the West Indies
had to find a return freight to the United
States or return home in ballast. To-day
our vessels load with the products of our
fisheries and our forests for the West
Indies wheîe they must find a market,
and may return direct with cargoes of raw
sugars for the use of our refineries. Now
90 per. cent of our sugar comes raw from
where it is produced and our people refine
it.
My hon. friend says the trade
of Halifax is a failure; but he does
not say that the depression in the
sugar trade is from the effect of the
National Policy. He knows that any depression there is in that trade is because
of the competition of the bounty-fed
manufactures of other countries, and
because of a want of judgment and good
management in the operation of our own
sugar refineries. We believe that there
would bealarge profit inrunningoneofthose
refineries in which, I understand my hon.
friend from Halifax was a shareholder;
but we placed it in the hands of directors
who did not properly understand the business-who employed acrazymanor a rogue
as manager, and through want of judgment,
foresight and other causes the sugar
refinery went down. We know the reason
why sugar refining last year did not realize
a profit. We bought our raw sugar on a
falling market believing that prices would
not go down any lower; but instead of
stopping where they were, prices went
down further. Through bad judgment we
bought too soon, and through that want of
foresight the Halifax refinery lost over
$200,ooo. I am glad to say that that loss
was sustained not entirely because of the
competition of bounty-fed foreign sugars
so much as through want of foresight in
buying the raw material in a falling
market. I am glad to find that my hpn.
friend from Halifax is a protectionist as
far as sugar is concerned.
HON. MR. POWER-Not at all.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I ask my
hon. friend is he not a protectionist as far
as fisheries are concerned ? Would he advocate the abolition of the bounties paid
to our fisheries to-day ? I say he dare
not do so although it is the highest kind
of protection-an abnormal protectionand I ask him if he is prepared to abolish
those bounties ?
HON. MR. KAULBACH.

.Manuf'r qf Canada.

HON. MR. POWER-I contend that
while under the National Policy everything
that the fisherman consumes is heavily
taxed, there is no reason why he should
not have a bounty to compensate himi.
You take thetaxes off the necessaries which
he consumes, and then I say abolish the
bounties.
HON. MR. KAULBACH--You know
it is not so. The tea and coffee which
the fishermen and others use are not
taxed ; the tinware they use is not taxed;
the twine they use is not taxed ; the salt
they use is not taxed, and other necessaries of that industry are either not taxed
or are relieved by drawbacks, and the hon.
gentleman cannot contend that in other
articles the fishermen are more heavilY
taxed than their neighbors. I say that
instead of their being taxed to the saie
amount that other people of the country
are, that special benefits are given tO
them, and fishermen and all industrious
classes are less taxed than ever before.
I ask my hon. friend if when the fishery
clauses of the Washington Treaty are ainulled, he is not prepared to continue OUT
protection to the fisheries of the Maritime
Provinces.
HON. MR.

POWER-Certainly.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-Of course.

The moment you test my hon. friend by
surrounding circumstances and by the
logic of facts he is forced to admit at once
that he is a free trader only in theory
-that in the interest of Nova Scotia's
industries he must be or profess to be e
protectionist. His free trade theories are
all very well when applied to abstract
questions, but the moment you corne tO
Nova Scotia, and Nova Scotia interests,
he knows that his theories must be thrown
to the winds, his party cries hushed, and
that our fisheries and our sugar and other
industries must be protected, and that our
country must not be made a slaughter
market of for the products of the neighboring Republic.
It being now six o'clock I move that
the Debate be adjourned.
The motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjourned at six o'clock.

lhe Case of [MARCH 23, 1885] Lionel Garnam.
THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Monday, MarcIt 23rd,1885.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
o'clock p.m.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
-THECASE OF LIONEL GARNHAM.
INQUIRY.

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE rose to call
attention to the inquiry made by himn last
session in regard to the case of Lionel
Garnham, a fish warden on Winter River,
Queen's County, Prince Edward Island,
.Who was seriously and permanently injured
'I the performance of his duty; and to ask
the Minister of Justice whether it is
Intended to make the said Lionel Garnham
any compensation for the injuries so
received ?
He said :-It will be within ' the
recollection of many members of this
liluse that last year I brought the case of
the man to whom I now call attention
before the Senate.
Lionel Garnham,
While acting in the capacity of a fish
Warden on a river in Prince Edward
Island, while in the performance of his
duty, was seriously assaulted by three fish
P.achers, having their faces blackened and
using the implements of their occupation,
torches and spears. They had killed
a
"Uumber of fish and Garnham very bravely
arid very properly attempted to seize thern
and stooped down to da so when he was
Struck by one of the men and brutally
assaulted
They left him lying on the
fOund and went away, but thinking he
not received enough punishment
returned and beat him again and left him
Ylmg
tirne, senseless. He on recovering some
but managed, lay there for
conselOusness to make his way home and was
then taken to Charlottetown where he lay
Uhder medical treatment for several
months. I may say for a whole year
he
fRied to recover his general health, and
although it is now restored his
left arm is
seless-as perfectly useless as if it had
en amputated. Knowing the facts
of

389

this case familiarly, I brought it before the
attention of this House and the members
of the Government, being of the opinion,
as many others were, that a man who
had suffered so much in performing his
duty was certainly entitled to some
recognition from the Government of his
country. His injuries were received in
the service of the public. I put a motion
on the papers last session calling attention
to the subject, and the Minister of Justice
informed me that he would attend to it.
Seeing that no steps were taken in the
direction I have suggested I put this inquiry on the paper, and I trust that the
Department will take a liberal view of this
case, seeing that the man acted in a courageous, prompt and decisive manner, and
that his injuries were received purely in
the public service. I am sure that everyone who hears me will concur in my
opinion, that Garnham deserves not only
recognition of his services, but compensation for the permanent loss of one of his
arms. Having made those few explanatory remarks, I now ask the question of
which I have given notice.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-In
reply to my hon. friend's question, I may
say that it is intended to make Lionel
Garnham compensation for the injuries
which he received on the occasion referred to. The attention of the Minister
was called to the fact at the time and
immediate steps were taken to provide the
necessary care and medical treatment for
this officer. It is proposed now that the
compensation should take the form of an
increase in salary. I agree with the hon.
gentleman in hoping that that increase
may be a substantial one, and may compensate Garnham for the injury he received whilst discharging his duty in the
manner described by the hon. gentleman.
Before coming here to-day, I endeavored
to get some idea what the compensation
might be so that I might mention it or indicate closely what it might be, but I have
not been able to do so. Al I can say to
my hon. friend is that I agree that the man
should receive something. I am able to
state that the Department will compensate
him and that the compensation will be in
the form of an increase of salary but what
the extent of the increase will be I am not
able to say.

390

S39ummary [SEN ATE] Proceedingy Bill.

HAMILTON PROVIDENT & LOAN population sparse and widely scattered.
In addition to that, there was a strong
SOCIETY'S BILL.
feeling, perhaps stronger here than in
England, in favor of decentralization In
THIRD READING.
administration from the peculiar necessiHON. MR. TURNER moved the third ties of a new country. However, that rmay
reading of Bill (J), " An Act to comprise be, the jurisdiction originally introduced
in one Act a limitation of the share and when we adopted the law of England has
loan capital of the Hamilton Provident been continued to the present day, and
scarcely a year has passed from the tfie
and Loan Society."
that Parliament commenced its sessions
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill without adding very largely to the jurswas read the third time and passed.
diction of the magistrates. Their power
for sunmmary trial and punishment Of
PROCEEDINGS BE- offenders by fine and imprisonment has
SUMMARY
FORE JUSTICES ANI) MAGISgradually expanded to enormous dimensions, and the statute law of the country
TRATES BILL.
has heaped upon them an infinite variety
of business. I believe I am safe in
SECOND READING.
estimating that cases coming before maHON. MR. GOWAN moved the second gistrates for adjudication outnumber those
reading of Bill (L), "An Act to make coming before the ordinary criminal
.further provision respecting summary pro- courts of record in the ratio of at least
ceedings before justices and other magis- ten to one. The gentlemen who are entrates." He said : The subject is of trusted with this important and extensive
great practical importance and affects a jurisdiction, in my own province of Onlarge branch of the administration of tario, number some io,ooo, and I believe
criminal justice. The measure is outside they are very numerous in other provinces
of the domain of politirs and has nothing of the Dominion. I have endeavored to
but its intrinsic merits to recommend it to ascertain the numbers in the various
the favorable consideration of the House. provinces, and from all the information I
It has none of the spicy character of have been able to glean, throughout the
.political subjects which sometimes are Dominion of Canada, they would probably
served up. The House has listened with number between seventeen and twenty
great patience to very long speeches on thousand. I can speak positively as to
such subjects, and I hope that I may be the number in Ontario. In 1878 there
able to secure attention for a short time were 9,722 in the province, and probablY
while I point out what I consider to be a -almost certainly - they are now ten'
defect in the law, and propose a remedy. At thousand in rumber. I estimate the
the time we introduced the criminal law of number in Quebec at 4,500; in Nova
England into the several provinces of Scotia and New Brunswick, together, some
.Canada we adopted with it also the sum- 2,400 ; in Prince Edward Island, I am inmary method of conviction by justices out formed, there are about 6oo, and in Maniof sessions which had for a very long time toba and British Columbia four or five
been in familiar use in England, from the hundred, so that from seventeen to twenty
reign of, T think, Charles II. The thousand is not too high an estimate for
ground upon which the jurisdiction was the number of men that are actually enoriginally intrusted to magistrates was its gaged in exercising this important jurisdicconvenience in preventing persons being tion. It must be obvious that it is difficult,
kept a long time in custody before they in a country suchas ours,to findin all cases,
were tried, and also on account of the competent men, or to induce the mOst
distances of court houses and towns where capable men in the community to accept the
trials took place. The reasons which office of a justice of the peace, with all
existed for the introduction of summary the responsibilities, and practically without
procedure in England prevailed more forci remuneration. The magistracy is for the
bly in Canada where the distances are most part composed-I still speak of "mY
greater, the court houses fewer and the own province-of well-to-do farmers, with

Xuarnaïy [MARUIR 23, 1885] Proceedings Bil.
sOMe merchants and persons engaged
1n trade, and a small sprinkling of
Professional men-on the whole, men
fairly qualified, men of good sound comnMon sense. Hon. gentlemen will be
aware that an enormous amount of crimi"al business is transacted in the magistrates' courts of the country. Justices of
the peace have in the present day, under
the laws of the Dominion, very large
Powers, not only for the apprehension of
Offenders, but also, as I have already
nlentioned, for the trial and adjudication
Ot offences partaking of a criminal character. I need not speak of their ministerial duties, but from 400 to 500 offences
aire made subject to the summary juris<dction of justices of the peace for trial
and determination in the manner provided
by law. In England not less than 2,000
Cases are so determined, but then the poor
laws and several laws not enforced in this
rOuntry contribute very largely to this
aggregate ; but I think I am perfectly safe
Isaying that the number of cases I have
1entioned come within the jurisdiction of
1agistrates.
Provisions for committing
'ses to magistrates for trial are to' be
found in acts all through our statute
books, but especially in the more important acts which were consolidated by Sir
John Macdonald in 1869, such as acts
relating to offences against religion ; to
offences against the person ; respecting
larceny and fraudulent acts ; in relation to
tcalicious injury to property ; to threats
and intimidation ; to cruelty to animals;
telating to the improper use of firearms ;
1011ching the preservation of the peace in
e vicinity of public works and at public
eetings ; respecting escapes and rescues;
te several

acts relating to public de-'

Partlments, and in a variety of other
statutes. Most of the offences I refer
to are of a minor nature and are
Cognizable only before a justice of the
Peace.
I must say, speaking from
y own experience in the Province of

niltario, that on the whole their admini;tration of the law has given satisfaction

Of late years, in consequence, doubts, of our excellent school system, a
great improvment has taken place. These
lren are fairly competent to deal with the
facts of a case, may be able to examine
Witnesses carefully enough, conduct their
Proceedings in an orderly manner, and

391

genierally arrive at correct conclusions upon
evidence, and exercise a sound discretion
in respect to punishing ; but when they
come to formulate their findings, to put
them in the shape of a formal conviction,
then comes the trouble. In two cases
out of every three they fail to meet the
exact requirements of the law, the nicety
which is requisite, and so their convictions
are liable to be quashed when brought
before the courts.
It may seem a simple thing to draw up
a conviction or warrant with the statute
under which it is made before you, but it
is not so, and cannot be so, for reasons to
which I will advert. Even the most experienced judges have differed upon
points growing out of them, and I dare
assert that there are many statutes that it
would puzzle the ablest lawyers in this
House to frame convictions under. Yes,
I would take my hon. friend the Minister
of Justice, my hon. friend from Ottawa
and the hon. member from Amherst,
with all his great experience, and all the
acuteness and clearness of perception
which he has so constantly proved in this

House. I would give thern a couple
of hours to do the work, with only
the statute before them, and I would
venture much against their draft of
conviction being able to stand a severe
criticism-that is, such a one as an able
and sharp lawyer like my hon. friend
opposite would make. He would probably
be able, legally, to tear it into tatters and
show it to be insufficient in law. But then
he would scrutinize it, every line and letter,
with a microscopic eye and would do so
in the strong light of adjudged cases,
working with all his books before him.
The same power of summary conviction
is exercised by justices of the peace in
the British Isles, but there every magistrate's court has its clerk, always a lawyer,
trained to the special subject. The justices there have nothing whatever to do
with the preparation of forms, their clerks
do all that, yet even with such an officer,
the reports show numerous cases of convictions quashed for defects in form. What
then can we expect with the vast army of
Canadian justices of the peace, with no
clerks to help, no books to refer to but the
statutes, no counsel to advise ? Can you
wonder if they fall into error, and their
convictions are quashed, though the case

392

Summar»y [SENATE] Proceeding8Bill.

may be rightly tried and determined on
the merits ? The power of summary con
victions has always been subject to a very
severe strain, from the extreme exactness
required when they are brought before the
courts, as they may be on certiorari, for
the purpose of being examined by the
court.
They must not only be full, as
well as correct in every particular, and
clearly bring the case within the meaning
of the particular Act, but must be positive,
and the judgment appropi iate.
The
offence cannot be charged disjunctively.
Al the facts must be set out necessary to
support, and not left to be gathered by
inference or intendment. Convictions are
always strictly construed-nothing is supplied that does not appear on the face ;
indeed, even more exactness is necessary
in a conviction than in an indictment,
because the proceedings are out of the
course of the common law. Not so, however, in respect to the process of the
Superior Courts.
Everything is presumed in favor of the regularity of
their proceedings.
Can it be wondered at, then, that under these severe
tests convictions are often quashed on
technical objections, when it is remembered that they are prepared by men
without any legal training? Now, some
hon, gentlemen may think that surely the
judges coula help and prevent failures of
justice. They can do so to a very small
extent under the law as it is. The judges
often, most unwillingly, give effect to
technical objections-I say unwillingly,
for while they may feel that by doing so
there is a miscarriage of justice-substantial justice defeated -the judge's duty is
to administer the law as he finds it. He
is not at liberty to make law; that belongs
to Parliament. He can but declare what
the law is upon objection taken in the
particular case. Now, what is proposed
by this Bill is to remedy this, so far as it
is practicable and safe, and to give the
judges large discretion in dealing with
cases of this kind. Such discretion may
be safely entrusted to them, and it will he
the means of removing a great reproach
from the law. While in former days,
when men had to come fifty or one hunidred miles to get a lawyer, there was less
thought of trying to upset a magistrate's
decision.
Now, lawyers are, I may
say, almost as plenty as blackberries, and
HON. MR. GOWAN.

I have never heard that they were unwilling to exercise their sharp wits whel
men approached them in the right way.
The law as it is invites, on some slight
departure from form-some purely technical form-assaults of this kind, upOo
imperfectly drawn conviction, however
righteous the decision. I by no means,
wish to deprecate the value of an adherence to forms, and regularity in proceedings, but I think it an evil when in any
quarter the means are in effect substituted
for the end, the forms of justice made
paranount to justice itself..
This defect in the law, these evilS
which I have pointed out, the Bill is de
signed to remedy by bringing this branch
of law into harmony with the principles'
now generally recognized ; that courts Of
appeal may amend or alter, in fact do
alnost anything to get over mere technical objections, and according to the very
facts pronounce on the merits as justice
may require. i will go over the Bill in a
general way so far as seems necessarY to
explain the principle, and on another
occasion may have to refer more minutelY
to details.
The ist clause of the Bill merely defifes,
for convenience sake, who shall cone
within the purview of it under the naine
of "justice " or "justices of the peace,
and it also includes certain officers who
exercise the power and authority of justices
of the peace. The 2nd clause is the chief
one of the Bill. At present everything 1g
presurmed in favor of a court of record.
The presumption is the other waY in
respect to the proceedings before justices
of the peace, and so opportunities Very
frequently occur of miscarriage of justice
on account of some technical objectiole.
The object of this clause is to secure the
punishment of an offender notwithstanding
the justice of peace may have made sofne
mistake in the form of the conviction.
f
the offence has been comrnitted the lasr
should not be set at nought because the
justice may have acted irregularly. The
section is as follows
"2. No conviction or order made by an
justice of the pence, and no warrant (or el
orciing the sane, shail be held invalid 'or
any irregularity, inforiality or insufficienoY
therein; Provided, that the court or JudJbefore whtich or hon the question is rais
is, upon peruisal ofthe depositions, or by a

davit, satisfied

that an offence has been

8umnarp [MARCH 23, 1885]
CoiMmitted over which such

justice bas
rniisdiction, and that the punishment inposed
'e fOt In exce&-q of tlat which rnight have
e lawfully i mposed for the said offence;
any statement which, under this Act or
otherwise, would be sufficient if contained in
a oUviction, shall also be sufficient if con0
tlned in a warrant.

.The 3rd clause is just an amplification
bringing out clearly the intention of the
Preceding enactment.
The 4th section is to enable a matter
to be stated in more than one way, so that
.formation may be laid conjunctively or
Ijunctively, the same as in an indictment.
The 5th clause is for the protection of
JUstices, and is similar to an enactment of
the Legislature of Ontario. At present
J'1dges can merely deal with cases before
the.i in such a way as partially to prevent:
actions bemg brought. This clause gives
them full power, in case they think the
inatter may warrant it, to provide that no
action shall be brought against a magistrate or an officer acting under a warrant
1 certain cases.
The 6th clause is merely a re-enactment
Ou a statute of George Il by which parties

rioeeditg Bill.

393:

nd I hope the House will see the necessity of some such enactment as this. I
have had the advantage of an interview
vith the Minister of Justice with respect
t o this Bill and was very glad to find that
it met with his approval. I would have
distrusted my own judgment if 1 had
found that his differed very materially
rrom mine on the subject. I have spoken
to several gentlemen who have acted as
magistrates and they think that it will be
an excellent measure. My hon. friend
who will second the motion that the Bill
be read the second time has had nany
years experience as a magistrate, and on
several occasions has been commended
by Ministers of Justice and judges for the
admirable and orderly manner in which
he has conducted his proceedings. He
feels that this will be a good measure, and
he has had a very large experience. So
it has received the approval of the
Minister of Justice and my hon. friend
behind me (Mr. Flint), and having myself had some opportunities in the past of
seeing how these matters worked I have
less distrust in submitting the measure tothe House.

sueing out a certiorari are required to giv'e
suireties. This is not always noticed by
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I do not
lYIagistrates, and some practitioners I behleve are quite unaware of its existence, in rise to make any opposition to this Bill ;
POint of fact it is sometimes omitted, and on the contrary, I believe this is a very
Ml'ess it is brought to the attention of the good measure in many respects, but I rise
Iildge it r-ight not be noticed ; but as it to take exception to one of the first
aw. In order to bring it clearly before clauses. I do not see why, in places
gistrates, I propose to insert it here.
where two magistrates are sitting, that the
The 7th clause requires that there shall same privilege should not be extended,
said that it would be
certiorari where an appeal is taken. because it might benot to have an appeal
t present
ot no
a person may go before an equaly dangerous
,dinary court of appeal where the facts by writ of certiorari from the conviction of
t tried and also before a superior court two magistrates as from the conviction of
Ycertiorari I think that instead of run- one. It is well known that as our laws
administered there are
1 .lfg Concurrently, the appeal should be are at present
lted to one of these, that if a person many wrong convictions, because very
t
*IOt before a court of appeal, he should frequently men who are appointed to that
t be allowed to bring a case by certio- position are not men learned in the law.
Inarj superior courts. Therefore
the
I It is well known that great difficulties are
opose by this clause that the appellant put in their way, and it is very seldom that
alldecide which remedy he is to take. convictions nade by them when appealed
The 8th clause is one that will com- to the Superior Court are not quashed.
nd itself, I believe, to everybody.
Therefore I say that every opportunty
The last clause, instead of requiring the ought to be given to have such judgrments
4c
wonY of sueing out a writ of poce- revised by the Superior Courts. If there
to enable the party to go on, allows is no objection, I do not see why this
first clause should not be struck out, and
rd Proceedings to be continued on the
r of little
ter somn'e the judge. I have had the mat- let the word " justice " apply to two,
time under consideration, justices as well as one.

2394

&
'Yùmmaiy [SENATE]

HON. MR. SCOTT-It is only an interpretation clause. It affects ail cases,
whether before one justice or two
justices. Inasmuch as the word "justice"
:ontinued through the Bill it was necessary
to have an interpretation clause so that if
the case came before a stipendiary magistrate or a police magistrate, or any person
having the power or authority of two or
more justices of the peace, it would apply.

HON. MR. BELLEROSE-In the Bill
it reads :
"1. In this Act the expression ,'justice'

Proceedings Bill.

Act in order to ascertain from my hol"
friend if he can show us that there is any
necessity for this Bill-the chief part Of
this Bill-that more particularly whicb
relates to the question of convictions
being set aside on mere formal objections.
In the Act which this proposes to amend,
an Act passed sixteen years ago, there are
very extensive enactments made to cover
the whole case, according to my view of
the law. If my hon. friend would look at
that Act, I would refer him to the sections ; it contains provisions that nO
conviction shall be quashed from any if'
regularity or any defect in the conviction
in substance or in form. And it goe
further than this Bill goes, because the
Act is to this effect, that any variance be
tween the evidence and the warrant Or
summons or information shall not be
valid, and then there is a further enactment that if there be any variance as to
the question of time or place, these Objections shall be of no consequence.

or ' justice of the peace ' includes any two or
more justices of the peace, and also a police
magistrate and a stipendiary magistrate,
and atny person having the power aid
authority of two or more justices of the peace.'"
That would show that it is two or more
justices of the peace, and it is to that I
take objection, because I say it is more
necessary to declare that in the case of
one justice of the peace, provided that no
injustice is shown, and provided that he
has not gone beyond his jurisdiction, the
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-That applies
appeal ought not to lie, and the certi- to indictments.
orari ought to be disallowed.
HON. MR. GOWAN-There are two
HON. MR. GOWAN-I am afraid I remedies; that applies only to appeal.
have not made my remarks understood.
HON. MR. DICKEY-I am nerely
The certioari is a matter of right, and the
object of that clause is simply to prevent a calling the hon. gentleman's attention to
conviction being set aside, whether made by this : I am speaking now of the Act Of
one magistrate or two magistrates, or any which this is an amendment, and not Of
one having the power of two magistrates, the general criminal law, and not of i"
provided the court thinks that substantial dictrnent. I am speaking by the book--I am speaking of the Summary Convictions
justice is done.
Act.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-If it is to
HON. MR. GOWAN-1 do not probe understood in that way .I have no obpose to deal with that at all.
jection to it.
HON. MR. DICKEY-I have been
under the very great disadvantage of
having but imperfectly heard ti'e explanation of the hon. gentleman who has
charge of this Bill, and I regret it the more
as no doubt from his long experience as
a county court judge he can make valuable observations which are entitled to
the seriotts consideration of the House.
My attention has been called to this Bill
only very recently, and 1 have taken the
trouble to look at the Act to which it proposes to be an amendment. I venture to
call the attention of the House to that

HON. MR. DICKEY-As my honfriend from Barrie will see, my object 0
rising is to ask for the reasons --necessity for this Bill-and I cal his attention to the existing law, and 1 hoPe
that the House will at all events have the
benefit of the intelligence and the foresight of the Minister of Justice, whO Io
peculiarly charged with the care of the
criminal law in this country, and it is Pe
haps just as necessary for me to guard
myself by calling his attention, as we
the attention of the hon. gentleman
Barrie, to this. The existing law nake

Summary [MARCII 23, 1885] Proceeding.s Bill.
Provisions for cases of appeal, and it also
'lakes provisions that no conviction shall
quashed on appeal for any such reasons
48 1 have already adverted to-that is to
lay, any defect in form, any irregularity,
eany variance between the different proeeedings in the suit Now with regard to
the question of certiorari I do not exactly
fre the 6th clause. I think my hon.
biend has made it a little too stringent,
the I would propose that with regard to
the Writ of certiorari it is a proceeding to
P!Otect persons from undue prosecutions,
t to give every man who is ertitled to
a hearing in the court above, on appeal
fro.n the court below. With regard to
fttiorari a man who obtains it has to
nake an affidavit, and has to show fully, to
the Power that grants the certiorari, that
Writ ought to issue. He has to do
t're than that ; le has to give security
that he shall abide by the decision of the
rt and pay all the results of that decis10a In the shape of fine and costs, and
that May be more or less. It niay be a
b of $20 or$50 or$75 or$ioo or more,
but My hon. friend before he allows any
o tn to issue a certiorari on proceedings
this kind, proposes that he shall first
e security in the large sum of $200 with
te sane conditions. Now that may be a
'toytrifhng matter to gentlemen in certain
Cditions of life, but with regard
to the
PeOPle who come before those magistrates
it§ courts below-and I have had some
Se xperience of them-they are generof of a class with whom $2oo is a matter
considerable

importance, and it nay in
to a POor
cases amount to a denial of justice
sea
man to be compelled to give
he rity for the large sum of $2oo before

is t in get a re-hearing of his case. There

395

that we are about to consolidate the laws,
and whether this is a matter now to legislate upon in view of that consolidation. I
therefore merely throw out this notice to
the House, and ask that the attention of
the Minister of Justice should be called
to it before the Bill goes to the committee.
HON. MR. GOWAN-I am sorry that
I have heard my bon. friend but imperfectly, and I am afraid that he has heard me
but iniperfectly. At present parties have
two remedies ; one is by an appeal to the
sessions when all the particularities he refers to are dispensed with, and where the
very largest powers are given, and where
a case is really determined on its merits.
The facts are tried there, and the court
has large powers with regard to moulding
the proceedings so as to secure substantial
justice ; but it is not so with respect to
certiorari. Under a writ of certiorari the
rule prevails that everything is to be presumed against the party, and nothing for
hiin ; and in the other case the eonverse
of that proposition holds good. I could
show a number of cases in which the
court most reluctantly yielded to this
principle which is so well settled by law in
a number of adjudged cases, that it was
impossible to depart from it, and the
court gave effect to merely technical objections. This Bill does not propose to
interfere with any rights the parties now
possess, and it is not proposed to interfere
with the law that provides for an appeal
against a conviction on the merits; but
simply proposes to deal with certiorpri
proceedings, and it enables the judge
upon review of the whole record, to set
aside those technical objections. For instance, if the punishment is less than that
named, or if it is a description not exactly
or strictly technically correct, still if it is
found that the facts are fully proven,
enable the judge in his discretion, when
the matter comes before him under certiorari, to determine what shall be done
in view of the whole facts of the
case. Now with regard to the recognizance that my hon. friend speaks of, I
quite agree with him that it is a very large
sum, but it is not new law; it is existing
law-it has been the law of the land since
George II to this day. The object of this
Bill is not to introduce any new feature in the

therefore that objection to that clause
tioWhich I think it right to call the attenthe' f the gentleman who has charge of
th
. There are other matters which
4 they-are mere matters of detail, includn that one which has just
been adverted
whin the other side of the House, on
Ch I do not wish to say anything at
foreent. buhtcest
ut with regard to the necessity
i
8oie s legislation I should like to have
ea eXplanation, and perhaps I might
genv the trouble of getting it from the hon.
CallemIan who has charge of the Bill, by
in the attention of the Minister of
tice tO it specially in view of the fact law-not to increase the difficulty of per-

Sumnary LSENATE] Proceeding8 Bill.

896

other parts of the Dominion, but in
Ontario I have heard nothing either froi
the bench or from the press calling for
this enactment, and inasmuch as it is ner
and not specifically amending any existing
Act, in my opinion the wisest course fo
the House would be to let this Bill stand
until we have ample time to have it dis
cussed and understood by the country at
large. We are placed in this position'
that in enacting a measure purely neW lO
its construction and application we have
no decisions-we have no law to guide 8S
in its construction or in its applicatonWhere it is made by way of amendment
to some established law we can refer tO
decisions. Most of our criminal laws arc
copied from the law of England. Otr
statute law is copied almost word for wOrdr
and in order the better to make every
species of crime punishable, in our larcetY
Act a clause was incorporated, clause r o,
which is still in our courts in UPPer
Canada, and is called the omnibus clause,
because it was intended to embrace everything. It was a kind of arraignment
made so general that no crime could "'cape unpunished. That clause has been
declared over and over again to be Pet
fectly useless, and I know not of one 0'
dictment or charge ever brought under !t
that was sustained. There was no decIHON. MR. O'DONOHOE-This is an sion to throw light upon it. It was then
important measure and is entitled to the new ; it will remain new, and it is at thiS
greatest possible attention by this honorable moment a dead letter on our statute book.
House ; the more so, emanating as it does Therefore, I say that in introducing a n'eW
from a learned gentleman such as the law, as this is, we should give it the gret'
author of this Bill, one who commands est possible amount of care and attentionthe esteem and respect of every one who There are provisions in the Bill whichh
has the pleasure of his acquaintance. But dislike: the first one, which contains t
that it is in the hands of such a man only gravamen of the whole Bill is in clause
enables us to deal more freely and more two which provides that : "No convictoo
independently with it. Should we give or order made by any Justice of the
up our judgment in compliment to my Peace, and no warrant for enforcing the
hon. friend's great ability and character, same, shall be held invalid for any Irp
he would be the first in whose estimation gularity,informalityorinsufficiency therein
this House would fall. We must deal
with this Bill independently. It is a new
HoN. MR. GOWAN- " provided tha&t
measure, a new law. In my humble judg- the court or judge," go on with it.
ment it should be demonstrated to this
House that there is a pressing necessity
HON. MR. O'DONOHOE-Wil
for such a law before it is enacted. We hon. friend allow nie to take my own
have not been able to see that necessity. of it ; I shall have the greatest pleasurel1
I can only speak within the narrow limits listening to him when I am through. NOW
of the province to which I belong ; take a magistrate who makes a convictIo
gentlemen from other provinces will be when the statute only empowers that con
the best judges of the state of the law in viction to be made by two.

sons appealing to the courts from examin
ation on a summary conviction ; but for
the purpose of bringing before the magistrates, and before the profession at large
the fact that such an Act as that exists,
and is in force to this day. By the adoption of the general law ot England in
Canada we adopted amongst others the
statute of George II, and that is in force
now, and is every day acted upon ; therefore the sixth clause of this Bill introduces
no new law, but brings out the substantial
re-enactment of the law as it exists, and
brings into bolder relief to parties concerned what the law is. I should be happy,
and would feel it a pleasure and a satisfaction, to give my hon. friend opposite
every information about a number of cases
that I would not now think of troubling
the House with, where the judges have
been obliged to give effect to those simple
objections which really have no merit in
them, and did not touch the decision of
the case on the merits. It is certainly a
reproach to the law when by reason of
these technical difficulties a conviction of
a guilty party is set aside, and it is with
the object of securing the punishment of
guilt, notwithstanding any mere slip on the
part of the justice of the peace, that I
introduce this Bill.

HON.

MR. GOWAN

Summary [MARCH 23, 1885.] Proceedings Bill.

397

MR. GOWAN-That is absolute- great doubt as to my hon. friend being
correct in stating that some statute of
George Il is now in force in this province.
"ON. MR. O'DONOHOE-I beg my I think if it had been that it would have
S. friend's pardon, it is not void. When been brought into force and been acted
s it declared so until the court declares it upon long ago. My hon. friend in speakd That conviction made by one ma- ing of it himself in explaining this Bill to
g'strate is good until it is set aside. On the House, states that one of his objects in
that there is any amount of authority. bringing it forward was to bring before the
'alat is an insufficient conviction, but country the fact that that law is in force.
tthough it is insufficient, under this Bill He may be correct, but if he be correct
Judges upon which
th affidavit may look at the depositions or the learned judge who gave this decision
it was founded,
was not aware of the
and if they find that the offence was com- I have just quoted
existence of that statute.
ritted which that magistrate had jurisdictiOfl Over, they are obliged to sustain the
HON. MR. GOWAN-Oh no, that does
COnviction in the face of the statute.
not follow.
"ON.

y void.

ioN. MR. GOWAN-It is not so.
oN. MR. O'DONOHOE-In the face
of the Statute which savs that a conviction
othat nature is only valid when made by
justices.
lON. MR. GOWAN-That clausewould

ot cover that case.

HON. MR. O'DONOHOE-My learned friend would exact a security before a
man can get a certiorari, which is a writ
of right-a writ that every man is entitled
to call for who is convicted, and who
believes he is wrongfully convicted-convicted against the law and the fact. He
obtains the writ, and he obtains it with us
to-day without being required to give any
amount of bail. Attach bail to it, and
what is the poor prisoner to do who has
no means? He has to lie in gaol under
conviction which he believes, and which
he is advised, is wrong. Why should that
be so ? The writ of certiorari in every
case accompanies the writ of habeas

1q MR. O'DONOHOE-Then the
tatlusion to be arrived at from it is this,
.We would ask the judges to give a
sion under this Bill in the teeth of the
st te that requires that two judges should
to e that conviction. Now with regard
the writ of certiorari, my hon. friend curpus.
tes that under the statute of George Il
nIty must be given. I may say that I
HoN. MR. GOWAN-It follows it.
· lot been able to give sufficient
a
HoN. MR. O'DONOHOE-It accomth 'tonto the matter to ascertain whether
ire was a repeal of that in Canada or panies that writ in bringing up the docu4 but I krow that in practice in the ments upon which the man is iniprisoned.
jfU18 Of Toronto no security is asked for It is simply a writ calling on the magistrates
1obtainiing a writ of certiorari, and that and other inférior jurisdictions to return
question came up in a recent case, to the Superior Court or Court of Queen's
Soilf. the Queen vs. Nunn, reported Bench the papers on which the accused
'Vo Y 1i the Canada Law Journal, 1884, was deprived of his liberty. My hon.
Ulbe 20, page 408. The judgment is:- friend's Bill would attach to such a writ
o eld that a retirn to a certiorari is iade as that the necessity of giving security to

note asseistance of the court,
ecesary to

and that it is the extent of $200. That, hon. gentlemen will agree with me, is just equivalent
to saying to such prisoners, "You must lie

enter into a recognizance."
d*es are the express words of this
al on--the very latest decision appliin1
to this particular point. Findth the latest decision, my own
a

in gaol under the conviction, be it right or
wrong, until the hearing of the case can
come up in the regular order." My hon.
ledge of the fact-that I have never friend has stated that the law as it stands,
security being asked for on an and as it is administered, has given satisfion a writ of certiorari, I am in faction.
for

398

Sumnarýy [SENATE] Proceedings Bill.

that the judge may at any time amend a defect or
error in any proceeding, and all such
amendments may be made as may be
HoN. MR. O'DONOHOE--Then tak- found necessary for the advancement Of
ing the words of my experienced and hon. justice. My hon. friend can scarcely sUPfriend, why should we interfere with that pose that I would be a party to enabling
law? What I mean to impress upon this judges to do that which would operate
House is, that we should never alter the against justice, or defeat the ends of juslaw-that we should never put any new tice ! I certainly have no such intentiO0,
statute on our books unless there is a and the clause does not warrant it. When
pressing necessity for it. My hon. friend I state that they give general satisfaction
has not shown that necessity, and until it I maintain it, that as a general thing the
is shown there is a necessity for it I shall decisions of magistrates have been satisfacoppose it, much as I should hate to oppose tory. They have exercised a wise discretion
anything that emanates from my hon. in respect tothe punishments imposed; but
friend : still there is a duty here to be when they came to formulate their findings
performed, and in the performance of it I they failed because strict principles of law
shall feel obliged to move, if no other hon. required a strict construction to be put
gentleman does so, that this Bill be not now upon them, and the judges are unable.jn
read the second time, but that it be read the present state of the law to deal with
the second time this day six months, and them as judges should be enabled to deal
in making that motion I make it not with the simplest case, and the object ,
ultimately intending that this Bill shall this Bill is to give to the judges in their
not have effect if neceseary, but for the discretion, and upon a review of the WhOle
purpose of giving the country time to un- facts, power to deal with them according
derstand it-that lawyers and judges and to the merits. I think, with regard tO
courts should know its bearings, and when certiorari, the hon. gentleman has COn'
it comes up at the next session of Parlia- founded two cases. If a party is in custody
ment we shall be in a position to give an and brought up on a habeas corpus, there
intelligent vote upon it.
the practice is to have the proceedings
sent up without giving security; but where
HON. MR. GOWAN-If the House there is an appeal simply and solely to set
will pardon me, I should like to say a few aside the conviction-to have the convicwords with reference to what has fallen tionquashed-there I maintainthesecurity
from my hon. friend behind me. I am is required, and is every day given. I had
very much obliged to him for the personal an opportunty of conferring with WY
reference he makes to myself, but I be- friend, the Deputy Attorney-General for
speak for this Bill no favor but what it is Ontario, on this very point, and I received
fairly entitled to on its merits. He is from him this day a letter commenting on
wrong about the 6th clause. It certainly several points, and he mentions to ne,
does not give any power to judges which and I know it myself, that in cases where
they do not already possess, except to cor- the conviction is assailed, and where the
rect mere trivial errors. It does not give proceeding is not by habeas corpus, but
them power to say that a decision rend- simply a certiorari to bring up the convîc
ered before one justice, when the law re- tion for the purpose of being exalinect
quired it to be before two justices, should there the security is required. With regard
be held good ; or that the fact that a par- to this introducing security, the Bill so far
ticular justice to whom alone was delega- as it goes would stand independent of it.
ted the power, when that particular justice I simply introduced it because I believe it
did not act in the case, should not invali- is not generally known, but if the Ilouse
date the conviction if the facts appeared should think it better to omit it, I woU1î'
to be justified by the evidence. It simply have no objection whatever to do so- he
does that in respect to criminal matters of law, if it is law, is still operative, and the
this kind-sunmary jurisdiction matters party would be required to give securtl
-which is donc every day with respect to under the statute of George Il. I have
civil matters. My hon. friend knows very spoken to one or two gentlemen fron th
well that in civil matters the court or Lower Provinces, and their recollection
HON MR. GOWAN-No,
magistrates have.

Svnmary

Bih.
[MARC H 23, 1885] Proceeding&

agrees with mine that security is still given,
and I know that the law is in force, and
as never been repealed. I hope the
"ouse will be prepared to give the
]ill a fair consideration.
I do not
at all desire a hurried consideration
f It but I think it is a good measure, and
IWOuld, if it was thought expedient, when
the mYatter is sent to the committee, submit
al number of cases to show the trifling
technical grounds upon which the courts
tave been constrained to set aside convicof.
Under the Act with regard to pub. Works there are some very trifling objections given effect to that would set
aide the whole proceedings. A number
Of cases, I think it must be ten or twelve,
thecided recently, bring out in bold relief
e fact that the court is bound to give
elfect to the objections. I am just as
coliservative as my hon. friend is in respect
to RY tampering with the law, and as far
i am aware this Bill in no way interferes
e body of the law, but simply proVides a remedy in cases where I think a
reniedy is required.

3990

question is whether the Bill he has intro-

duced will effect that intention. Since
the debate has begun my attention has
been called to the statute which the hon.
gentleman's Bill proposes to amend. I
think it would be better that my hon.

friend from Toronto should not persist in
his motion to reject the Bill at the second
reading, but that it might be allowed to
be read the second time, and then the
sense of the House might be taken when
it is proposed to go into committee on
the Bill, after the hon. gentleman from
Barrie will have had time to consider and
be ready to answer the objections which
I take this
have been made to it.
chapter which thdBill proposes to amend,
and I find the 5th section reads as tollows:
" No objection shall be allowed to any
information, complaint or summons, for any
alleged defect therein, in substance or in
form, or for any variance between such information, complaint or sumnions, and the evidence adduced on the part of the informant
or complainant at the hearing of such information or complaint; but if any such variance appears to the justice or justices present
and acting at such hearing to be such, that
the person summoned and appearing has
been thereby deceived or misled, such justice
or justices, may, upon such terms as he or
they think fit, adjourn the hearing of the case
to a future day.'
Now that deals with the first hearing,
It provides that no technical defect in the
original process shall hinder the justice
from convicting a man. Then the u2th
section says, " No objection shall be taken

ÎON. MR1.. POWER-I think the hon.
oetleman from Barrie has the sympathy
the House at large in the general object
.f
ch his Bill is intended to serve.
e all ought to wish that justice
huild have fair play in her contest with
the evil doer and I am glad to hear from
hb hon. gentleman that this Bill has been
rnitted to the Minister of Justice, and
neets with the approval of that officer.
1elag a measure of such importance per- or allowed

to any warrant, issued as

inap it miight more properly have been aforesaid, for any alleged defect therein in
b Oduced by the Minister himself than substance or in form or for any variance

Y private member.
remnember that last session when
. easures came before the House
'ch had been introduced into the

between it and the evidence adduced on
the part of the informant or complainant,
but if it appears to the justice or justices
present and acting at the hearing, that the

t4os of Commons by private members, party apprehended under the warrant has
th Minister of Justice rather took been deceived or misled by any such
e ground that those Bills should have variance, such justice or justices may,
teri dealt with by himself, and he under- upon such terms as he or they think fit,
th to deal with the subjects to which adjourn the hearing of the case to some
.ey referred at a later date. If the Min- future day and in the mean time commit
h er of Justice took that ground last year, the defendant to the common gaol, &c."
t surely must consider it objectionable
HON. MR. GOWAN--That all relates
his friend in this House to introdul
ated a measure which should have origin- to proceedings before magistrates.
y ith himnself as Minister of Justice.
HON. MR. POWER-I am going on t(>
anhould all agree with the hon. gentlefrom Barrie in his intention ; the what the hon. gentleman wants, but I

400

Swaiimary [SEINATE] Proceedingé; Bill.

wish to lay the foundation. It is stated
that at the beginning no technical objection
shall prevail. Then we have the matter
of appeal dealt with, and I invite my hon.
friend's attention to the 67th section,
which is as follows:"No judgnent shall be given in favor of
the appellant if the appeal is based on an
objection to any information, complaint or
sumnons, or to any warrant to apprehend a
deferdant,issued upon any such information,
complaint or summons, for any alleged defect
therein in substance or in form, or for any
variance hetween such information, complaint,
suinmions or warrant, and the evideice
adduced in support thereofat the hearing of
such information or comîplaint,-unîless it

defects; but I do not think the hon. gentleman has so far made it clear to other
members of the House who arc not sO
familiar with the existing law as he is that
his Bill does remove those objections. I
do not see myselt that the language in his
Bill is any clearer or stronger than the
language that I have just read.
HON. MR. GOWAN-It applies to a

different class of cases. It applies to
appeals to the sessions and not to certiorarL
HON. MR. POWER-But one section
did deal with certiorari.

shall be proved before the court hearing the

appeal that such objection*was made before
the justice or justices of the peace before

whom the case wa tried and by whon'
such conviction, judgnent or decision
was giveni-nor unless it is proved that not.
withstanding it was shown to such justice or
justices of the peace thuat by such variance
the person summnoned and appearing or apprehended, had been deceived or misled, such
justice or justices refused to adjourn the
hearinLg of the case to somte further day, as
provided by this Act."
It seems to me that that section goes
nearly as far as we ought to go in the way
of making these informalities and irregularities of no consequence. L think if it
can be shown that a defendant had been
prejudiced by the variance he has a right
Then
to have the cause postponed.
oe
assection 7
or adjudication
"No conviction
made in appeal therefrom shall be quashed
for want of form, or be renioved by certiorari
into any of Her Maje>ty's superior courts ol
record; and no warrant of comnitment shal
be held void by reason of any defect therein,
rovided it be therein alleged that the Party
as been convicted and there be a goodan
valid conviction to sustain the sanie."
HON. MR. SCOTT-That is repealed
by the 33rd Vic.

HON.

areat

MR. SCOTT-

think that a

mistake was made in codifying the

criminal laws in 1869 i not i
.m
.SiOf
the substan ot
.i
into them the substance of the provision
contained in the second clause of the hon.
gentleman's Bill. ''ne spirit of the legislation of that day clearly contemplated that
convictions should not be set aside for
irregularity, informality or insufficiencY,
and the very clauses which have beeil
read by the hon. member from Halifax are
the best possible corroboration of that
view, because he has shown that the legislature dealt with this subject in a spirit of
not permitting justice to be defeated by
captious objections. The objections that
are referred to and which he quoted fron
clause five have reference to the information, complaint and summons in the pre
Then the next
himinary proceedings.
stage at which the legislature seenis tO
have provided that no techinical objection
shall be allowed to prevail is in that 12th
clause-which the hon, gentleman has
read to the House.
The last one he quoted expressly refers
to where a party goes to appeal, that il,
appeals from the magistrate's decision tO
a bench of judges-to what is known as
the quarter sessions in Ontario, and I
suppose it is the same in other provinces
-but the case my hon. friend's Bill proposes to provide for is not any of the cases
referred to there. It is a case where a
party appeals direct to the higher court.

HON. MR. POWER-The substance of
that remains in force even though the
wording may have been altered.
The
reason L make the suggestion to the hon.
member from Toronto with respect to this
Bill is that I have no doubt from the long
experience of the hon. member from
HoN. MR. DICKEY---That is dealt
Barrie, both in the matter of drawing bills with in section 71.
and trying causes, he must have discovered
serious defects in the existing law, and L
HON. MR. GOWAN-That is repealed
have no doubt that his Bill removes those and a new section substituted for it.
HIoN. MR. POWER.

Sumnnyw'ry [MARCH 23, 1885.]j ProceedingsBill.

401

lION. MR. SCOTT-There is no simi- widest possible powers in trials involving

Provision. The case that my hon.
hiend's Bill provides for is just one that
. as been dropped out--that is,where a mag'Strate convicts. In order that the magistrate might not go astray, a large number
O forms is provided in the statute, but it
Was not possible to provide a form for
every case arising, and it is necessary for
the mfagistrate to exercise some discretion
afnd discrimination in filling up forms for
cases where no provision is made in the
Sttute.

We know that magistrates are

t accustomed to proceedings of that
kind and very often they are careless, and
hen the conviction is appealed against
fi s quashed simply for want of proper
OrM. 'This is frequently done, and judges
re .Constantly expressing regret to have
to
t. I know, a few days ago, two cases
fe before Justice Rose, in Toronto, on
OtIOns to quash convictions by inagistrates under what is called the Public
Works Act to preserve the peace where
Public works are going on. In one of
those cases a man had been convicted for
reach of the law, and the conviction
Moved against.
The judge ,as
th iged to quash the conviction, but at
ha sare time expressed great regret at
41 to do so. Some little technical
4M had not been observed and conse'tently the man who had been violating
e law was allowed to go scot free. That
a case provided for by this Bill. Magiste
know have jurisdiction in a very
bror class of cases, those arising from
Saches of the peace chiefly, and it was
1tnded
d, no doubt, when one looks at
the
ulspirit of the legislation of 1869, that
matters of form were not to be a
b Mr
to convicting a party if a substantial
nd for sustaming the complaint were
cted out
and it will be recold that this appeal is to a
J, of the highest court in the
(
Cou- It is to a judge of a Superior
a
not to a bench of imagistrates,.-to
tdge sitting in the High Court of Jusvery Who is clothed under the statute with
powers in all higher cases of
ride
that this
'e. Now
Bil " quite into show the Housethe legisLt
the current with
of 1869, we give to the same judge
,qu . called upon to pronounce upon the
q28ion, whether a conviction should be
ed ona mere matter of form, the

felonies of every kind and misdemeanors.
We allow, as those gentlemen who have
some experience in courts know, in these
important cases an indictment to be made
against the party accused, in the simplest
possible way--simply that he committed a
crime in a particular place, the time and
place being unimportant. The principal
point is that he committed a crime. That
may be stated without any of the useless
verbiage which magistrates are very often
obliged to import into their convictions.
Vou give the judge power during the trial
to suit the indictment to the evidence tha
is being given. Then after the trial, supposing there are defects, we allow all kindç
of form defects to be cured after indictment. We invest the judge with these
extraordinary powers before the verdict
and after the verdict. We declare that
after the verdict those things may be
cured, but in the case of a magistrate who
is deputed to try those minor cases we are
not disposed to allow that a conviction,
which is defective simply for want of
form, shall stand, and we decline to allow
a judge of a higher court, who takes cognizance of more serious cases and who has
those extraordinary powers to which I
have adverted in the trial of cases before
him at the Assizes, to say that a conviction in a minor case shall be allowed to
stand if he is satisfied that it was a proper
decision. Now I think we are unnecessarily excited in the interest of the delinquent when we are not prepared to
clothe the judge who has the jurisdiction of higher offences with the
control of offences that we relegate to the
magistrates. I do not find that the Act
of 1869, although it is broad in many particulars, meets exactly this case. It meets
the case where the summons itself is
defective, where the order is defective,
where it is defective if brought before a
bench of magistrates. A party endeavoring to set aside proceedings can apply for
a writ of certiorari to have a conviction
quashed. If instead of appealing on the
merits he finds that there is a clerical
error, some slight defect, something wholly
irrelevant to the real question at issue, if
instead of appealing to a bench of magistrates he goes straight to the higher court
and moves to have this indictment quashed
the judge has no option but to quash it

iumniary LSEN ATE]

A02

Proceedinge Bill.

on a matter of form.
I think that is
The next important clause is the olie
scarcely in harmony with the spirit of which provides that in cases where conviC
legislation in this country, more particu- tions are (uashed no action shah lie
larly, as I have shown that in the against the justice or officer who made the
highest classes of crime the liberty of the conviction. '[at seems perlectly fair and
individual is of much more consequence, reasonable.
where a man is indicted for murder, burglary and forgery-in all those cases you
Clause seven is as follows
have simply given the judge carte blanche 7. No writ ofcertiorari shah be allowed tO
in trying a man to adapt the paper that remove any conviction or order had or made
the as apî>ealed froni suchà conviction defendant
professes to set forth the chargeHto says before any justice of the peace if theor order tO
him.
case as it develops before him.a
yuch y court to which an appeal frosa
C
if it is going to put the prisoner to any viction or order authorized by Iaw, or
serious disadvantage he will postpone the be alloved to remove any conviction or order
trial; but how rarely that occurs, and made upon such appeal.
those amendments are freely made. I
1 may be mistaken-of course I do n
think that is a necessity, because our speak authoritatively on that subject-but
system before that was a perfect disgrace I was under the impression where the
to civilization.
The whole effort was party appeals, then the application doel
how not to convict a man-how to let not lie. However, that is a matter
him off-to surround the proceedings minor importance and can be referred te
with technicalities to defeat justice. again.
The whole thing was a perfect farce,
The next clause is to provide that 00
and we provided a simple set of application to quash a conviction the c0uft
forms. It takes about three lines now to shah allow evidence of the Act being in
draw an indictment for murder, and so it force by proclamation to be given. That
is with all the other crimes-you just state seems a very proper thing to do. If it
them in the Queen's English, in the short- was omitted in the proceedings before the
est possible way ; but here, where you magistrate, as in the case to which I have
mpose duties on magistrates, it is a coin- already referred under the Public WorkS
plicated matter. The form of indictnent Act, if it was not given in evidence, the"
for murder or manslaughter is brief, and a why should it fot be adritted afterwards e
1
common sense sort of thing.
But is it The man was convicted because he cofl
common sense to say to our magistrates mitted an offence against that Act; the
" You shall be obliged to draw up most mere omission to have the fact stated in
elaborate forms of convictions ?" Some evidence ought not to afford an opportil
of those convictions actually take a whole nity for quashing the conviction. There
page of paper. We impose that on a ma- may be some details in the Bil which e
gistrate and if he makes a mistake in a can consider in comnittee, and whiCh
single line or word, the conviction can be ray be changed and improved, but I feel
quashed by an appeal to the higher court, very decidedly in reference to the nai"
and the judge has no alternative but to point which the hon, gentleman has il
quash the conviction. The spirit of our view in the introduction of the measUr&
law is to give the judge most ample powers it is in the proper direction and the only
to amend, because you cannot place the wonder is that it was not introduced long
power of amending in any better dcpository ago, or incorporated in the Act of 18691
than the judge ; but in such cases as this because that Act was drawn on those
Bill refers to, a conviction which would unes. Every clause, to which refereice
otherwise be valid can be quashed for the has been made> specially stipulates thet
slightest informality. I should like to go exception shah fot be taken to variance Of
through the other clauses of the Bill, but papers, or a mere matter of form, but it
I shall confine myself to this particular does not say so in reference to this chas5
one which has been the principal subject of convictions, and I can only core to the
of discussion. In reference to this clause
ct
that drafting t
t
a Act a
e
the law is evidently defective and I think large number of forms were given for
magistrates to follow, and then it provided
the sooner we correct it the better.
HON. NIR SCOTT.

Sumnary [MARCi 23, 1885] Proceeding Bill.
that where the form did not exactly suit,
a Similar form should be used ; but then
it Cormitted the magistrate to the exact
Words of the form, and any slight variation
Made the conviction defective and allowed
the party to have it quashed before a court.
?!4Y own impression is that if a party apPealed to a bench of magistrates and they
sustained the conviction that he could
flot move for a writ of certiorari.

HON.

MR. GOWAN--Oh yes, he can,

lON. MR. SCOTT-Certainly he can
go direct without appeal to one of the
higher courts to quash the conviction, and
t it does not seem to be in the interest of
1
Justice, or to be common sense.

40&:

are two remedies provided, one an appeal
to the sessions, or a tribunal corresponding
to it, where a case will be dealt with on its
merits, before a jury. In these cases an
appeal based upon an alleged defect in
form or any trifling matter is not given effect
to, but it is not so in respect to proceedings
before a court when a case is brought up
on certiorari. There all the objections
that can be alleged to any matter are
admitted, and very often the most trifling
objections are allowed to prevail. I have
not the faculty that the hon. member from
Ottawa and others possess to do justice to.
my own reflections when I am on my feet,
and therefore I am very glad that they
have given me their aid in bringing this
matter before the House. But I am quite
satisfied that the object is one which
deserves attention, and I bespeak a careful
consideration of this Bill. I have no desire to press the matter at all but I would
fain secure for it the consideration to
which it is entitled. The necessity for it
has been very well explained by the hon.
member from Ottawa. He has shown that
in trials for the highest crimes matters of
merely techinical value are not allowed ta
prevail and the case is tried on its merits,
but in minor cases brought before magistrates, who have no assistants and no legal
training, their decisions as formulated are
criticized in the most rigorous way.

HON. MR. KAULBACH--I must
aglree with my hon. triend who introduced
this Bill that there is some reason for this
legislation. If the object of the measure
a"s to increase the power of the magistrates I should certainly object to it so far
a My knowledge of magistrates in Nova
Scotia is concerned. I thought from ,the
'em'arks of the hon. member from
Amherst that the law was directed more to
lidictrnents. In our province if you want
a Writ of certiorari you must find bail.
he anount of $200 is not fixed ; it is in
the discretion of the court. In my experience and practice, if there are technical
Objections our course is certiorari to a
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I see
IlPerior court.
If a man thinks that no reason in the world why my hon.
Justice has not been done him he goes to friend's Bill should not be read the second
te c-ounty court, but we never go to the time. He proposes an amendment which
OUnty court with a case if our object is will help the administration of justice and
to take legal objections. That is our take away the opportunity for setting aside
Position in practice, and therefore I think convictions on matters of form. In civil
that this portion of the Bill if enacted will proceedings we have done that years and
tahe away very largely from certiorari years ago. We have allowed amendments
cause if litigants find when it comes to be made at any time, from the beginUnder cirtiorari that the merits of the case ning to the end of the trial, so as to ensure
Will be Considered, and the same power ot to litigants a righteous decision without
amlendment would exist as in more serious being turned aside by want of formality.
eses, they will abandon that form of It so happens that with reference to the
Peal. Certioriris are very often vex- particular class of cases to which this Bill
Atiau
-mere quibbles of law, and this applies, that has not been done in the law
1,.s,
siation would have the effect. to a as it now stands. My hon. friend proposes
ge extent, of doing away with them.
to accomplish by this Bill what would
have been done long ago if attention had
1eoN. MR. GOWAN-The House has been drawn to it. It is only by accumur4frbearing but I think you will per- lated expzrience that people see what is
to every hon.explain what is not very clear necessary in regard to these matters, and
te to
gcntleman present. There this experience does not cone so quickly

A01

Summary [SENATE] Proceedings Bill.

or closely to the Minister of Justice, or the
Attorney General here, as it does to the
Attorneys General of the different provinces. This Bill has been suggested, I
believe, to my hon. friend by the Attorney
General of Ontario who sees from time to
time, much more closely than I can see,
what is necessary in this direction, and
who has the opportunity of hearing in
court the numerous instances in which
convictions are set aside on the grouid of
mere want of formality. Now, there is no
object in maintaining that sort of thing.
It does not facilitate, but rather hinders
the administration of justice. This Bill
does not allow magistrates to interfere with
the ordinary course of proceedings before
them, but it proposes, if they discharge
their duty, that their convictions should
There
stand in the face of informalities
is no objection to giving thern that advantage in the manner proposed in this
Bill. The hon. members from Halifax
and Amherst thought that this Bill should
have originated with the Government.
HON. MR.

DICKEY-1 did not say

that.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My
hon. friend thought it should appear in the
Consolidation of the Statutes. The Consolidation of the Statutes will only show
what is law at the passing of them. If
this Bill were law at present it would go
into the Consolidated Statutes by a Bill
passed at the end of the Session, by
which all the legislation of this Session
will be incorporated in them. In that
way this Bill, if passed, will appear in the
Consolidated Statutes when they come to
be published. So it is a great advantage
and convenience that this Bill should be
discussed and disposed of now. With
reference to its not originating with the
Department of Justice, every now and
then it does happen that persons more
conversant than members of the Government with the evil to be remedied, take
notice of it earlier than the Department
of Justice has the opportunity of observing
it. As I say, the evils which this Bill
proposes to remedy have come under the
observation of the Attorney General of
Ontario, and he has been corresponding
with me, and with my hon. friend from
Parrie, on the subject, and I believe the

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL

Bill has been largely prepared in his offlice
He knows the evils and is anxious tO
remedy them, and I am quite sure that
the House will agree that they should be
remedied. What reason is there that the
decisions of magistrates should be quashed
for inere informalities ? If there is anything wrong in the details of the Bill we
can discuss them in committee, but I
certainly hope and think that the House
will read my hon. friend's Bill the second
time.
HON. MR. FLINT-My hon. friend
asked me to second the Bill. I looked over
it and was satisfied that it was in the right
direction. I have been on the commhission of the peace for over forty-eight years
and have tried several hundred cases MYself, and had other justices connected
with me, and I can say that I have never
had an appeal from any decision that I ever
gave. It was not because I was brought UP
learned in the law, but because I acted
from what I believed to be perfectly right
and correct and did justice in al'
cases brought before me. Taking it as a
general rule, justices will not touch a case,
let the consequences be what they may,
from fear that an appeal may be made tO
the quarter sessions and they will be put
to the expense and trouble of spending
three or four days, or a week, away frorn
home in order to attend to it. We know
that whenever there is a change of Government, particularly as it used to beand I believe it is the same in different
provinces now-there is always a batch of
new justices of the peace appointed. I arn
sorry to say, from the experience I have
had of those commissions which have
been made out by both sides in politics,
that there has not been that attentiofl
paid to appointing persons who are quali
fied for the discharge of the duties of the
position. It has been more of a political
machine than anything else and the colsequence is that the country is filled up
with magistrates, particularly in Ontario,
where we have now ten thousand. I do
not believe that out of that number there
are i,ooo justices who act at all-nOt
more than that at all events. They are
afraid to act because they are liable tO
have their convictions quashed for any
slight informality, and the consequence 15
many a time a criminal goes unwhipped

Tke Cox. [MARCH 23, 1885] Divorce Ca8e.
to justice. I know this is the fact in the
locality where I reside. Since the establishment of a police court in Belleville
inany country justices of the peace, who
did formerly take up cases, will not touch
thern at all now from the trouble they
have had through appeals from their con'Victions on trivial grounds, and persons
have to come before the police magistrate
at Belleville and are put to a large expense in consequence. I know one
Instance in that part of the country where
a party had to pass no less than three
Justices of the peace before he could get
One who would try his case. The defendatnt

was fined

$i

and

he

had

405

Therefore it could not have the effect
which he saw fit to explain to the House.
I am sorry to have to state this, because,
of course, my hon. friend is a gentleman
learned in the law, but we do not find that
gentlemen learned in the law are always
correct in the information which they give.
Consequently I thought it just as well to
let it be known that so far as this clause is
concerned it relates to a conviction by one
justice and not by two. I am in favor of
the Bill because I believe it is in the right
direction.
The amendment was declared lost on a

to division.

Pay $14 costs. This was very hard
for him and had it not been
The Bill was then read the second time.
that four of the principal witnesses,
I being one of them, agreed to ask nothing
BILL INTRODUCED.
for Our services, he would have had to pay
Sorne $25. When we come to take these Bill (37), "An Act further to amend the
facts into consideration, and consider the Act to incorporate the South Saskatchewan
large number of those justices in the Valley Railway Conipany."-(Mr. Plumb.>
Country, the necessity of this legislation is
apparent I do not say a word against
THE COX DIVORCE CASE.
the character of these justices. As a rule
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
they are good men, but many of thern do
fot understand the proper mode of procedure, and they are frightened from acting
HON. MR. OGILVIE moved:when they see one magistrate after another
That the second reading of the said Bill be
getting into trouble through appeals postponed until Fridav, the twenty-seventh
against their decisions.
During the instant, and that it do then stand as the first
last four or five years I have acted in but iteni on the orders of thtat day, and tiat
of
'Ole case, and as a general thing I am not notice thereof be affixed on the doors and this
H ouse, and the Senators summnîoned;
tiat
rnuch at home. Now that they have a te said George Branotrd Cox nay he heard
POlice magistrate in the city, I think they by his cou nsel at the second reading to niake
en get on without my help. I consider ont the trutht of the allegations of the said
that this Bill is in the right direction. My Bill, and that notice he given to Eniily Coi
hon. friend lrom Toronto in reading the of the second reaiing by a telegrai to be
addressed to lier at San Gabriel, in the State
second clause of the Bill, read this part of of California. Uy the Clerk of the Senate, and
it :-" No conviction or order made by that shte be at liberty to be leard by counsel
any justice of the peace, and no warrant what site nay have to oter again t the said

for enforcing the sane, shall be held in- Bill, at the same timiie ; that tie said George
Yalid for any irregularity, informality or Bianiord Cox do attend tihis Hose on hlie
day or March instant, in
Insufficiency therein," and there he stop- said twenty-seventh exaiined on the econd
order to lits beig
Ped. Had he gone on a little further he reading of th said Bill, il thue ouse shail
Probably would not have said as much as thilnk fit. wltiiher thtere lias or has iot been
e did about that clause. There is a any collusion directly or indirectly on lis
part relative to any act of atiultery that nay
ProvisO to this effect :have been cunmitted by his wife, or whiethîer
"Provided that the court or judge be- there 1e any collusiun, directly or indirectly,
or
between iiiii and his
fore which or whom the question is raised or persons, Lotcitiig wile,saidany other person
the
1uPon perusal of the depositions, or by or toucbing any action at Bill of Divorce,
law wlich say
kffidavit, satisfied that an offence has been have been brought by him against any person
ý0r1'ntted over which such justice has for criminal conversation with her, tlie said
wife of te said George Branford
Cox, and
also wiether at the time of the adultery of

406

The (

[SEN ATE] I&orce Ca8e.
S

which he complains she was by deed or otherwise Lv his consent living separately and
apart from and released by him, as far as in
him ilay, from her conjugal' duty, or whether
ihe at the lime of sucli adultery, cohabitwas
ing with him, and under the protection and
authority of hin as lier husband.
HON. MR. ALMON--Is it not a rather
short notice to send froni here to San
Gabriel, in California?
How many days
do you give for a notice to get there and
back again ? I think it would be much
better to postpone that until after the
Easter vacation.
I have an idea that the
leader of the House is going to let us have
a holiday about the tirne mentioned in
the motion, and I think i would be better
to postpone the second reading until after
the Easter recess.
HON SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
not ihink my hon. friend understands that
a copy of the notice and the Bill have
already been sent to San Gabriel to be
servedon the respondent, and the petitioner
expects that he will be able to establish the
service of the Bill by other evidence which
has not yet arrived. This postponment is
to give time for the evidence to arrive and
to provide for the case, if it should arrive,
that she may have by telegraph the notice
that the second reading will not come on
this day but on Friday next-so as to
provide for that double contingency. I
do not understand that the House is asked
at all to assent to this notice being sufficient.
The hon. gentleman has put
it in his motion, and the House may
allow it to go ; but we do not at all assent
to that being a sufficient notice. The
House I think will expect on Friday next
to be furnished with other evidence than
a telegram that the woman has received a
copy of the Bill, and I suppose those
interested in the matter will be able to
furnish that evidence. This is a work of
supererogation, as it were, in addition to
that evidence ; so I think we can very
safely allow it to proceed. As to the House
sitting on Friday I feel safe in saying that
it will.

the mode that was taken to get the
This is
evidence that was wanted.
simply telegraphing a further distance.
The papers we expect are on the way here,
as the Minister of Justice has explained,
and arrangements will be made by which
I think the Clerk of the Senate will telegraph to the respondent in this case tonight, and there certainly will be plenty of
time before Friday to have four or five
answers back, if necessary.
HON. MR. DICKEY-My only interest
in this matter is that the rules of the
House should be observed.
My hon.
friend who has just spoken has imported
into this resolution a new principle, that
we should declare what evidence will be
sufficient.
HON.
SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLI do not understand that we ought not
to admit it if that is the case.
HON. MR. DICKEY-The rule is verY
clear that a copy of the notice in writing
is to be served on the party from whorn
the divorce is sought. We would not certainly call that due service, telegraphing
a person. We also require proof, on oath,

of such service, adduced at the Bar of the
Senate before proceeding to the second

reading. If it stopped there my hon.
friend would be in a difficulty ; but the
case seems to be provided for by the latter
part of the rule "or sufficient proof
adduced of the impossibility of complyilg
with this regulation." The time to conlsider that is when the evidence is offered,
prior to the second reading.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
not see why my hon. friend could not, in
deference to the suggestion which has
been made, omit all allusion to the telegraphing. He may have a telegram sent
as he suggests. To leave the words il'
the notice would imply that the House

wiil consider it sufficient.

HON. MR. OGILVIE -There is a precedent in a case which was before us last
HON. MR. OGILVIE-Besides what year. I have drawn my resolutiun if'
the Minister of Justice has kindly explain- exactly the same form.

ed, I may say I have followed a precedent
1
established last year by the hon. member
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLfrom Lunenburg, and this was precisely know, but in that case also there was other
HoN. MR. OGILVIE.

International [MARCH 24, 1885] Coal Co's Bill.

407

evidence of the service besides the telegram.

The motion was agreed to and the Bill
This rather leads to the conclusion that if was read the second time.
the Motion be adopted that service will be
Considered sufficient. If the House is of
The Senate adjournd at 5.45 p.m.
oPinion that that ought not to be done
they might perhaps pass this as it is with
that understanding, or we might strike out
All reference to a telegram, which I think
THE SENATE.
ould be the better way, but send the
telegram. I suggest also that the telegram
Ottawa, Tuesday March 24th, 1885.
should be sent to be served on the woman
or some evidence given to the House that
The SPEAKER tock the Chair at three
it has been served. There should be some o'clock p.m.
evidence-it should not be simply sending
a telegrami to the woman that the case is
Prayers and routine proceedings.
toning on on a certain day, but the telegrImn should be sent and served upon her
THIRD READINGS.
aId a telegram returned to say that it has
bten served.
'he following Bills reported from Standing Committees without amendment, were
'tON. MR. OGILVIE--Certainly, that read the third time and passed the intention. I was not far wrong in
Bill (52) " An Act respecting the
the course I have taken, because I have Sault Ste. Marie Bridge Company."followed the precedent of last session.
(Mr. Power.)
Bill (13) "An Act to amend the Act
The motion was amended by striking relating to the Great Western and Lake
ýut the words " by a telegram to bead- Ontario Shore Junction Railway Comdressed to her at San Gabriel in the State pany."-(Mr. Power.)
'f California by the Clerk of the Senate."
Bill (I) " An Act to amend the Act to
'Ie Motion, as amended, was agreed to on incorporate the Sisters of Charity of the
* division.
North-West Territories."- (Mr. Lacoste.)
1ROOF OF ENTRIES IN BOOKS
OF ACCOUNT BILL.

INTERNATIONAL COAL COMPANV'S BILL.

SECOND READING.

LON SIR ALEX, CAMPBELL moved

TlRDI

HoN. MR. DICKEY, from the Comon Railways, Telegraphs and
Harbors, reported Bill (51) "An Act for
granting certain powers to the International
Coal Company, limited," with amendments. He said :-The House will perceive that there are only two amendments
to this Bill suggested. One arises from
the fact that the Bill would have no
standing here unless it conformed with
the provisions of the Joint Stock Companies Act of 1877, and the first amend
ment is to require, in cases of transfer or
dealing with the property of the company,
a two-thirds vote of the shareholders ; the
second amendment is to the effect that
the clause shall not have a retrospective
operation but shall apply to the future
powers of the company. Both those
amendments were considered and adopted

the second reading of Bill (M) "An Act mittee

?eslpecting proof of entries in books of
*ccount kept by officers of the Crown."

e.said-This Bill has originated in conielaints which have reached the Departtnents of the Government as to the diffiichltY establishing by evidence facts
of
kCieh are mentioned in books of account
heet officers of the Crown in trials
by
'chcornes on from time to time in proPces at some distance from the Capital.
ere can be no objection I think to a
7PY entry made hy a
of an
al y certified, being prima public officer,
fade
that will enable gentlemenevidence,
who are
arged with the prosecution of cases in
wierent, parts of the Dominion to get on
t their proceedings without sending for
official with the book itself.

REAI)ING.

408

Civil Service [SEN ATE] Erinations.

HON. MR. SULLIVAN moved the
in the presence of the gentlemen promoting
the Bill. I see no objection to the Bill third reading of the Bill.
being read the third time to-day.
The motion was agreed to and the Bin
HON. MR. Mc)ONAID (C.B.) moved was read the third time.
concurrence in the amendments.
THE SPEAKER-This Bill having
The motion was agreed to, and the been read the third time is now ready to
Bill was read the third time and passed.
rass.

BRANTFORD, WATERLOO & LAKE
HON. MR. ALMON-Before that Bill
ERIE RAILWAV CO.'S1 BILI"
passes I should like to say that it is a'
amalgamation of the Congregational Unio!'
REPORT-.1 EROM co~IrruF:I,.
of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, and
Missionarl
the
HON. MR. tICKEY, from the Com- the Canada Congregationalthe clauses of
ad Society of Ontario. One of
MRDICY, fr
Hitteeon
mittee on Railways, Telegraphs and this Bill provides that they shall have
Harbors, reported Bill (59) " An Act to power at the annual meeting to chanle
incorporate the Brantford, Waterloo and the constitution of the amalgamation by e
Lake Erie Railway Co'y, with amendments. vote of two-thirds of the members presen t ,
He said-I am prepared to explain the on one day's notice. That might verY
amendments to the House, but perhaps it well apply to the by-laws, but I think to
may suit the convenience of members have the constitution altered on one day's
better to postpone the consideration ot notice, wheîe a number of the peoPle
them until Thursday next, when they will interested are living in Nova Scotia or
have had an opportunity to examine them New Brunswick, and the meeting is beld
carefully.
in Ontario, is a piece of absurdity. This
is not done by the general meeting, but
HoN .
in
M B-i concur with my by delegates ; but delegates living in NOVa
hon. friend m the suggestion to postpone Scotia or New Brunswick, whose duty it
the consideration of the amendments. may be to attend the meeting, may not do
Stille I was about to say that none of so, not knowing that any question of vital
them are of a material character.
'hey importance is to be considered, and if
are intended to bring the Bill into har- anything of vital importance to the society
mony with the general legislation.
is to take place, I think one day's notice
The consideration of the amendments is too little to a person residing at such a
was postponed until Thursday next.
distance. I hope the House will agree
with me that one day's notice is not
CANADA CONGREGATIONAL MIS- sufficient and that a two-thirds vote of the
members present at the annual meeting Of
SIONARY SOCIETY'S BILL.
the society is too small a number to alter
THIRP READING.
the constitution of the body.
HoN. MR. LACOSTE, from the Committee on Standing Orders and Private
Bills, reported Bill (54) " An Act respecting the Canada Congregational Missionary Society", with amendments. He said
-The amendments to this Eill are of no
great importance. One is merely inserting one of the articles found in the
schedule of the Bill purporting to be the
constitution of the society. The other is
to require the society to make semi-annual statements of its affairs. I move
that the amendments be now concurred in.
The motion was agreed to.

HON. MR. DICKEY

The motion was agreed to and the 13i1
was passed.
MEMBERS

OF THE ROYAL

SO

CIETY AND CIVIL SERVICE
EX AMINATIONS.
INQUIRY.

HON. MR. TRUDEL rose to inquire
Whether the Govern ment has been informr
that difliculties have arisen from the fact-th
the Civil Service Examiners have declined to

South Western [MA RCII 24, 1885] Raoiway.
cause certain candidates for appointnent or examine or refrain from examining a
letlmOtion in the Civil Service to utidergo the member of the Royal Society so far as we
rdinary examitiation, becauise of their being
know. Seeing the notice on the paper I
rouembers of the Royal Society?

took occasion as a member of the Governie said (in French): The facts which ment to corresp9nd with one of the comgive rise to this inquiry are these : not missioners, and his answer was as follows:
long ago I was informed that some of the "The answer to the inquiry
rnembers of the Royal Society, who sought so far as I an concerned, and I herewith is,
niay say so.
Promotion in the Civil Service, and who, bar as the board is concernied, that we know
therefore, under the regulations applying nothing of suchî difficulties. We have never
t0 the Civil Service would find it neces- rebusei admission to the ordinary examina-

sary to undergo an examination, raised lion, whatever that may miean, or to any
the question whether it was consistent examlination at ail to anvone because they
mîembers of the
Society
With their dignity as members of the were were members otRoyal society." or because
they
any
society to submit to such an examination.
In the notice which I have placed on the
HON. MR. TRUDEL-I received thisPaper, mention is made that sorme of the morning information that one of the
'lIembers of the Royal Society refued to members of the Royal Society came before
stbmit to an examination : but this is a the board since this notice was given, and
nIstake. Since putting the notice on the that as a compliment to him the board
Paper I have received information to the granted him a certificate without subject?ffect that they have not refused, but that ing him to an examination.
111
view of the fact that some of the members of the society were looking for
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
Promotion several of their fellow nem- is not the case. This letter is dated the
bers in the society wrote to tbem advising 2oth March, and one of the commissioners
thew not to undergo the examination,,on says: " We have never refused admission
the ground that it was not consistent to the ordinary exanination, whatever that
with the dignity of the association. With may mean, or to any examination at all to
such a feeling existing a member of
the anyone because they were members of the
society may find himself placed in this Royal Society or because they were memPosition of doing something which, in bers of any society."
. .Pinion, would lower the dignity of the
Clety, or refusing to avail himself of the
HON. MR. TRUDEL--They did not
8dVantages to which long service and refuse, but they
paid him the compliment
ity would entitle him. I thought it a of not examining him.
tnatter of some importance, and that it
th îd be unjust to leave the members of
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am
"e Civil Service, who happen to quite sure it is a mistake, but I will make
bel'ng to that society, in such a further inquiries about it and inforn my
tion and not knowing whether the hon. friend of the result on Thursday.

beovernnent was informed of what may
an anomaly, I thought it was in the
l interest that I should put this in-

SOUTH WESTERN RAILWAY.

""y The commission has not declined
INQUIRY.
0f examine a candidate, I believe, but one
0 the candidates has been induced to
HON. MR.
declare that he would decline to submit to Government REESOR inquired of the
whether any and what steps,
on txaminiation. The inquiry, as it appears
bel.he paper, might lead the House to
d leve that the board of examiners had
dciled to examine the candidates and I

if any, are being taken to continue the
construction of the South Western Branch
of the Canadian Pacific Railway from
Manitou to White Water Lake along the
o not believe there has been such a refusal. south shore of Rock Lake?
He said :-I will not detain the House

haION-SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL- There long, but will simply refer to the fact that
s nOt only been no refusal, but there some four years ago a charter was granted
been

no application to the board to to the South Western
Railway Company,.

AI10

HalfBreed Troubles LSENATE] in the North- West.

:and that company organized and got into
operation, and built some 50 miles of the
road. During the time that that was being
built the Canadian Pacific Railway Company also commenced a rival line, aiming
for the same point-that is, to strike the
Pembina River about 40 miles west of
Red River, and at a distance of some 30
miles from the boundary line, then to
continue to the White Water Lake on the
south of Rock Lake. It happened, however, that after the Manitou and South
Western had built about 50 miles, and the
Canadian Pacific Railway Company had
built 8 miles, the South Western were
unable to obtain the land grant from the
Governiment which they claimed, and the
Canadian Pacific Railway got control of
it and both lines are now in one sense
under the same control. As soon as that
was done both roads were stopped from
being built. The people who have settled
along the line that had been located where
the roads had run parallel for nearly roo
miles of course felt certain that either one
or both of the roads would be built, and
have been greatly disappointed that the
original scheme was not carried out. I
learn, however, with a great deal ol
pleasure, and I hope it is true, th t
the Government have at length decided
that one cr the other of those companies should continue the road from
the village of Manitou about 8o or ioo
milesfrom Winnipegtogo on towardsWhite
Water Lake. If this is the case it will
enable the settlers throughout that region
to reach the coal fields of the Souris
River, and will be an immense advantage
not only in keeping settlers that are there
now but it will attract back many who
have gone to Dakota during the past two
years. It is a fine part of the country,
probably as fine a part as there is in
the Province of Manitoba, but it is without railway communication, and the low
price of produce and the expense of agricultural machinery will prevent it from
being settled unless railway facilities are
afforded to get to market. I hope therefore without any further remark that the
Government will give favorable attention
to the question.

that it is not a government railway in anY
sense, but is a railway in the hands of e
private company ; and we therefore are
not in a position to say absolutely whether
the work will be continued or to what eX,
tent it will be continued ; but the part
which the Government had to play in the
matter was simply to assent to the location
of the line. The Government have discharged that duty and have assented tO
the location of the line. But being anxiOus
to answer the hon. gentleman's inquirY I
have endeavored to procure a little infortnation from the company on the subject,
and I understand that they propose to
continue the work in the early spring.
WINTER COMMUNICATION WI ri
PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Before going into the orders of the day I

desire, for the information of the hon.

gentleman from Prince Edward Islanld
(Mr.Haythorne), with reference to the boat
houses that were to be built, to state that I
have a memorandum from the Depaltmient
of Public \Vorks to say that the housc at

Cape Tormentine vas completed on the
r4th instant, and that the house at Cape
Traverse, although not yet completed,
will be shortly, and that the assistant
of the Departiment left St. John some daYs
ago to ascertain the reasons why the coipletion had not been effected, and tO
hasten it.
HALF-BREED TROUBLES IN THE
NORTH-WEST.
INQUIRY.
HoN. MR. SCOTT-Before the orders
of the day are called, I should like to ask
the Government whether they have any
recent information froni the North-West?
We have ail observed from the recent
press telegrams that it is alleged that Riel
has gathered a force around him in the
neighborhood of Prince Albert, or Carletonli
and I presume the Government are k.

possession of recent information, and it

will be of considerable interest to the
House to be informed as to the facts.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
hon. gentleman does not seem to be aware,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLMY
or if he is aware he does not mention it, hon. friend has no doubt seen the state
HON. MR. REESOR.

South Sa8katchewan [MARCH 24, 1885] Valley R'y CW Bill.
ment made by Sir John A. Macdonald in
the other House yesterday.
Since then
n'O information of any moment has been
ìeceived, but the telegraph wires remain
eut so that we ,pprehend, from not hearg anything, that circumstances have not
changed, at ail events in our favor. The
half-breeds and Indians together seem to
still in possession at ail events of that
Part of the river wvhere the telegraph wire
'rosses, and communication has not yet
bern resumed. The Government, under
the circumstances, are at ail events taking
Prelhminary measures for the purpose of
ascertaining how quickly further additiontal
assistance could be sent to the NorthWest in case it should be needed, and they
re. mllonentarily expecting intelligence
'hich will decide them as to the course they
tght to pursue ; but froni moment to
!nioIent we are expecting intelligence, for
kstructions were given to endeavor to send
tP coureurs de boùs, or horses, or pony ex
ess messengers from one part of the
e.graph wire to where it could be resumed
,ain we are expecting to hear from
and
ur to hour intelligence which will decile
us to the steps which ought to be taken.
1'ARE ERIE, ESSEX AND DETROIT
RiVER RAILWAY CO.'S BILL.

411

SYNOD DIOCESE OF QU'APPELLE
BILL.
SECONn READING.

HON. MR. PLUMB moved the second
reading of Bill (39) " An Act to incorporate
the Synod of the Diocese of Qu'Appelle
and for other purposes connected therewith." He said-This Bill is in the
ordinary form, I think of Acts for such
purposes. I do not know that it is necessary that I should explain it at length, but

it incorporates the bishop, clergy and
laity of the Diocese of Qu'Appelle and
gives them rights and powers and privileges which are usually given to Synods of
the Church of England for such purposes.
It conforms to provisions which their
general synod of the North-West and
Manitoba have laid down for such corporations. I presume it will be carefully considered in the committee to which it will
be referred.
'The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time.
SOUTH SASKATCHEWAN VALLEY
RAILWAY COMPANY'S BILL
SECOND READING.

SECOND READING.

HoN. MR. PLUMB moved the second
r ON MR. PLUMB moved the second reading of Bill (37) " An Act to further
teaing of Bill (24) "An Act to incorporate amend the Act to incorporate the South
theke Erie, Essex and Detroit River Saskatchewan Valley Railway Company."
iay Company."
He said-The South Saskatchewan Raileaotion was agreed to, and the Bill way Company was incorporated in the
a read the second time.
82.
4 5th year of Her Majesty's reign, chap.
The company now ask for an amendment
LBION MINES SAVINGS BANK by which they can change the location of
BILL.
their line slightly. Many of those railway
companies were incorporated under the
SEC3ND READING.
idea of making certain connections with
1.ON. MR. McKAY moved the second the main line. An alteration of those
%ding Of Bill (15) " An Act to continue lines, changing with the increase of popua-Act respecting the Albion Mines lation at one point or diminution at
ngs Bank "
another, makes it necessary for many of
' e said :-This is a Bill to continue the these companies to ask from time to time
arter Of the Albion Mines Savings Bank. for changes in the original location of their
Sthharter expires at the end of this year, lines. The South Saskatchewan Company
' isill is to continue it for ten years are in that position and they merely ask
jo
Ager, and the only change in it is in the that they be allowed now to change their
for asking the returns.
line slightly, and that the point from which
Iase Motion was agreed to, and the
Bill they start shall be fixed by the Governor
read the second time.
in Council, at Regina, and they ask that

A12

The bIndutrie8 and [SENATE]

Ranuf're of Canada.

5
the time for the commencement of the kind that he used when the bounty Wa

first proposed. The fishermen were told
that it ivas a delusion, that it was proposThe motion was agreed to and the Bill ed in view of the general election, and
was read the second time.
from what the hon. gentleman now says
his qualified approval of the bountY Wio
ENTRIES IN BOOKS KEPT BY show the fishermen how little they may
expect fron the party to wnich he belofl
OFFICERS OF THE CROWN
should they return to power.
BILL.

line shall be extended for two years.

THIRD READING.

HoN. MR. POWER-I spoke for ny'
self.

The House resolved itself into a ComHON. MR. KAULBACH-If the hon.
mittee of the Whole on Bill (M), "An
g-ntlenan spoke the t-ue sentiments of
Act respecting proof of entries in books
he would
in favor of the
of account kept by officers of the Crown." his mind fishermen. be is simply because
It
bounty to
HON. MR. GIRARD, from the Com- he is so warm a supporter of bis party
that he opposes the bounty. The fale
mittee, reported the Bill without amendand unpatriotic argument has been used
ment.
that the fishermen are unduly taxed. I sal
time on the contrary that the fishermen are
The Bill was then read the third
less taxed than any other part ot the co1i"
and passed.
munity. They are made an exception to
INDUSTRIES AND MANUFACTURES OF CANADA.
DEBATE CONTINUED.

HON. MR. KAULBACH resumed the
adjourned Debate on the Honorable Mr.
Macdonald's motion :
That he will cali attention to the Report of
the Commission issued by the Government
last year to inquire into the effect of the
tariff of 1879, on the industries and mibanufac-

the rule. All the necessaries of life are
cheaper now to the industrial classes of
this country than they were when the latc
Government were in power and I contend

as I said before that they have been fa".
oured-that there has been exceptiolnal
legislation as far as the fishermen are concerned-that they are not taxed in the
sanie way as other industries are. Everything used by the fisherman in his vessel
is either free from duty or there is a draW
back allowed-on the vessel itself, il jts

tures of the country, and will ask the Govern- construction and equipment-and evel
ment whether the report will be furnished to article used for fishing purposes on ves5ses
members of the Senate and a certain number with equipments ready for fishing COst

to the courtry.
He said-When I left off speaking the
other evening I was dealing with the subject of the fisheries. My hon. friend froni
Halifax was opposed to the sugar duties,
but he approved of the bounties to the

far less than

American

fishing

ves-

sels. Yet my honorable friend sakys
it is only because of the enormous taxation
of the fishermen that the bounty could be
justified at all. I ask mv hon. friend tO

show me in what article the fisherilen
fishermen and I assured him that he was are taxed. He cannot show it. In fact
consequently a protectionist.
the assertion is not correct. It is Inere
clap-trap. Now my hon. friend is oposed
HON. MR. POWER-I do not remem- to the sugar refineries and cotton industries
ber that. It must have been a qualified I would like to know what poor 01d
approval.
Halifax would be if it were not for these
industries. My hon. friend must know
HON. M. KAULBACH-I am very what the effect on Halifax would be of
glad to find that his view now as regards such vandalism as he suggests. There 15'
the bounty to fishermen is a qualified ap- about $6,ooo expended every
n
proval. My hon. friend seems to use the among the poorer classes of Halifax i he
same knd of reasoning, or nearly the same Cotton industry alone ; but when YoU'
HON. MR. PLUMB.

Th- Indu8tries and [MARCH 24, 1885] Manpf'r8 of Canada. 413
Ctne to the sugar industry, how much
larger is the expenditure and how much
r1ore extensive are the ramifications of
that industry in its beneficial effects into
most every department of industry in
e City and country.

I am surprised that

ry hon. friend should be so blinded by
Party, to the interests of Halifax, that he
Would destroy what little industries have
en left there. The hon. gentleman
laYs that the National Policy has done no
8 od. I have already pointed to the
West India trade as an illustration of
hat the National Policy has done for
alifax. Look at the position of that'
trade before that policy was adopted. Our
trde was paralysed ; there was no emPiOyment for men; they were walking
about the wharves and the streets doing
rothing and earning nothing. But what
as been the result of the National Policy?
Y the trade with the West Indies imt4ediately revived. I think I gave the
fgures the other day. I showed that for
e five years ending 1878, the imports
0 the West Indies amounted to only
$8394,908 while from 1879 to the end of
4 the imnports had reached $18,759,862.
.>f* hon. friend say that that increase
My
p
'nPorts from the West Indies was not
ought about by the National Poiicy ?
lie cannot contend it, because it was
Purely by stimulating the sugar industry
aud the manufacturing industries of this

un1IItry that
est Indies

which they pursued when in power. My
hon. friend must know that everything
used in the prosecution of the fisheries is
either free from duty or there is a drawback allowed; and when he says that there
is a heavy burden of taxation on the fishermen and that thereforethisbounty which has
been offered by the Government should
be allowed, I say his reasons are fallacious,
and it is only the clap-trap argument that
was used prior to the last general election
in Nova Scotia. He must know that we
have a large fishing coast belonging to
our Maritime Provinces. Does he wish
that to be protected from the Americans
or would he allow our whole coast to be
open to the American to come fishing in
and along our coast and bays within the
three mile limit ? Does he wish to ruin
our fishermen and destroy their nets ? I
am sure my hon. friend is protectionist
enough not to sanction that. I will test
him in another way. He talks about
being a free-trader. As soon as the fisheries clauses of the Washington Treaty are
abrogated, which no doubt they will be in
the month of July, the Americans have a
heavy duty upon all fish imported into
their country. I ask him would he favor the
abolition of the duties we will impose on
American fish imported into this country,
or would he prefer that all Canada should
be taxed on fish brought from the United
States into Canada ?

the revival of trade with the

was brought about; and that
tade Must go down the moment you take
Y the protective policy, and Halifax
Wi be left in the same position that it
]p Pied before we adopted the National
lcy. Therefore, I cannot see how
friend from Halifax can be so
interests
ended to the He claims of the city
represents.
to be the
aï Pion of the rights and interests of
fax, and yet no greater injustice could
WIOne not only to that city but to the
Ï
ror ofNova Scotia and to the county
which I come, than to adopt the
odPoicy which my hon. friend asserts
t"Ide be established should the Governnt fall into the hands of the party with
to h he is allied. But Nova Scotia is
Well aware of the benefits she receives
Policy to
poM t the to get into power allow the Opon National
again unless
- adopt a different course from that

HON.

MR.

POWER---Certainly not.

HoN. MR. KAULBACH-My hon.
friend says, certainly not. He is in favor
of all Canada being taxed in the interests
of the fishermen of Nova Scotia ; and
He is in
therefore he is a protectionist.
favor of protecting us from the competition
of the United States fishermen. Then
why not tax everything else which cornes
in competition with our own industries,
and thus enable us to preserve our home
market for our own people? He is
willing that all Canada shall be taxed if
they import fish from the United States
after July next; the moment you test my
hon. friend with facts which surround us
he shows that he is a protectionist and that
the only way to protect and develop our
industries and resources is by a protective
policy. The policy which he says imposes
an enormous burden on the country in

A1A4

The Indu8tries and

[SENATE]

other cases he is willing to pursue so long
as it benefits the industries of his own
province. Therefore I assert he is not a
free-trader.
I would ask my hon. friend
is he opposed to the duty on coal ? I
pause for an answer on that as I did when
I put the question with regard to the sugar
industry.
HON. MR. POWER-I wish to say
that if my hon. friend wants categorical
answers to all those questions he had
better give notice.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-My hon.
friend was very ready to question me on
other occasions. It is a simple question
and does not require long consideration
to answer it. I believe he is in favor of
the people of this country being taxed on
their coal ; yet he sets himself up as an
apostle of free-trade in this country. On
this question of the duty on coal my hon.
friend is in opposition to his leader, the
hon. member from Ottawa. The leader
of the Opposition in this House says that
he would give these two or three coal
companies down in Nova Scotia half a
million of dollars and shut them up But
what would he do for the poor miners and
their families ? He would let them starve.
He can hardly conceive the value of those
industries, otherwise he would not venture
to make such an assertion. Does he not
know that it would be death to many
other industries of Nova Scotia, if the
coal mines were shut up. What would be
its effect upon Imperial interests and
Halifax as a coal station if the coal mines
of Nova Scotia were closed ? The ruin
would be too great to contemplate. There
is hardly an interest in the country that
does not require that the coal trade of
the country should be maintained. Now
what has been the result of protection
to the coal industry? When the late
Government went out of power in 1878
there was only 693,000

raised in Nova Scotia.
was

1,300,000

tons of coal

In 1884 there

tons raised in Nova Scotia,

or double the quantity; and yet my hon.
friend would make us believe that this
National Policy has been injurious to
Nova Scotia and to all its industries. My
hon. friend cannot, in the light of factsthings which cannot be contradictedrepeat the assertion. I say the National
HON. MR.

KAULBACH.

Ranuf're of Canada.

Policy has been not only a benefit to0
Nova Scotia but it has not pressed
injuriously upon other portions of Canada
because I say within the area of comPettion coal is not made dearer to Canadian
consumers. The coal companies of the
United States pay the duty wherever they
come into the area of competition. My
hon. friend will not assert the contrary.
I have inquired of men living at Prescott
and Brockville, and they tell me that
coal is as cheap to the consumer in both
those places as in Ogdensburg, on the
south shore of the St. Lawrence. Who
in that case pays the duty? We not
only have coal cheaper than it otherwise
would be, but the people of the United
States contribute the duty to our revenuThat has been the result of the coal ta%
and therefore the leader of the Opposition
in this House when he says "shut up the
coal mines of Canada," advises a course
which would not only be ruinous to Nova
Scotia, but which would be ruinous to any
party that would attempt to advocate .t,
and to the revenue which Nova ScOtia
gets of $130,000 royalty on coal. The
result in this country is the same as it has
been in France. We know that in Paris
English coal is as cheap as it is in England; and here as elsewhere, wherever
you practically test this policy of free
trade it is a failure. It is a nice theory
and I am a free-trader, if everywhere it
is the same; then it is all right. I believe
that free-trade is the perfection of trade,
but there must be reciprocity of trade all
round ; no country can stand one-sided
free-trade. Certainly in this young couln
try, lying alongside of a powerful nation

with all its industries developed and readY
to crush out our industries, we must protect our own labour. We must assurne
the attitude of the caterpillar before We
can mature and flaunt in the full beautY of
the butterfly. It is necessary for us tO
proceed slowly and to protect our industries so that we can supply our own people
and as they grow stronger compete wt
other countries. But there is another
industry which my hon. friend is opPose
to-the cotton industry. As I have state
there is one factory in Halifax which pays
to the laborers of that city $6,ooo Per
month and there are others of the kind in
Nova Scotia. My hon. friend does not
speak in the interest of those people whe

The Indu8tries and [MAROH 24, 18851

r oat (anada. 415
of

he says that he would shut up those the Maritime Provinces. In 1878 it was
ildustries.
$7,6oo,ooo. In 1883 it was $i1,ooo,ooo.
That is the result of the bounty, of the
HON. MR. POWER-1 never said I facilities afforded by protection to our
Would.
fisheries. Everything, as I said, used in
and for the vessel itself is either free from
.HON. MR. KAULBACH--My hon. taxation or there is a drawback. I now
friend is opposed to the protective system come to another industry, the duck factory
and he knows very well that without pro. established in Yarmouth, which is capatection the industry would not flourish.
ble of producing enough duck for the use of
the whole mercantile marine in Nova
1ON. MR. POWER-You are al Scotia.
Would my hon. friend destroy
wrong.

that industry where there are so many

KAULBACH-All the
'niey invested in those cotton industries
and all the men employed in them must
go to the United States. Not only would
'e send this industry back to the United
States' but we would send with it our
Working men, the men who make the
country, to the neighboring republic to
oabOr and we would have to send
there,
ur mioney out of Canada to bring back
te anufactured article.
And what
Wuld be the result to this country?
1e taxation would increase becaiise there
Woluld be fewer people to pay it ; the
ation would increase as the population
d't'fnished.
"ON.

MR.

lioN.

MR. POWER-That is ail a

t'stake,

ON MR. KAULBACH-My hon.
ftield says it is a mistake, but I pause
ci amn ready to listen to any reply he
ta" Make to any assertion I have made
to.day. As regards the protection given
uOur
fisheries, in 1878 the capital inleted exclusive of vessels was $200,ooo.
In 1883 it had increased to $1,200,ooo,
thatOuld like to ask my hon. friend, is not
the owg to the protective policy of
t4Government that this fishing industry
ha been developed to that extent ? My
friend cannot say it is not. The
icrese is enormous, and it did not and
oth not have taken place from any
in er cause than the protective policy
iUgurated by the present Government.
frietrefore I am surprised at my hon.
fiend fiaunting himself as a free-trader
heOPposition to his own acknowledgment
prethat he is in fact and in practice a
alokctionist. Then I would ask him to
at the value of the fish caught in

men enployed? He must know that by
the National Policy instead of driving
men out of the country we have found
employment for and made everything
cheap to the laboring classes. In 1878 a
dollar was hardly seen among the laboring
classes at all ; now they not only have
got the dollar in their pockets but it will
purchase more of the necessaries of life
than at any time in 1878. My hon. friend
cannot show me any necessary of life
that has been made dearer to the consumer than it was previous to 1878. We
know this, that rents, meat and farm produce are higher. What is the reason of
that ? It shows the wealth of the country.
When rents are high it shows that labor is
in demand and that people are not being
driven out of the country. We know that
prior to 1878 almost half the houses in
Halifax and the country villages were
closed. Since then rents have been higher
and that gives work to the carpenter and
the saw mill owner and many others; so
a home market is provided for the farmer ;
farm produce is raised in value and there-

fore the farmer cannot be said to have
been injured by the National Policy.
Wherever you go the farmers of the country are greatly increasing in prosperity.
Under our present policy the people are
better fed,betterclothed, better housedand,
what is more, consume more of the luxuries
or comforts of life, and that is where and how
we arelargely benefited in our revenue. We
know, and it cannot be contradicted, that
in the Maritime Provinces the people consume more of the luxuries of life than they
did in 1878. It shows that there is greater
wealth in the country, and that they can
better afford to indulge their families in
the comforts of life. As regards bread, I
suppose my hon. friend from Halifax is
opposed to the bread tax, but bread is not

A16

The Indu8tries and [SENATE ].anuf're

made dearer in Nova Scotia or anywhere
else in Canada by the tax put upon it.
You may put $1o a barrel on American
flour. but it cannot affect the price of flour
.anywhere in Canada. My hon. friend
knows that, and the leaders of his party
have over and over again so declared it.
Will anyone tell me that because you tax
American coal, it raises the price of our
Nova Scotia coal one cent more to the
consumer in Nova Scotia? No, not one
-cent, and so it is and will be with bread
as long as Canada has any large surplus of
wheat; you can never find that bread will
be dearer until there is a scarcity of wheat
in the country- -until our demand is
greater than our supply--which never will
be. Bread was never cheaper in Nova
Scotia than it is to-day
We have the
words of the leader of the late Government here a few days ago saying that it is
folly to suppose that the farmers of Canada
can be benefited by the duty on wheat
and flour, because it does not raise the
price of these necessaries in any part of
Canada one cent to the consumer. It
only preserves to the Canadian farmer his
right to the Canadian market. We had
the hon. gentleman tell us the other day
that it was folly to suppose that by a protective policy we could raise the price of
wheat. Therefore, if it did not benefit the
farmers by increasing its price how can
Nova Scotia be injured by it ? My hon.
friend from Halifax is answered by the
leader of his own party, and he cannot
.assert that the people of the Maritime Provinces are taxed on flour, because it is not
so, and I repeat, it never can be so as long
as this country produces grain so largely.
My hon. friend from Halifax talked the
other day about the old prophet who went
out to curse but remained to bless. Now
we have had the members from Prince
Edward Island and Ottawa and Halifax
here as prophets who came to curse the
National Policy and yet I can take their
own speeches and find in them ample
evidence that the country has been beneftted by the National Policy. I defy
anyone to take up one line of their
speeches which will show that the
National Policy has been the means of
bringing about the depression from which
the country has suflered. In fact all their
arguments, as I will take them up presently,
show in every way that the country is
HoN. MR. KAULBACH.

of (anada.

prospering. My hon. friend from Prince
Edward Island failed to show us that
Prince Edward Island has been injured in
the last six years by the National policy.
He kept clear of that altogether ; but he
commenced with book theories and told
us what Cobden thought and what that
school of political economists thought.
The very same school said that the colonies
might go; but I think England would feel
to-day that her industries and her COm'
merce had sustained a serious loss if she
had followed the advice of the Manchester
school of former years.
The three
would-be prophets took up this report of
the commissioners on our manufactures,
and they wanted to prove by it that the
country was iniured ; but they only suc'
ceeded in showing that there had been
an improvement. They took uP the
report and the hon. member from iHalifax
went through it, but did not succeed in
showing that anything protected in Nofd
Scotia and the Maritime Provinces had
been benefited at the expense of the
population generally, he simply sho0e
that our goods cost less. He went through
that report to bring out the worst part Of
it to show that the depression existing,
and that the injury done to the Maritime
Provinces was the result of the National
Policy ; and yet he failed to establish
his assertion in any particuar. But he
showed conclusively that our own mano-

factured goods were as cheap as some
articles in the United States. Therefore,
instead of cursing the National policy
through this report of Mr. Willis he has
been forced by the argument used fro' it.
to bless the National Policy. Now what
is it that Mr. Willis shows? That the
Maritime Provinces have shared the
benefits of the National Policy in a

fnot

less marked degree than the Upper Pro"
inces, the report of Mr. Willis, the cOn'
missioner who reported upon that fied,
showing the following comparison:1884
1878
Factories ......
1,034
1,4
Hands employed

14,925

21,813.

Wages paid. . . .$ 5,658,833 $ 7,484,365
Annual product. 15,832,182
Capital invested i1,659,430

25,603,o6

18 ,868,27$
Of the factories visited no fewer than
415 have been established since î878.

No gTeater disaster could happen to the

Tle Industries and [MARCH 24, 1885] Manuf 're of Canada. 417
hnanufacturing industries of Canada than
the accession to office of our Reform
Free-Traders.
That event would very
SoOn be followed by a series of disasters
hich would result in the closing of
nlnidreds of establishments all over the
NOuntry, in the loss of millions of capital
tnyested, in the deprivation of thousands
persons of the means of earning a
livelihood, in the enforced emigration of
skilled labor to the United States, in the
fnlual expenditure of millions of dollars
111 United States previously circulated
the
throughout the Dominion, and in the
destruction in a large measure of interprovincial trade.
Now will my hon. friend result again
t tha that has not been the tell me of the
National Policy ? It is the result of that
Oibey or nothing at all. Will he tell me
'at it has not been a benefit to the 1Mari
ne Provinces ? Look at the factories
hat have been established and the money
"vested in those industries. Look at the
""en that have been em*ployed-7,ooo
Ore than there were in 1878. Where
WOuld these people have gone to if it had
'lot been for these industries?

li
oN. MR. KAULBACH-Ves, to the
ited States : there would have been no
tlternative
They would have been driven
o that country. Look at the enornous
'aieount of wages paid, the increase of
hearly two millions of dollars paid to the
ople of the Maritime Provinces. Where
nld this m-onev have gone had this
icy not been established? To the
hIted States. The wages would have
en earned by the people there and we
thanld have had to send our money to
ahcountry to buy foreign manufactures.
ing th we cone to consider it, it is surpris8 hat any man of intelligence having a
otic sentiment would advocate a
ev rse which would prove ruinous to
industry of the country. If we had

at the capital invested in al those industries: it would be all lost. I often wonder
how it is that a man could be so blindbecause my hon. friend, I believe, has not
lost reason-to be so prejudiced by party
as to allow himself to express sentiments
which he must know are inimical to the
interests of the country. As I said before,
it is a system ot vandalism to destroy
everything that is a benefit to the country.
That is the policy ot the party to which
my hon. friend belongs and they make it
their policy, because in their extreme folly
they think they can niake their way into
power over the destruction and ruin they
would bring on the people of this
country.
The London Times, the great organ of
public opinion in England, admits that
depression and stagnation in trade exist
there, that stagnation and depression exist
all over the world ; that they do not look for
a revival in Great Britain first, but they
look for it on this side of the Atlantic, and
expect to find it first in the United States.
They look for the revival in trade first in
a,protected country, as it will be looked
for in Canada under the National Policy
I desire to call the attention of the hon.
gentleman from Prince Edward Island
(Mr. Haythorne) to the remarks he has
made on the subject before us. I fail to
see that he has shown where the National
Policy has been destructive of any industry
in his own province or in any part of
Canada. I will quote his remarks, and 1
will try not to weary the House, or occupy
the attention of hon, gentlemen longer
than is necessary. My hon. friend referred
to the United States as a wonderful country, and he showed us that the civil war
which desolated the homes of that country,
and almost crushed their manufacturing
industries out of existence, cost the
Republic $5,704,000,000, exclusive of the
Poic life. If we
fayidsr
loss of ha endsrcivvalue each adult killed
during that war at $rooo--the same
valuation whicli my hon. friend from
Halifax puts upon each adult immigrantit will add enormously as he must sec to

d have been obliged to go to the
e ted States for them, and where would
'e ave found the money for them ? We
cond have, been in the same unfortunate
ao tion that we occupied previous to
Pting the National Policy. Then look

what does my hon. friend from Charlottetown say was the condition of the United
States in a few years after ail this loss of
life and destruction of property
4Soon the country was over8pread with
indtra hindertakings of every deNriptiou

ON.

nited

MR.

BOTSFORD -To

the

States.

0

we

those products in the country we the cost of the war to the Republic.

Yet

418

Tte Induries am

1SENATE]

-and kind, and railway building, mining, manufacturing of all sorts and descriptions.
" The consequence was a great influx of
population, and for a few vears a rapid increase of wealth. The first produce of these
enormous manufactories went to supply the
great waste which had been caused by the
war, and a little later on the great influx of
population helped to consume it.; but after a
while there was an end of this sort of thing.
Production trod too closely on the heels of
.Consumption, and the consumers were not
able to use the manufactured goods."
But does he show that the United States
was injured by that means ? It shows the
great recuperative power of the United
States. under what ? Under protection.
Will the hon. gentleman tell me that the
United States, after having gone through
that terrible war, would have recovered
her trade and prosperity as rapidly under
I tell him it would
a free-trade policy?
have been impossible ; that free-trade
English goods would have kept crushed
out the manufactures of the country ; that
Great Britain and other countries would
have rushed in their products and kept
crushed out of existence the home manufactures that did spring into life and
activity under the stimulus of a protective
-policy. 'T'herefore I say that my lion.
friend froin Prince Edward Island, instead
of coming up here as a prophet to bless
free-trade, has blessed protection, by
showing to us the great wonders that have
been donc in the United States under that
But my hon. friend went further
policy.
and showed that the great over-production
in the United States created a reaction in
the trade of that country, and he shows
what was the effect of it on this DVominion.
He says :
" Thet came a time when a market should
be found somewhere for these superabundant
products. Canada was one of the most ready
and most easily accessible and it was the one
which suffered most acutelv from the excess
of American goods brought~into the country.'

Djianuf'

qf Canadu.

without any' attention to the heart-rending
appeals of our people praying for protec
tion or any effort on their part to prevent
it, and without raising a helping hand to
assist the people out of despondency, rui'
and pauperism into which they had bee.l
plunged. In the depths of their despair
the people found a party coming int
power enunciating the doctrine that ha
been carried out successfully, that Canadians should have their own markets for
themselves ; that the industries of the
country should be stinulated and encOuraged by protection ; that the money Pal
by our people to foreign manufacturers
should be retained within the Dominion'
and that every man should have the
means of obtaining a fair day's pay for a
fair day's work. My hon. friend (r
Haythorne) talks of the great prosperit
of England under free-trade. He has u1n"
dertaken but failed to show that since
Great Britain adopted a free trade policy
that country has developed enormousîy
in wealth and influence, and to suPpo?
his position has pointed to the fact that
the numlber of persons in England who
are liable to income tax has been largeY
decreased. I thought at the time that
my hon..friend was only furnishirg an th
gument against free-trade by showing the
wealth of the people was so decrease
that a smaller number were able to paY
the income fax that the people of England
were sustaining injury under that systers.
He at least showed the increased nur
of those whose income was not large
enough to be taxed.
Ho%. M. HAV'HORNE-The hongentleman has forgotten to explain ho
the tide of immigration happened to to
turned back from the United States te
Europe. Perhaps he can do so.

HoN. MR. KAULBACH--gMy honfriend should have donc that in his speech,
if he could have donc so ; but he W"
evidently unable to do so, and he wafl
me now to explain to the House what C
is unable to explain himself, for the reaso
le talkste
that the tide never turned.
England looking down upon the .U
States manufacturers ; but what is Eng
ruinous to the country, and did ruin us in land doing to-day, boasting, as she dtesg
every branch of industry and trade, but of being mistress of the seas and conetro
they allowed it to continue year after year ing the desztinies of the world? sh S
There my hon. friend adnits that it was
the competition of the manufactures
from the glutted markets of the United
States thrown on the Canadian market
Yet my
that ruined our industries.
hon. fricnd and those who act with him
would have allowed us to go on with this
ruinous policy. They admit that it was

HON. MR.

KAULBACH.

Tke Indu4i-.< ani [MARCH 24, 1885] Màn'f ýof

('nfda. 419

ending to the United States at present to country, goes over and buys those vessels

8et munitions of war to carry on opera- under their real value. I say when my
to11S in the Soudan; she cannot even hon. friend uses that argument that France

ke pumps fast enough to supply the had to go to England to buy ships it
tlway from Suakim to Berber, and shows that France has a flourishing shipwhere does she send to for them but to ping trade that demands shipping while
the protected manufacturers of the United English trade is going down and cannot
ýtates. The excuse made by the war de- furnish employment for those vessels. I
martnientsending to America for their am sorry to say anything against England,
for
Purnps was that they could get them more because we all feel that England is our
e1iickly with greater facility in the hope and our pride, and when we have
and
1Jnited States than in free-trade England. to say anything aganst her prosperity it
e hon. gentleman complains that our must be with feelings of reluctance and
People are laboring under an enormous sorrow. Then my hon. friend says of this
stutoms tariff, but he has failed to show protective policy that it gives the indusWlhere it is affecting our people prejudici- trial classes expensive tastes.
He says:
told i the slightest degree, and we are "They acquire expensive habits, and they
are that the manufacturers of the country acquire tastes altogether different from
are ,, a bad state. We are told that
the what they would have had, and they beare becoming richer and the poor come unfitted for any other industry." I
ti rer. That was the cry of the OpposijlYears ago, and it is the cry of the
ers of the Opposition in the other
s and here to-day, and yet we are in-

ein the samne breath that the manuUring industries are going down
that uie there is a glut in the market and
te goods are so cheap that the manufacrs cannot produce them except at a
I cannot see how the two arguments
a'
I fail to see how capitalists who
nvested their money in manufactures
Re
be -growing so rich and at the same time

presume my hon. friend refers to the

manufacturing classes, and the result of
the National Policy is that these classes
are getting so well off that they indulge
in luxuries. If that is the case they must
be getting good wages, and must be profitably employed, otherwise they could
not indulge in luxuries. I ask the hon.
gentleman if those industries were closed
to-day what other pursuits are you to give
the industrial classes? What employment
have you to offer to them ? He and the
hon. member from Ottawa talk of the
three F's---the fisheries, the forests and
the farm -- as our proper fields for labor,
but I ask him if the country is to grow
rich and powerful from those industries
alone? Although I believe farming to

tri leve that all the manufacturing indus2re in a terribly depressed condition.
h' gentlemen must know better. The
itember from Halifax among all the
e tries could not find anything really
I ssed but the ship-building trade. But be the basis of all industries, and without
oNver 1 that the fault of the policy of this it we could not get along and prosper, yet
that iriment ? On the contrary, we know farming would certainly not be as prosperthe

ra free-trade England there is a very ous as it is if the

farmer had not

depression in the shipping trade; that customers to sell his produce to. If we

We ships are lying idle in their docks.
the .nd that the better class of vessels,
trae O steamers are largely taking the
there ro our wooden ships, which are
t te not readily sold or chartered.
e on. gentleman has told us that

free-trahas to go over and buy from a
iised
e country-England-the ships
of the h their own trade. The argument
and fr on. gentleman is dead against him
free treetrade, because it shows that under
ship5 rade, England has no use for these
g that their shipping trade is becom'4g lPaired, while France, a protected

were all farmers in this country, where
would the farmers' home market be'? If
we were all fishermen what would the

country be? Although my hon. friend
lives alongside the water, I do not think
he would like to embark in the fishing industry and take charge of a fishing
craft. It is absolutely necessary that the
people should have various occupations
and pursuits. The agricultural, mining,
fishing and manufacturing industries have
no antagonistic interests ; they all run and
must run harmoniously together, and no
one industry can suifer without the others

A20

The Industhies and [SENATE]

suffering with it.

Manuf're of (Canadla.

I contend that in order we cannot do better than quote from a

to build up our country and make it prosperous we must have varied industrial
pursuits. It is quite evident to my mind
that my hon. friend is unable to point out
in what way the people could be employed profitably if we were without manufacturing industries in this country.
He says : " Canada could have very well
earned the money to supply herself with
cotton or other goods by other means
that experience has taught us are profitable, and are suitable to the requirements
and capacity of the people and would
-tend to leave them better off than they

paper by Mr. Cunningham Stewart, the
superintendent, read before the British
Association in Montreal. As already Sta
ted, the amount deposited in the
Office Savings Bank at the end of June
1884, was $13,245,000. Mr. Stewart ftr
nishes the following table classifVing the
depositors :Class.
Farmers .........

No. of
Depositors.

.14,ooo

To credi t .
$4,722,

Mechanics .......
1,422,00
7,850
Trust accounts and
young children. . 5,500
170,000
Laborers......... . 4,270
724,000
.now are."
522,0
3,000
But my hon. friend has failed to show Clerks ..........
1,6oo
Tradesmen ......
468,
us in what way those people are to turn
sertheir attention to any other industry in Fairmi andi otheir
277000
1,470
vants.. . . . ..
which they could find profitable employ392,
1,572
ment. He must admit that cotton is Professional ......
215,
,68o>
cheaper in Canada now than it was when Miscellaneous . ...
150000
2,35, 0
this country was a slaughter market for Married women . .. 12,O00
10,500
1.275,0
the iianufacturers in the United States. Single women ....
3,240
708,00
It was dearer then because we had no WVidows .........
The foregoing figures are a comIPlete
moncy to purchase what we wanted, and
yet he talks of our duties on cottons as if and crushing answer to the staterneta
they were a burden on the people. He Does my hon. friend wish to contend thet
knows well that we do not import cottons, this does not represent the savings of th
those cottons that we manufacture. The industrial classes, sustained as they are
cry of the Opposition was that capitalists the returns given from those different l'oI
who invested in those manufactures were stitutions ? The hon. gentleman tic
going to become rich, and the people upon himself to prove what the Po"cy
would have to pay higher prices for their of this country should be, by reading
McCarthy's history af
goods. Our contention was that nothing from Justin
of the kind would occur, that com- England, and quoting book theories,
petition would bring down the price, and the sayings of Mr. Gladstone. No", er
that cotton, like every other marketable Gladstone, able man that he is, and lea
article, must find its level in prices, that of a great party in England I should hel'
there could be no monopoly of any indus- tate to say anything about him; but
try in this country to put up the price to know what the effect of his shilly.Skhnol
My hon. friend admits policy has been in Ireland : we kOw
the consumer.
that the farmers of the country are fairly how the British Empire has lost prestge
prosperous.
I have a statement here in Egypt, and throughout the world since
11
showing the profits of the farmers in Can- Mr. Gladstone and his party caile ' f
ada ; it shows what the deposits in the power. We know what has become

savings banks of Ontario and Quebec have
been year by year, since the introduction
of the National Policy, and that they are
made principally by farmers, mechanics,
tradesmen, laborers and farm servantsthat these classes have made about ninetenths of the total deposits in the savings
banks of the country. I quote the following facts and figures to refute the statement
in regard to classes of persons who place
deposits in the Post Office Savings Banks;
HON.

MR. KAULBACH.

General Gordon and we know not ho
soon

General

Lumsden

may fro

same policy meet with the sanie
in Afghanistan. But for the vacillar

te

policy of Gladstone, General GordoP
might have been alive to-day.
Hox. MR. HAYTHORNE-I rise
a point of order. The hon. gentle n
from Lunenburg is out of order in 9
into English politics in this debate.

Zhe Indu8ries and [MARCLH 24, 1885.] Mianif'r of Canada. A21

hE SPEAKER--The debate has for traffic, and before our manufactures.
l
1

en a very wide range and though the of agricultural implements were adapted

t .gentleman is somewhat out of order, to and could reach that market ; but we
i nught perhaps save time by allowing know there is no complaint there now,
hjr to finish his speech.
and that they get agricultural implementsas cheap in Manitoba and the North- West
MR. KAULBACH-I am simply as they can be bought in any of the
e o0N.
reiewing the gentleman's own speech. western states of the neighboring Republic.
te hon. gentleman read of Mr. Glad- You can buy all the articles required in
e, from Justin McCarthy's book, on our great North-West just as cheaply as
Gaen of our Times," to show how Mr. they can be got in Minnesota or Dakota.
Çdstone was converted from being a My hon, friend talks about the tax on
Protectionist to being a free-trader ; his agricultural implements, but he failed to
oftanges have been too many and too make a statement which is consistent with
en to surprise anybody, and I have no the fact as to the prices of these articles.
dbt if he lives long enough, we shall In everything my hon. friend has said I
that Mr. Gladstone will have been
of
Coerted back to be a protectionist am forced to think he is rather in favor
the protectionist policy of the country.
because he cannot fail to see He says that England admits our products
Other countries, the leading na- free to her markets ; but does not the hon.
Of Europe, that have adopted the gentleman know that in doing so she
I
Protective policy are successfully coin- merely pursues a general policy; that she
with England in her own market admits the products of other countries on
the saine terms, and that certainly is no
e in the markets of the world. reason why we should adopt her policy.
n y hon. friend failed from the
e of facts to suppost his theory She is not giving us any inducements as a
free-trade he had to support his Iýritish colony to adopt her policy of free
d ments by quotations from Cobden trade, and England does not expect it
Bright, and the theories of men who because under our fiscal policy our trade
to everything they could to weaken the with Great Britain has increased. Instead
Mnection of the colonies with the of having injured the Mother Country it
ether Country-the very same class of has proved a benefit. Our imports from
the hose want of statesmanship lost to Great Britain have increased while those
the tmpire the neighboring states. Is it from the United States have diminished ;
to theories of these men we are to look but what was the condition of affairs under
0 1O which
the policy which prevailed
1879?
to
hOu every day base our own fiscal pohcyus? trade with England yearto by year Our
experience has taught
was
unsuitable those theories are for this diminishing while our trade with the
to country, and my hon. friend has failed United States was increasing,and therefore
fe convynce the House of the value of when my hon. friend appeals to our
rthrade when he had to resort to such sympathy with England, I say that our
3'ettority to support the position which present policy has the effect of increasing
tok. My hon. friend has complained
our trade with the Mother Country and
caltthe tariff imposes a burden on agri- correspondingbydiminishingourtradewith
e-1ure.t
h
heavre ; that agricultural implements are the United States. When my hon. friend
Y taxed while the products of the put forth an argument like that he must
bent no'protection. I defy the hon. have had very little on which to base his
ave
taraleman, bowever, to prove that agricul- contention ; he also spoke about the
a% implements are anywhere in Canada absurdity of protection. Does he mean to
zexPensive to-day as they were in 1878. say that all the leading nations of Europe
W ill find on enquiry that in our North- are not pursuing a protective policy at this
bet to-day agricultural implements can day. Why should we go contrary to the
latibow bought as cheap, under the principles which have proved so beneficial
Min onal policy, as they can be bought in to those countries simply because England
1
4nfesota or Dakota. No doubt some changed from her protective policy and
Manears ago there were complaints in adopted a policy which, as I will show, was
itoba, before our railways were opened one by which she expected her trade would

A22

Te Industries and [SENATE]

be materially benefited. We know that
England was built up under protection.;
that all ber industries expanded to their
utmost capacity, and were brought to the
extreme of perfection and that she had
made great and wonderful advances under

Jflanf'r8 of Canada.

thing like that in France, where the whole
of that country from one end to the other
is prosperous ? It is the same with germany; wages are low but living is cheaP,
and they are prosperous because the labor
ing classes are protected ; and you canOt

a protective policy ; her flag waved every- show me the sanie deplorable condition

where. No greater protectionist country
was ever known than England was forty
years ago ; she had developed her own
industries to such an extent that she could
not only supply ber own market, but defy
competition in any part of the world and
sought for supremacy as the one great
manufacturing country. I can show my
hon. friend by the remarks of Sir Robert
Peel, Cobden and Bright that when Great
Britain adopted the free trade policy they
expected that all other countries would
come in and pursue the same course ;
that all nations would become ber customers.
HoN. MR. MACDONALI) America especially.

And

HoN. MR. KAULBACH-Yes, America especially, and after exercising all their
ingenuity to induce other countries to
adopt a free-trade policy they said we will
force thern into free-trade. But they have
failed to do so, and it is no wonder under
the circumstances that England is suffering
in consequence of ber mistaken policy.
Instead of being, as she was under a protective policy, mistress of the seas and the
one and the only one leading manufacturing country m the world, we find other
nations now not only rivalling her in foreign markets but pressing out ber own
home industries. Ask a man like Bismarck,
probably one of the greatest statesmen in
Europe-I will not say on this continent,
because I would not like to say anything
which would be invidious to our own
leaders here-and I ask you does he favor
a free-trade policy ? No, he is too astute
for that ; he has too much German sagacity. He knows what the country which
he rules requires. Can you show me two
countries greater and more prosperous
than Germany and France, where prosperity prevades the masses? Their policv
is the extreme of protection. In the city
of London alone there are 6o,ooo families
to-day that have only one little room or
garret for each family. Can you find any.
HON. MR. KAULBACH.

of

affairs in either of these countries that
exists in England. My hon. friend says
the United States scarcely realizes its Oen
position. I tell the hon. gentleman that
take the people of the United States as a
whole, and man for man, they are more
intelligent and far more independent than
In the
the population of England.
United States we find all classes of the Peo'
ple educated, and they all understand POhtics and know what they are talking about,
and act and vote according to their convictions. We do not find them advocating free
trade or complaining of high taxationThey are a unit in demanding the protect
ion of their industries. Their politics are
America for the Americans and they
understand what they are about. My honfriend compored free-trade England of today with the England of half a centurY
ago, in order to show that England hed
experienced great prosperity since t
adoption of free trade ; but I would direct
his attention to the extraordinary develoPment of the industries of the United
States that has taken place within the
sane period under a protective policy;
and this enormous expansion has taken
place under the most adverse circurlstances. The country, as I have saide
passed through a civil war ; brother fought
against brother in deadly conflict. The
prosperity of the country was gofne
wreck and ruin only remained. L0ok at
the condition of the United States to-day'
Before the adoption of a protective Policy
in that country when we warted to bUY
rails we had to go to England. There
has been a wonderful change in this respect of late years. We find that there r
at present 11,ooo miles of railwaV eitheî
under contract or projected in the neighboring Republic, the rails for which are
being manufactured in their own country,
and where do we go for rails when We
require them now? Not to England, bt
to the United States. It iust be withlo
the recollection of some of those Who
0
hear me-I am sure my hon. friend fror
Belleville recollects the time when Canada

The iudustres and (MARCH 2A, 1685]
ýOld her cows to the people of the United
States, and if we did not buy their cows'
xilk we bought their cheese and butter.
tut look at Canada now ! My hon. friend
om Prince Edward Island has referred

to the condition of England thirty or forty
Years ago--what was the position of
Canada then ? Has not this country
Prospered and advanced with rapid strides
whilst England is not showing the saine
advancement ? Has not our prosperity
ben increasing steadily since this Governent came into power ? I believe, and I
avile authority for saying it, that in the

lat five years all our manufacturing industries have about doubled, that the earnings
of the people have doubled and that the
anufactured products of the country
have likewise increased in the same ratio.
liON.

MR.

HAYTHORNE-Do we

owe the cheese trade to the National
Policy ?
kON. MR. KAULBACH--I can tell
'Y hon. friend as I said before that the
different branches of trade are dependent
POn each other and if we had not diversIfied industries-if we had no manufact'irers our farmers would not be so prosPerous. The prosperity of the country
has been increasing year by year under
the National Policy. The hon. gentleman
tas been warmly endeavoring to show that
the National Policy is ruining Canada. I
Say On the contrary that the country is
prospering, and our farmers have an inCreased home market.

anuf'r8 of Canada.

423

trade, that therefore it was a policy which
this country should adopt. But English
farmers, dairymen and manufacturers don't
3ay so. I have shown that this country has
prospered also during the same period
that my hon. friend referred to, and to a
much greater extent than England, and I
contend that our prosperity has been
greatly aided by the present fiscal policy.
Although we may not have done directly
quite so much for the farmers as for the
manufacturers and fishermen, yet the
developinent of the manufacturing and
fishing industries has benefited the farming community ; but we have done more.
We, I mean our paternal government,
have interested thenselves for the
farmers in this way-we have secured
cheap and safer transportation for
their cattle to the English markets and
released then from quarantine restrictions,
which was a great boon to our farmers.
The late Government said," Let everything
alone ; we can do nothing ; it is not our
business to do anything to aid the people ;" but under the National Policy our
Minister of Agriculture has provided
greater and better and cheaper facilities
for the transportation of cattle across the
,Atlantic. He has made a study of and
evinced a deep interest in the matter, and
under his care and guidance our cattle are
transported to the European markets at a
cheaper rate and our trade is thereby
improved. Sir Charles Tupper mentions
the immense benefit that has been done
in this way to the farming community of
Canada.

L"ON, MR. HAYTHORNE-Where do
HON. Mx. HAYTHORNE-Is there
sell the cheese produced in this coun- any protection of them when they get
there ?
1

1(N

MR. DICKEY-Do

nlanufacturers buy cheese?

not our

hlON. MR. KAULBACH-Of course
ey do, and milk and butter also. The
creased population of the country, the
dvelopment of our manufacturing indusrnakes a home market for our cheese;
.Qs
at dependent of that we export it
gely to England-and
the
Por English cheesemakersthus makehave
sufler. I
'ientioned these facts to meet the arguthent Of rny hon. friend who contended
at England had prospered under free

HON. MR. KAULBACH-No, but the
poor English farmer--the stock raisersuffers. It shows the paternal care which
this Government exercises not only for the
manufacturing but for the farming industries as well. But will my hon. friend say
that the English farmer is benefited by
free-trade ? My hon. friend said that if
he finds the laborer not enjoying the
usual amount of the necessaries and comforts of life you may fairly say that the
My hon. friend
country is decaying.
made that statement with regard to England. But the English farmers won't

A2A4

The 1ndustries and [SENATE]

endorse it. I ask him to apply the same
test to Canada, and particularly to our
farmers, and by that test he can prove the
benefit which the National Policy has
conferred on the Dominion.
HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE- How do
the half-time operatives get along ?
HoN. MR.

KAULBACH-My

hon.

1anuff'r8 of Canada.

not like to refer to these matters but
when my hon. friend sets up England as
a standard by which to judge of the effectsof free-trade I am bound to say that the
facts do not warrant him in concluding that it would be a policy which would
benefit this country. When Sir Alexander Galt went home to England he
mentioned the fact which my hon. friend
Sir Alexander
quoted in his speech.
Galt then showed to the Chamber Of
Commerce in Liverpool that our trade
with England is increasing under the
National Policy. He showed about two
years ago that our policy was favorable to
England in its results. This is what Sir
Alexander Galt says about Canada :
They adopted not onlv a rotective but a
defensive system of tariff, an the resuit had

friend may talk about half-time operatives
but under their policy we had no operatives at all : there was nothing to operate
upon. That is just the difference, but my
hon. friend is not stating what is consistent
with facts when he talks about half-tirne
operatives. He cannot show me one industry to-day where the operatives are
working on half-time. I ask him to tell
me one such industry, and I pause for a been tliat their people had become prospero>us
and contented, bank stock had risen, and ero'
reply?
ployment was abundant.

So much for Ca'

the neW
this country,
DICKEV-He savs he has ada, and as to they had taken under1882 over
in
Canadian tariff
no time to tell you.
nine millions of our manufacturers as acainst
HoN. MR.

MR. KAULBACH-It would
take him a long time before he could tell me.
He would have to manufacture it. Now,
what about the great prosperity in England, among the laboring classes. He
says there is no suffering among the working classes of England. Mr. Richardson,
the Inspector of the London School
Board reports that recently there were at
least 6o,ooo families in London alone
who had but one room for eacl family.
HON.

Hox. MR. HAYTHORNE-What is
the population of London ?
Hox.
MR.
KAULBACH-6o,ooo
families in that condition is a large percentage even for the population of London, and if labor was plenty we would not
find that many families living that
wretched beastly way. Look at the indecency, misery and desolation and want
which that indicates. It makes a man
shudder ; it is sickening to contemplate it.
When we think of so many human beings
thus huddled together in one city of
England we can hardly reconcile it with
the hon. gentleman's stateinent that the
working classes of England are well fed
and clothed and enjoy prosperity. Adopt
his policy, crush out our factories, and we
would find misery enough here. I do
HON. MR.

KAULBACH.

five millions in 1879, or an increase of g per
0
cent.

Therefore they certainly had not

if'

jured England, nor did they find that they

had injured themselves.

And then my hon. friend quotes the 119'
don Times as not approvingofwhat Sir Ale'
ander Galt said-" There is a fondness for
the fallacy of arguing, post hc ergo proPer
hoc,"-that because Sir Alexander Galt approved of the National Policy because of its
results and reasoned that a thing is proved
by its fruits, therefore it is all wrong. That
is all my hon. friend could get from that
article of the London 7imes-that because
Sir AlexanderGalt proved that trade between
England and Canada was increasing under
a protective policy and decreasing with
the United States, therefore it was a bad
argument to use. Now how can you
prove a thing but by its fruits? And whefl
Sir Alexander Galt showed as he did very
properly before the Chamber of Commerce that instead of our policy being

inimical to England it was increasing her
trade he was using an irresistible argument in favour of our policy. I onlY

referred to this to show how vain and
fruitless have been my friend's efforts, even
with the assistance of an editorial in the
London Ties. Every fact and argulent
which the hon. gentleman from ottav3
has advanced goes to show the improv'd
condition of the country under the

The Indusi8fes and (M ARC H 24, 1885] Manuf'r.< of Canada. 426.
National Policy. In addition to absorbing
about $70,000,000 of home productions
yearly for the last six years, we have
'ncreased our importations as well, which
Unidoubtedly shows the increased wealth
0f the country. Our exports will always
4ePend on the condition of trade in other
eOufntries and one of our best customers,
the West Indies, had their trade paralzed last year through England allowing
ermnan and American bounty-protected
refined sugar to come in free and ruin her
Own refiners so that they could not buy
nest India sugar. The hon. gentleman
frorm Ottawa must have wilfully closed
is eyes and ears to the progress the
country has made. He does not like to
bear of it ; he would prefer to see the
reak-dowvn of the National Policy and
stand helpless in the midst of soup
kitchens and ruined manufactories. He
does not like to hear of the increase in
the number of hands employed, of the
large wages paid and the increased proutICtion. He and his party would if they
tOuld keep Canada a slaughter market for
the surplus products of other countries
1 ruim our own importers and manufacturers. The Minister of Finance, in his
budget speech brought forward statistics
aid figures, which I commend to the
atterntion of the hon. gentleman from
tjtawa. From 1874 to 1879, under the
Liberai Government, we had over 9,000
cOrnmercial failures, with a liability of
133,0oo0ooo; whereas from 1879 to 1885,
hder a Conservative Government, we
tad Only about 5,400 failures, with liabilipes amounting to $57,ooo,ooo-another
Proof of the improved condition of the
untry under a protective policy.
on. gentleman has also referred The
to the
rge surs expended on public works, and
sh to show him how little the borrow8g such sums cost the country.
Of
1he interest on the public debt in
73-1874, under the Conservative Govthnment, amounted to $1.32 per head
of
te Population-in 1878, under a
Liberal
G vernment, it had risen to $1.54
per
head-an increase of 22 cents
per head;
Sreas mu
1883-84, under a Conservative
aOvernrment it had fallen to $1.46, a re.lction 8 cents per
of
head.
since 1878 $66,ooo,ooo have been
nt on public works making a difference
head, of interest only, i 34 cents

higher in 1885 than in 1878. This shows
the effect of good and careful management. Another matter I wish to impress
on the hon. gentleman from Ottawa,
whatever may be the value of the stock
of some of our manufactories, Canadian
securities stand higher to-day in the
London money market than those of any
other colony, and higher than those of
Germany or Austria. Since 1878 our
coasting trade increased 4,500,000 tons.
Since 1878 our freight on railways increased 6,ooo,ooo tons and our interprovincial trade also largely increased. The
Intercolonial Railway doubled its receipts
in 1884 over those of 1878. No part of the
public debt has been levied on the country
to meet the ordinary expenses of the Government. Our bonds sell for more in the
English markets than those of any other
country. New South Wales bonds have
been an exception, but it has been shown
that they were bolstered up by a syndicate
of Australian bankeis in London. My
hon. friend from Ottawa condemned the
whole policy of protection to our own
industries. He contended that it is absurd
attempt to foster these industries and
thought that it would be better for us to
turn our attention to the three F's, Fisheries, Fields and Forests. I think I have
already answered that by showing that no
country can be great which confines
itself to these industries- that the effect
would be to make us hewers of wood and
drawers of water to the United States. He
says "you cannot make men prosperous
by Act of Parliament," but I think it can
be shown that people require facilities to
labor to make themselves prosperous. He
might as well have said when introducing
his Temperance Act "you cannot make
men sober by Act of Parliament." In that
case it would be a fair argument, and it
was the argument which my hon. friend
the leader of the Government used in
opposition to the Bill. My hon. friend
(Mr. Scott) spoke of the tariff of the
United States and said that it had proved
as great a curse to that country as the
National Policy had been to Canada. He
said "it is a policy for favoring the few at
the expense of the many, and that has
been the result of its adoption. That is
the effect of all tariffs, unless the duties are
very carefully distributed and unless the
industries of the country are most carefully

rto

26

lThe Industrie8 and [SENATE] -Manuf'rs of canada.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I have no
objection ; if I don't weary you I will go onI have shown out of the mouths of these
men themselves that they have not only
failed to establish their assertion that the
National Policy has proved injurious to
the country, but on the contrary they have
shown that it has proved an incentive tO
the developmentof the trade and industries
of the country and kept our people at
home to assist in the development of the
industrial resources of the Domimlo-'
Look at the increase in the cattle trade of
late years.
The following figures show the increase
of the export cattle trade since 1877 :
Years.
Cattle. Sheep. Swine'
Taking, first, 1877...........6,940
9,5o0
430

.and properly watched. This is sure to be
the effect, not alone in this country but in
all countries-I am speaking now on the
broad principle of all tariffs. The tariff of
the United States has been as great a
curse to that country as ours has been to
Canada."
Well, my hon. friend has failed to show
where it has had that effect. In answer
to that I will show what benefit it has been
to Canada. We have had the reports of
the commissioners of Ontario and Quebec
as to the development of our manufacturing industries under the National Policy.
It shows us the condition of our industries
and the importance of our home manufactures, and where trade is depressed and

where it is not depressed.
the result of the visit to factories in oper- 1878 ..........
ation in 1878, we have this comparison :- TRc
1878.

Factories .......
Hands employed
Wages paid ....

467
27,879

$8, 174,900

Annual product.34,131,îoo
Capital invested.26,160,500

18,655

IV8o.......... 50,905
188o .........
1884.
1881 .......... 45,535
467] 1883.......... 35,378
42,080
1883.......... 55,625
$12,870,900
1884... .. . ... .. 61,843
53,554,500

41r,225

2,078

Re%, c

85

81,843

700

62,404
75,905
114,352

67,197

The value of the cattle and sheep eX-.
36,647,400
ported in 1884 is estimated at $8,4o2,345,
These figures show that in six years the an increase of $76,996 over 1883.
number of hands employed in Ontario
and Quebec had increased by over 14,000,
HON. MR. POWER-I suppose that is
and that the annual wages paid had all owing to the National Policy.
increased from $297 to $306 per head ;
that the annual products had increased 50
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I do not
per cent, and the amount of capital say all that, but I say that the National
invested had increased 40 per cent. The Policy has helped it; certainly it has not
new industries established under the Na- prevented the development of that trade.
tional Policy since 1878 are referred to by The hon. gentleman said that the Nationthe commîssioners. Of these 258 have al Policy had destroyed everything and
reported in Ontario and Quebec, they em- that the farmers were injured by its operaploy 13,453 hands. That is where the tion. I asserted and again say the fariers
increase in the number of hands employed have been greatly helped by it because it
comes in. These new factories pay in has led to the establishment and develoPwages annually $4,o4o,9oo and produce ment of other industries and thereby ilngoods to the value of $23,712,6oo and the proved the condition of the farmer. Many
capital invested in them is $11,777,700. of the farming products consumed by the
The value of the annual products in these industrial manufacturing population were
two provinces has increased by$43,135,000, unsaleable, before the adoption of the exa large part of which went to support the isting policy. The paternal government
working classes. Now I do not think I has given every incentive to the farmers
9
need weary the House by saying anything and cattle raisers to extend their operatiOns
more on this question, and I am sure I by improving the facilities for shipiment
arn much obliged to hon. gentlemen for and freeing them from therestrictions which
their indulgence.
were formerly imposed upon them on the
other side of the Atlantic.
HON. MR. BOTSFORD-Go on you
The value of agricultural products exare making a good speech.
ported from the Dominion for the last
HoN. MR. KAULBACH.

Tke lat [MARCH 24, 1885] Senator Simpson.

427

fiscal year amounted to $12,397,843. 1 therefore accept the suggestion and move
This is, however, only the produce of the that the debate be adjourned until ThursSoil, and is exclusive of animals and their day next.
Products, which amounted to $22,946,1oS, 1
The motion was agreed to.
tmaking altogeth ýr a total of $35,343,95 1,
or over one-third of the whole exports of THE LATE SENA'OR SIMPSON.
the Dominion.
The exports amounted to $92,ooo,ooo
HON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL-In
during the last five years more than under oving the adjournment of the House 1
the Mackenzie government. All these d
r impson. I hav
facts show that the country is prospering. late colagua
Sisson I hich
Mro
vtelegrar
But my hon. friend contended that the r
Country is suffering because the imports he
are larger than they formerly were, but
the hon, gentleman should remember that
My father died yesterday.
Funeral
the exports are also larger, and both on ednesday. Will you announce this
taken together show that the country is to the Senate?
Prospering. If the increase of imports is
D. B. SIMPSON.
an indication that the National Policy has
been a failure I would ask him, and I
The sad duty which I ar discharging
would ask all of you, to look at the character now devolves upon me only too frequently,
of those imports. They consist of raw and from year to year it bas always been
hides $3,ooo,ooo, raw cotton $7,ooo,ooo, a source of grief and sorrow to me to have
raw sugar $5,5oo,ooo. There is where to discharge it and to announce to the
the increase of imports has been and not Senate the deaths of those whom we have
fl goods manufactured abroad-not in long known and esteemed in the House,
goods on which the labor has been ex- with whose presence we have grown
Pended in foreign countries. These ra'w familiar. Mr. Simpson was a member of
flaterials have been imported into the the old Legisiative Council of Canada
Country and the labor of our people upon in 1856, and since Confederation he has
those raw materials has given an in- constantly been a member of the Senate
creased value to them. They have fur. -an active and able but most fair and
nished employment for thousands and courteous opponent at ail times. I do
tens of thousands of our people and the not know whether those gentlemen who
ranufactured articles have been exported do fot come from Ontario or Quebec, are
!argely, and are sold cheaper to consumers aware of the very useful part which Mr.
'i this country than in 1878. Therefore Simpson took before Confederation, and
the increased imports simply proves that indeed since Confederation, with reference
we have increased our manufacturing to a subject which he had long made his
Industries; we are buying more of the raw own-I mean the Printing of Parliament.
Material in order that our people may find I think he gave more time to that subject
ePloyment in the labor bestowed upon than alrost anybody in either House of
it, and in that way we are increasing the Parliament and accomplished much
industries of the people without adding to I think, than we now give him creditmore,
for.
the cost of the manufactured article to the The exertions which he made from 1856
consumer, and we are keeping our labor- onwards were very great. When we enIhg classes as well as our money in our tered into Confederation the oid Provinces
own country.
of Upper and Lower Canada had a system
.ON, MR. BOTSFORD-My hon. which, I believe, obtains in some of the
riend seems to have material for a peech provinces,or did then, ofthe Parliamentary
Of an hour or two yet, and I have there- Printing being done by contract. It was
fore to suggest to him that he should done at that time in a very handsome
but at the sae tie in a very extstyle,
hlovet of
pensive way by Messrs. erbysire and
Continue his remarks on the data
bis onThurday.
emars
Desbarats. The expenses were very great
"ON.
MR. KAULBACH-I have and I think, owing chiefly to the
latelriaI enough for an hour at least, and exertions of Mr. Simpson the cost

A28

Civil Service [SEN ATE] F amination.

was reduced by a very large summore than $1oo,ooo

per annum-and I

late Hon. Mr. Simpson since the Union ;
and during the associations of all those
years, have ever found him assiduous il'
the faithful discharge of his duty, and
anxious to promote the hest interests of
the country. As chairman of the Joint
Committee of Printing, of which I was a
member, Mr. Simpson was always at bis
post of duty, and those efforts of his
earlier public life which led to such useful
practical results gave him an experience
which was ever available in the efficient
and economical management of the parI feel sure that
liamentary printing.
every member of the Senate who had the
advantage of knowing the deceased gentleman will agree as to his manly bearing
and kindness of character, and think of
him with pleasing recollections. The sad
event, coming so soon after the decease
of another old friend (Mr. Benson) reminds us that change is a universal inscription, written all around. It is consoling to be assured that in both cases the
deaths were happy ones; and while " we
all do fade as a leaf," our lamented friends
have " secured that crown which fadeth
not away."

think the country owed it very much to
Mr. Simpson that that was accomplished.
The hon. gentleman was an active member
of the House within the memory of us all
and I think we all learned to esteem him.
There was a great deal, if I may use that
expression, of manliness about Mr. Simpson-a thorough vigorous man, with manly
sentiments-sentiments which ensured
one's sympathy and respect, and he was
friendly to us all. I know myself that
although during the whole period that we
were in public life together we were
opposed to each other in politics there
was no member of the House who had a
more kindly or warmer feeling towards me
than Mr. Simpson, and I thoroughly
appreciated it. Al our intercourse was
rnarked with that kindly feeling and I am
sure it was the same with every one with
whom he came in contact. We all deplore
his loss. He had attained a good old age
and like our late colleague Mr. Benson,
had everything to comfort him in the
closing years of his life, and I learn that
his death, like Mr. Benson's, was not an
unhappy one. I feel exceedingly grieved
to have to make so frequently announceThe motion was agreed to and the
ments of this kind. We are all, or most Senate adjourned at six o'clock.
of us, getting so far advanced in life that
deaths are becoming only too frequent
and too sad. I had hoped that Mr. Scott
would have been here to have said a few
THE SENATE.
words in connection with this sad occasion,
because Mr. Simpson was a colleague of Ottawa, Thursday, March 26th, 1885.
his in politics, and had always been a
strong supporter of the Government of
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
which my hon. friend was a member, and o'clock p.m
I hope that some one on behalf of Mr.
Scott will take occasion to express his
Prayers and routine proceedings.
sentiments. I do not make any motion
with regard to the adjournment of the CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATIONS
House, but only take occasion in moving
AND MEMBERS OF THE
the adjournment to say these few words
ROYAL SOCIETY.
in connection with the death of our late
friend.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yesterday the hon. member from DeSalaberry
HON. MR. McCLELAN-In the ab- asked a question with reference to the
sence of Mr. Scott, the leader of the Lib- course pursued by the examiners for the
erals in the Senate, I felt I would only Civil Service. I did not quite understand
express the sentiments of that hon. gen- the nature of his question and did not
tleman, in cordially endorsing every word answer it as fully as I ought to
justuttered by the hon. Ministerof Justice in have done. In addition to the informahis well expressed eulogy of our departed tion I gave the hon. gentleman yesterday,
friend and colleague. I have known the he wanted to know if there were any cases
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Leyi8•daion [MARCB. 26, 1885] in the &nat .
in which a person who was a member of'
One of the learned societies-the Royal
Society of London--had been admitted to,
the Civil Service here without exammination, and he mentioned the name of--

429

occasion, but that is the point to which I
wished to call attention-as to the propriety of subjecting members of such a
society to an examination, when membership in such an institution might be considered sufficient to relieve them from it.

HON. MR. TRUDEL-The hon. genHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
tlemen is mistaken :I
mentioned no
name.
not think that there has been any misunderstanding. No person has been admitted
HON. SIR A LEX. CAMPBELL -- I to the original or promotion examination
have made inquiry and I find that there except by the ordinary course ; no excephas been no such rule, and even no in- tion has been made with reference to
stance in which anything of the kind has members of the Royal Society or any other
Occurred. I am informed by one of the society. If my hon. friends thinks that a
Oxaminers that no one to his knowledge different course should be pursued with
has even applied to be admitted, by which reference to members of the Royal Society
I understand rated and reported, as hav- an opportunity will be offered when the
Ing passed the examination on the ground Civil Service Bill comes before this House,
Of being a member of the Royal Society. to make a suggestion that exceptions
No man has been reported as qualified for should be made in favor of members of
employment under the government who the Royal Society. 1 am afraid that I
has not passed the required examination should not be able to concur, but the
Satisfactorily. I have not found any opportunity will be presented and he can
in-stance of the kind nentioned by my offer an amend ment if hie thinks it desirable
hon. friend.
to do so.
HON. MR. TRUDEL - Perhaps tle
House will allow me to explain that
my principal object in calling the
attention of the Government to the
subject was this, that it was considered amongst some members of the
Civil service, who were also members of
the Royal Society, that it would be humiliating to them to be subjected to such an
examination. It may be true that no case
of the kind has come before the examiners, but many cases may arise in the
future, and it is perhaps in the interest ot
the public service that this question should
be inquired into carefully. That was my
Object in asking the question, because I
know, as a matter of fact, that there has
been a good deal of talk on the subject
and that one member of the civil service
who was entitled to promotion, but who
' order to receive it would be obliged to
pass an examination, received letters from
Members of the Royal Society advising

HoN. MR. TR DE L-1 do not go so
far as to say that it should be so, but I

think an opportunity should be afforded
to consider the question.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (N) " An Act further to amend the
Act respecting Insolvent Banks, Insurance
Companies, Loan Companies, Building
Societies and Trading Corporations.
(Mr. Scott.)
Bill (81) " An Act respecting the Canada
Co-operative Supply Association, limited."
(Mr. Ryan.)
Bill (49) " An Act to incorporate the
Pension Fund Society of the Bank of
Montreal." (Mr. PRyan.)
Bill (48) "An Act respecting the Annuity and Guarantee Funds Society of the
Bank of Montreal.'" (Mr. Ryan.)
Bill (53) " An Act respecting La Banque
du Peuple." (Mr. Paquet.)

him not to undergo the examination.

LEGISLATION IN THE SENATE.
HON. Sip ALEX. CAMPBELL-That

Ianother point.
1

not

ON.

MR.-TRUDEL-Perhaps I did

INQUIRY.

HON. MR. PLUMB rose to call atten-

explain myself clearly on a former tion to the desirability of encouraging the

Legislation (SENATE] in the Snate.

A30

initiation of Private Bills in this House,
with a view to the more equal division of
the labors of the two branches in the
earlier period of the Session, and inquire
of the Government if it be not deemed
advisable to originate in this House as
many measures as the law and usage of
Parliament will permit in order that this
House may more adequately fill its place
in the Constitution.
HON.

MR.

PLUMB-At an early stage

of the Session I placed the notice on the
paper of the resolution which I am about
to move, but for reasons that have been
explained, its consideration has been delayed, from time to time, upon the suggestion of my hon. friend the leader of
the Government. My object was to inquire whether some method could not be
devised to bring more work to this hon.
body at the earlier stages of the Session.
We find that most of the private bills are
initiated in the other House, and that
a large share of Government measures are
first introduced there, some of which of
course this House is precluded from inaugurating, and that we are thus left with
out adequate employment for a considerable portion of the earlier period of the
Session. The inference naturally is drawn
that this body is not sufficiently employed,
and I think we suffer very considerably in
the estimation of the public for that
reason. I can see very readily why at the
outset we are comparatively idle, and I
can see also very readily that the members
of Parliament, who are usually charged
with bringing in private bills for their
constituents and friends, prefer to intro
duce them in their own Chamber; and it
has occurred to me, and to other Senators,
that it is greatly desirable, under circumstances to which it is scarcely necessary
further to refer, that this House should
impress upon those who may have influence upon legislation, the desirability of
bringing forward here, as far as practicable,
such measures as would keep it occupied
from the opening of the Session, and as
would tend to enable the House to discharge more fully the constitutional functions which it was intended should be discharged by it in its inception. I will say
nothing about the introduction of Public
Bills, because I know that my hon. friend
the leader of the Government is desirous,
HoN. MR. PLUMB.

so far as lies within his power, to encourage the initiation of public measures
in this House, and I have no doubt that
before this discussion is over he will
present to the House a memorandurn
showing what number of such measures
have been introduced in each House
since the Union. We have the great
advantage of the presence here of
Ministers representing two very important
departments of the public service-the
Department of Justice and that of the
Interior. It is consequent upon that that
measures relating to those departments
should be first introduced here. There
are other measures probably that might
be initiated here. I think that portion ot
the business of the Senate which depended
upon the initiation either of public or private measures has been gradually declining. This I am sure has given an unfavorable impression abroad as to the abilitY
of this body, and its desire to fulfil its
functions,as to which I have not the slightest
possible doubt, and of which I think no
man sitting here and watching its proceedings can have any doubt; but still it gives
some color to the assertions that we are
here simply for the purpose of idling
away the time, and that we do not perform the duties which we ought to perform as a representative portion of the
Constitution and as a chamber charged
with an important share of the public service. There are obvious advantages in
the introduction of Private Bills here in
the early part of the session. Our committees are less unwieldy than those of
the House of Commons, and have longer
experience. We cannot control nor do I
think it would be advisable that the Ministers themselves should attempt to control
members in this regard; they might
however, advise and r'ecommend it.
Under the English system at the
meeting of Parliament there is a Joint
Committee upon Private Bills appointed.
A committee of the Lords and Conmons, which seules upon the manner
in which Private Bills shall be introduced,
and apportions them to each House.
The system of procedure upon Private
Bills in the British Parliament differs
materially from ours. No member cani
bring in a Private Bill on behalf of
any interest whatever; he merely, in
his place in either body, moves the

Legislation [MARCH 26, 1885] in the Snati.

Eill

assigned to him from time to time
through its regular stages ; but he is not
suPPosed himself in any other way to
Promote its passage. Of the Bills so
divided, a large proportion goes to
the House of Lords for initiation,
cOnsequently they are occupied very
largely with a kind of legislation which is
exceedingly useful and which their experlence in that sort of work enables them to
discharge with great advantage to the
Public; and although we cannot expect
that any arbitrary division of Private
13ill initiation can be made here it has
Occurred to me that in some way a method
rtlight he adopted by which we would be
eniabled to take our fair share of that kind
Of business at the outset. The rules of
procedure in the British Parliament are
Tbuch more complicated than ours and we
calnot entertain the idea of adopting the
system of having promoters and parliarnentary agents, and I do not pretend for
One moment that any such system would
0W be desirable ; even though it may become so hereafter, but I have thought it
POssible that those who have the well,
being of this body at heart, and who desire
o answer in the most effectual manner
objections that have been made to its
existence on the ground that it did not
fulfil its duties, might possibly influence
those who have Private Bills in charge to
8end then here for initiation. I do not
think it is at all necessary that I should
apPeal to the Ministers of the Crown who
sit here, because I believe that they feel
With mie that everything that can be done
to elevate the Senate in the public estimatIOn-everything that can be done to
answer the attacks that have been made
uPOn it-should be done. I am sure that
they believe, as I believe, that the Senate
a it is now constituted is a most important factor in our legislative machinery ;
that it has great constitutional functions to
and that it is capable and ready at
a tirnes to fulfil those functions with
Cl"', deliberation, with mature judgment,
td without fear or favour. Having stated
thus nuch I may perhaps say that as
this body is constituted it can hardly be exPteted that it should be occupied with
the kind of discussions that occupy
tuch of the time in another place.
at communication legislature, having
d Irect branch of the with
the people-

A31

elected by the people-naturally discusses
a vast number of party questions which
would be out of place here. It might be
useful to ascertain how much time is consumed there in debate which has nothing
to do with legislation.
The Senate is
restricted, as every one knows, to the
origination of measures which do not
involve the expenditure of public money.
Moneybills cannotbeoriginatedhere.When
they corne here they cannot be altered or
amended ; and consequently a large
amount of legislation which is of direct
interest to the public cannot very well
come into discussion here, except upon
general principles of public expenditure or
of public policy. My hon. friend who sits
before me (Sir Alex. Campbell) recognized
the condition of things to which I am now
referring in the year 1868, at which time
there was a comrnmittee appointed-of
which my hon. friend was chairman ; and
that committee called upon the Government to originate as many measures here
as the law and usage of Parliament would
permit in order that the Senate may more
adequately fill its place in the Constitution."
I am therefore quite in harmony I think
with the feelings of my hon. friend in
making the suggestions that I am now
making, and I wish before proceeding
further to disclaim the slightest intention
in anything that I may say or anything
that I have said to attribute to the
Government intentional remissness in endeavoring to promote the work of this
House, or anything that would seem like
overlooking its claims. In that I know I
would be entirely wrong, and I should err
if I were to make any insinuation of the
kind, or if any remarks of mine would
lead to any inference of that kind. In the
first years of Confederation there was a
very large Ministerial representation in this
body, much larger than there is now.
There were several Ministers in this
House, holding portfolios at the outset
of Confederation and probably as a consequence of that there was very considerable
initiation of legislation ; but as seems to be
almost inevitable, unless there are strong
efforts to prevent it, the Commons gradually absorbed the initiatory legislation which
might have been brought here, to such an
extent that in the year 1882, 71 private
bills were passed, and out of those only
eight originated in the Senate. In a very

A32

Leqislation LSENATE] in t/e Senate.

complimentary notice of Mr. Bourinot's powers for the Dominion, but gave it
able and exhaustive work on Parliamentry powers over all subjects which were not
It
procedure in the London Times, the dis- specially given to the Provinces.
parity between the work of the two Houses is marvellous that the Provinces in their
is referred to and I will read a short ex ! legislation have kept so closely withil,
tract therefrom -" The Canadian system constitutional limits, and so closelY
is singularly incomplete ; it is marked by confined themselves to the exercise of
at least two defects from which ours is the powers which were given them by the
free ; one due to the fact that promoters constitution as only to have exceeded
of private bills are free to introduce their them in this vast amount of legislation
measures ;n either House, and that in -in the opinion of those who are charged
consequence of this a disproportionate with the revision of their Acts to the
amount of private bill legislation is initia- extent which I have stated here. i think
ted in the Commons." Since Confedera- it is a matter for congratulation with every
tion the Dominion Parliament has passed one who wishes the confederation of these
more than 1,400 Acts, of which 65o have Provinces well and who has a desire to
been for private purposes, such as the perpetuate it, that so far there bas been so
incorporation of railway, banking, loan, little friction in the movements of the
The machinery. I trust that hon. gentlemflenl
insurance and other companies.
legislatures of the different provinces, will pardon me if after referring to matters
since Confederation, up to 1884, have of this kind i should speak of subjects
passed the following number of Acts ; which I know are not strictly embraced
Ontario, 1,358 : Quel ec, 1,105 ; Nova in the resolution that I have offered, but
Scotia, 1,414 ; New Brunswick,

1,302 ;'which grow logically out of that resolutio"

Prince Edward Island, since 1873, since and I think this will be an occasion in
it carne into the Union, 313 ; Manitoba, which 1 may be permitted to enlarge
and of somewhat, and I ask their indulgence
477 ; British Columbia, 324
those Acts 3Y have been disallowed. In while I do so. I wish to speak, in the
all 6,293 Acts have been passed and but first instance, of the Act of Confederation
i have been disallowed by the Dominion and the resolutions wheron it was founded,
Government, namely : Ontario, 5 ; Que- by which our existing bi-cameral system"
bec, 2 ; Nova Scotia, 5 New Brunswick, was adopted. I desire to quote a very
none ; Prince Edward Island, none ; few words from the cogent argulent-s
Manitoba, 7 : and British Columbia 12. that were urged on the Confederationl
Itshows therefore I think mostconclusively Debate, in favor of that system by the
that the working of the system under principal movers of the resolutions.
which we are confederated, has been upon I shall endeavor in discussing that portion
the whole greatly harmonious, and that of the question to be as brief as possible,
there has been no friction in the machin- and yet I think it is desirable at this period
ery which is worthy of notice. I think when even therightofthisChamber toexist,
it is an important item in considering is called in question, that we should get a
the effect of the important clauses résum< of the reasons for its adoption, in its
by which special subjects of legisla- j nominative character, and that we should
tion are assigned to the Provinces, know the position by which we have a right
where one might suppose that there to claim the confidence of the public. A
sometimes would be a straining of the the introduction of the resolutions referred
relations between the Provinces and the to one of the principal speeches was made
Dominion, and where it has been asserted by the then Attorney-General West i the
in some quarters that there has been a Legislative Assembly of Canada bytheright
straining of such relations. It is most hon. gentleman who now in unabated vigor
remarkable to notice how few Acts have and vith far wider reputationand popularity
been passed in any province that have survives, and with increasing honors, fairly
been objected to by the Dominion won, is the leader of the conservative party
Government ; and when we consider that of the Dominion. The other great speech
the terns of Confederation giving to the was made by a colleague, who, in a mOst
provinces special subjects of legislation, noble manner laid aside the political hosreserved not only specified legislative tility of years and struck hands with mny
HoN. Al.

PLUMB.

Legislation [MARCII 26, 1885] in the Senate.

hon.

A33

friend the right hon. leader in the
ither House for the purpose of bringing
a.bout objects contemplated in the resolut:ions. Both of those gentlemen set forth
nt'the most eloquent manner the reasons
Why they thought it desirable to adopt an
t3
PPer house upon the principle of nomi'ation.
I will venture to quote a few of
the Words of wisdom then uttered by them
Upon that subject. Sir John first recites
the initial sentences of the resolutions
adOPted by the Confederation conference,
by Which it declares that :" The executive authority of Governiment
.aIl be vested in the Sovereign of the United
1
lagdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and be
4d iristered according to the well understood
nciples of the British Constitution by the
Overeign per.sonally, or by the representative
-e Sovereign duly authorized.'
Sir John Macdonald then remarks:
<'That resolution met with the unanimous
.sent of the Conference. The desire to renain
u'r'nected with Great Britain and to retain our
egance to the Crown was unanimous. Not
6St1gle suggestion was made, that it could, by
Possibility, be the wish of the colonies, or
abanv section or portion of them, that there
oufd be a severance of our connection.
though we knew it to be possible that
adta,from her position, night be exposed
to8I the horrors of war, by reason of causes
the OStility arising between Great Britain and
,nited States-causes over which we
h
had .o control, and which we had no hand in
te.Ïpgg about-yet there was a unanimous
1g1g willingness to run ail the hazards
of
&oif war must come, rather than lose the
r,
th15 ection between the mother country and
Colonies.

interests of their own, having, from their

A Te resolutions provide that ' there shall be
edgeleral legislature ot parliament for the
cerated provinces composed of a Legislative
""eiland House of Commons.'"
n this Sir John says:
a he Legislative Council will stand in the
aIe relation to the Lower House, as the
0e Lords to the House of Commons in
Of
%illa j having the same power of initiating
of 'atters of legislation except the granting
iofley.
aoi ettling the constitution of the Lower
, that which peculiariy represents the
e e, it was agreed that the principle of
1rselitation based on population should be
ci 2ed, and the mode of applying that prines fullv developed in these resolutions.
ere are three great sections, having diflerw e hterests in this proposed Confederation.
%té¡ve Lower Canada with other and separa., intereetedad especially with institutions
a %W
which she jealously guards against
et
40 n by any larger, more numerous or
i
p ger POwer
And we have the Maritime
hlnces, having also different sectional
C i

not been a failure in Canada; but there were

position, classes and interests which we do

not know in Western Canada. Accordingly
in the Upper House-the controlling and
regulating but not the initiating branch (for
we know that here as in England, to the
Lower House wili practically belong the
initiation of mattere of great public interest)
in the House which this sober second-thought
in legislation-it is provided that each of
those great sections shall be represented
euually by 24 members. As may be well
conceived, great difference of opinion at first
existed as to the constitution of the Legislative
Council.
In Canada the elective principle
prevails; in the Lower Provinces, with the
exception of Prince Edward Island, the nominative principle was the rule. We found a
general disinclination on the part of the

ower Provinces to adopt the elective prin

ciple; indeed, I do not think there was a

dissenting voice in the conference against tne
adoption of the nominative principle, except
from Prince Edward Island. The delegates
from New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and Newfoundland, as one man, were in favor of nominating by the Crown. And nomination by the
Crown i8 of course the system which is most
in accordance with the British Constitution.
We resolved then, that the constitution of
the Upper House should be in accordance
with the British system as nearly as circumstances would allow.
The only mode of adopting the English
systen to the Upper House is by conferring
the power of appointiment on the Crown (as
the English peers are appointed), but that
appiîntments should be for life.
h arguments for an elective Council are
numerous and strong; and i ought to say so,
as one of the administration responsible for
introducing the elective principle into Canada.
(Hear, hear.) I hold that this principle has
causes-which we did not take into consideration at the time-why it did not so fully succeed in Canada as we had expected. One great
cause was the enormous extent of the constituencies and the immense labor which con-

sequently devolved on those who sought the
suffrages of the people for election to the
Council ? * * * Men of standing in the
country eminently fitted for such a position,
were prevented from coming forward. At first,
I admit, men of the first standing did come
forward, but we have seen that in every succeeding election in both Canadas there has
been an increasing disinclination, on the part
of men of standing and political experience
and weight in the country, to become candidates; while on the other hand, ail the young
men, the active politicians, those who have
resolved to embrace the life of a statesman,
have sought entrance to the House of Assembly. The nominative system in this country
was, to a great extent, successful before the
introduction of responsible government.
The Lower louse in effect pointed who
should be nominated to the Upper flouse,

Legislation [SENATE] in the Senate.

A34A

for the Ministry being dependent altogether
on the lower branch of the legislature for support selected members for the Upper House
from among their political friends at the dictation of the House of Assembly. The Council was becoming less and less a substantial
check on the legislation of the Assembly; but
under the system now proposed, such will not
be the case. No Ministrv can in future do
what they have done in Canada before-they
cannot with the view of carrying any measure,
or of strengthening the party, attempt to
over-rule the independent opinion of the
Upper House. by filling it with a number of
its partizans and political supporters."

any attempt to overrule the decisions of tha!
House by the appointment of new peers, ex
cepting, perhaps once in the reign of QueeL
Anne. Itis true that in 1832 such an increas
was threatened in consequence of the reter
ated refusai of the House.of Peers to pass the
Reform Bill."
" There is, I repeat, a great danger of a
irreconcilable difference of opinion betwee
the two branches of the Legislature if
,he
Upper be elective, than if it holds its coin
mission from the Crown."
the
" To the Upper House is to be confided th*e
protection of sectional interests ; thereforere
it that the three great commissions are tliere
equally represented, for the purpose of deel

ing such interests against the combinatio
of majoriteis in the Assembly. It wili there
fore become the interests of each sectiontO
its verv best m1en, and tbe
HON. MR. PLUMB-I am going to be be represented bv
of
me r7bersthe administration who belong f
perfectly candid in what I say and I shall each section will see that nien are chosen
sustain that position before I get through case of a vacancy in their section. For the
with it. Alluding to the provision that same reason each state of the Ameri]it
there shall be 24 Senators from each Union sends its two best men to represent I
interests in the Senate. (Hear, hear) the
of three great sections, he says that :
is provided in the constitution that it1
"ILt will prevent the Upper House from be- first selections for the Council, regard . lar
ing swamped, from time to time, by the Min- be had to those who now hold
istry of the day for the purpose of carrving out positions in the different colonies. .
their own schemes or pleasing their partisans. it appears to me, is a wise provisior
The fact of the Government being prevented In ail the provinces, except Prince EdWa
from exceeding a limited number will preserve Island, there are gentlemen who hold comrlin
the independence of the Upper House, and sions for the Upper House for life. In Cana's
make it, in reality, a separate and distinct there are a number who hold under tihat c o'
Chamber having a legitimate and controlling mission ; but the majority of them holdbY a
influence in the legislation of the country. commission, not perhaps from a monarcisl,
The objection has been taken that in conse- point of view so honorable, because the Qlee
quence of the Crown being deprived of the is the fountain of honor-but still, as hoIdia¶
right of unlimitted appointment there was a their appointment froin the people, theythose
chance of a deadlock arising between the two be considered as standing on a par vith those
branches of the Legislature; a chance that who have Her Majesty's commission.
HoN. MEMBERS-Hear, hear !

the Upper House being altogether independend of the Sovereign, of the Lower House, and
of the advisers of the Crown, may act independently, and so independently as to produce
a deadlock. I do not antici ate any such resuit! In the first place we know thatin England it does not arise. There would be no use
of an Upper House, if it did not exercise,
when it thought proper, the right of opposing
or amendin« or postponing the legislation of
the Lower Ûouse. Lt wouid be of no value
whatever were it a mere chamber for registering the decrees of the Lower House. It must
be an independent House, having a free action
of its own, for it is only valuable as being a
regulating body, calmly considering the legislation initiated by the popular branch and
preventin any hasty or ill-considered legislalation which may eome from that body, but
it will never set itself in opposition against
the deliberate and understood wishes of the
people. Even the House of Lords which, as

Now I will refer to what was said bY
hon. gentleman who has gone from amo
us, who was the able leader of the
party and who, even now, althor
he is dead, should be considered as sPeak'
ing from his grave with the authoritY o
one who, I believe, whatever nay hav
been the difference of opinion that nay
have existed between him and the majority of this House, was a man who had a'
heart the well being of this coufntrY, Who
was desirous in every possible way tO Pro'
mote its interests and its develoPJe1t,
and whose record in that respect is ent
rely unassailable. Here is what that hotl
gentleman (the hon. George Bro'g)
said

bers of
"But it has been said that the mem bnted
than one appointed for life can be, whenever the Upper House ouglit not to be aPo'elecit ascertains what is the calm, deliberate wili by the
own, but should continue to ie

an hereditary body, is far more independent

of the people of England, it yields, and never ted by the people at large. On that questioa
have
in modern times has there been, in fact or act, my views have often been expressed.
HON.

MR. PLUMB.

Legis'Jation [MARCH 26, 1885] in the Senate.

435

alwavs been opposed to a second elective here, and a reformi majority above-or a
chaniber, and 1 arn so stil], from the convic- conservative majority above and a reformi
tiOn that two elective houses are irconsistent majority here-all elected under party obligawith the right working of the British parlia- tior, what is to prevent a dead-lock between
1 voted, almost alone, the Chambers ? It may be called unconstitu'nentary system.
against the change when the council was tional-but what is to prevent the Councillors
mnade elective, but I have lived to see a vast (especially if they feel that in the dispute of
tnajoritv of those who did the deed, wish it the hour they have the country at their back)
had not been done. It is quite true, and I an trom practicailly exercising all the powers that
glad to acknowledge it, that many evils antici- belong to us? They might amend our money
Pated from the change when the measure was bills, they night throv out all our bils if
(Hear, they liked, and bring to a stop the whole
adopted, have not been realized.
nachinerv of Governiment. And what could
hear 1) I readily admit that men of the hig.
est character and position have been brought we do to prevent them ? But, even supposine
ifitO the council by the elective system, but this were not the case, and that the electeâ
t -s equally true that the systen of appoint- Upper House continued to be guided by that
flent brought into it men of the highest char- discretion which bas heretofore actuated its
Whether appointed by proceedings-still, I think, we must aIl feel
aeter and position.
the Crown or elected by the people, since the that the election of members for such enoriltroduction of parliamentary goverrnment, the mous districts as forn the constituencies of
1t who have composed the Upper House of the Upper House has become a great
this Legislature have been men who would practical inconvenience. I say this from
have done hronor to any legislature in the personal experience, having long taken
World. But what we most feared was that an active interest in the electoral conthe legislative co(uncllors would be elected tests in Upper Canada. We have found
'.der party responsibilities ; that a partizan greaterdifflculty in inducing candidates to
'111lit would soon show itself in the Chamiber ; offer for seats 'in the Upper House, than in
and that the right would soon be asserted to getting ten times the number for the Lower
%n equal control with this fouse over money House. The constituencies are so vast that
it is difficult to find gentlemen who have the
ills.
That fear bas not been realized to any 1will to incur the labor of such a contest, who
dangerous extent. But is it not possible that are sufficientlv known and popular enough
Fchi a claimn night ere long be asserted ? Do throughout districts so wide, and who have
fnot hear, even now, mutterings of a com- money enough (Hear 1) to pay the enormous
9g
demand for it. Nor can we forget that bills, not incurred in any corrupt way-do,
'he elected menbers carne into that Chamber not fancy that I mean that fora moment-but
gradually ; that the large number of old ap the bills that are sent in after the contest is
POlfted memibers exercised much influence over, and which the candidates are compelled
14 'faintaining the old forns of the House, to pay if they ever hoped to present themthe old stvle of debate, and the old barriers selves for re-election. (Hear, hear !) But
gatlflt encroachments on the privileges of hon. gentlemen say, 'This is all very well,
the Commluons.''
but you are taking an important power out of
election of a the hands of the people, which thev now
rhat is a necessity of theelecti
hat
is necessiy
fthe
ofapossess.'
ct
Now this is a mistake. 'We do
this by [the people-a direct not propose to do anythino of the sort. What
• like
election. Why should they be restricted we propose is. That the IJpper House shall

iri their control over the purse-strings when
they represent the people directly, and
rep
resent perhaps a larger interest, man
for rnan than any meinher of the Lower
Uouse ? It is an inevitable consequence,
aid in that way the distinctive functions
of the two bodies would be entirely des-

be appointed from the best men of the country by those holding the confidence of the
representativesof the people in this Chamber.
It is proposed that the Government of the
day, which only lives by the approval of this
Chamber, shall make the appointments, and
be responsible to the people for the selections
they shall make. (Hear, hearl) Not a single

appointient could be made with regard to
toYed
wbich the Government would not be open to
cil ut the appointed inembers of the Coun- censure, and which the representatives of the
eare gradually passing away, and when the people, in this House would not have an
veetive element becomes supreme, who will opportunity of condenning. For myself, I

et ait'%that affirm over the Council would not
uture to power that
money bills which this
0e claims as of right belon ing to itself?
theld they notjustly say that tlîey represent
co People as well as we do, and that the
rol Of the purse strings ought, therefore,

have maintained the appointed principle, as
in opposition

to the elective, ever since I

came into public life, and have never hesitated, when before the people, to state my
opinions in the broadest manner; and yet not
in a single instance have I ever found a con(Hear, stituency in Upper Canada ora public meeting

O1g to them as much as to us.
h'o' ) It is said thev have not the power. declaring its d isapproval of appointment by
it
hat is to prevent them from enforcing the Crown and its desire for election by the
Suppose we had a conservative majority people at large. When the change was made

A36

.Legislation [SENATE] in the Senate.

in 1855 there was not a single petition from,
the people aeking for it-it was in a manner
forced on the Legislature. The real reason for
the change was, that before the responsible
government was introduced into this country,:
while the old oligarchie system existed, the
Upper flouse continuously and systematically
was at war with the popular branch, and
threw out every measure of a liberal tendency.
The result was, that in the famous ninety-two,

resolutions the introduction of the elective
principle into the Upper House was declared
to be indispensible. 8o long as Mr. Robert
Baldwin remained in publie life, the thing
could not be done; but when he left the deed
was consummated.»
"It was said: 'Suppose you appoint theni
for nine years, what will be the effect? Foi
the last three or four years of their terni they
would be anticipating its expiry, and anxiously looking to the administration of the
day for re-appointment; and the consequence
would be that a third of the members would
be under the influence of the executive.' The
desire was to render the Upper House a thorougbly independent body-one that would be
in the best position to canvass dispassionately
the measures of this flouse and stand up for
the public interest, in opposition to hasty or
partizan legielation."
"I readily admit if ever there was a body to
whom we could -safely entrust the power
which by this measure we propose to confer
on the members of the Upper Chamber, it is
the body of gentlemen who at this moment
compose the Legislative Council of Canada.
Those are the opinions in regard to the

constitution of this House which were expressed by the leaders of both parties, and
which were approved and supported by
the great majority of representatives of the
different provinces. It was provided that
Quebec and Ontario should be represented
here by 24 members each, and that Maritime group should be represented by 24
members. Preference was given in the
nomination to seats to those who had
seniority in the respective Upper Houses of
their own province. The Speaker was to
be appointed by the Government. It was
not proposed that there should be any
departure from the rule which gave legislative powers to two separate bodies.
Now under those circumstances the Senate
was created in 1867, and is now fulfilling
the functions which were then assigned to
It may be interesting to see
it.
what has been the result of the
application of that principle upon the
body which I now have the honor of
addressing. There are in this House at
this moment 75 members. There are
three vacancies, two of which are so fresh
HON. MR. PLUMB.

in all our minds that it is mournful to refer
to them. One of the gentlemen was in the

House which closed last year, and another
sat in the seat which I now occuPy,
until last week, dying literally in harnee
There is also a vacancy in Quebec, leaving,

as I have said, the number now sitting here

75. We are told that we are an effete bodY;
that we have survived the period when et
take an active interest in public affairs; that
we have come here to perform perfunctory
duties which have grown to be of no consequence to the public; that we sit here
in a sort of soporiflc indifference to what
is going on around us ; that we have as a
rule only the desire to meet and adjoulr
and to draw that magnificent stipend that
the generous government allows us for our

services.

Well, the average age of the

members of the Senate is 62. That does
not quite reach the flxed period which
Mr. Antony Trolloppe assigned as that at

which the residents of his Utopia shOUîd
be gently suppressed by suffocation and
then disposed of by cremation. I think 66
was the fixed period at which they agreed
to sacrifice themselves and each other, but
when some of the leaders of the movement
approached it, difficulties arose respecthlg
baptismal registration, and one of thel'n
peremptorily declined to submit, much tO
the disgust of a very disinterested lover of
his daughter, and thus the arrangement
which promised immeasureable beleft
when the fixed period was far distant iO
the future, was broken up, perhaps somn

who hear me may remember the stor'
There are thirty-five gentlemen i ti

House under sixty and I do not think inY
hon. friend who has last been introduceô
(Hon. Mr. Poirier) would care to be Sus
pected even of being one of the gran
I am sure if my hon. friet
fathers.
opposite (Hon. Mr. Pelletier) is one, ithu
unknown to me. My young and enthfUo

siastic friend the senior member for
Halifax (Hon. Mr. Power) certainlY has
not arrived at that dignity yet, and there
are many men around us who are in the
prime and vigor of life, and althoug
some of us are passing off the stage

think the younger men in this bodY "'
compare favorably with those of anly re
presentative body that I have beei
acquainted with. Then we have With
us-and

I

mention

it with

pride

five gentlemen who are octogenarians, and

Legislation [MARCH 26, 1885] in the Senate.

who,

437

standing in their vocations as any men
that can be found in any representative
body, or in the commercial community.
It is not invidious to refer to one who has
his fleets upon every sea, whose business
sagacity has won him great and deserved
wealth, who is one of the largest shipowners and first commercial men of this
Dominion. I need not refer to others
who have had vast experience in public
affairs, and who bring that experience to
bear upon the legislative business of the
country. There are io farmers. It has
been stated the farming interest is not
represented in the Senate, and the
appointment of a very worthy farmer
in Ontario was urged on that ground.
My hon. friend who I regret is not in his
place to-day (Mr. Reesor) is a farmer of
great distinction in the north part of the
county of York, where he has been a successful cattle breeder. My hon. friend
aln right.
from Compton (Mr. Cochrane) commanded the highest prices in the English
and American markets for his splendid
11ON. MR. FERRIER-Yes.
short-horns, and is now a pioneer ranch11ON. MR. PLUMB-Well, now they man in the North-West. Other men here
are Counted by thousands. The hon. have distinguished themselves as foremost
entleman carries the weight of four score in advancing the agriculture of their counand five, the Nestor of this House, and I try. My venerated friend from Sackville
venture to say at this moment he is in as (Mr. Botsford) is a farmer, and my hon.
clear possession of his faculties, and as friend from Parkdale, Prince Edward (Mr.
able to discharge his duties as any mem- Montgomery) is also a farmer. My hon.
ber in it. I congratulate him upon again friend the leader of the Opposition also
ýPPearing among us after a dangerous cultivates a farm, although I have not
nIlless. Every one when he came here to classed him in the agricultural list. There
take his seat felt his heart warm towards are six bankers, eminent in their professhin, and I was rejoiced to see the con.- ions all of them ; there are six mill own8tlations showered upon him, and I ers and manufacturers. I think we have
.oW it must have touched his feelings as one civil engineer among us, and he is
It touched ours when he came back to u certainly civil and courteous in a wider
ahnost from " the valley of the shadow o f sense. There are several retired offideath.,, I have taken a little pains to cials, one has administered the laws
analyze the constituents of this assemblage with dignity, ability and honor on the
s I.find them in the Parliamentary Com bench of Ontario for a great many years.
.ion, and as far as I could supply lac c He has lately come among us and we are
finfformation there by other inquiry. Ther happy to welcome him as one of our colare among us-I do not know whethe r leagues and I have no doubt that his useorunately orunfortunately-I4gentlemel n fulness will be felt as indeed it has already
the legal profession, among them meîi been felt here. Others have served with
o have won high distinction. Therie distinction as judges in the Maritime
9 gentlemen of the medical profession , Provinces One has also lately come
aong whorn are leading statesmen . among us who has held the highest
shere are 23 merchants and business mer I, office that can be held in the Dominion
POwners, commercial men, successfuil next to that of His Excellency the Goven, many of them still engaged in activ e ernor General, the Lieut. Governor of
Pursuits-men I venture to say of as hig h one of the provinces, who comes to aid us

for their attention to business,
the aptitude which they bring to
bear upon public affairs, the sedu"ous manner in which they discharge
their duties, the blamelessness of their
hves, confer an honor upon this body and
are worthy to hold their seats by every
qualification, by intelligence, ability, exPerience, independence and sound judgI1ent. Every one of us who sit with them
I know will join me in the prayer that
that Providence which has permitted them
so long to enjoy the honors of public life
4ay allow them, the most honored and
revered members of this assemblage,
1.11 to remain among us. My hon.
friend who sits at the upper end of the
front row (Mr. Ferrier) and who well
deserves his position there, has been so
long in public life that the second
lOoomotive put upon a railway in this
COUntry was named after him ; I believe I

A38

Legislation [SENATE] in the Senate.

with his large experience both as a Minister of the Crown and a high public functionary, a gentleman who, prior to his appointment as Lieut.-Governor, had been repeatedly elected by the people in his district
to a seat in the Lower House, and who
althougi he first took his seat in
Parliament in 186o, is still in the
prime and vigour of life and usefuless. There are three or four who are
not classed, but who I think stand equally
well and are equally entitled to public
confidence as those whose names I have
mentioned. Fifteen of our number are
presidents or vice-presidents of banks or
other chartered companies; ten more are
directors of such companies. Four are consuls or consular agents. Eight are lieutenant-colonels. Sixteen gentlemen-more
than one-fifth of the whole of this bodyhave been Ministers of the Crown, either
in the Dominion or in their respective
provinces. Fifty-three have either been
elected by the people to one or other
branch of the Provincial or Dominion
Parliament, or appointed to the Upper
Houses of their provinces before they
came here. All of these fifty-three had
received evidence of the public confidence in their ability and integrity, and I
fail to see that they are not still entitled
to that public confidence. It has been
said that some of us have been sent here
who have been unsuccessful candidates.
Well, my reply to that is, that if we had
been successful candidates we should not
have been here. I was accused of
having been pitch-forked into the House.
I do not understand exactly the meaning
of the term, but certainly I may say that
those who know me and who know anything of my previous political career will
certainly do me the justice to say that I
was not an earnest petitioner for
a seat in the Senate of Canada,
however great an honor I might
have considered it. My relations to the
House of Commons had been most agreeable ; there I made my entry into public
life; I had made many friends there, I hope
I have retained their friendship. I was not
acquainted with this body, and I confess
frankly that until I became acquainted
with it, until I had sat in this House for
two Sessions, I did not appreciate its
claims to public confidence, and I did
not appreciate its true position, and it is
HoN. MR.

PLUMB.

because I do now appreciate both, and
because I feel that I may have done it
injustice in my first estimate, although
I was duly sensible of the honor Of
joining it, that I venture perhaps the more
freely to say what I am saying noe•
I came here with reluctance because
I lost a position such as it was, that I had
won with hard work and against many disadvantages, in the House of Comimifons,
and I felt, as a friend said I appearedalmOst
as if I was going to my political funeral
when I came here. I trust it is not quite
so bad, and if I am- to be buried here
I hope I have made friends who Will
regret me and drop a tear to my memfory
and acknowledge that Iwas not quite as bad
as I have been represented to be by "our
own correspondent." Twenty-two of those
who are still among us were called by
royal proclamation at the original consti'
tution of the Senate. It is only eighteen
years ago. It is certainly an indication Of
of the flight of time, and the certainty Of
that which is the most certain 0
all
things pertaining to humanitY,
when we find that out of all the 72 menlbers who assenbled here in the first instance-the foremost men in the country,
men who were happy to find their desires
for the union of the provinces accoml'
plished coming here to enter upon a neW
era, to inaugurate a new history, to aid in
cementing and consolidating the statelY
structure of the Dominion, meeting in this
chamber, exchanging greetings and congratulations here, with high hopes and
loyal aspirations, most of them probablY
with promise of long life-but twentY-two
remain. Long may they be spared, and
I am sure every one of their collea
gues will join me in the hope that nianY
many years may pass before the original
constituents forming the Senate will be eltinguished from among us. I have atteilPt
ed, but not with quite as great accuracy as1
intended, for my analysis has been hurried,
to compare the House of Commons, as re
gards professions and average ages, Wi
the Senate. I find that we have 14 lawyers
among our 75 members, they have 56 Out
of 211, more than a quarter of all their nulUber. It is doubtless because of the great
esteem in which that profession is held
T
that they have been selected in such num
bers to fill seats in the House of Comions,
but it seems to me, with the utmost defe-

Legislation [MARCH 26, 1885] in the &nate.
rence to my friends of that profession,
that it is rather too many of one sort in a
Representative House. There are
38
lnerchants ; 27 farmers; 9 manufacturers,
7 cOntractors, and 18 doctors ; the medicl Profession is also strong there as with us.
Che average age of 198 members of the
.Ommons-all that are given in the Parrmentary Companion-is 48y2, years.
urs as I have stated, is 62.
The
difference is far less than has been supPosed. I think I have been able to show
that an appointed House may contain
biements of usefulness that would hardly
e expected to be found in an elected
bodY. I undertake to say that under the
system, hoiever imperfect it may be, men
are gathered together here who will comPare favourably with those of any elective
C1amber that can be found. It seems
almIost certain that under the elective
ssten which has been proposed, whether
by the legislature *or by the people, it
Ould be imposible to bring together an
asserblage .of men, so varied in attainents, so largely experienced, so compenet to fulfil the duties that are assigned

tO them, as may be found in this body. I

flot use words of flattery ; I speak from
0
4 fest conviction. I believe those who
have listened to what I have stated already
'rfill clearly agree with me that such is the
ase. Now, it is proposed-and I am not
'Sure but that it is to be made part of a
itical platform in the near future if
the may judge from what we hear and read
tat this body should be annihilated or
revOiutionized in some way; at all events
h it should be radically changed.
lhere are four or five propositions that
Ve been made from time to time. One
s, to rake it an elective body. I think I
aalready stated where the difficulties lie
this respect. The constituencies
hormlous that it is next to impossible are so
to face
ber. The members of the Upper Cham, If elective, would simply be rivals of
. of the Lower, perhaps with a longer
i of power, and certainly with more
itportance as representing larger coni uencies ; a dead-lock would be almost
tvi"table if they were both influenced by
sam e impulses and sentiments. It
Seen admitted that a second chamber
the . be quite dissimilar in genius from
.lte iMediate representatives of the peo•le. Another suggestion is that it should

439

be nominative, like the United States
Senate, by the several Provincial Legislatures. Each State sends but two senators,
and one often sees the agitation and
alleged corruption which resuits, what
then would be the effect of the patronage
of 24 seats ? Could it be other than partizan ? Mr. Mills has said that this Chamber, owing to the method of its appointments, does not possess two necessary
requisites for good government : first,
familiarity with the objects of government;
and second, knowledge of the means
to be employed. I say that it has both
in a high degree, certainly as high as the
elective House, and those who know both
Houses will agree with me. A third proposition might have been imagined a joke
had it not been for the source from which
it emanated. It was, that inasmuch as the.
senators had certain vested rights which,
in the lifetime of those who held commission, should not be interfered with,
they might be provided with a separate
kind of apartment in the House of Commons, and might be permitted to sit
there, to take part in debates, but not to
vote. That was a proposition of one of
the principal papers of this country, made
in all gravity in a leading editorial article.
I could hardly believe my eyes when I
saw it. I suppose it was a dim idea that
the Senate might abdicate itself and consent to perform the kind of function that ist
performed by the representatives of the 4
territories in the United States. Each
territory is permitted to send a delegate
to the House of Representatives in Congress ; he cannot vote ; he merely sits
and looks on, and to all intents and purposes he might as well stay in the district
from which he came. Another proposition
is to abolish the Senate altogether, and to
have a single chamber like that of Ontario.
I think that is the growing desire of a
certain radical portion of the community.
But their attacks are not made by argument ; they are not based upon constitutional groundsormethods. You donothear
anything like a fair statement of the case.
The weapons principally used are ribald
abuse and utter and shameless perversion
of facts. It is true that upon two occasions
the questions involved in a change were
presented and urged in a parliamentary
manner, and, except for a slight departure,
which was in very bad taste, I may say

A4A0

Legilation [SEN ATE] in the Senate.

that the case against us was very ably and'ing to belittie an assembly which exist
very skillfully presented by the Hon. Mr. by virtue of the constitution embodie
Mills, who in 1874 and again in 1875, in the British North America Act, which
brought forward a resolution that the fuils, so far as I can judge, with digfitY
Senate was not constituted in conformity and propriety the functions which have
or harmony with the other branches of the been assigned to it I do not think that
constitution under which this Union was the slurs which have been cast upon it
formed. He made, as he always does have been merited and I think that everl
make, a thoughtful and able speech. He man in this House must feel that he hilI?
did descend, as I have said, to a littie self has been personally wounded by the
ribaldry about the patriarchs : that was a course which has been pursued. Whyt
mistake. I am almost sorry that he per- gentlemen, last summer there was a gr.
mitted himself to indulge in it, because so-called Liberal meeting at HarristOfl In
his general argument from his particular the riding of North Wellington, in which
standpoint was able and suitable, and I met with my misfortune in J882. Mr.
did not wholly deserve the contempt- Blake was present and was pleased to
uous criticism which it received from facetious in remarking that I had been
his party chief. He believed that the sent to this body of "antiquated old fogies
Senate ought to be made elective, either or words of similar effect to console le
by the provinces or by the people; for my defeat, and he was followed.by
and he quoted the American Senate in one of his chief supporters, who trie
support of his contention. It is his habit to show how many minutes we sat last
always to refer to the American system, to session, how after we sat so 1naflY
which I think he is very much wedded. minutes one day and s0 many minutes
He was followed by a gentleman on his another we were so fatigued with 0ur
side whose memory we all respect, and labors that we took a vacation of ten daY5
who was one of the ablest of the young men to recuperate. He converted the nurnber
of Ontario, the late Chief Justice Moss. of hours we were in session into days Of
He agreed with Mr. Mills in thinking that 24 hours each, and I thought that W3$
the Senate was not properly constituted, longer than the most ardent men of his
did not by any means agree with him in party would be willing to sit in the sessiOn
the idea that it should be made elective, in the Lower House and listen to
or that it should be nominated by the mighty voice. Not long ago I happened
Provincial Legislatures, except with a to be in Lennox, where an election eas
provision for securing the rights of the going on; I looked in at a public e ting
minority by some such method as pre- which was held at Napanee by Mr. Allison,
vails in striking special committees in the Grit candidate. My friend of the
Neither of these gentle- Harriston meeting was there. He 5w
Parliament.
men proposed to efface the Senate. me and asked me to come to the platfoIIm
The changes they advocate are fair and I told him I could not very well do SO,
nngiemeting would be
legitimate subjects for discussion, and no y ra
objection can be made to discussing them.
There has been no attempt since, that I over; he urged me, and when 1 stild
remember, to agitate the question in the clined be said he intended to make the
Commons, but some of the leaders of the Senate the theme of his speech. 1 li5teÏed
opposite party have frequently taken long enough to hear him repeat the sale
occasion during the recess, at picnics, and speech which he had made at HarristOfl
other public gatherings, to spice their har- I remarked that it was an excellent speech
angues by ridiculing the Senate. I think and I boped he would continue tO nake
they have done it in a way derogatory to it. But the constitution of the Senate 9
them as public men. They have attempted not at issue, and it looked very much as if
by sneer and sarcasm to do what they he had nothing to say against the Govern,
could not certainly attain by argument, ment or he would not have made sncb a
and I do not think that the leading speech upon the occasion of the election
speakers of a great party have been of a member to the House of Corflls"
doing what was at all appropriate to I felt too that he might be condoled Wvt
their position and, influence in attempt- because the people did not take any inter
HON. MR. PLUMB.

Legi8lation [MARCH 26, 1885] in the &nate.

441

est in his contention and he did exactly for the dignity of the body to which they
What he did not intend to do ; that is to belong. The constitution of the United
say he strengthened the hands of the gen- States which has been constantly quoted
tienan running on the opposite ticket and in regard to the Senate as a model to us,
his candidate was defeated ; whether it was the method of appointing senators in the
on, account of his attack on the Senate or Uuited States and the rules of that body
not I do not undertake to say ; but such are entirely different from ours.
Our
'ras the case. He took nothing by his mo- Senate, like that of the United States, was
tion. Through our own indulgence largely constituted for the purpose of giving
1 have no doubt, a portion of the press equality in the Upper House to the
has led the public to suppose, that we are various members of the Confederaderelict in our duty ; that we wish to sit in tion, giving to the Maritime Provinces
secrecy ; that we do not want reports representation in this House to make up
of our proceedings, that we wish to exclude for the nequality of numbers in the other
reporters ; that we are not competent to House.
The United States Senate
Judge of our own affairs ; that we are prin- is represented by two nominees from
ciPally engaged in divorce cases, which each state. Delaware, which has only
under the Constitution are relegated to three electoral votes, has two senators,
this House, a part of our imperative duty and an equal voice in the Senate
Which every man of well regulated mind with New York which has 35 electoral
Considers a most painful one-that we are votes. The senators were originally elected
so devoted to that employment that we for different periods. A portion went out
*ish to exclude the public in order to every four years and senators were elected
hale all the pleasure to ourselves of ques- to replace them, and in that way there
tiOning parties who come for divorce bills; never was an entire revolution or an
that we roll the answers like sweet morsels entire change, and the Senate was never
"Uder our tongues ; that our questions composed entirely of new members.
are of a character which we do not desire They attempted to adopt the rules of the
the public to hear. I may say that such British House of Lords; but being elected
scandalous insinuations are entirely un- by the people they made a radical differWorthy of those who are endeavoring ence. While the Senate could not
to effect a revolution in this body. inaugurate or initiate money bills, it can
We are required by the rules to ex- amend them, or add to them, or take from
Clilde the publie from divorce com- them, or reject them.
It has full
Ulittees. There are proper methods of power over money legislation except
attack and we are ready to hear any in the matter of its inception. It
atguments against us; the public wish to has also the power of impeachment.
ear arguments and not abuse ; they do In the case of impeachment of a PresiIot sympathize in the unfair criticisms dent the Chief Justice of the Supreme
90n us, and I venture to say that the Court presides in place of the Vice-presidisgraceful course of some portions of the dent, who is the president of the Senate
Press will react upon those who have ex-oficio. It was attempted, without sucPursued it. I think that this whole cess, to adopt the rules of the House of
d Y are bound by every rule of Lords, but that was found impossible.
4nor and justice to repel that kind of The Speaker exercises almost arbitrary
ttack either upon individuals or upon power. He is not the organ of the
Senate as a whole. Some of our most Senate; he does not enforce the orders of
eected and revered members have been the House as with us ; there has been
old Up to public scorn so far as it can be so large a discretion given to him that, if
oie by those who are unworthy to be he choose to exercise it, would result in
ained in this place, and I shall not at- abosolute and intolerable tyranny, but it
"'Pt to particularize or say who they are ; has not yet been found that any Speaker has
t 't is well known. And if there are made use of his authority in such a way
Yegentlemen in this House who have as to give rise to any serious trouble.
tiOned or encouraged attacks of that Three or four simple rules have been
kid, I nust say that they can have no adopted. Beyond them the rules of the
ProPer gentlemanly feeling and no regard British Parliament are used as precedents;

A4A2

Lgi8lation [SENATE] in Me Senate.

but the practice in giving unlimited power
to the Speaker seems to be not quite in
accordance with legislation in an entirely
ree country. There has been no aban.
donment in the United States of the bicameral system. It was part of the provincial system before the Revolution. It
has been adopted in each State legislature
as in that of the Federal Government, and
and I am not sure that the evolution of
free governments naturally leads to a
result of that kind. It is quite lately
that we have been told that there is a
new nationality springing up in Europe.
The Finns who have been a part of the
Russian Empire have been trying to set
up for theniselves, and they have done so
toa considerable extent. They number two
millions and a quarter of most provident,
economîcal,and intelligent andworthy people, who,like all the nations of thenorth are
hardy,industrious and thrifty, and true tothe
principles of freedom whenever they have
been permitted to show their aspirations.
Those people have gone beyond us, they
have gone beyond the United States, by
adopting a legislative system consisting of
our chambers ; representing separately
the Nobility, the Clergy, the Towns and
he Peasants, which are convokedevery four
or five years, but only for four months. Each
chamber discusses all affairs separately.
They can discuss only those laws which
are proposed by the Emperor of Russia,
o whom belongs the final veto. He bas,
noreover, the right of issuing decrees,
he limits of which are not well defined.
The chambers consist of 121 nobles, 35
deputies and clergy, 44 representatives in
towns, and 59 peasants elected in two
degrees. That is altogether a legislature
of 255 members. It is only very lately
hat we have had any account of its
workings, but it is rather noteworthy that
when people are left to themselves they
are not disposed readily to adopt the
system of a one-horse legislature, if one
may call it so without impropriety, but

they go rather to the other extreme.
It
was my intention in noving this resolution
to elicit if possible expressions of opinion
with regard to it from those with whom I
have the honor to be associated. I have
spoken at perhaps greater length than I
ought to have done, but I fancy that the
nformation which I am bringing out will
be of service. I claim no originality in
HON. MR. PLUMB.

the matter. I have only attempted to
condense that which is accessible to everY
member of the Senate if he chooses tO
look it up. I thought at this time that it
would be advantageous for some member
of this House to endeavor to show hoW
this body was composed, and what Was
the practical effect of the nominative
system.
I have stated what is its
personnel. The Conservative party
largely preponderates here, but when
by a revolution in public sentiment in
1874 a Liberal government was established with an overwhelming majority in
the other House, instead of being obstructive, instead of standing in factious

opposition to the Commons, it refused tO
concur in five Bills only during the five
years of Mr. Mackenzie's administratiOnOne was a Bill to change the representation of the County of Huron, taking a
township out of one riding and adding it.to
toanother. It was called the " Tuckersrnith '
Bill." There was no general redistributiOnl
of constituencies, and the Senate I think
very properly and very praiseworthily rejected the Bill. There was no petition for
it ; it was proposed by a gentleman who
held a seat in the other House, whose
election had been protested, and he introduced this Bill for the purpose of strengthening his position in the constituelcy
which he represented, in case he should
lose his seat upon petition and have agail
to seek election. The people in the
Township of Tuckersmith had alreadY
voted in one riding, and here was an attempt to transfer them bodily to another
for the purpose of securing his re-election
if unseated by the Court. Another Bil
rejected was one respecting the County
Court Judges of Nova Scotia. It was introduced again in the Lower House the
following session, and having been satisfactorily explained, was passed here whenl
brought up from the House;of ColmonS
the second time. The third was a Bill for
the construction of the Esquimalt and
Nanaimo Railway ; in that case the najority were strengthened by a vote of certa'n
leading senators who usually supprta
Mr. Mackenzie. The Bill was rejected
with their assistance. Another neasure
was one brought in for the purpose
changing the fiscal year. t was believe
by those who opposed the Bil that
it would be unfair to pass such

Legidlation [MARCB. 26, 1885] in the Senate.

mteasure in the midst of

443

a term of Parlia- way respected the authority under which

Ment, because by changing the period of it exists, the more it will be found to have

the fiscal year it would prevent a proper been in perfect accord with the principles
cOmTparison of tie expenditures of one upon which its constitution was based,
year with anothti; and therefore although the more it will be found to have taken
it Passed the other House it was properly a dignified, intelligent and proper course,
arrested in this body and rejected. the more it will be found to be able
Alother Bill would have effected the dis- to judge and to judge properly upon
franchisement of a portion of the electors all public questions, and I doubt if
"a Prince Edward Island, and I believe any legislative body could be created by
there is no gentleman representing that any other method that would fulfil these
Province that would not approve of the functions more properly, with more proCourse which the Senate took to prevent priety, and more for the public benefit.
that Bill from becoming law. I am not It is for that reason that I do not see
familiar with its details. These were the that there is any adequate cause for the
OîlY instances during the period of five agitation to change its character. Such an
Years, while the late administration held agitation is of little consequence to me ;
POwer, in which refractory and obstructive it is of small consequence to several
body, as it has been called, rejected Bills who sit in this House. Long before it
Pa.ssed by the Commons, and I do not could result in permanent change many
think that under all the circumstances it of us will have passed beyond the point
CI be said to have exceeded its power or where we will be sensible either to praise
to have done anything which was not in .or blame. Therefore, it is only with a
accordance with justice, with proper legis- feeling of sincere regard for the welfare of
lation, and with its constitutional right. the country, and not with any selflsh idea
his is the only evidence we have had of or for any party purposes, that I have
that this body would do if the gentlemen made these remarks to the Senate to-day.
tho are in opposition now should come in- I think we owe it as a duty to the couno poiver again. I believe that the former try and to ourselves, and to those who are
llader of the Opposition has stated that to come after us, to hold to the constituhe had been disappointed in the Senate- tional authority with which we are clothed,
that he had been in accord with Mr. and to endeavor so far as possible to
«rown in advocating a nominated Upper thwart the designs of those who in breakChanber, but that the working of the ing in upon the constitution of the
ýenate had notbeen satisfactory,andthathe country, or attempting to do so, would
jOined others on his side of politics in destroy largely the usefulness of a second
juIting a hostile attitude towards us. I Chamber. I say again that I do not
Ow there are many members of the believe there is any method by which a
0
PPOsition in the other House who do body of this kind could be constituted
tlot accord with the view of Mr. Mackenzie which would not be open to many objec"r Of the ultra members of the party, and tions; there is no method that would not
1 do not intend in any remarks which I do meet with cavil and criticism ; but so far
t0t mnean to say that it is made part of the as I can judge-and I am within the
of
t astformthe party, but I. say objection judgment of this House in making the
it has become so large a part of the statement-I do not believe that any
Political discussions of that party that it is system could be adopted which would
ore than probable that it will be an result more satisfactorily than this. It is
tbject Of attack at the next campaign, and perfectly certain that as long as a party
Is WeIll for us to know that we are to be remains in office and holds the power of
lut upon the defensive. I think, how- nomination it will be found-for Ministers
Ver- that the more fully the subject are only human-that gentlemen will be aptil discussed, the more fully it is ven- pointed to this Chamber who are in accord
ilated in a proper manner, the more this with the Government of the day. I wish it
n. House, as now constituted, will com- could be otherwise. There are now two
nd itself to the judgment of right- Ontario vacancies in the Senate. I would
hinkmg people; the more this hon. hold up my hands with joy to have those
o1use will be found to have in every vacancies, if it were possible under

AAA4

Legi8lation LSENATE] in the Senate.

political exigencies, filled by leading cation of it. Of course he was sent here
gentlemen who are not in accord with me )y the Government which he supported
in consideration of his long party services.
in political opinion.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the
HON. MR. DICKEY-Hear, hear!
Government now in power should be
actuated by the same grateful consideraHON. MR. PLUMB-I say it with all tion.
Therefore if the Senate is as 1
sncerity.
acknowledge it is, largely on one side, it
is so because for a long period the people
HON. MR. DICKEY-I say so too.
of Canada have given their sanction by
HoN. MR. PLUMB-If it were possible their votes to the Conservative cause and
to give it to a gentleman I have in my have kept the Conservative government
mind to-day, who is unable to cope with in power ; that is a necessary consequenrce
the stress of work in the House of Com- If the day comes when my hon. friends
mons, who was the leader of the party change places with us, I have no expectaafter the death of the Hon. Mr. Brown, tion that they will call the defeated candiand was superseded, as I think, without dates of the other side to assist in theit
good reason, I would welcome him here councils. I expect them to do as we have
most cordially. Everyone knows that no done, as they did when they had the
Ministry is so constituted that it could opportunity, and I can only say that whendepart from the traditions of party so the time comes if they fulfil their duties
far as to disappoint its own friends. I by bringing into this House such men a
only wish it were in my power to bring now sit here-such men as I have seen inabout such a result as I have suggested. troduced here within the last year or twO
I should be glad indeed if a number of rmen who would be an honor to any legis'
gentlemen, who are in opposition to us, lature in any country-I shall say that theY
could be added to those members of the have done wisely and that they have done
Senate who now sit upon the Opposition well.
benches.
I should be delighted to
HON. MR. SCOTT-The notice which
see them here and I believe that
is largely the feeling of the Con- the hon. gentleman who has just taken his
servative party to-day, but as it has seat put on the paper, calling the attention
happened, with the exception of five out of the Senate to the unequal distributi0l
of the eighteen years since Confederation, of the business which comes before Parlia
the people have chosen to keep my hon. ment, is an extremely important one; and
friends in power, and the people are re- I was in great hopes that, after giving te
presented by Senatorial nominations. the best possible evidence that the Senate
They have been made by a Govern- was not doing its share of the work Of
ment having the confidence of the legislation, he would suggest a reniedy7
people. Ail the Conservative Senatorial He gave us the figures of 1882, in which
nominations came through their hands. It he showed that out of some 80 BilîS
was really not so much our fault perhaps brought before Parliament only one,
that our leaders have yielded to party in- tenth were introduced in the Senate
fluence, which affects Ministers as well as He has given us the figures of what e
other men. The Christianprincipleof turn- know ourselves from practical experienccq
ing the other cheek does not always actuate using his own words, that the Senate 15
people, and I suppose when openings not appreciated by the people outsited
have occurred itself those otherwise quali- He has shown, at all events, that the
fied have been selected, who have had a Senate is not sought for by the people &
claim on the Government for party services a medium to bring about desirable change
and for faithfulness in the discharge of in the laws of the country and for procue
ing legislation. The hon. gentleman faile
those services.
to point out in any degree where the
remedy was to be had ; he immediately
HON. MR. POWER-Hear, hear !
broadened in his subject, and he went intO
HON. MR. PLUMB-I think my hon. a general encomium on the constitutionf
friend from Halifax is a striking exemplifi- this body, both as to its foundation and itS
HON. MR. PLUMB.

Legislation [MARCH 26, 1885] in the Senate,

f45

individual members. I do not propose to must be evident to anybody who takes an
follow my hon. friend through the long
and very interesting speech he has given
Us and the statistics he has laid before us
as to the constitution of this House. He
has shown from the character of its
Irerbers socially and intellectually, and
their business position, it is quite equal to
anY average elective body. The hon.
gentleman strange to say, has not discovered what struck me as a weak point in
his speech, that the Senate, as at present
constituted, is practically a failure. He'
started out with that idea, and then endeavored to prove that it was a capable
body which fulfilled its position in the
Constitution of the country, and was quite
equal to all the labor that could possibly
be thrown upon it. Now it must have
been obvious that the hon. gentleman gave
the constitution of the Senate more substantial stabs than many of the gentlemen
tO Whom he has made reference had inficted on it, because he, himself, pointed
out that for a long series of years the
Senate has not been doing any substantial
Work. He gave us evidence and figures,
evidence which we ourselves unfortunately
Possess, and he at once took up an entlrely new topic, having adverted briefly to
the Most important one with which he set
Out, that is, of considering how the businless of Parliament might be better
distributed. He chose to take the view
that the Senate, as a legislative body,
had been wisely constituted as it

interest in the future of this country that
it is utterly impossible for the Senate to
continue as it is. The Senate, whether
we like to recognize it or not, does not
occupy that high position in the public
mind to which,I grant you, the intelligence
and the social and intellectual position of
members justify us in believing it to be
entitled. There must be something radically wrong in the constitution of this
House when we fail to obtain that impor.
tant position in the eyes of the public
that is our due. The only conclusion
that I myself can come to is that its
constitution has to be altered, and at no
distant day, because I cannot, during
the time I have been in the Senate, see
that there is any very marked improvement, or that we are obtaining a larger
portion of the public business than we
formerly did. We are here, it is true,
quite ready to consider private bills when
they are brought to us. There are many
private bills that cannot be brought
before the committees of the other
House at an early period of the
session, and yet we are here waiting
day by day in the committee rooms
capable of considering those bills and discussing them with the gentlemen who are
interested in promoting them-as capable
of dealing with them as the committees of
the other House-yet they do not come.
As the hon. gentleman from Niagara has
pointed out in language that cannot be
and that any change would be misunderstood, there must be something
a great mistake. Now my hon. friend unaccountable in the remissness of the
«dn1 its that we are not of the people; that public to appreciate the Senate. He has
the People do not recognize us ; that here gone analytically into our constitution ;
are those beautiful galleries all around he has shown how many lawyers and
with space both before and behind, and doctors and distinguished merchants there
Yet scarcely a soul day by day comes in are in this body, and he has been, no
to See what we are doing. He makes doubt, able to point out in the category a
allusion to the press of the country which number of gentlemen who hold very high
Occasionally reflect upon the Senate, and positions in this country, men who possess
Point out that we are doing very little work. sound judgment, and who have been
Pesume, so far as the press is concerned, successful in their own affairs, and are the
that they cater to the public taste ; what best possible judges of the changes in the
tbe People like to read in the papers the legislation of the country required from
1lewspapers furnish. If the people do not year to year. He has proved all that contare to hear anything about the Senate, it clusively, and yet he admits that there is
WGuld be folly for the press to furnish a failure somewhere ; there can be but
rabulum which the people would not one alternative, and that is we must come
read. The solution of my hon. friend's nearer to the people or bring the people
Problein is to be found in our not being nearer to us. They must take a deeper
'fthe people or part of the people, and it and more individual interest in this House;

A1A6

Legislation [SEN ATE] in the Senate.

and how is this to be acquired ? By going
back to the original conception of the
constitution in a democratic country like
Canada. (No, no!) My hon. friends say
" No, no." Will they propose any other
solution ? The question has been forced
upon us by my hon. friend opposite, and
perhaps it is right that we should look it
in the face and considér it in ail its phases.
And why not consider this question, which
is a very large one? The hon. gentleman
is entitled to our thanks and to the thanks
of the public for having launched the
subject before the people at the present
time. I say there is this to be laid down
as a premises, which I think will warrant
me in saying that every gentleman who
listens to me can speak of this question as
if he were not of the Senate-that
is, he can take a high and broad
view of it ; he can look at it not
as affecting himself, because hon. gentlemen may accept this proposition as
true, that whatever changes are made in
the Senate in the future the gentlemen
who are here in the Senate will not during their lifetime be disturbed. In the
introduction of new blood into this House,
if it is thought wise in the interest of our
constitution that it should flow through a
new channel, the changes will not come
by twenty-four men being sent at once
from any one province, but will come
when the time is appointed for bringing
them about, as they ought to come, by a
slow and graduai process. The process
will be so slow that we ourselves will
scarcely notice it. It will come simply
in filling up the vacancies that nature herself creates from time to time ; so that
that is not an argument to be used, and it
is proper that we should take a broad
view of this question and look at the future
of this country. We should cast our personal preferences entirely aside, because
they must be and will be cast aside when
the time comes for statesmen to consider
this question. I have felt that sometime
or other it had to be met, that public
opinion had to be expressed upon this
question, because I say to-day that the
Senate does not represent the people of
Canada in anything like a fair proportion
to their political numbers outside. There
are to-day in the Senate, if the vacancies
were ail filled up, seventy-eight Senators.
0f those some sixteen or eighteen belong
HON. MR. SCOTT.

to the Liberal party. Will any gentleman tell me that that is their fair
share of the representation in this
Chamber ? Certainly not. There is
something wrong even in its constitutionMy hon. friend says what is very true, that
one political party has had a long terrn O
office, and in that way has from timie to
time filled up the Senate with its nomninees,
that under our system that follows as a
matter of course that vacancies should be
filled as they occur with political supporters
of the Government. Does not that show
that where a political party is long in Office
the tendency is to make this [House
entirely one-sided ? My hon. friend says
it is not a partizan Chamber ; and yet he
tells us that he attended a recent election
meeting at Napanee, and that he was at
another which took place in a western
county.
HON. MR.

PLUMB-No I did not say

that.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I thought the hongentleman said he had been invited to the
platform.
HON. MR. PLUMB-That was at
Napanee. I attended that meeting but I
did not attend the other.
HON. MR. SCOTT-The hon. gentie
man attended one meeting, at ail events,
as an adberent of his party-a very able
one when he addresses an audience ftoni
a public platform-and was invited t'
participate in the meeting; and yet the
bon, gentleman tells us that this io I
partizan House. 1 answer him witl the
proof he furnishes us fron bis own mouth
it must be so from the constitution of the
House. It is idle to discuss it. We canlOt
completely metamorphose our féelings
We come here either as ConservatiVes Or
Liberals, and we, none of us, cut adrift
from the political leanings with which We
enter this House ; and s0 the -,Ouse
becomes constituted in the isproportî'd
ate manner to whicb I have adverted, anD
which is fot a true representation f thje
politicai feeling of this country.
quite true that the Conservative party aVe
to-day a very large majority in the othe
Chamber; but yet when you corne tO
analyze the votes as they were polled at

Legislation [MARCH 26, 1885] in the &nate.
the very first session of the present ParliaMent, you find that the majority by which
that large Conservative representation in
the House of Commons was elected was
a comparatively small fragment of the
v10ters of this country. So it was when it
was said that the Liberal party had made
a clean sweep in the election of January,
1874. Precisely the same thing occurred.
The Conservative speakers produced
figures which showed that in a very large
Ilumber of constituencies the successful
candidates were elected by very small
Majorities, ranging from io to 1oo.

447

in quoting from Mr. Brown's speech, said
that the principal objections were twothe great area that necessarily had to be
represented by the 24 gentlemen frth
each of the three great divisions, and the
great cost which it would entail. It is to
be hoped that these are not insurmountable barriers to the consideration of a
constitutional question like this. They
should not prevent it in connection with
the necessity that my hon. friend has
proved to exist for this change ; but I
repeat when the change does corne the
Senate nay be assured that it will corne
in that gradual way that none of us will
HON. MR. PLUMB-But they were perceptibly feel it.
Carried.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL11ON.
MlIR. SCOTT-Yes, and the That is consoling.
Liberal party had a large majority in the
HON. MR. SCOTT-It is just as well to
lOuse of Commons ; but it did not justify
them in saying that a large majority of the let that be understood and let the subject
People were with them at that time, and be discussed on that basis. I say that no
Subsequent elections showed that it would one professing to make a constitutional
nlOt be correct reasoning. I mention this change would attempt to disturb by a
to show from the figures before us that revolution, so to speak, the constitution of
this House does not reflect the sentiments one of the important branches of ParliaOf the people. My own view of what the ment.
Constitution of this House should be is
that it must corne from the people by HON. MR. PLUMB-That is the way
somne means or other. The hon. gentle- it is urged though. We do not hear of
?1an has proved, himself, that at present it any other project.
Is a failure; that we are not doing the
Work that legitimately belongs to us ; that
HoN. MR. SCOTT-I have not heard
the people will not corne to us ; that they it urged in any such sense. I fail to catch
will not introduce their business in this the public sentiment approving of any
Chanber ; that they do not know us ; that such arbitrary and revolutionary doctrine.
We are far from them-that the business
of Parliament only comes to us during the
HON. MR. PLUMB-My hon. friend
last month of the Session, and then be- has been so long in the Senate that he has
Cause it has to corne here under the become conservative.
Constitution, until that constitution is
HON. MR. SCOTT-I do not think
Changed. The fact is nevertheless there
that if we look in that direction for the that there is any possibility of any party
necessary change that is to be brought carrying a proposition so extreme and so
about it can only be in one way, in absurd on the face of it.
that of rnaking it more popular and more
acceptable to the great mass of the
HON. MR. PLUMB-I do not think
People, and that can only be done by an there is.
election through some channel or another,
either the local legislatures or the people.
HON. MR. SCOTT-The gentlemen
7 own opinion is that it should corne who are here will remain here for the
fe Im a large franchise-it should cover, of natural term of their lives.
No change
Course, large areas. That was apparently
can affect them ; and therefore in consian Over-ruling objection in the mind of the dering this question they can look at it
late Mr. Brown when he spoke of the from a standpoint entirely irrespective of
elective principle. I think my hon. friend their seats, wbich are assured to them, and

448

Legisltion [SENATE] in the Senate.

therefore it places them in a very much
better position to discuss the question in a
broad and statesmanlike manner-to dis:uss it in view of the future of this country
and what is best for Canada. Now I did
not propose to discuss this, but my hon.
friend has forced the subject upon the
Senate.
HON.

MR. PLUMB-I an glad of it.

HoN. MR. SCOT T-But while the hon.
gentleman has put a notice on the paper
for a very practical proposition, and one
that I would have liked very much indeed
to have heard him discuss at even greater
length than he did, and to have heard
him point out where the evil can be met
and remedied--he has broadened into a
discussion on the constitution of the
Senate itself and sustained the view of
those who, at the Confederation, thought
that a nominated House would have
advantages over an elective House. The
whole tendency of this age is to election
by the people. I do not think there is on
this continent, or in South America, another nominative bouse besides this.
There are comparatively few in Europe
even now. The whole tendency, even in
monarchies, is in the direction of a
House more directly created by the people.
I do not know that 1 owe any apology to
the house for going into this question.
It was one that became inevitable from
my hon. friend's observations ; but I
should much have preferred had my hon.
friend formulated that motion with a clear
statement on the face of it of what he
proposed to discuss, in order that all of
us might approach the subject fully prepared to deal with it. The hon. gentleman
bas given us no suggestions as to how he
seeks to remedy the evil of which he
complains. He admits that the evil does
exist; that it has been a growing one, and
that he sees no way out of it ; at the same
time he tells us that the Senate, as at
present constituted, is in its very best
possible form.
HON. MR. POWER-Before the Minister answers, I wish to say a few words on
this subject. I regret that the hon. gentleman from Niagara, to whom we owe a
debt of gratitude for the very interesting
speech on the bi-cameral systen generally,

HoN. MR. SCOTT.

did not give us notice of the field he intended to travel over. I think it is taking
an unfair advantage of the House to limi't
his motion to a very narrow and practical
scope, and then to branch out into the
discussion of a very broad and important
constitutional question. I do not propose
to follow the hon. gentleman into that
constitutional question. but I wish to say a
few words on the practical question. The
hon. gentleman read us two very interesting
quotations from the speeches of the present
Premier, and of the late Hon. George
Brown in 1866. In a portion of the
speech quoted by my hon. friend, Sir
John Macdonald said that the Upper
House would naturally not be an originating body; and I think my hon. friend
should have taken his cue from that.
Where theie are two Houses, as we have
here, one elected directly by the peoPle'
and another nominated by the Crown or
by the representative of the Crown, the
latter will naot be an originating one. The
body which is elected by the peoPîe'
which has direct relations with the peoPle'
is the one to which the people will comae
with their measures as a rule; and Our
experience in that way is the same as the
experience of other countries. It is true
that in England they find this inconvenient,
and they have entered into an arrage*
ment as to private bills by which a certain
proportion shall be introduced in the
House of Lords ; but the general expeience of the House of Lords in Englandi
and the nominative Legislative Councils
in the Provinces of Canada and siflilar
bodies elsewhere bas been that the great
bulk of the business originates in the
Lower House. Now,I think that we should
accept the situation. We are not an
originating body ; then what are we ? .Y
contention is that a House such as ours i5
should be a revising body. And I submit
that, as a revising body, a nominated
house bas a good many advantages. The
functions of a House like this I take tobe
principally, first to revise the legislation
which co-nes up from the other Chamlber,
and which is not always very well considered. I do not mean to say that it is
not considered as well there as elsewhere,
but legislation from one chamber is not
very well considered. Another important
duty, and one which we do not always
fulfil, is to prevent too hasty legislation--

Legislation [MARCH 26, 1885] in te Senate.
to Prevent legislation which is made on
the Spur of the moment, to subserve party
ex1gencies or for some such purposes as
tht.. That would be a most important
fnction of this House; and I can see that
When Mr. Brown and Sir John Macdonald
'ere framing our constitution they looked
!Orward to this House performing a duty
111 wav, which, I regret to say, it has
that
ot as a general rule performed. We find
i John Macdonald speaking of the Upper
Chanber giving an opportunity to the
People to exercise a sober second thought.
'OW that is really one of the most importMt functions of a House like ours; and
't is a function which I think no hon.
gentleman will pretend to say this House
fulfilled since 1878. In certain
istances before that perhaps it did, but it
t not since 1878. That is just one of
ls
!he objections to a House constituted as
t8 Ours. It allows for the sober second
thought in the case where its
political
rMplexion differs from that of the Comr4onis but not in the other ; and looking
at
the scope of the measures that have
s8ed and the vast importance and the
ous results that have flowed and will
ftOW from certain measures passed since
1878 it would have been very well if this
FLOuse had acted in a less partizan manner
tgiven opportunity for that sober second
tought. I have not confined myself, as I
d I would do, to the practical question,
ut I Will give one reason why the Senate
18not thought as much of by the people
egt should be. It has come to be
te ded as a registering body ; whatever
tnajority of the House of ComOs. decide upon in any important
the ston, it is taken for granted that
to Senate will ratify. I should suggest
th e hon. member from Niagara, and
a6 Who think with him and who are
in tous that this House should stand well
Sh0 1 e opinion of the people, that they
i te d assert the independence of this
and
this House
e uties see thatthe Premier discharges
which
and other

wheternen said that it should discharge
feder they were about founding the Conration and if at the close of the
t Session, for instance, when a
of most important Government
inbr
'res
will come up here requiring a
deal of thought and deliberation,
hon. friend and the gentlemen who

D1

449

think with him will show independence
enough to prevent the passing of some of
those measures and say that they require
further time for considering them, that
they are not going to pass them in a hurry,
the Senate will establish a much stronger
hold on the good-will and confidence of
the people of this country than by any
means that the hon. gentleman has suggested. In the ordinary routine business
of legislation the Senate has not altogether
failed in its duty. The private bill
legislation, which is of a very important
character, I think is attended to by the
committees of this House with quite as
much care and judgment as is bestowed
on thern by the members of the other
House,and as a rule the amendments made
here are accepted by the House
of Commons and are improvements to the
measures to which they are made. Occasionally too, improvements are made in
public bills, but not as a general rule. I
regret to see that the Minister of Justice
has put a notice on the paper which
seems to indicate that he does not think
the functions of the Senate are quite as
important and our business as urgent as
my hon. friend from Niagara seems to
indicate. I do not think there is anything
calculated to convey to the public a worse
impression as to the utility of the Senate
than to find that in the middle of the
Session we propose to adjourn for i i days,
and the House ought to be thankful to my
hon. friend from Niagara for one reason,
that by the length of the elaborate speech
he has delivered he has rendered an
adjournment to-morrow almost out of the
question.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I regret to

say that I yet fail to see from what has
been said how more business can be originated in this body. Theoretically we have
the same rights as the other branch of
Parliament, except the initiation of money
blîls ; yet the legislation of Parliament is
strongly influenced by the feelings of the
popular branch. We have this difficulty
to contend with, I think, that in originating legislation in this body we would in
many cases have to revise the legislation
again which would come back to us not
approved of as fully as we might anticipate; and in that way I see that there
would be difficulties to contend with in

450

Regi(tration of [SEN ATE] .Medical Practitioners.

originating legislation here. My hon. higher qualifications than the mrnembers Of
friend from Halifax talks about a strong the Lower House, we wouid
party feeling in this House. He indicates that our views were equal to,
to-day that he would ask this House to not superior to, those of the other
block the legislation of this session-legis- body, and I do not see how colllation of which he knows nothing and can sions could be avoided. I can see the
know nothing yet. I hardly think there is a difticulty of initiating legislation in this
measure matured in the other House yet, Chamber. The leader of the GoVernon which we could form an opinion as to ment this year introduced in the Senate
its merits, and yet before any bill is passed the North-West Territories Transfer Bill,
he is ready to ask the majority in this- and I am sure the care we bestowed 0"
House to block the legislation simply for that measure will save a great deal of timle
the purpose of showing that they are in- to the other House when they comTe t
I have deal with it. It has gone down from1 the
dependent in their judgments.
sat some fifteen years here, and I can say Senate in a shape which will be a credit to
that I have never given a vote in this this body and which will enable the other
House that I did not believe at the time House readily to form their opinions UPOn
that I was right in giving, and which it. I hope that other Bills of like inPorttime has not justified me in giving. Of ance will be presented to this body. I amn
the five measures that were thrown out by sure we are always ready to give the ut
this body while the late Government were most care and attention to any legislatiofl
in power there is not one on which I which nay be introduced that we belie'e
would take a different course to-day. As to be in the interest of the country.
to one that was thrown out, our action
was endorsed by leading men of the party
HON. MR. DICKEV-There would b
from which it emanated. I think we did considerable inconvenience in going Or,
wisely and well in the public interest in with this debate in the present positiOf
the course we took on that occasion. As our paper, with the business beforeusand
regards the functions of this body, no the prospects which have been held u
government can corne to us and bring us that there would be an adjournient for
us a measure- which we believe not the Easter holidays, At ail events, if we
to be in the public interest and went on with it to-day there would be a
influence us to pass it. We are as cap- block of the business, and I therefore rise
able of judging as any similar number of for the purpose of moving that the debate
men of the fitness of measures in the be adjourned until the 9th April.
public interest and I do not believe that
The motion was agreed to.
this body, knowing them as I do, would
commit themselves to any legislation
REGISTRATION 0F MEDICAI
which they did not believe was in the interest of the Dominion. I believe we are
PRACTITIONERS.
as fit to deal with such measures as any
M011IN.
equal number of men that could be chosen
by any mode of election. It is quite true
if this body should after a while come to Yire8yfor MR. purpose of gthttedateJ
HON. the SULLIVAN moved an
be entirely elective, having the functions humble address to Her Majesty, in the
of the other body, there would be colhi- following words
sions between the two Chambers. If this
body had the same functions it would To the Queen's Mot Exceient in gin' o
probably flot give way, as we would if we
MS
RCOSSVIEG'
found the expression of opinion in the
een
other House was strongly sustained in the We, Your Majesty's ost dutiful and lOY8
th
country. If after a Bil is defeated here it subjects, the Senate of Canada, intoParhialot
rento
is introduced in the other House again assetbled, humbly beg leave
enti
e
and strongly supported, we generally give i e- a
sertion 3 of the I lperial
t
o b inth pulicintr-and 32 Victoria, chapter 29, known
way beievngit
e
est ; but if this body were elected by the Medical Âmnendment Act, 1868, it w&aS
people, representing larger areas and with as foltowRi
HON. MR.

KAULBACH.

Registration of [MAIRCH 26, 1885] Medical Practiioners A51
That under the provisions of the above
cited Imperial Medical Act, any person
registered by the Medical Board of Great
Britain and Ireland, may claim to be registered
as a niedical practitioner by the Council of
the College of Physicians and Surgeons of
Ontario, and to practice medicine, surgery
and midwifery in the said province, subject
only to the payment of a fee on proof of hie
registration under the provisions of, and in
the man ner prescribed by the ImperialStatutes,
notwithstanding the above recited provisions
of the Ontario Medical Act; thereby granting
in Canada to British graduates privileges
which the Province of Ontario denies to her
own graduates or to the graduates of any
other Province of the Dominion.
That it appears that the Government of
Canada has drawn attention to the matter
above referred to, and that the Secretary of
State for the colonies lias, on belialf of Her
Majesty's Government, promised to introduce
legislation into the Imperial Parliament to so
anend the said statutes as " to make the
right of registration subject to any local law."
That, nevertheless, the statutes referred to
have not been repealed, but remain in full
force and eflect, and advantage is constantly
taken of this provision, and sometimes by.
those who have been rejected by the Board of
Examiners referred to in the said Ontario Act.
That the provisions of the said Imperial
Act are a direct interference with the right of
self-government, through the medium of this
Parlianent and the Legislative Assemblies of
the Provinces, granted to the people of
Canada, oucht never to have been enacted,
and shoulde repealed at the earliest possble
moment.
We, therefDre, humbly pray Your Majesty
will be graciously pleased to invite such
legislation in the Parliament of the United
Kingdom as will cause the operation of the
said clauses of the said Acts of the Parliament
That by the said Ontario Medical Act it of the United Kingdom to cease in Canada.
as enacted that:He said :-In introducing this motion
I will not offend the intelligence and comdEvery person desirous of being registered
not becoie possessed o an one of the mon sense of this honorable House by
alifications in the said schedu e Bmentioned addressing to it any arguments to prove
hfore the twenty-third day of July, one the necessity to the country of an
educate d,
usand eight hundred and seventy, shall, well-trained medical profession. No one
hi delfbeing examination registration, present will hesitate to admit the necessity of havbe for entitled to
as to his knowledge
qalfe om tthdrd
ng men well qualified to meet the dread
t'ld gkiîî for the efficient practice of lus în m
Profession before the Board of Examiners, in'emergencies of sudden disease and injury
t twenty-eighth section mentioned, and in every hamlet and village throughout the
nrPo Pasming the examination requirýd and land. You will agree with me that the
ng to the satisfaction of the Board of medical profession, far more than any
.
iners that he lias complied with the
r'
rn es and regulations mr.ade by the Council other, is intinately mingled with and of
C on the paynent of such fees as the profound interest to the public. As the
ncil may by general by-law establish, suchi
"The
Pbrsonl shal be entitled to be registered, and Lance/ says : subject medical profession,
though the
of much pleasant
i t of such registration to practice banter
and satire, is the profession
Se,'
surgery and nidwifery in this
nee.-37 Victoria, chapter 30, section Of most profound interest to the public.
The lawyer and even the clergyman are
"Everv Colonial Legislature shall have
full poer from time to time to, make laws
'<for the purpose of enforcing the registration
*<Within its jurisdiction of persons who have
«been registered under 'The Medical Act,'
canything in the said Act to the contrary
hotwithstanding: provided, however, that
n
any person who has been duly registered
under ' The Medical Act,' shall be entitled
to be registered in any colony upon the
payment of the fee (if any) required for such
registration, and upon proof, in such manner,
as the said Colonial Legislature shall direct
of his registration under the said Act."
That by the same Imperial Act, section 21,
t was provided that the term Colony shall,
'ia this Act, include ail Her Majesty's
Possessions abroad in which there shall exist
a legislature as hereinafter defined except the
Channel Islands and the Ile of Man, and the
teril Colonial Legislature shall signify the
authority other than the Imperial Parliament
Or lier Majesty in Council competent to make
laws for any colony.
That by the Iniperial Act 41-42 Victoria,
cbapter 33, known as the " Dentists' Act,
1878," it was enacted that"a person registered
Under tlis Act shall be entitled to practice
dentistry in any part of Her Majesty's
)Orninion ; "
That by section 2 of an Act of the Legislature
Of Ontario, 37 Victoria, chapter 30, and known
a the Ontario Medical Act, the medical
Profession of Ontario were incorporated under
the name and style of the Collegeof Physicians
&nd Surgeons 'of. Ontario, with power and
8 thority to fix and determine a curriculum
Of studies to be pursued by aIl students and
to be taught by ail colleges within the said
Province, and to fix and determine the termns
UPoI which persons desirous of practising
Iedicine and surgery and inidwifery within
e said province would obtain registration ;

452

Registration of [SENATE] Medical Practitioners.

more dispensable. Nine of every ten of eclectics, but the result was not as anticithe community get through life without pated. It was shown to them that they
consulting the others even once, but he is were equally interested in having a prelivery fortunate, and the woman and child minary examination ; that men should be
much more so, who passes five years with- trained to study; also that certain branches
out trying to obtain the best medical such as anatomy, physiology, histolOgY
advice, largely influencing his future life chemistry, botany and others were as imand prospects. It is therefore the duty portant to their students as to any other.
of the State to see that documents and They yielded and accepted representation
diplomas are carefully scanned before in the council and on the board of
affixing the stamp of its authority to examiners. Thus, after very great labor,
license." As there are many hon. gentle- they succeeded in securing a measure
man acquainted with the history and con- which had the almost universal assent of
dition of medicine in Ontario, I may be the profession and containing provisions
permitted to offer a few explanatory of great utility and importance. By this
remarks. The history of medical legisla- Act, named the Ontario Medical Act, the
tion in Ontario is brief. Anterior to the whole practising profession, numbering at
Registration Act, three schools affiliated present over 1,9oo, formed one body called
to different universities prescribed and the College of Physicians and Surgeons Of
A council was elected tO
taught a course, on completion of which Ontario.
and examination, by presentation of the manage its affairs, to which the general
diploma, the Governor General granted a profession sent twelve, each of the Medi
license to practice in Ontario. In 1861 a cal schools one-the Universities one each,
body known as Eclectics were incorpor- and the Homeopaths and Eclectics five
ated and power given to them, although numbering in all twenty-seven. Thus one
they had no college or training school, to portal was secured with uniform time and
examine candidates and grant licenses. uniform examination. No matter hOw
In 1865 the Homeopaths, another body distinguished the diplomas and medallists,
holding peculiar views as to the treatment all went through the same ordeal. Thus
of disease, and also having no colleges Ontario led the English speaking world.
or training schools, were incorporated England copies it, and the United States
and given the power to license. Tnus would if they could. It united the whole
three or four members of these bodies profession, excited a rivalry in the schools
might meet in Toronto or any other town and evoked a spirit of generous emulationi
and examine and pass as many as they productive of the best results. All welt
pleased. There was no inspection, no well until a Dr. Mallory, taking advantage
supervision, and ambition and jealousy of the 31st section of the Imperial Act of
had full scope. There were five portals 1868, demanded registration without exand if candidates failed in obtaining amination. The council refused. A suit
entrance at one they could readily at the was brought and tried before Chief Justice
éther ; it would be hard indeed if the Hagarty, who ordered registration on the
ground that the Imperial Medical Act
candidate could not get in somewhere.
No wonder that the thoughtful, edu- gave the right of registration in all Ier
cated and experienced members of the Majesty's dominions, and to remedy this
profession influenced, we may believe, by is the object of the present address. As
patriotic as well as professional motives, an examiner, I know gentlemen to have
viewed with alarm such a condition of been rejected by the Medical Board ,f
affairs. In vain might they look for pro- Ontario who had obtained " double qualigress if such a state of affairs continued. fication", as it is called, in England - and
They applied themselves with energy and I am informed, on authority which does
perseverance and determined to effect a not admit of dispute, that men who ar
change. The schools whose professors rejected in Ontario go to England and
deplored such a condition of things threw secure qualification and are placed on the
their powerful influence on the side of Imperial register there, and then corne
back and force registration here. Now that
reform.
The greatest difficulty, it was thought, is a great injustice to the medical profession
would be found with the homeopaths and here; men who have won the highest aca

HON. MR. SULLIVAN

Registration of [MARCIH 26, 1885]

edical Practitioner8. 453

demic honors from our universities are
forced to pass this examination, while men
wh possess minimum qualifications in
0
england are admitted to practice here
Without examination. We know how the
Profession is divided up there into physiclans, surgeons, apothecaries, &c., and
anY of these can force registration in
Canada. I do not think it is necessary to
'Ise any other argument in support of this
address than the facts which I have mentioned. We do not want to go back; we
Want to advance and bring our system as
nlear perfection as possible. I am sure
that the legislation which we seek will be
a boon not only to the medical profession
btit to the public, and I hope ere long to
see Our Ontario system adopted by every
Province of the Dominion.

by the medical profession. I do not think
my hon. friend is aware of it, but I had
correspondence with a colleague of his in
the other House, Dr. Bergin, and I explained to him how the matter stood and
how the law stood in England and what
was necessary here, and I understood Dr.
Bergin to say that he was satisfied. To
pass the address as it is moved here, would
be an address to the Queen to ask for
Imperial legislation, and Imperial legislation is, for the reasons I have given, not
necessary, and therefore I think my hon.
friend had better postpone his motion, and
consider the question ; and if he will do
me the honor to advise with me upon it I
wlll endeavor to shape matters so as to
procure for him the legislation which he
desires either during the present session
or at the next session of Parliament ; but,
,o-IN. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-There as I understand it, this address is not
is no objection to the address, if the necessary.
address was really directed to the proper
quarter from which the relief is to be
HON. MR. SULLIVAN-I have made
Obtained. I do not know how my hon.
friend, who has made this motion, or his this motion because of the decision given
the
clleagues in the medical profession, have by Chief Justice Hagarty thatAct, Irmperial
Act overruled the Colonial
and that
COIne to the conclusion that imperial legis- by registering there a man could force
lation is needed. As I understand the registration here in spite of any laws we
Position of matters, nothing is necessary might enact. As I understand this
fron them at all. The English legislation address, it is merely to urge on the
COntains at this moment, with reference to Imperial Government the necessity of
the medical profession, a clause which
carrying out that provision that persons
Provides that all the legislation contained coming here with such certificates shall be
In the Imperial Act shall be subject to any subject to any local laws. I
believe it
local law, and the Imperial Government
would meet every difficulty, and if the
have intimated to the Government here House of Commons would unite with us
that they will insert in a Bill about dentistry
the same clause, so that all the legislation in the address it would make matters all
right. This address, as I take it, is simply
'nEngland, both with reference to medi- urging on the Imperial Government the
eine Proper and to dentistry, will be subject to local laws in the colonies. Then it necessity of such legislation.
i*i rest with the medical profession
Only
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
ere to introduce a Bill in Parliament to
Ythat people who go to England to pass not think that legislation in England is
n1examination and are put on the list and necessary. Is it needed here to interpose
ne out here shall be prevented from by local law difficulties in the way of
nerg
registered here without undergoing getting certificates in this country ?
examination. It will only be for the pro.a
f"."on here to agitate for legislation re-

nuiring a person who comes out from
"gland with such a certificate as bas
been described by my hon. friend to be
3ubject to local law, and that local law
tshOuldwithout undergoing an from pracng be one to prevent him
examination.
at would be the course to be pursued

HON. MR. SULLIVAN-That is already done. They are not allowed to
come up until they have shown that they
have passed four years in studying; but
persons coming out from the Old Country
in the way I have mentioned can force
registration without examination-that is
where the difficulty lies.

A45A

The Easter [SENATE]' Holidaye.

HON. MR. ALMON-The church of
which I am an unworthy nember look
upon Holy Week as a period which ought
to be observed by all Christians with great
sanctity, and I think we ought to be weaned
from all secular measures in order to get
our minds in a proper frame. I do nOt
think my mind would be got into a proper
frame without this adjournment. Perhaps
the senior member for Halifax does not
look on that period as I do, and does not
The motion was allowed to stand until require to be so long free from secular
matters. I trust in consideration of our
the 9 th April.
weakness that the majority of the Senate
will adjourn.
THE EASTER HOLIDAYS.

HON. MR. CAMPBELL-Then I apprehend it is because those laws have not
been passed since the Imperial legislation.
J3ut Iwould suggest to my hon. friend to
let the matter stand for a few days. I am
quite with him as to the necessity of taking a step somewhere, and will advise as
to where it should be taken, to accomplish
the object he has in view-one in which
I quite concur.

MOTION TO ADJOURN.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-This is a
motion that ought not to be carried without discussion. The hon. gentleman froim
Niagara has occupied so much of the tile
of the House debating everything but his
own motion that he cannot blame an
independent member of the House if
feeling the strongest possible objections
to an adjournment at this moment, le
desires to express his views. The leader
of the House thinks he is a very skillful
chess player and this is one of his moves,
but it is not one that should be encouraged
by this House. I throw on him the blame
if hon. gentlemen are obliged to come
back here to-night.
At 6 o'clock the Speaker left the Chair,

that when the House adjourns on Friday
the 27th inst., it stands adjourned until
Wednesday the 8th day of April next.
He said : The hon. gentleman from
Halifax seemed to think that the adjournment would be too long. It does not
matter to the Government how long or
how short the adjournment is, if we adjourn at all. We must have an adjournment at Easter, and it has been usual to
adjourn for a week or ten days. I sec
nothing in the public business to prevent
us adjourning for that time. I think we
should have to adjourn on Wednesday at
all events, and it seems to me there will
be no real delay in the public business by
After Recess.
our adjourning to-morrow until the 8th
April. However, it is for the House to
HON. MR. ALEXANDER--Before prosay whether they desire to adjourn or not. ceeding to discuss the adjournment I
desire to call the attention of the House
Ho,. MR. POWER-I am not gong to the views of Mr. Bourinot on questions
to discuss this matter. I think that in of adjournment. He is considered the
view of the speech of the hon. gentleman highest authority on Parliamentary pracfrom Niagara this afternoon the Senate tice, and I quote his views in order that
should be very careful as to what it does hon. gentlemen will not unnecessarily
to show the public it has no business to interrupt me when I am doing my duty :do. I think any adjournment now would
" The rule requiring that speeches shoud
leave an impression on the public mind be relevant to the question under considera
which is incorrect. The Senate has been tion Las never been applied in the Cansdian
in
sitting very steadily, every sitting day, up Houses-nor until recently the the Englis
adjournment
for
Parliament-to
to 6 o'clock, for I think a fortnight or three of the House ormotions debate. New rules
of the
weeks, and there are a great many rather have been recently ado pted in the Engli
important matters on the order papers of Commons to confine debates to the mot
the Senate now. Private Bills are being for adjourninent, when it is made during the
far the
of any
considered by the committees of the House discussion House hasmatter. But so dispos,
not shown any
Canadian
of Commons and are coming up every tinn to waive what may be a valuable privi
day, and I really think that the proposed le;.:e on certain occasions, when niuch lat'
adjournment is too long.
tude of debate is necessary."

The E<aster [MARCH 26. 1885] Holiday8.
ThE SPEAKER-I think the hon.
rnember is under a misapprehension.
'he authority quoted relates to motions
for adjournment. This is not a motion
for adjournment.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-This is a
"otion to adjourn the House. (No, no!)
It is a motion for the adjournment of the
Senate.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Not at all.

A55

nothing more. Before the House rose I
ventured to compliment the leader that he
was becoming a very dexterous chess
player, but he will find other members of
the House prepared for that game. It is
necessary, especially at this moment, that
the voice of the people be heard through
their representatives, and if I am prevented on the floor of Parliament from
expressing their opinions I shall take the
opportunity of addressing public meetings
in Montreal, Toronto and other cities. It
is a strange position that members should
not be allowed to express the views of the
people on the floor of Parliament. Ministers would never attempt that in the
House of Commons.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I can only
y that when I went to-day to Mr.
âourinot himself and explained the position, I explained the motion which is now
"tlder consideration and asked him the
Siuestion and he referred me to that page HoN. MR. PLUMB-The thing would
Of his work.
not last five minutes in the House of
Commons.
THjE SPEAKER-I have no doubt'
that Mr. Bourinot imagined that it was a
HON. MR.
ALEXANDER - The
rnotion for the adjournment of the House. House will observe that this motion does
This is not a motion to adjourn the not originate with the members of this
louse.
House, but it is the Government leader
himself calling upon this august body to
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I hope suspend their labors, for which they are
that the House will consider that this paid by the country, for the period of
-adjournment must prevent our proceeding twelve days. That is the proposition of
tO discuss public questions. There can- the present Minister of Justice and I
'lot be two opinions upon that.
should like to know how the country will
regard it. As the hon. member from
HON. MR. PLUMB-I rise to a ques- Halifax said to-day, it was ill-judged at the
"On of order. It will be observed that present moment, when the Senate had
the rule to which the hon. gentleman become so much a subject of public critirefers is where an adjournment of the cism, to propose such a long adjournment
'oliuse is moved to enable a member to during the last month of the Session. We
"Peak twice or for other purposes in the have already had two adjournments. The
"tOurse of the debate. It has never been leaders of the Government here think they
npPlied to the Senate, and I do not think can prevent discussion ; they think they
Mr. Bourinot so applies it, but it is an can prevent a humble member like my.
eltirely different question to a motion that self, pointing out, as I propose to do ton a certain day the House will adjourn. day, how the Government is bringing em'he motion on which an irrelevant debate barrassnents and financial obligations
tan be carried on is one to adjourn the upon the country which it will take years
House. Mr. Bourinot could not have to remove. I have a motion on the paper
tInderstood the nature of this question, for to-morrow and he is afraid of my adnd he must have supposed that it was an dressing the House on that subject, and
Ordinary motion to adjourn the House.
of my speech going to the country. The
hon. gentleman is becoming every day
ÎoN. MR. ALEXANDER-If a mem- more and more bold-if the rules of
ber of this House who, in the discharge of Parliament permit me, I should say auda
bis duty, desires to address the Senate is cious.
to be bluffed off in any manner, he of
rOurse can only sit down under the rulingi HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Oh
of the Chair. Upon that point I say 1do not mind.

456

The Easter [SENATE]

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-He thinks
he is omnipotent here, and that the
majority of this House are so attached to
Sir John Macdonald, who is acknowledged
to have rendered great services to the
country in the past, that they will follow
him to anything. That is the position the
hon. member takes. Will the members of
this House, so estimable a body of men
as they are known to be, go on, being
led in such a manner to stultify the
House before the country and to sink us
lower and lower in public estimation until
there will be a movement for the abolition
ot the Chamber? The hon. gentleman
has told us to-day that there is nothing
important at this moment to occupy our
attention. He thinks that the Senate of
the Dominion has no functions beyond
what I call small parish business, revising
railway and loan society bills and banking
bills. The hon. gentleman seems to think
that the whole province and functions of
the Senate of the Dominion, composed of
76 gentlemen of the highest education
and largest experience, are to be limited
to such matters. I think, that in doing
so, he forms a somewhat low estimate of
the intelligence of this branch of Parliament in supposing that we do not feel the
gravity of the present position. I trust that
the Senate will show its sense of the deep
responsibilities resting on it at this moment,
and simply agree to that period of adjournment which the House of Commons shall
at Easter determine upon. The hon.
gentleman evidently does not consider it
the duty of the Senate to inquire into the
present state of our public affairs and
prevent the country being brought into a
disastrous position.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-rise to a point of order. It seems to me
the hon. gentleman is discussing the
motion adjourned by the hon. member
from Amherst, and that he is now replying
to the hon. member from Niagara. The
debate on that subject is adjourned until
the 1oth April.

Hfolidays.

motion are in order ; others are not n
order, not being relevant.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentleman is in the habit of reading his speeches
in the House. Now there is nothing so
pernicious as to permit a practice of that
kind to go unchecked. It is well understood both in the English Parliament and
in the Parliament of Canada that any
member who rises in his place and reads
his speech can be called to order for doifng
so. I am willing to grant the hon. gentleman every indulgence. I am aware that
he cannot speak unless he has something
put into his hands, and therefore I only
rise to let him understand that he violates
the rules of the House. I do not want tO
stop him. I think it is best to let him go
on as long as he likes, but he habituallY
fulminates his eloquence in his own rooln
and brings his notes to. the Senate to
read them.
HON. MR. POWER-I rise to a poilt
of order. The hon. gentleman has no
right to discuss the question.
THE SPEAKER-I think the hol
member has been going a little too far.

HON.

MR. ALEXANDER-1

shall

scarcely take the trouble to reply to the
hon. member for Niagara, who has been
pitchforked into the House by Sir John
Macdonald after being rejected by the
people.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I must rise,
as I generally do, to oppose this motion.
I always oppose all adjournments of this
House, and I believe it is not in the inter'
ests of legislation that we should leave
here. There is a good deal to be done ;
we have been for the last week or ten
days sitting up to six o'clock, and I knOw
that bills are comng from the other H{ouse
which ought to receive immediate attention-several of them that I have been
asked to take charge of. I think it is not
in the interest of the House that we should
lose four days of next week and TuesdaY
and Wednesday of the following week.

THE SPEAKER-I should like to say
to the hon. member from Woodstock that
the motion before the House is now
whether when the House adjourns tomorrow it will stand adjourned until the
HON. MR. SMITH-We only lose three
8th instant. Arguments for or against that sitting days altogether.

The Easter [MARCIH 26, 1885] Roliday8.
1-ON. MR. KAULBACH-We should
be here with our minds prepared for
legislation. To run away from Parliament
i the middle of the session, when business
inust be pressed upon us, I consider is
tot in the interests of the country.

457

none of us would attempt to leave for a
single day if it would interfere with the
progress of the public business. But I
contend that the time will not be lost.
Members of this House can, when they
reach their homes, consult with their constituents, and ascertain the views of the
liON. MR. READ-We have been here public on many important subjects which
for two months, and I think this is the are coming before us, and I am quite sure
first evening sitting that we have had. that by this means the public interest will
Easter is approaching, and every one not suffer.
WOUld like to be home at that season for
a few days. We have performed ail the
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I am induties devolving upon us faithfully, and variably opposed to motions for adjournWe would not have been brought back ment, particularly at this period of the
here this evening but for the perverseness session. Some plea may possibly be
Of the hon. member from Woodstock. He urged for an adjournment in the earlier
has no home to go to-he is a cosmopoli- part of the session, when there is no work
tal. When he puts on his hat he covers prepared for us. It is a very poor plea at
his family. Now by the adjournment that best, but it is one perhaps with a degree of
's to take place we lose at the most four truth in it. As the hon. member frorn
sitting days, and it would be a great satis- Belleville has suggested, we have been
tion to gentlemen who have been away here for two months now, and if there is
two nonths from their homes, and who not constant business before us it is a
expect to remain here two months longer, strange reproach against those who have
to spend at least the Easter holidays at the management of public affairs. I cantheir homes, and it is only selfish people not believe that it is the case. The
Who would desire to prevent them. Some Speaker, himself, appealed to the House
ho come from distant parts of the Dom- before recess, to allow him to bring for1
1
liOn cannot go home, and it is ail very ward several bills which had come up
Well for those gentlemen to wish the rest from the House of Commons. During
of us to remain here. So long as we per- the proposed recess many bills will unforrn our duties I do not see that there doubtedly be brought up in the same way
nfl any objection to this motion. An and could be put through several stages
be
adjournment at Easter is necessary, and I during the period of the adjournment. By
"ould like to know how much the country remaining here the House would be in a
ls going to suffer because we lose four position to consider these bills with due
Possible sitting days in ail ? When we deliberation instead of having to rush
cOrne back we will be able, if need be, to thern through at the end of the session.
sat night and make up for any time It seems to me strange levity to talk so
Which may be lost by the adjournment.
lightly about the disposai of four days.
I do not argue this question on personal
ION.MR. O'DONOHOE-All the or private grounds as some gentlemen
tinle that could possibly be lost by this have thought fit to do ; but this I will say,
journment is four days. We will sit to- that this proposition to adjourn the House
Zorrow ; we would not sit again until till the 8th April, coming as it does after
MOnday; then we would sit on Tuesday the House has listened this afternoon to a
d Wednesday; Thursday, Friday, long and interesting speech setting forth
baturday
Sunday and Monday would the great merits, advantages and usefulrt be 'sitting days.
Now I cannot ness of this body, is a strange satire.
e what injury would be done to
e "ublic business by an adjournHON. MR. PLUMB-I have not been
in favor of adjourning the House ; I have
sient which involves the loss of only four
tting days, and I am satisfied that if any no object in desiring it. I shall remain
cinjury could be done by the adjourn- here no doubt the greater part of the time
n"'tbt it would not be proposed. Our idle. Now, let us see what the adjournPublic duty would be paramount, and ment really means; on Friday we would
•

458 Te Globe Correspondent [SENATE] and the Senate.
adjourn until Monday under any circumstances. We could sit on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, but not on Thursday
-because that is a holiday.

THE GLOBE CORRESPONDENT
AND THE SENATE.
INQUIRY.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER rose to cali
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-We would
attention to the letter addressed by the
sit on Thursday.
correspondent of the Globe to the hon. the
of this House, and inquire when
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. member Speaker
it is proposed to ask the House to consider
is mistaken; we would not sit on Thurs- the sanie. He said-It is surely undesirday, nor would we sit on Friday, or Satur- able to have the press of one
of the great
day, or Sunday, nor upon Easter Monday parties
of this country arrayed in opPOs ï
which is a statutory holiday.
tion to the Senate of the Dominioi..
think we are all agreed upon that point'
HON.
MR.
ALEXANDER-The I believe I am correct in stating that sInce
House of Commons sits on that day.
the opening of Parliament we have not at
any time, as a general rule, had more than
HON. MR. PUMB-The hon. member one reporter of any of the press here.
is mistaken ; it does not. It is proposed There may have been more than One
to adjourn for that day, and we would occasionally for a part of the time. The
lose only Tuesday of that week and alto- press do not trouble this House very much.
gether the utmost that can be said of it is I will not discuss the why and wherefore
This arrangement which has ended in only
that we would lose four sitting days.
the reporter of Toronto Mail appearing
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Five here may suit the leaders of the Goverment, Sir Alex. Campbell and the Minisdays.
ter of Interior, and perhaps the ho
member from Niagara. I am sure it Wl'
HON. MR. PLUMB-There are not not satisty the country. Now an unfortufive days and the hon. gentleman knows nate difference has arisen between the
it. The only question is whether we shall correspondent of the Globe and the menI'
make it one day short-make it three or bers of this House. (No.) Between
four days. I accept the statement of the whom then ? If I understand the natter
Mnister of Justice that there is no per- rightly-that gentleman, Mr. Gorman, was
sonal business for these four days. I do accused of having written an article resnot advocate adjournments, but I want it pecting the divorce committees of this
stated as it is ; and if gentlemen want to House which was declared to be verY
discuss a matter they must discuss it on objectionable. I have not read the article,
its fair honest merits and not on any and am not prepared to pronouice an
representation for the purpose of influenc- opinion upon it, but I believe that it W3ing those who wish to adjourn by mis- objectionable.
Now do the correspon
stating the question. There are gentle- ents of other newspapers never write
men here who would take advantage of objectionable articles ? Did this House
this adjournment to go to their distant take any exception to the article in the
homes when a shorter term would simply Toronto Mail which held me forth in the
keep them here. I do not at all subscribe coarsest and most approbrious language as
to the buncombe about their drawing a slanderer, a liar, a nuisance to the
their pay and doing nothing. If the House, when I simply called attention'
hon. gentleman has any scruples with that the sum of $670 was received by the
regard to that he can leave his pay with Minister of Justice from the Clerk of the
the Clerk, and probably it will go to House and remitted to the hon. J. '
assist this embarrassed Government of Allan for ii days attendance in the
which he talks so much.
Senate.

The motion was agreed to on a diviHON. SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL- rise
sion.
to a point of order. There never Was
HON. MR. PLUMB.

The Chinese [MARCH 26, 1885] Commission.
anything more untrue and unjust.
I
n'ever took any money from the Clerk of
the House to give to any one. I object
to the hon. gentleman making such a
statement-such an untrue statemenît.
lION. MR. ALEXANDER-I do not
tnyself think it wise to take notice of any
artiCles in the press. I never do myself,
and I think the House would best consult
't' dignity by adopting the same course.
.OW we know what followed; the Speaker,
'f I understood correctly, in conjunction
with the Government, or in conjunction
*ith the House, resolved that only two
Press reporters should be admitted on the
ROOr of the House, and they communicated a message to that effect through the
ergeant-at-Arms, Mr. Lemoine, to the
Press that each of the two should present
Credentials from their respective papers.
r. Gorman replied to that announcement
a letter to the Sergeant-at-Arms (and he
did lot write that letter supposing it would
b laid before the Speaker of this hon.
liOuse)that he had beenknownas the Globe
Correspondent here for three years, and if
not known personally to all the members
tf the Senate he must have been known to
themn by sight, and it seemed extraordinary
that he should be required to present
Credentials as to who he was. I think this
liouse will agree with me whatever may
have been the history of this unfortunate
aeir that when Mr. Gorman, the corresD<>fdent of the Globe, wrote what he
deemned to be an apology to the House
explaining why he wrote the letter, that
the same courtesy ought to guide this

"Ouse as guides a gentleman when an
apOogy is made-to take it into consideration, I do not think it is a proper course
for this House or the members of the
OVernment here to let that letter re
thain on the table in the hands of
the Clerk, and to allow the Globe
Cbaespondent to Isremain theunder a
C and a cloud.
that
way one
it stian man acts towards another ? Is
the proper and manly course for this
ouse to pursue towards a gentleman
. has to earn his bread and who must
tointain his character and his reputation
tO eable him to do so, to leave his letter
to1 the table of the Flouse and allow him
ti remain under a cloud which will affect
hi8 character ? Let us act manfully and

459

honestly and say whether it is or is not an
apology. If it is not an apology let us
demand a proper one ; but to allow the

letter to remain without considering it I
do not believe is a course which will be
endorsed by any independent member of
this House. I do not think any one will
endorse the action of Sir Alex. Campbell
in this matter, giving the rude reply he
gave to me when I brought up this question with closed doors.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I rise
to a point of order. The hon. gentleman
has no right to allude to what took place
with closed doors.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I believe
that Mr. Gorman is an honest man desirous
of doing what is right. If he used improper language in the letter he wrote to
the Sergeant-at-Arms he is willing to
retract it.
HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL--The
question that has been put by the member

who has just taken his seat is when it is
proposed to ask the House to consider the
letter of the Globe correspondent. I think
that the proper time to consider this matter
would be after the Easter holidays, and I
propose then to bring it up for consideration.
THE CHINESE COMMISSION.
MOTION.

HON. MR. POWER moved:That an humble Address be presented to
His Excellency the Governor-General ; praying that he will cause to be laid before this
House a detailed statement of the expenditure
incurred in connection with the ecent visit of
the Honorable the Secretary of State to British
Columbia aud California.
He said: It is in the knowledge of every
hon. gentleman that the Secretary of State
who is chairman of the commission on
the question of Chinese immigration to
British Columbia, during the recess of
Parliament went to California for the purpose of taking evidence and procuring
information, and the result of the visit is
before Parliament in the shape of a very
voluminous and very ably prepared report,
a report which reflects a great deal of

A60

The Chinese [SENATE] Commission.

credit, I may say, upon the secretary of
the commission, whose handiwork the
arrangement of the report is. The reason
that I ask for this information is that I
have heard- do not know how true the
story is-that the Secretary of State and
the secretary of the commission, and a
number of other gentlemen, went out to
the Pacific slope in a way that I do not
think altogether accords with our somewhat democratic ideas. Considering that
last summer it was known that the revenue
of the country was falling, and that the
expenditure was increasing, and that the
surplus of which hon. gentlemen opposite
have been in the habit of boasting for a
long time, was gradually disappearing,
the proper way for the chairman of the
commission and the secretary to have
gone would have been to have travelled,
as I understand members of the Government in England and in the United States
travel, in the very comfortable and luxurious cars which are furnished to all firstclass passengers by the United States railways. I have been informed that instead
of doing that the chairman of the commission had a car of his own, and I presume a very considerable sum has been
paid for the fitting up of that car and
transporting it across the continent; that
in addition to his secretary, the chairman
of the commission took a considerable
number of attendants, and that, in fact,
instead of travelling with that democratic
simplicity which is supposed to characterize
the public men of this continent, he tavelled in the fashion of an eastern potentate.
HON. MR. PLUMB-What is the style
in which an eastern potentate is supposed
to travel ? I believe it is generally on a
dromedary or a cassowary.

ernment circles. I remember when the
gentlemen opposite were on this side Of
the House that their ideas as to the manner in which the government ought to be
conducted were very different. In those
days they were more in love with den In
cratic simplicity than I am to-day.
those days Mr. Brydges was manager O
the Intercolonial Railway. He had, as is
the custom, I believe, of managers0or
large railways, a manager's car, a car for
his own use in which he travelled up and
My recollection iS
down the railway.
that there was nothing specially gorgeoUS
9
or expensive about the car; but the neW
papers of hon. gentlemen opposite rang
the changes on that car of Mr. Brydge
just as perseveringly as they rang the
changes on the Neebing hotel. Since the
change of Government a second car has
been placed on the Intercolonial RailwaY,
which is not necessary and which is not s

manager's car, and in fact we find this
systern of palace cars has got further West
and has reached British Columbia, or the
Pacific slope at any rate. I think it 1s
desirable that we should know the facts
as to the excursion of the Secretary O
State to the Pacific slope, and we should
know how much this Chinese Commissiofn
has cost. What beneficial results m'ay
flow from that commission I do not knloW·
I do not think the Government have in'
dicated a policy on the subject yet.
should like to make this suggestion to the
1
Government, that the experience of sevea
winters-and lately especially-has id"
cated that two or three points on the
Intercolonial Railway between Campbellton and Riviere du Loup require rnore
additional snow shedding ; hardly a winter
passes in which trains are not delayed for
a considerable time at one or other of two
or three points on that road, and I think
that in the interest of the public and for
the credit of the Government, it would
have been better to devote the money th9t
was expended on this luxurious car to
erecting a few miles of shedding on the
Intercolonial Railway. That is an exPe"
diture which, I think would have nuch
more readily met the approval of the
public.

HON. MR. POWER-I did not catch
what the hon. gentleman said, but I have
been informed that he said an eastern
potentate travels on a dromedary. If the
chairman of the commission had gone to,
British Columbia by the route selected by
the Canadian Pacific Railway Company
for their line, he would have required a
very agile animal to reach his destination.
Hon. gentlemen may think that this is a
very insignificant matter, but I do not
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLthink so, inasmuch as it is indicative of a There is no objection to the address.
spirit which appears to be growing in govThe motion was agreed to.

HON. MR. POWER.

The Indu8tries and [MARCH 26, 18851
TI-IE INDUSTRIES AND MANUFACTURES OF CANADA.

fanufj'r8 of Canada. 461

prejudice and that he is not disposed
to treat all industries alike. Then he
spoke of the farmers not being benefited
DEBATE CONTINUED.
in any way by the protective policy and he
says that all we want from this country is to
The Order of the Day having been be allowed to compete with the rest of the
Called for resuming the adjourned debate world-that all we ask is a fair field and
o1n the hon, Mr. Macdonald's motion.:- no favor. That is precisely what we on
'That he will call attention to the report this side of the House have always dethe Commission issued by the
a8t year to inquire into the effect Government sired-a fair field and no favor, but it was
of the tariff
of 18'79, on1 Industries and Manufactures of refused by the Grits when United States
heCountry, and will ask the Governmnent manufacturers glutted our markets, and
hether the report will be furnished to mem in answer to him I have the language of
t8 coutry."5Senate and a certain number to my hon. friend from Prince Edward
te of the
Island who shows that we had not, when
they governed the country, a fair field,
lIoN. MR. KAULBACH said-I rise because in 1878 as my hon. friend pointed
"ith some reluctance to pursue this de- out a depression prevailed, and there
.te, beeause I am sensible of the extreme came a time when a market should be
t dness which hon. members have shown found for the surplus products of the
o 'e by so attentively listening to the re- United States. Canada was the one most
a.rks which I addressed to the House easily accessible and the one which suf0
11former occasions. I shall endeavor to fered most acutely from the excess of
'Ondense, as far as possible, what I have American goods brought into the Domsay this evening. I was addressing inion, and it was thought a great grievance
ryself, when the debate was last adjourn- that our market should be injured by the
, tO the remarks made by the leader of influx of American goods. That was the
th' Opposition in this House. I was the language of the hon. gentleman from
poIting out that the position which he had Prince Edward Island, and yet my hon.
SUIfMed was antagonistic to all the great friend the leader
Opposition says,
todustries of this country. He was hostile " all we ask for of thefair field and no
is a
tO the coal industry and said that he would favor." That is what we now have, but
to Willing to give half a million of dollars what he and his party refused the people
shut up the two or three mines in the in 1878. But the hon. gentleman says
aritime provinces. But he seems ignor- that the farmers of this country have not
t as to the number of mining companies been benefited. I have shown the intnd that over $o,ooo,ooo is invested in creased capital and number
of hands em. And he forgot to tell us what pro- ployed in the manufacturing industries of
tel ahe would make for the tens of the country. The increased wages in
thol sands of poor miners who would be Ontario and Quebec since 1878 was
rowl out of employment-men skilled $15,848,000. Now, I would ask anyone
'rc that work and unfitted for any other where that money goes?
Chiefly to
cc"Pation. My hon. friend failed to tell
4 What he would do with these indus- the farmers; they get the larger portion of
us People. He forgot also to tell us benefit it. My hon. friend says it is no
to us, because the farmers send
t he would do with the oil wells of their wheat and their products
out of the
Wtetern Ontario. I did not hear him country, but the bulk of our farm prongest that the petroleum wells of On- ducts, grain, vegetables, milk, butter,
thSo should be closed up because, under cheese and meat, are used in the country
protection which they receive, the and used by the very people, the laboring
oplPe of the Maritime Provinces are classes, who receive the increased wages
k ed to pay more for their oil. We to which I have referred-$15,848,ooo.
pw that if it were not for the protective The best market the farmers have is to be
t 0 the emight raise the same objection found where the laboring classes are emSduty on oil that my hon. friend ployed in the manufacturing industries of
ron. to the duty on coal. Therefore my the country. The leader of the Opposition
friend shows that he is blinded by asked what benefit has the National

A62

The Indu8tries and [SENATE]

Manuf're of Canada.

tection of that industry, by the present
Government, protection which -wasgrante
in the face of violent opposition from the
party to which my hon. friend fro0m
Ottawa is attached, who persisted that
the money did not belong to the fisheries.
The value of the fisheries in Nova Scotia
in 1884, was nearly $9,ooo,ooo, aboUt
double what it was in 1878 and I aln
pleased to be able to say that the county
from which I come produced about 9ne'
half of that. Nearly three-fourths of the
bounty went to Nova Scotia, and the
county of Lunenburg received about
one-half of the bounty paid to
over $3,ooo,ooo : farm iniplements over fishing vessels in the province ;i
$6,5oo,ooo, and live stock over $20,ooo,- shows what one town and county has
ooo. How does my hon. friend the done under the protective policy of the
leader of the Opposition account for this Government. The whole county profts
remarkable increase in the prosperity of by the success of our fishermen. I Mig t
the farming community of Ontario unless go over the whole Province of Nova ScOtIa
under the influence of our protective and show that nearly every town has been
policy ? It certainly must be the result of benefited by the National Policy; and
the rapid development and prosperity of that the only objectionable tax under it 15
our people under the National Policy and the 40 cents a barrel on corn meal. I Wd
the manufacturing and fishing industries not delay the House with any further
of the country have much to do with the remarks upon that point. My hon. friend
prosperity. If time would permit me I the leader of the Opposition stated that
would point to the increase in wealth and the ordinary expenses of the country since
population in each of the manufacturing 1877-78 had increased from six to elevenl
towns of Ontario, but I will, to save time, millions of dollars, but he failed to explain
take one as an illustration. In 1879, the that with this increased expenditure out
population of Hamilton was 34,268 ; in prosperity had also increased. We a
1883 it had increased to 38,196. The now having prosperous times, whereas
assessed value of property which in 1879, depression prevailed in 1878. Prior t
was $15,168,21o had increased in 1883 to 1879, we had annual deficits ; since then
$17,713,150. The increased value of we have had a surplus every year. I Wi
property in that city last year was $1,1o5,- now go over the expenditures which are
ooo, which was more than four times the known as controllable expenditures, and
rate of increase in the five years of Grit show whether they have been in the
rule from 1874 to 1879. If I had time I interests ofthecountry. Will my hon. friend
would give similar statistics of all the. say that the Marine and Fisheries expen
manufacturing towns of Canada and I diture which have increased from $91,262
think I would be able to furnish ample in 1878, to $286,700 in 1884 has not been
proof of the prosperity which the National a necessary increase in the interests of the
Policy has brought about in all of them. country ? Would my hon. friend fron
In Nova Scotia I may take as an illustra- Halifax oppose that increase,applied as the
tion the increased value of property in the money has been to most useful purpose
town of Lunenburg.
I am in a position in our Maritime Provinces ? So the pay
to know personally what I speak of on ments to Indianswere increased for reasOns
this point. Since 1878 the value of pro which I need not stop to explain to t
perty in Lunenburg has doubled. We House. Then subsidies to the provinc
had in Nova Scotia in 1882, only 116 involved a large amount of money, an
vessels'with a tonnage of 6,938 tons, that my hon. friend surely cannot be oPpOSt
received bounty; in 1883, after the bounty to the increased outlay upon the Iight
was given we had 902 vessels, of 34,594 house and coast service. He knows wht
tons. Certainly that was due to the pro- the condition of our coast service was prior

Policy been to the cattle trade ? He'
must know that more than one-halfnearly three-quarters of the cattle raised
in this country are consumed within the
Dominion, and principally by the laboring classes. The more people we have
to feed, the better for the farmer. Therefore the farmers have been and must
continue to be benefited by the Naional Policy. The Ontario Bureau of
Statistics furnishes some interesting figures on this point. The increase between 1882 and 1883 in the value of
farm lands in Ontario was $22,500,000;
farm buildings increased in the same year

HoN. MR. KAULBACH.

lhe Indu8triesand [MARCIH 26, 1885.] .Manuf'rs of Canada. 469
to 1878 and what an improvment there
bas been in that respect-causing cheaper
rates of insurance with greater security it
has furnished to life and property along
Orcoasts. I might mention our increased
Postal service, and railways also. Although
We have spent a good deal in this way the
eountry has received it back again in more
Ways than one, and I would ask my hon.
friend if he would venture to object to any
"le

item or to assert that any of the

-and the ist Of July, 1879, and the ist
Of JulY, 1884-the Conservative period
1874-79.
teceipts from customs, excise and stamps..
.
93,295,770.34
Total receipte.
114,860,495
Total ex119,679,284
penditure..
Deficit.................4,818,789.00.
_

ordinary expenditures within the control
$98,114,559.34
of the Government were not for the bene- Taxation necessary per bead
et Of this country or could have been
of population......($4,021,000)-$4.88
avoided, or that any portion of the money
has been misapplied ? When the late
1879-84.
Government were in power they failed to Receipts froi custons exprovide for the public services in a proper
cise and stampP.......124,723,659.84
1tanner and by their narrow views and Total retheir parsimony, which was not economy,
ceipts, inthere were deficits year after year,
e 1u d in g
land
and depression and want prevailed Total ex- $157,687,879
peae
tI every industry and among all peo- pnditure..
137,258,154
Ple, even our farmers, everywhere through0 1t the length and breadth of our land. Deduct surplus...........20,429,725.00
IUring that time the postal service was
a'Ything but satisfactory, and yet the
defiCits during the five years they were in Taxation necessary per head of population
Adding the ex0ice exceeded the receipts for that service (4,364,800), $4..78 2.
penditure on surveys chargeable to capital,
e$5 21,o67 ; whereas the deficits for the
é years ending with 1884 were only $1.642,544-95, and the taxation necessary
,463,198. Then we had the same on the from 1879 to 1884 would stili be below
rallways. During the five years while the $4.88 per head. This statement knocks
late administration were in power the the bottom out of the Opposition cry about
defnciency in the revenue from the govern- greatly increased taxation under the
"ent railways was $6oo,ooo, and for the National Policy.
Years ending 1884 they amounted to
Now let us look for a moment to our
orlY $150,ooo, although theas everybody trade the England. During the five years,
tuent expended largely present Gov- from withist of July, 1879 to the ist July,
in improving the postal and railway 1884, our imports from Great Britain intovice. When my hon. friend endeavors creased over the preceding five years of Grit
to Show that our expenditures are larger rule by $15,034,977; while our decrease
"0W than they were under the administra- of imports from the United States was
to Of his friends he should also mention $î9,694,2o9, showing, as I said the other
e fact that we derive a larger income day, although I had fot the figures then,
.orn those expenditures, thus showing our that the eftect of our pohcy bas been to
eased expenditure is justified, and justi- increase our trade with England and dimtrade with
The leader of the Oppotied by results. that the taxation of the inish our hon. friend, the United States.
tio contended
Then my
the leader of the
has
btrybeen greatly increased; such is Opposition, attempted to show that the
otrue, it is a false cry. I have pointed depression in the country among business
olt that the increase has not been larger men is greater now than it was when bis
wthin the last five years than it was from friends were in power. 1 have the figures
73 to 1878. The following is a state- here which prove that the depression
t Of taxation for the two periods of greater then than it was in 1884.
It is
years each 1879-the of July, 1874, bas known that capital that time. The
to 8t Of July, between 1stReform period well nearly doubled sinceinvested in trade

A64A

ke Jndustriesand [SENATE] .Manuf'r8 of Canada.

estimated number of business men in only£17o,ooo,ooo. ThetradeofGreat Brlin 1879 was 56,ooo, and the tain with foreign countries in 1872 was more
failures were i in 29 ; whereas in 1884 than£248,ooo,ooo, and in 1882 it was only
the number of business men had increased £214,000,ooo, a decrease in the 10 years
to 69,994, and the number of failures had Of £ 34 ,ooo,ooo. The trade of the United
diminished to i in 53. I mention these States with British possession which in
facts and I leave the House to draw their 1872 was £66,ooo,ooo, had increased il'
own conclusions from them as to whose 1882 to£99,ooo,ooo. This shows that the
statement is correct. I think they furnish course of trade has followed the flag. The
irresistible evidence of the greater severity colonies which in former days the free
of the depression prior to the adoption of traders wished to cut off are now the
the National Policy than that which now principal customers of the mother country.
exists. My hon. friend, the leader of the While her trade with other nations is falling
Opposition, said, in his speech, that the off it is increasing with the colonies. The
United States is the laughing stock of the Manchester school of politicians, men of
world. All the leading nations of the the Bright and Cobden Free Trade school
world are protectionists except England. said "let the colonies go." That absurd
I do not see where the laugh comes in ; I sentiment, with the political theories tO
have already shown that there is a greater which they were attached, has exploded
degree of prosperity and intelligence pre- and British statesmen are now anxiously
vailing amongst the mass of the people looking for the best means to bring the
in the United States than there is in Eng- colonies into closer and permanent union
land. I am, and have been, very reluc- with the United Kingdom. I am glad to
tant in stating anything that is detrimental find that such a sentiment is increasingto the Mother Country, or pointing out My hon. friend from Prince Edward Island
what is bad in its policy as compared with must see that England is a great sufferer
the United States; but these are facts which from her present position. Instead of
I was forced to mention. In 1883 Great providing her own dairy produce she obBritain sent 2,035 tons of iron rails to the tains it largely from France. The English
United States, and only 7 tons last year. farmer can hardly find the means to raIse
In 1882 they sent to the United States sufficient to maintain himself and pay his
In 1882 Great rents, and the landlord feels that his 11
21,134 tons of iron rails.
Britain exported to the United States come is gradually decreasing. I think it
173,873 tons of steel rails ; in 1883 it had was the hon. member from Belleville who
fallen to 69.343, and in 1884 to 17,476 told us in a debate which took place here
tons. It is quite evident from these figures some years ago that the amount paid for
that the United States now manufacture eggs imported into England from France
their own rails, and not only that but they exceeded the value of the wines imported
can afford to sell rails to us, competing from the same country. Is it our interest
successfully with the manufacturers in to adopt a policy which would lead tO
Great Britain. They sold them cheaper such a result, to starve out our home in'
to the Canadian Pacific Railway Company dustries ? Is it our interest to alloW
than they could be imported for in this the manufacturers and farmers of the
country from Great Britain. Facts like United States to flood our markets with
these, coupled with what I have already their products ? A one-sided free-trade
shown, demonstrate that the United States policy would not suit our farmers; yoU
had built up their manufacture to such would soon find them, like the farner
an extent under a protective policy, that and manufacturers in England, looking
they are able not only to supply their own for fair trade. I believe that Ireland t0markets but to undersell the English day would be in a better and more pros'
manufacturers in England itself, in English perous position if it had the home iarColonies, and in the markets of the world. kets of England for its dairy produce, inSuch a laughing stock we might be proud stead of having to meet the competition
to be. The annual trade of the British from France and other countries. Eng
dominions beyond the seas with the land will yet find that she must have
United Kingdom was exports and imports closer relations with her colonies, as ber
Canada

£19o,ooo,ooo, and with other countries trade with foreign nations continues to

Synod of Me Dioce8e [MARCII 27, 1885] of QuiAppelle Bill.

A65

f-l1 off. I have no wish to decry England,
W}hich has been so long our pride and our
boast, but when the Mother Country is
set up as a model for us to follow in our
fiscal policy it is our duty to show how
that Policy has failed, and to see how a
4
ifferent policy has succeeded in English
sPeaking countries and all classes of
people in the neighboring republic. If
the fiscal policy of the United States has
PrOved successful, and it has done so, I
thiik we should receive instruction from
them which will be advantageous to us in
ny ways, which will further develop our
vast natural resources and redound to the
Prosperity of our people.
Providence
genIerally helps those who help and protect themselves. That is our National
olicy, and we hope under it we are on
high road to increased prosperity.

bors, reported Bill (23), " An Act to
amend the Act to incorporate the Wood
Mountain and Qu'Appelle Railway Company," with an amendment.
He said :-I may state to the House
that there is but one amendment to the
Bill and that is to strike out the last clause.
The committee at once decided to do
that, but they desired as a matter of
courtesy that the gentleman who had
charge of the Bill in the other House
should have notice before doing so. The
committee had therefore deferred the
consideration of the Bill for one day, and
had given him notice in order that he
might appear and give his reasons for
that clause remaining in the Bill. The
hon. member did not appear and the
clause was therefore struck out. It is not
surprising that he did not appear, as the
clause had nothing in the world to do
liON. MR. READ moved the adjourn- with the Bill ; it simply had a retroactive
tntent of the debate.
effect, making operative some provisions
The motion was agreed to.
of the charter as originally introduced
The Senate adjourned at 9:15 p.m.
some four years ago, of which this Bill is
an amendment. It therefore involved a
vicious principle of legislation, and as no
objection was offered by the promoter, the
clause was struck out by the unanimous
THE SENATE.
consent of the committee.
Ottawa, Friday, March, 27th, 1885.
The amendment was concurred in.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
Oclock
HON. MR. PLUMB moved the third
reading of the Bill.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
THIRD READINGS.
was read the third time and passed.
ON. MR. DICKEY, from the Com%ttee on Railways, Telegraphs and Har'.S, reported the following Bills,
SYNOD OF THE DIOCESE OF
which
QU'APPELLE BILL
Were read the third time and passed without
te

(37) " An Act further to amend

THIRD READING.

lAct to incorporate the Saskatchewan
HoN. MR. READ as acting chairman
a ay Company."-(Mr. Plumb.)
ak (24) "An Act to incorporate the of the Committee on Standing Orders and
e Erie, Essex and Detroit River Rail- Private Bills reported Bill (39) "An Act
'WY Company."-(Mr. Plumb.)
to incorporate the Synod of the Diocese of
Qu'Appelle and for other purposes conOD MOUNTAIN AND QU'AP- nected therewith," without amendment.
ELLE RAILWAY COMPANY'S
HON. MR. DICKEY moved the third
BILL.
reading of the Bill.
THIRD READING.
ON* MR. DICKEY, from
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
ee On Railways, Telegraphs the Comand Har- was read the third time and passed.
I

466

Brantford, Waterloo & [SENATE] Lake Erie R'y Co'a Bill.
are called for in the future that the two
gentlemen demanding it should stand UP.

THE ADJOURNMENT.
A QUESTION OF PRIvILEGE.

BANQUE DU PEUPLE BILL.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE - Before
the Orders of the Day are called I wish to
refer to a matter that occurred yesterday.
When the division was taken on the motion for adjournment from this afternoon
to the eighth of April, the yeas and nays
were called for by me, but the motion was
stated from the Chair to have been carried
on a division. I was asked afterwards
why I did not press for the yeas and nays,
and I stated in reply that I had called for
them. The hon. gentleman from Lunenburg (Mr. Kaulbach) stated to me to-day
that he also had called for the yeas and
nays, and still the motion was declared te
have been carried on a division.
THE SPEAKER-When the motion

was put I declared that I considered the
motion carried on a division, and I asked
once or twice if any hon. gentleman
wanted the yeas and nays taken, and
several voices in the Chamber said only
one had called for the yeas and nays.
I certainly did not hear the hon. gentleman from Lunenburg.
HON.

SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL -

I

think that on the occasion referred to the
Speaker interpreted the results of our
little discussion or altercation at the moment correctly. The hon. gentleman
from Prince Edward Island did say " yeas
and nays," but it was not followed up,
and I think at the time the Speaker declared the motion carried on a division, it
was the general concurrence of the House
that the motion was carried.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I did call
for the yeas and nays at the time, but the
sense of the House seemed to be that the
motion should be carried on a division, and
I did not therefore persist.

THE SPEAKER-I certainly did not
hear the hon. member from Lunenburg
call for the yeas and nays, and I supposed
that I had rightly interpreted the sense of
the House when I declared the motion
carried on a division. If hon. gentleman
would allow me to suggest to them, it
would be better when yeas and nays

SECOND READING.

HON. MR. PAQUET moved the second
reading of Bill (53) " An Act respecting
the Banque du Peuple."
The motion was agreed to and the Bil
was read the second time.
BRANTFORD, WATERLOO & LAICZ
ERIE RAILWAY CO'S BILL.
THIRD READING.

HON. MR. PLUMB moved that the
amendments made by the Committee ofn
Railways, Telegraphs and Harbors to Bill
(59) "An Act to incorporate the Brantford,
Waterloo and Lake Erie Railway Coi'
pany," be concurred in.
He said-there are several amendments
that are merely verbal. One amendment
is made to cover the promissory note
clause, to bring the Bill into conformTitY
with other Bills of the same kind. As the
amendments are of no importance, merely
verbal corrections, I trust that the report
will be concurred in.
The motion was agreed to.
HON. MR. PLUMB moved the third
reading of the Bill.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I do not
suppose that anything 1 can say will have
the slightest effect in changing the determination of the House to pass this
measure, but never was legislation of a
more objectionable character submittedto
Parliament. It proposes that a company
shall be chartered to build a railway frotn
some point in the County of Wellington
to the City of Brantford and from there
to a convenient point on the Canada
We have, at the
Southern Railway.
present moment, the Huron and Port
Doyer Railway which connects with that
point; we have the Stratford and Buffalo
which passes through at Brantford south,
and we have another line connectîng
direct from the Town of Guelph with
Brantford, and what is the object of this
charter? The four gentlemen asking for

The Industrie8 and [MARCH 27, 1885] Manuf'r8 of Canada. 467
the charter cannot get any persons to subscribe for stock, but they may induce the
tnunicipalities through which the line will
run to give them bonuses, and when they
find that the road cannot be run for the
Want of traffic, the municipalities will find
that they have thrown away their money.
I arn surprised that the Legislature does
lot put a stop to this uncalled for legislation. It is only a few days since we had
iifluential delegations from many of those
Western counties coming here to ask the
Government to assume the liabilities which
they had incurred by granting bonuses to
railways just of this character, still the
hon. gentleman from Niagara recommends
to the favorable consideration of this
Ilouse another such charter, that more of
the municipalities may be swindled in the
Same manner and brought into trouble.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Was read the third time and passed.
INDUSTRIES
AND MANUFACTURES OF THE DOMINION.
THE DEBATE CONTINUED.

The order of the day being called for
resuming the adjourned debate on the HonOrable Mr. Macdonald's motion :-That
he will call attention to the Report of the
Commission issued by the Government
last year to inquire into the effect of the
Tariff of 1879, on the Industries and
Manufactures of the Country, and will ask
the Government whether the Report will
be furnished to Members of the Senate
and a certain number to the country,
liON. MR. READ said :-I hope I
srall be excused if for a short time I
trespass on the patience of the Senate in
the discussion of this important question.
I have always been an advocate for
tneasures in the direction of protecting
Our home industries. It is no new theory
with me. When I began to inform myself on questions of political economy, I
Soon arrived at the conclusion that for a
new country a protective policy was the
Proper one. On going into political life I
continued to advocate protection as a
policy, and I recollect that in Quebec,
When the Parliament of Canada was
sttng there, a few of us who thought
a14keon this question got together and

considered a motion in that direction, but
we found very few followers. There was
hardly a corporal's guard in the House
that would support us on that question,
and the result was we had for a time to
abandon it. We found that all the leading
public men of the country-many of whom
have since changed their opinions, and
become advocates of protection-were
then strong believers in a free trade policy.
And these men are to be respected though
they have changed their opinions, for the
great statesman who introduced a free
trade policy in England changed his
opinion when the circumstances of the
country demanded it, as our leading
statesmen have changed their opinion
when the circumstances of the Dominion
demanded a change of policy. I could
name many of them who are still
alive, and who still take an active part in
public affairs, but it is hardly worth while
doing so, they are so well known to us ai.
In fact in those days, there were very few
leading men in public life who were not free
traders,and the leading press of the country
at that time was a free trade organ, as it
is to-day. I never lost sight of the subject,
I alway s kept it in view. I have never
changed my policy on the protection
question, and eight years ago, fully impressed with the belief that the time had
arrived for the adoption of a National
Policy, I had the honor to move, in this
House, a resolution in that direction,
though I had then great difficulty to get
a seconder for my motion. It was only
after some difficulty that I got a seconder
in my hon. friend who is now Lieutenant
Governor of New Brunswick (Mr. Wilmot),
who came to my relief, and on that motion
we discussed the question in this chamber
for a month. That, I believe, was about
the first resolution introduced in Parliament towards the adoption of a protective
policy

for

the Dominion.

I thought

when the debate was coming to a close,
and some of the leading men in this House
would not vote against my resolution, that
I had gained a point, and that I was
making wonderful headWay.
After a
time it took root in the country, and the
result was that in the elections of 1878
the principal issue before the people was
that of the National Policy. We know
that that question was fully before the
people and discussed by them in every

468

The Industries and

[SENATE]

county and in every province. The Government of the day avowed their intention
of not changing the existing policy, that
there would be no re-adjustment of the
tariff though it was demanded in the interest of the country. But the Opposition
of that day said to the people if you trust
us with the destinies of the country we
will re-adjust the tarif so that we will give
a moderate amount of protection to home
industries and preserve the markets of
Canada for Canadians. We will re-adjust
the tarif so that it will do the greatest
good to the greatest number.

That was

the issue at the polls, and we all know
the result. The country up to that time
had not decided as to what the fiscal policy
of the Dominion should be, but in 1878
their decision was recorded. Four years
afterwards the Government in theirwisdom
considered it advisable to give the people
an opportunity to decide whether they
had made a mistake in what they had
done in 1878, and to say whether
or not they would like to reverse that
decision. We all know the result, the
Government were returned with a larger
rnajority than ever. I contend that to-day
the people of Canada are just as decided
that the tariff must be maintained in such
a shape as to protect native industries as
they were in 1878, and I could not allow
this opportunity to pass without saying a
few words as to the effect of the adoption
of that policy on the manufacturing industries of the country. We have been told
by the leaders of the Reform party that
governments cannot do anything by way
of legislation to promote the trade of the
country. Now, I maintain that governments, by wise legislation, can conduce to
the profitable enjoyment of the peoplethat is the position I have always held.
What is the aim of all statesmen in England ? Do they not aim at securing
profitable employment for the people ? Is
not the whole of their legislation in that
direction ? Wars have been brought about
with that object in view-to find profitable
employment for labor and capital. Wars are
not always declared merely for a sentiment;
in my opinion they are frequently brought
about in order to find profitable investments for capital, and labor for the people.
We have all noticed in our lifetime that,
after a war, the first thing the British
people proceed to settle is the tarif.
HoN. MR. READ.

.Manuf'r8 of Canada.

They are selfish as well as other people,
and adopt the policy that is best in their
own interest. We all recollect the Chinese
war, and how after the tariff was re-adjusted
there was much prosperity in the trade and
manufactures of Great Britain. Then, as
governments can and do assist by wise
legislation the industries and manufactures
of a country, let us see what the National
Policy has done for Canada. The first
thing I will refer to is the coal interest.
We were told that the National Policy
would not assist the coal mines. We were
told by the leader of the Opposition that
it could not do so ; but I said, " ask the
coal producers; " and they gave an answer.
However I can give as good an answer as
they can, because I have in my hand the
report of the Commissioner of Mines for
Nova Scotia, and we will see from that
report what has been the effect of the
protective tariff on the coal industries of
Nova Scotia. For quite a long time a
large amount of coal was exported to the
United States. The following table wIll
show the amount of coal produced and
sold by the miners of that Province for
the years mentioned :NOVA SCOTIA COAL EXPORTED TO TIE
UNITED STATES.
Year.

Tons.

1865
1866

465,194
404,252
338,492
228,132

1867
1868
1869

257,485

1870

168,i8o

1871
1872

165,431

1873

154,092

1874

264,76o
138,335

1875

89,746

1876

71,624
118,216

1877
1878

88,495

1879

51,641
123,423
113,728
99,302
110, 88 7

1880

1881

1882
1884

We find from this table that the export
of coal from Nova Scotia to the United
States has declined from 338,492 tons In
1867 to 11o,ooo tons in 1884, though the
total output of the mines has continuOuslY

The Indu8trie8 and [MARCH 27, 1885] .Manuj're of Canada. A69
increased.
Now we will see whether the
National Policy has assisted that industry
or not. Though we cannot sell more than
1/5 of the coal to the United States now
that we did before they put on a duty of
75 cents a ton, and our miners have had
to depend on the home market, what has
been the result ? The following table will
show the total amount of coal produced
and sold in Nova Scotia from 1879 to
1884 inclusive :688,624 tons.
1879 ........
i88o ........

954,659

1881
.......
1882 ........

1,035,014

1883 ........
1884 ........

1,297,523

1,250,179

ci

"i
c'
"c
c'

1,300,000

It will thus be seen that since 1879 the
production of coal in Nova Scotia has
doubled, while the export of coal to the
United States has dwindled down to about
20 per cent. of what it was in 1866. Now

the question arises, if we had not adopted
a Protective tariff could the coal miners of
Nova Scotia have produced that amount
of coal and sold it in this country ? I say
not, and the reason is obvious. A comniissioner sent by the Toronto Globe is at
Present investigating the condition of the
industries of the United States, and he is
fnOw

amongst the miners of bituminous

coal, and this is his report on that industry :
.'All accounts represent the state of the
bituminous coal trade as being deplorable
in the extreme."
He says the anthracite
producers are in a better condition. if it
were not for the National Policy the producers of bituminous in Nova Scotia
WOuld be cut off, for it would be better
for the coal miners of the United States
to sell the output of their mines at cost in
the Canadian market, and thus keep their
nien employed, than to shut down operations.

Now let us see how the coal trade

of Nova Scotia with Quebec has increased
under the National Policy. In 1881 the
anlount of Nova Scotia coal sold to Quebec was 268,628 tons ; in 1882 it had in-

creased to nearly 400,000 tons.
1

0N.
O MR. HAYTHORNE-But they

got Special rates on the Intercolonial railWay.
ION. MR. READ-I suppose special
rates are given by the railways of the

United States also to the coal producers
in order to get their traffic and to enable
them to send coal to our country. I am
told by our coal miners that they cannot
send coal to the American market; that
no matter what price they attempt to sell
it for in the United States the railways
and the coal owners there will cut them
out. While we are enabled to buy the
coal of Nova Scotia, the miners in that
province are consuming the products of
Ontario and Quebec that we send down in
exchange for it. I find that the total number of men and boys employed there in the
coal industry last year was 4,235, repre-

senting a population of 16,ooo or 20,000
persons who are supported by this industry. There is no doubt that the
National Policy has been a great assistance
to that industry, because we find while
the produce of the coal mines has doubled,
the amount exported to the United States
has fallen off enormously, and the coal
miners of Nova Scotia are finding their
markets in the western provinces in exchange for our agricultural produce. We
have been told that the sugar refineries
have all been ruined, and that the
National Policy is the cause. Now, I
deny entirely that the tariff has been the
cause of any depression in the sugar
trade. The cause is what every commercial man must have seen-that for
two or three years there has been a continual decrease in the value of sugar,
and no man can buy any article of commerce on a falling market and save himself. If the market keeps dropping there
will be a continual loss, and that has been
the case with the sugar industry. I have
no doubt that there are hon. gentlemen
here who are engaged in trade, and I ask
them if they can make money by buying
in a falling market-either in sugar or any
other article ? They must admit they can
not, and that is the reason why the sugar
refining industry has been so unsuccessful.
It was only last year I was breakfasting
with a gentleman at the hotel, who said to
me that he had bought

1,ooo

barrels of

sugar in New York the previous day at 4Y4
cents per pound. 1 did not know much
about the trade, but I was interested in
knowing how the price he had then paid
compared with the average market rates of
sugar, and I made inquiries of those engaged in the trade at different times

A70

The Industries and [SENATE] Manuf'r8 of Canada.

since then, and I found that sugars
continued going down in price, until
it was quoted the other day as low
as 34 cents, so that it can easily
be seen in that kind of market how money
may be lost, without the National Policy
having anything to do with the depression.
We are told that the cotton industry has
also suffered. There is no doubt there
has been over production and stocks have
therefore decreased in value, but what has
been the cause of it ? We find that the
manufacturers ran on two or three kinds
of goods, until the market became overstocked. The result was that they were
driven to manufacturing twenty or thirty
other qualities of goods, and now they
produce what we formerly had to import,
and the people are getting the benefit of
the low prices. The only people that I
see who have cause of complaint against
the tariff are the millers. The millers I
think have not had fair play. I am not
an advocate for a change of policy. . I
cannot see why we should change the
policy in that direction, because it can
only be a short time-one or two yearsbefore the wheat that is so much desired
by our millers can be obtained from our
own North-West. When that time arrives
they will have no ground of complaint,
and time will remedy that difficulty. In
looking over the returns I notice that we
have not been buying a large amount of
wheat from the United States at all. I
find that flour has been brought into the
country during the last year to a greater
extent than wheat. We imported into the
Dominion for home consumption, in 1884
flour to the value of $2,438,ooo. That is
a large quantity. Our millers complain
that they are handicapped, and that there
is twenty-five cents a barrel against
them.
I do not think there is quite as
much as that, but I feel they have some
cause of complaint which I hope will in a
short time be remedied. The cause
seems to be that in the United States they
consume a very large quantity of choice
flour which the millers there sell at fancy
prices. Then the millers make a poorer
quality of flour for which they cannot find
a market in the United States, and as they
can afford to make it cheaper than it can
be produced in Canada, they send it over
into our market. I suppose our people
get the benefit of it, but I would prefer to
HON. MR. READ.

see our millers buy our own wheat or
foreign wheat and grind it to supply this
market instead of foreign flour being
brought in to compete with them.
Another industry that has prospered
under the National Policy, and has grown
to very large proportions within the last
few years is the cheese industry. No
doubt I will be told that the National
Policy has had nothing to do with the
prosperity of that branch of industry. I
differ entirely from the hon. gentlemen
who take that position. During the years
that we had reciprocity with the United
States, we practically depended upon Our
neighbors for a ready market for the products of the field and forest. We went tO
them because we could·sell our surplus produce in their markets readily, and get our
returns quickly, allowing them to transport
those products to other markets. TheY
were rather better off than we were--in
fact very much better off. When the reciprocity treaty was repealed, we all know
Our neighbors
what was the result.
repealed it in a fit of bad temper, thinking
that, perhaps we had not treated theim as
well as we ought to have treated them
during their great civil war; that Our
sympathies had gone against then in
favor of the South. There is no doubt
that that was at least one of the causes
of the repeal of the reciprocity treatY.
Under that reciprocity treaty we sold our
raw products to the United States, and
bought from them their manufactured
goods, and paid them in addition over
$5o,ooo,ooo in gold.

It was a bargain

that the United States should have bee'
well satisfied with ; but they were not,
and they repealed the treaty, and so it
stands at the present times. I saw, some
two or three years before the abolitiofn of
the treaty, that it would be repealed, and,
as i was rather British in feeling, I said
to myself is there not something that we
can do to keep our people employed and
prosperous so that they will not have to
beg for a market from the Americans-for at that time the Globe told us, in everY
issue, that we could not do without a reciprocity treaty with the United States. Per
haps that paper educated some people up
to that belief, but it never influenced me. 1

said to myself is there nothing that our
people can do to help themselves ? I saw
vast numbers of cows being picked Up

The Indu8trie8 and [MARCH 27, 18851 Manuf'rs of Canada. 471
through our country by American drovers
at fifteen and twenty dollars a head, and
driven by them across the line. Out of
Curiosity I began to inquire what
Was being done with our Canadian cows
across the border. On investigating the
matter I found that with our Canadian
cOws the Americans were manufacturing
cheese for the English market. It struck
Me that we in Canada could do that as well
as our neighbors, and for several years I
advocated on every possible occasion, the
estabhîshment of cheese industry in this
Country. I invited our farmers to investigate the question, and I went so far as to
Offer a bonus of $1oo to the first cheese
factory that would be started in Ontario,
and I actually did pay the bonus subsequently. I remember a gentleman who
Is now Chief Justice in one of the Lower
Provinces, telling the people at a meeting,
tO take no notice of Read-that Read had
cheese on the brain. But what has been
the result of our farmers making the
mnanufacture of cheese a branch of their
lIdustry? In 1866 we sold our cows to
the Americans, and imported our cheese
fror the United States. In that year we
iported into Canada cheese to the value
Of $ 2 23 ,4 7 7. Now let us see what weare
doing to-day. After the American war,
Congress put a duty of 20 per cent. on
Our cows, and to off-set it we put a little
duty on cheese coming into Canada-we
did take the hint that far. The 20 per
duty on our cows shut us out of the
AmIerican market, and our farmers having
n0 Market for their cows, set to work to
flanufacture cheese, and to show you
What marvellous results have followed I
Mnay say that the exports of cheese from
Canada last year amounted to $7,800,ooo.
Of that a small proportion came into
Canada from the United States and was
re-exported ; but the export of cheese
rnanufactured in Canada amounted to
$7,257,989 for the year 1884. Now let
us compare the exports of cheese with the
eaPort of other Canadi an produce for the
year.
vame I want to draw the attention
of the House and of the country to this
statemTent, because everybody has not
the time or the opportunity to wade
through the blue books for such informatiol.

EXPORTS OF PRODUCE FOR THE
YEAR 1884.
Barley...........

Beans ...........
Oats ...... ......
Peas ...... ......
Rye.............
Wheat ...........

$5,1o4,642
92,702

501,712
2,009,275

565,663
3,359,192

$11,633,186
If we deduct from this total of $11,633,.
186, the wheat imported, $3,376,032, it
will leave the net export of these grains,
the products of Canada, $7,757,o54 for
the year 1884. It will be seen from this
statement that the export of cheese in
1884 nearly equalled in value the combined
export of barley, beans, oats, peas, rye and
wheat. That is a statement which I think
the people of this country are scarcely
prepared for. Now let us compare the
exports of cheese with the exports of fish
and fish oils for the same year. In 1884
the total export of fish and fish oils
amounted to $8,591,634, so that it will be
seen that our export of cheese was within
$1,339,645 of the value of the exports of
fish and fish oils. I contend that the
manufacture of cheese is an industry
started under, developed and encouraged
by the National Policy, though I dare say
that some hon. gentleman will deny to a
certain extent that it is so. Cheese-making
as an industry is developing enormously
in this country, and as yet it is only in its
inception. Now let us look at the progress of of the cheese industry in the
United States and see how we compare
with our neighbors in this respect
UNITED STATES EXPORT OF CHEESE.
1861

............ $3,321,631

1866 . ...........
.6,036,828

1883 ............ 11,134,526
It will be seen by this statement that the

exports of cheese from Canada last year
were within $3,ooo,ooo of the exports of
the same article from the United States.
We are in the right zone for nutritious
grasses, and we shall continue to produce
an article of cheese that will always find

a market in England, because in establishing the manufacture of cheese in Canada,
those who had an interest in it took every
precaution to get the best makers they had

in the United States to run our factories,and

AT72

The Industries and [SENATE] Manuf'r8 of canada.

our own people have been educated up to
the best methodsof carryingonthisindustry.
Our grazing lands being well adapted for
the business, we have succeeded beyond
our expectations, and to-day we lead the
market in England. It was only a few
days ago I noticed in a copy of the
Grocers' Gazette that Canadian cheese was

quoted in the Liverpool market at 70
shillings per cwt., the highest price in the
market. I would like to read to the
House the opinion of an American, given
at a meeting the other day, in reference to
the cheese trade, and you will bear in mind
that Americans are not like some of our
people on this side of the line who feel
that if they cannot rule they will ruin.
You never hear an American running
down his own country or his country's institutions, or anything else American. He
always represents the United States as the
finest country in the world, and there is
nothing to compare with it. Americans
may have difficulties and troubles amongst
themselves, but they keep such information to themselves; they never tell it
abroad. This American gentleman that
I have referred to, at a meeting at Amherstburg the other day, read a very interesting paper on the cheese industry of
Canada, in which he used these words :
" In this respect (the manufacture of
cheese) Canada leads the world, as he had
occasion to notice while in the Old Coun
try markets." I am satisfied that our
cheese industry is as yet only in its infancy,
because we have attained that status in the
English market, that when a dealer wishes
to speculate largely in cheese he buys
Canadian make, because he knows he can
rely on that brand being good and of a
uniform quality. So much for the cheese
industry which had been stimulated by the
National Policy, and by the local Government in Ontario. Every thing has been
done to foster and encourage it, and I
think it is now on the high road to prosperity. But we are told that Canada is
not prospering, that everything is going to
the bad. I can remember when in Parliament, in 1864, an hon. gentleman who is
now a member of this House introduced
a Bill to allow the municipality of the
county of Hastings to borrow money to
loan to the farmers of that county to buy
seed grain, and before it passed through
Parliament other counties petitioned for
HON. MR.

READ.

the same privilege, and it was nade
general. If we were in as prosperous a
condition that year as we are at present,
as hon. gentlemen contend, why was that
Bill introduced ? At that time we had
reciprocity with the United States, and
were supposed to be enjoying the benefits
of free trade in natural products ? NOW
our people are helping themselves, and We
all know the old adage that the Lord
always helps those who help themselves.
In the very county for whose benefit the
Bill was introduced in Parliament in 864
to allow the municipality to borrow money
to lend the farmers to enable then to buY
seed grain, $1,500,000, was paid last year
for the products of the cheese factoriesan industry that is yet in its infancy i
that county. A purely agricultural country must be always a poor country. Agfcultural pursuits cannot be carried on profitably alone ; there must be a manufacturing population to create a home market
There are certain products of the soil that
can only be profitably produced if thereis
a home market ; they cannot be exported,
and unless you have people to consume
them they go to loss. There is only
an imaginary line between us and the
United States, and the policy that has
been beneficial to our neighbours cOmmercially cannot be injurious to us. Going
down the St. Lawrence if you get off the boat
on either side you could not tell whether
you were in Canada or the United States
so far as the physical features of the country
are concerned, and I hold that the comlmercial pclicy that has been so beneficial
to the United States cannot be otherise
but beneficial to Canada. If we look at
the history of the United States we WIU
find that there was a time when the South
thought they were paying too much for
manufactured goods; they thought the
tariff was too high, and the result was
that Congress passed what was called a
compromise tariff. That tariff continued for nine years, and let us see what
was the effect of it. The duty on imports
was about 32 per cent. Under the COm'
promise Act the duty was reduced every
two years until it got down to 12
cent., where it remained, and at the end
nine years where did it leave the Americans?
I will quote from a freetrader's speech when
he came to Parliament and asked tohavethe
tariff considered, I refer to Henry Clay.

2he Industries and [MARCH 27, 1885.] «Xanuf'r9 of Canada. 47e
11

PLUMB-He was not a free short time ago that while Canada was to
be congratulated that she was able to buy
in a foreign country more than she sold,
lION. MR. READ-I take that back that that must not be considered as an
then; I thought he was a free trader.
evidence of wealth but as an evidence of
debt. There is no doubt that the policy
tiON. MR. PLUMB-He lived in Ken- of Great Britain is a policy of protection
ulcky. but he was a strong tariff man.
for them ; but they are selfish, all nations
are selfish, everybody is selfish and looks.
lioN. MR. READ-Well let us see after his own interests first, and while the
What he has to say upon the trade ques- policy of England is free trade, because
tion, after nine years experience of
the the people think it is to their interest, the
compromise tariff:rest of the world are protectionists for the
"I do not ask what have been the rernote same reason. Look at Germany and
causes of the depression and wretchedness of France to-day re-enacting more protective
GUr once glorious and happy country I will laws. But the whole world is wrong, and
mn.y views only on the causes which are the free trade theory of England is right
imate, indisputable and immediatelv be- -according to their own views. I
think,
e Us. One great, if not the sole cause, is to
ound in the withdrawal of money from the however, there are as able men in the
0untry to pay debts accrued and accruing United States as there are in England, and
d road for foreign imports, or debts contracted if the Americans do not know how to look
theng former periods of prosperity. What after their own interests I mistake them.
t'nis to be done to check this foreign drain.
e have tried free trade. We have had the I do not want to occupy the time of the
trInciples of free trade operating on more than House any longer on this question, the
alfof our comforts for nineyears. That wiIl subject has been so thoroughly discussed,
tlht do, we see. Do let us recall the time but I think there is something more to be
W'hel a protective policy was established, and said upon it. It is a question that will
We then had universal prosperity."
bear discussion. I do not suppose there
t 0W let us see what was the result of will be any converts made by discussing
the nine years operation of that tariff.
In it, but how public men in a country like,
141 the free imports of the United States this can continue to tell us that we should
aflOunted to $61,o3 1,098, and the
imports buy the manufactures of other people,
O dutiable goods amounted to $61,926,- while our own operatives are unemployed
446, While the average duty on total im- is a matter I cannot understand. Will
tOrts was about 127
per cent.; in 186o anyone tell me that the United States
e'irimports of free goods amounted to could have absorbed the population that
ab,291,614, while their imports of duti- has gone in there in the last twenty years
he goods amounted to $279,873,327. if they had not in operation a greater porhei the great civil war came on that was tion of that time a protective policy under
80fraught with disaster and ruin to the which employment was found for everyCultry After the war we know that the one who wanted it ? There are great
uties were increased enormously,
and numbers of the population who are not fit
there would the United States have been for agricultural pursuits, and it would be
tIay if they had not adopted that protec- no more use to send them on to farms
policy ? To my mind, if they had than it would be to send me aloft. The
Pv
hav adopted a high tariff they never could statistics of emigrants from Great Britain,.
bae Paid their debts; the money would recently
compiled by the London
hae been drained out of the country, and Board of Trade show that in thirty-two
ibey wOuld not be to-day in the flourishyears past 5,648,096 persons of British
thg condition that generally prevails and Irish birth have emigrated. Of these
throughout the United States. Free 3,730,454 went to the United States,
igaders tell us that we do not get poorer 1,111,225 went to Australasia, and 571,we buy more than we sell. That is a 366 came to British North America. We
celusion ; if we sell more than we buy we have had half a million, and the United
talSt be getting better off. There is no States nearly four millions of immigrants in
Uobt about that. The great free trade thirty-two years. It shows that the United
0ga in England, the 7imes, told us a. States could not have absorbed this large0N. MR

trader-

-474A

The Industries and [SENATE] .Manuf'r8of Canada.

immigration if it had not been for their
protective policy, which encouraged manufacturers and furnished employment to
all classes of people. I am quite convinced that protection is the policy of this
country. and that our friends in the
,Opposition will be a long time before they
-attain power if they do not change
their opinions in that respect ; if they like
to remain in the cold shades ot opposition, by holding on to their present opinions, it is their own business.
We are getting along well. There never
was a time when all classes of the people
in Canada were better fed and better
clothed than they are to-day ; everybody
who wishes for employment has plenty to
do. There is no distress in our land.
People are not coming to the doors of
Parliament demanding bread or work, as
they were during the time of the Mackenzie Government; labor is well employed and well paid. What is the price
of labor ? It is the amount of food and
raiment you can get for it. If the laborer
can get as much food and raiment for $1
at one time, as he can for $2 at another,
he is as well off at $i as at $2 wages.
The laborer to-day has a reasonable price
for his work ; food and clothing are low,
and nobody need want the necessaries of
life. There is no complaint throughout
the country of hard times, and there is no
reason why any able bodied man should
be unemployed. If the laborer goes about
hungry it is his own fault, and it is because
he will not work. Finding that to be the
condition of affairs after six years experience of the National Policy, I think we
have reason to congratulate ourselves and
the country that our public men have
thrown off the trammels of the Globe and
the free-trade theories of England. We
can all recollect how the Chambers of
Commerce of Sheffield sent a remonstrance to the British Government, which
was forwarded to our Government, against
the policy of 1878, saying that under our
protective tariff manufactories of iron had
been established in Montreal and other
places, and if the National Policy were
continued other manufactories would also
be established, and Canada would be lost
as a market for the manufactures of England. However we have got a little out
of the leading strings; we have got out of
Downing Street rule. I will not trouble
HoN. MR. READ.

the House any further, and I only sy
that I congratulate the country On
fact that we are on the road to prosperityl
and if we continue on as we are doingt
think it will be some time before we hbae
cause for regret at the action taken bY
Parliament in adopting the tariff of 1879'
HON. MR. TURNER-Seeing that th"
debate has already been so prolonged 1
would not occupy the time of the Iiou
were it not that the hon. member for
Ottawa has called attention to a Hamilton
industry of which I know a little. Th
were also some other remarks in his speeh
which I would like to take some notice o
and if you allow me a few moments I
do so. The hon. gentleman said in bis
speech on the subject now under discussion, "I find its stock (The Nova Scouta
sugar refinery) quoted at twenty-five cents
in the dollar. What has becoine of t
other seventy-five cents ?" In replY ,
would say that the unprecedented ant
astonishing shrinkage during the pa
year in the price of sugar, and the rapidity
of the decline has been so disastrous that
the planter and the refiner-in fact a
connected with the trade the world over,
have either been overtaken by bankruptcy
or become sadly crippled financiaUl
This with the consequent want of con
dence will account for the depreciation i
such stocks. But now there is evidence
that the market has touched bottom, an
I confidently look forward to an earlY r
vival, and know of no city more likelY W
be benefited thereby than Halifax.
fact with its advantages if it does n
become the Greenock of the Dominion,
am satisfied that the cause of failure can
only be a want of enterprise on the part o
its citizens. In another part of the hon'
gentleman's speech he said
Sou kitchene have been establise t®
diflerent parts of the country; I notice thete
is one in the flourishing city of London. And
this is the opportune time that the hon.
tieman takes for lauding the fiscai«par
which was to bring prosperity by Act 0f par
liament.
There is to-day, and has been in Londoo
during the winter season, in prosperO"l
to
times and the reverse, for many
tO
past, a charitable association orgamizi
render assistance to the poor, whornh 0.
Saviour says we shall have always wit

The Industries and [MARCEH 27, 1885] Xanuf'r8 of Canada. 475

I do think therefore that such laudable suitable for it to continue that policy
tharities should be praisedand encouraged at another stage of its history. So it will
rather than that their usefulness should be be for this country. At the present time,
enrdangered or hindered by being brought and under existing circumstances, I am a
lato such discussions. Although this is strong protectionist. Although I came to
the only soup kitchen that has been Canada a free-trader, as soon as I landed
axMed by the hon. member from Ottawa, in this country I saw at once that the
he has given us to understand that there policy for Canada must be protection, and
are others ; if so, I can only say that, pro- I will give you the reason why I came to
Yded they are conducted like the London that conclusion. While we were blocklititution, I should like to see such or- printing in Glasgow we printed for the
ealizations in every city in the Dominion home trade, and were fully employed say
during the winter months, be the times for four months of the year for the Spring
8o0d or bad.
trade, four nionths for the Fall trade
The hon. gentleman further remarked and for four months we had really
that " the tariff of the United States has nothing to do for the home trade.
been as great a curse to that country as At that time it was necessary to keep
Ours has been to Canada." I accept the our men, and it was necessary to employ
oMparison, but join issue as to the con- them at the work they were at. Our
clusion aimed at by my hon. friend. blocks cost us nothing for such a purpose,
&cording to the hon. member for Niagara our men were put upon short wages dure average age of the hon. members ing those four months, and the result was
f this House is 62 years. Most of us, that we printed a large amount of goods
therefore, can recollect the standing of the for foreign markets at the mere cost of
'Jhited States among the nations some material and labor, and shipped immense
to quantities of goods to Boston, New York,
Y years ago, when
evelope their prairies.they commenced
Baltimore and Philadelphia During the
1 can myself look back to that time, and time I was connected with this trade in
e can all recollect that the United States Glasgow there was a number of printworks
Were then merely a third-class power. started in the vicinity of Boston, but the
Alrnost simultaneously, however, they duty at that time being only ten per cent.
dopted a protective policy, and since owing to the competition from the manuat time their progress has been astonish- facturers on our side of the water on such
- Our position to-day is somewhat an unfair basis, every one of those print.lTlar;we have adopted a protective works went to the wall. But the United
ley, and we are now launching out on States at the time I refer to, put on a duty
Prairies and developitig our North- of, I think, 35 per cent. on our goods, and
est, and although not a prophet nor the cut us out. We could not send our goods
to Of a prophet, I say if Canada is true over there because the loss was too great,
herself-if Canada carries out the and we lost that market. The people in
paid a little
Potcy she has adopted in the same way the United States, no doubt,
athe United States carried out theirs, more for their printed goods for a time,
t two decades hence we will see a but what is the result to-day ? They print
th pulation in this country that will astunish more than they require for their own mar.
t World. I happened to be, before I ket, and turn out as good prints, and some
e to this country, for five years con- of the handsomest styles in the world.
edwith a printfield warehouse in The theory of the free trader is right. I
80Udw I was a free-trader then, and am a free trader on the broad theory ol
o dbe a free-trader again under similar free trade; but in a discussion of this kind
*4CU1Ttances ; but what I object to is the you must take facts as well as theory. I
rY that because one policy is suitable go on the principle that theory is bad il
k.Igland, that the same policy must be facts are against it, and that theory is good
table for every other country. I think if it squares with facts. Referring to thE
th Otethings must be settled by each workings of the Customs Department, thc
for ntry for itself. It may be very suitable hon. gentleman fron Ottawa said there is
pe.gland to adopt free-trade at one no appeal from the decision of the Minis
Period, and it might be wholly un- ter. Surely the hon. gentleman musi

476

The industrie and SENATE]

know that if the Minister of Customs gives
a wrong decision, the party aggrieved can
go to the Courts and have it upset if he
has a good case, but the fact of the matter
is that the decisions of the Minister and
his Department have been so just and so
satisfactory that there has been no appeal
from them. The hon. gentleman said
further :"I can mention a case to my hon. friend
where goods were purcha ed by five different
parties from one man.
hiey went to two or
three different points in Canada, and the
same class went to another point where another and a different duty was imposed."
During the time of the Mackenzie'Administration I did that very thing myself.
I suspected a great deal of difference existed in reference to the passing of sugars
through the Customs House at different
ports. I had oo hogsheads of sugar
arriving from Cuba, and I determined to
get at the bottom of this, in order to see
under what system sugars were entered at
various ports. I sent 20 hogsheads to
Hamilton, 20 to Clifton, 20 to Port Dover,
20 to Brantford and 20 to Stratford, and
there was not one of those lots properly
entered except those at Hamilton and at
Clifton. All the others were entered
differently, and on a much lower valuation.
I brought the matter up before the Dominion Board of Trade, and the late Hon.
Mr. Burpee, who was then Minister of
Customs, asked me to submit to him a
statement of the case. As soon as I did
so each one of those Customs officers was
reprimanded. Now that is what I would
say to all merchants who have grievances
against the Customs Department. The
proper course is to submit them to the
authorities instead of bottling them up and
abusing the Minister who may know
nothing about the facts of the case. I
am perfectly satisfied, and take this opportunity of saying so as a merchant of thirtyseven years standing in Canada, that in my
opinion the Customs Department was
never better nor more satisfactorily managed than it is at the present moment.
The hon. gentleman from Ottawa further
remarked that :" When prosperitepan we were able to
stand the Nationa Po icy. We could not
have stood it if it had not been for that change
in the condition of other nations, and we enjoyed erosperity in spite of the National

Policy.

HON. MR. TURNER.

Ianif'reof Vanada.

The National Policy is the very thin1
that saves us at the present moment.her
it were not for the National Policy wief,
would we be ? Where would the gold
come from to pay for the goods purchar
outside ? Were we not clothed with ftr
own cloth we would have to get cloth ftom
somewhere else, and that would have to
be paid for in hard cash. The particuat
point in the hon. gentleman's remark tha
brought me to my feet is this:" The hon. gentleman knows that Hamltop
is the centre of the sewing machine ta
There are more manufacturing establishwet
there than anywhere else in Canada. In 187j
with a tariff of 174 per cent., we imor e
5,281 machines; in 1884, with a tarifI O
per cent., we imported 12,259 machines.
The statement of the hon. gentleal'
is strictly correct, but what are the facts
of the case ? In 1877 there was a duty
of 17%• per cent-that is $3.5o a machine.
That was when parties went over to the
United States, and bought those machiles
at the then market value there of $200
to $22.oo each, and paid the duty on tha

value so at that time there was a protectio.
on machines of $3.50. To-day there 1
no protection with the $6 duty that is
charged, and I will tell you why. The
market price in the States-that is the
selling price to the wholesale trade there
is still $20 to $22, whereas to Canadians
the selling price is from $14 to $r6. The
duty being 20 per cent. ad valoren On
the selling price to the wholesale trade o
the United States would be $4 and $1
specific, in all $6, the Canadian therefore gets the machine, duty paid at
actly the New York price of to-day.
would like to know in this case whO pays
the duty?
HoN. MR. MACDONALD - The
American manufacturer pays the duty
there.
HON. MR. TURNER-Certainly, the
American manufacturer pays the dutY in
that case. The hon. gentleman fro0n
Ottawa says further that this tarif "a
adopted for the purpose of favoring the few
at the expense of the many. But what was
the tenor of his whole speech ? hes
whole argument was to the effect that the
manufacturers were being ruined becaus.C
they could not get proper prices for they,
goods. Is that favoring the few ? Wh"

The Industriesand [MARCH 27, 1885] Xanqf'r8 of Canada.

477

't is the many who are getting the cheap
go0ds, and under such circumstances I
thtk, with my hon. friend from Belleville,
at the National Policy does the greatest
god to the greatest number. I can bear
testimony to a great many of the facts
dvanced by my hon. friend with regard
to the cheese trade. I recollect when
we cOUld not, on account of its inferiority,
tell cheese made by our own farmers. A
Protective duty of three cents was put
"Pan cheese, however, and now we produce and are large exporters of the finest
lheese manufactured in the world.

We go into all the markets of the worldthe markets of Great Britain and the
United States and France, and other
countries where we compete with the lumber from the Baltic and that of the western States. We certainly cannot protect
that industry, and the National Policy
only imposes heavy F'urdens on the lumberman. The fisheries are in the same
condition. The fish we catch and cure
are exported to various parts of the world,
and that is an industry we cannot protect.
What have we that we can protect ?
Shipbuilding, I am sorry to say, is almost

MR.
sli1 Na. LEWIN-I had not the
ihtest intention of inflicting anything
e a speech on this House at this period
the debate, but I heard such a chorus
f praises of the National Policy since the
,scussion has commenced
that I cannot allow them to in this House
pass without
%ing on behalf of the Maritime Provin!
es and certainly on behalf of Ne,;
!Utlswick, to say that it is the very
te'erse with us. Since I left Ottawa last
SPrig I have scarcely heard anything but
CorJPlaints of business stagnation and of
the utter failure of the National Policy as
as the Maritime Provinces are conCerlned. With respect to the report of the
"C'D'Tlissioners, which is now under dis-

wooden ships.

Csson , it is made up in a very peculiar,

HON. MR. SMITH-Because iron
vessels are coming in instead of wood.
HON. MR.

LEWIN-I recollect having

counted in the harbor of St. John some

few years ago, thirty vessels being built, and
when I left there this session there were
but two on the stocks. I do not mean to
say that the National Policy has destroyed
the building of wooden ships. but I must
say that it has aggravated the depression
in that trade by increasing the prices of
the necessaries of life which the ship carpenters must have; and increasing the
prices of articles used in ship building.

HON MR. KAULBACH-Name the
isfactory and confused way, so that articles.
conclulittle
YOU can draw very
'n from it, and I therefore pay
HoN. MR. LEWIN-Almost every
'ery little attention to that report. I take article that people eat, drink and wear.
he National Policy as it stands on its
41erits- In the first place I think it is adHON. MR. KAULBACH-Name them.
titted that you cannot protect an exporHON. MR. LEWIN-Take for instance
11ng industry. Any industry in which you
.Poduce in the .country more than you the article of cornmeal, which is the
' consume you cannot afford it protec- poorest class of food used by the fisher'On ail you can do is to facilitate the men in this country.
heap production of those goods which HON. MR. SMITH-They donot use
a've to go forth into the neutral markets
9f the world. Now what are the great cornmeal for food.
Iterests of Canada? First in point of
HON. MR. LEWIN-They do use a
rs and capital employed I presume
and still on that coarse
of
Culture, and the exports of agricul- great deal foodit,our laboring classes have
t
thiproduce, meat, grain, cheese and article of
rgs of that kind cannot be protected, to pay 40 cents a barrel duty.
the National Policy, therefore, only
HON. MR. KAULBACH-They do
1ntPses a burden on the lumbering indus- not eat it.
t great interest is the farmers. The
o h I Presume we export three-fourths
HON. MR. LEWIN-What do they do
ofthe lurnber manufactured in this country. with it then ?

478

The Industries and [SENATE] Manuf're of Canada.

HON. MR. LEWIN-We had another
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Feed it to
cotton company there, the Parks CottOn
their cattle.

Company, which had been in existence for

Under the stlHON. MR. LEWIN--The fishermen twenty or twenty-five years.

mulating influence of the National Policy
they doubled and trebled the size of that
factory, and whathas been the consequence
there ? It is now in process of foreclosure
under a mortgage and will be sold in jRne.
That is two of the cotton factories. With
regard to the cotton factory in Windsor, the
stock can be purchased for 25 cents On
HON. MR. SMITH-All kinds of wool- the dollar.
lens are 25 per cent cheaper now than they
were before the National Policy.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I think nOt.
have no cattle to feed cornmeal to. Then
take coarse wollens of which the clothing
of the fishermen is made. How are they
taxed? Instead of paying an ad valorem
duty, the duty is collected on such goods
by weight.

HON. MR. LEWIN-The hon. gentleman may also say 'that sugar is cheaper
now than it was then, but certainly it is
not our protective system that makes it so.
It is not the enormous duty that makes
sugar cheaper; it is because of the overproduction of refined sugar in other parts
of the world.
HON. MR. SMITH - We produce
coarse wollens in this country.

HoN. MR. LEWIN-What has been
the result? Practically I have seen more
of the Maritime Provinces than I have of
Ontario or Quebec, but in the Maritime
Provinces I know it has stimulated two or
three industries, such for instance as cotton
and sugar, and what has been the result?
In the city of St John we had a cotton
mill established. Some quarter of a million
of.dollars of capital was subscribed to put
the mill into operation, and there was a
great puff made about it as to what it was
going to do for St. John, that it would
employ so many hands. I now hold in
my hand an order of the judge of the
Supreme Court of New Brunswick calling
the stock-holders of that company together
to wind up the concern under the Insolvent Company's Act.

HON. MR. LEWIN-With regard to
the sugar industry, it is in very much the
same way. The stock is in a depreciated
state. The fact is the National p0licY
has stimulated those industries untit
millions of dollars of capital have siIlY
been sunk. Probably some syndicate till
come in and purchase them for the anout
of the mortgage.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Does not that
cheapen the products of those factories tO
the people ?
HON. MR.

LEWIN-The stockholders

lose money.
HON. MR. PLUMB-But is not the
effect of that to cheapen the price of the
articles to the people ?
HON. MR. LEWIN-We are now going
through the process of winding up those
industries which the National policy
stimulated unduly. Now there has been
another establishment in Moncton, the
Peters Combination Lock Company.

HON. MR. MACFARLANE-That
was established before the National policy
was adopted.
HON. MR. LEWIN-It was there, but
under the National Policy it has been
HoN. MR. HOWLAN-What factory wound up and sold. It was not able tO
is that ?
pay its debts, the whole capital put in by
the stockholders having been lost. The
HON. MR. LEWIN-The St. John fact is our country is in a disastrous state
Cotton Company.
-the lumber trade, the shipping tradeall our industries, and I do not think theY
HON. MR. KAULBACH-That is the have been in such a bad condition at anY
result of bad management.
time within the last forty years,

The Industrie8 and [MARCH 27, 1885] Manuf'r8 of Canada

479,

KAULBACH-It is not so suffering from a severe depression at
Scotia.
present.

11ON. MR.

'Nova

HON. MR. LEWIN-My hon. friend
saYS that is not the condition of affairs in
o0va Scotia. He told us the other day
in What a deplorable condition Halifax
Would have been if it had not been for the
establishment of the cotton and sugar
!ndustries. I went out of the Chamber
'klmlediately after he made that remark,
and met a prominent Halifax man and
asked him about it. He told me " These
4ndustries have been the cause of all our
troubles : the money is locked up in theni
and the people cannot get it."

HON. MR. KAULBACH-It is not so
in Nova Scotia.
HON. Mr. LEWIN-My hon. friend
from Lunenburg propounded some extraordinary theories; one is that the duty
upon coal is paid by the American seller.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I said that
is the case wherever it comes within the
area of competition with our coal.

HON. MR. LEWIN-I do not think
it is worth while to discuss such a fallacy
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Wages were as that. Coal is an article in which there
never higher in Halifax.
is universal competition, and if we put a
duty upon it the tax must be paid by the
HON. MR. LEWIN-Then the hon. consumer.
gentleman said there is a large amount of
nioney in the savings bank. The explanaHON. MR. KAULBACH -I
have
t On of that lies in a nutshell. Trade was shown that coal is as cheap now at Presdepressed and money was abundant ; all
cott and Brockville as it is in Ogdensburg.
the solvent banks of the country reduced
the rate of interest to three per cent ; the
HON. MR. WARK-It is too bad that
Qovernment were in want of money and the hon. gentleman from Lunenburg canOffered four per cent. What has the con- not let the hon. member proceed with
Sequence been ? People very naturally his speech. He has interrupted my hon.
took their money from the charted banks friend more in the ten minutes that he has
and put it in the savings banks.
been speaking than the hon. gentleman
was himself interrupted in his four hours
HON. MR. HOWLAN-There is more speech.
koney in the chartered banks now than
ere was in 1878.
THE SPEAKER-The hon. member
from St. John has the floor, and should
ON. MR. SMITH-A great deal more. not be interrupted.

ON. MR. LEWIN-The whole result
tf the National Policy seems to have been
that for two or three years it of course
Produced a surplus revenue; that surplus
revenue ,naturally, as it alwaysdoes, induced
ertai amount of extravagant expendiUre, and the end ofit nowis that we have
80t a deficiency to meet. There is no

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I am sure I
would not think of interrupting my hon.
friend if I thought it was displeasing to
him. When I am speaking myself I
rather like to be interrupted in that way
than otherwise.

ationaround for some other objects of taxela.
I am not going to enter into any
ti rate speech on free trade and protecw • My hon. friends from Prince Edqard Island and Ottawa went into that
prestion very largely, and showed the
sy perity of England under a free trade
, but certainly
tili Provinces are as far as the Mariconcerned, we are

was this, that the National Policy increased
the price of meat and grain, because he
said one-half of the meat and grain raised
in the country is consumed in it. Could
a greater fallacy be propounded than that ?
It is very evident that if you have to export any quantity of an article the export
price fixes the value of the product in the
country.

HON. MR. LEWIN-Another proposiqustion of it at all. We shall soon have to tion of the hon. member from Lunenburg

480

A Question [SENATE] of Privilge.

That an humble Address be presented tO
HON. MR. KAULBACH-The home
His Excellency the Governor.General; praY
market is the best market.
ing that he will cause to be laid before this
House, a full and complete statement,HON. MR. LEWIN-But the home
1st. Of the entire assets of the Bank of
market price must be fixed by the price in Upper Canada when first placed in the hands

Liverpool. I do not want to detain the
House at this late hour and after such a
long debate as we have listened to, but I
wish to express my entire dissent from the

of the Government Trustees, Mr. C. •
Campbell and Mr. Peleg Howland.
the
2nd. Of the amounte recovered from1

said assets, and from the different debtors Of

the Bank during the period of their trusteeproposition that this National Policy has ship, and afterwards, when the renaining
benefited the Maritime Provinces, espe- assets were placed in the hands of Mr. Clark
cially while the people of New Brunswick Gamble, of Toronto.
are suffering to a greater extent than they
HoN. MR. ALEXANDER said: I
have for many years before. During the
fifty years that I have been mixed up in think I shall have to ask the House to
mercantile matters in St. John, I do not allow me to postpone this motion to the
think since 1842 the country has been in 21st of April because of the troubles

a worse state than it is now. Real estate brought upon the country through the
has depreciated about fifty cents on the culpable mal-administration of our present
dollar from what it was.

Every descrip- rulers.

tion of trade and business is in the most
depressed state, and people are becoming
perfectly hopeless.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
Here we have the ought to have been fixed for the 1st Of

prospect before us that on the
next our reciprocity

1st

with the

of July April.
United

States in fish will be abolished, and we
see no effort being made to renew it, and
the next thing we will have will be a duty
on our fish. I wish to express my entire
dissent from the praises which have been
bestowed on the National Policy. To us
it has simply been an oppressive policy,
one which has taken a large amount of
revenue out of the country and has crippIed our trade and resources.

The motion was allowed to stand until
the 21st inst.
A QUESTION OF PRIVILEGE.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Before the
Orders of the day are called, I rise to a
question of privilege. I desire to call the
attention of the House to the report which

appears in the Toronto Mail of the speech
of one of its members upon the motion
HON. MR. FLINT moved the adjourn- for adjournment, on the 26th of March.
The Mail says upon that motion for adment of the debate.
journment:
The motion was agreed to.
" The Hon. Mr. Alexander opposed the
The Senate adjourned at 5:10 p.m.
motion, which was likely in his calculatio"
to ruin the country. He soon fell intO his
usual strain and attacked the Minister o1
Justice and the present Government to the
hearty amusement of the House, which was
THE SENATE.
kept in roars of laughter by the hon. gentie'
Ottawa, Wednesday, April 8t/h, 1885. man 's eccentric remarks."
Now, hon. gentlemen, I do not believe
The SPEAKER took the Chair at eight that the gentleman who reports for the fail
in this Chamber ever made such report.
*o'clock p. m.
I do not believe-I cannot believe-that a
Prayers and routine proceedings.
member of the press whom we all respect
so much ever made that report, and I onlY
THE BANK OF UPPER CANADA. desire to add that I hope the present
Minister of Justice and his colleague, Sir
MOTION POSTPONED.
David Macpherson, did not inspire that
The motion on the order of the day infamous distortion of what I did say.
having been called,
That is the way they are carrying on the

Summnary [APRIL 8, 1885] ProceedingsBil.

481

Government of the country-by fraud or have had an opportunity of conferring
force.

with the judges who are most conversant
with those matters-their opinion is, it is
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONnot intended to limit ; it is intended to
I have never taken the slightest notice of bring out in bolder relief the particular
the hon. gentleman's stilted nonsense.
and specific objects of the clause by giving
examples. It might be that a judicial
OFFENCES AGAINST THE PERSON construction would find some doubt in
BILL.
some of those cases being within the
clause, and the object of those particulars
is to show that they are intended to be
THIRD READING.
within the scope and meaning of the
HION. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved clause.
the third reading of Bill (F) "An Act
flrther to amend an Act intituled 'An
HON. MR. POWER-I think that to
Act respecting offences against the per- avoid any doubt it would be advisable to
son.)»
insert some words after the word "matters,"
The motion was agreed to and the Bill to show that clause 2 is not limited to
the matters set forth in clause 3, and
'Was read the third time and passed.
I think my hon. friend should insert after
BE- the word " matters," the words " amongst
PROCEEDINGS
-SUMMARY
others."
FORE JUSTICES AND OTHER
MAGISTRATES BILL.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
IN COMMITTEE.

not think that would answer; we must
specify matters.

The House resolved itself into a ComHoN. MR. POWER-The specification
rlittee of the Whole on Bill (L) "An Act
to Make further provision respecting sum- is rather limited.
1
lary proceedings before justices and
HON. MR. GOWAN-I think if my
'other magistrates."
hon. friend opposite would read the clause
In the Committee, on the 2nd clause, over he would see that it covers the point
he takes. I have, personally, no objection,
1
iON. MR. GOWAN-At the sug- but I think the clause is clear enough as
estion of one of the judges in Toronto it is.
. WOuld like to put in two or three words
"t the i9th line so that it shall read :
The clause was agreed to.
shall also be sufficient if contained in
the information, summons, order or "
On the 4 th clause.
T
he amendment was agreed to and the
Clause was adopted.
HON. MR. GOWAN said :-In case of
an indictment, the offence may be stated
in a number of different counts. This is
On the 3rd clause,
not so in summary proceedings; it would
1
1ON MR. GOWAN-This clause is be held to be charging several offences,
Iterely an amplification of the 2nd clause. and the hon. gentleman referred to some
. gives the particulars of the cases to cases in this connection.
WhIch it refers.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
"skON. MR. POWER-I would like to should like to know from my hon. friend
task fly hon. friend if he does not think where he got the plan
of giving an instance
'hat he rather limits the effect of the 2nd of what some clauses mean ? That, so far
Ch8use too much by the 3rd clause.
as I have observed, is novel. I do not
think I have ever noticed a Bill before in
lON. MR. GOWAN -I
think not. which instances are given of what is meant
e effect is to enlarge, and so far as I by the language of the Bill.
F x

482

Siummary [SENATE] Proceeding8 Bill.

HON. MR. GOWAN-It is, I believe,

found in English legislation. Unfortunately under our system litigants have to
pay for settling questions of that kind, and
I thought in respect to provisions of this
kind we could not be too clear to prevent
the parties from paying the expense of
having a judicial construction put upon
the Act.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Can
my hon. friend refer to any cases of this
kind in the English statutes at present ?
HON. MR. GOWAN-I cannot at this
moment, but my recollection is that it is
so, and I know that one of the best
draughtsmen in England recommended it.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLSupposing that had to be construed by the
court, and the case which came up was
not the case which is given here as an
example, but another case, might not the
court be so limited by that example asto say
" we cannot give the same law in reference
to another case, because there is no
example of it ? "

HON. MR. GOWAN-No, not at all.
The court would certainly be at liberty
to adopt that as a mere illustration.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
should like, before the Bill passes, to have
an opportunity of looking into this matter
and seeing whether there are instances of
legislation in this way, and if so I suppose
we can ascertain that it would be safe to
adopt it ; if not I should rather object to
this mode.
HON. MR. GOWAN-I have no objection to eliminating it altogether rather than
prejudice the passing of the Bill.

HON. MR. PLUMB-While I have
great respect for my hon. friend's judgment,
and I speak with great deference, not
being a lawyer, I think he has in some way
confounded two ideas. The magistrates
of England are in a very different position
from the justices of the peace appointed,
for instance, in the Province of Ontario.
I do not believe that it is desirable that
those gentlemen should have their powers
enlarged-if this Bill enlarges their powers.

HON. MR. GOWAN-It does not. ,
HON. MR. PLU MB-I understand that
it does very considerably. of course 1
am desirous, if it does, that they shoUl.
be protected in the exercise of their
functions. I do not think that they should
be subject to unnecessary difficultY Or
trouble ; but from personal observation,
really think it is undesirable that the course
of legislation should be such as to give
larger powers to a class of men who m1ay
use those powers very often arbitrarl>
They are almost always used in s
cases, such as troubles amongst neighbors
and I should be for restricting and limiti'n
t
the powers of the magistrates in a Wh
explicit manner, leaving nothing that
could be abused, for it is almost impossible
for the kind of litigants who are broUght
before magistrates to get protection t
every case. By this very Bill they cannt
appeal without giving considerable ba.
That cuts off the farm laborer and the very
class of men who are frequently taken tJP
for small offences-often through mal.e
-and I had serious doubt about ths
measure when it first came up. Since the
Bill was brought before the House I have
consulted some lawyers of most emine, t
authority who agree with me in thinlfking
that the greatest caution should be exercised in dealing with legislation of this
kind. I would be very sorry, indeed, to
say anything which would look like differing from or interfering with the hon
gentleman in carrying his measure ti
trust, however, that the Minister of Justice
will look carefully into this Bill. I do flot
think it ought to be hurried, and it shO
be fully discussed by gentlemen o te t
legal profession who are fully competen
to understand its full extent and meaninlg
before it passes its final stage.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-If it had the
effect that my hon. friend suggests,for
should be with him in his contention, f
I should certainly not be in favrutf
enlarging the powers of justices.
its
cannot see that it has any such effect ics
object is to correct the errors of j ltîes
1
HON. MR. LACOSTE-I wish to cal'
attention to the 2nd clause, which prh or
thaê if the court or judge before whic O
whom the question is raised " is, upn

8ummary [APRIL 8, 1885] Proceedings Bill.
Persual of the depositions, or by affidavit,
atisfied that an offence has been committed over which such justice has jurisdiction,
!hd that the punishment imposed is not
Sexcess of that which might have been
1
efully imposed for the said offence he
need not set aside the conviction." The
Prisoner may have been convicted for a
Cetain offence, and when the case is taken
before a superior court, although the judge
aY come to the conclusion that no such
ofrence was committed, yet if he thinks
that another offence has been committed,
then the conviction stands good.

488

tion to it. They would have regard to the
information and depositions, and so construe it as to have reference to the offence
committed, but there can be no objection
to amending the clause so that it shall be
more definite.
HON. MR. SCOTT-We are simply
bringing the legislation up to the level of
the existing law in other cases. We
authorize the judges of the higher courts
to make the widest possible amendments.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-If
the construction put ùpon this clause by
liON. MR. GOWAN-It is not so, and the hon. member from DeLorimier is corthink it will be perfectly safe to leave it to rect, then we are going beyond what is.
!Judges
to determine whether the given to any court.
onfrmation and the depositions disclose
Offence committed of the character
HON. MR. SCOTT-This question of
Chaged. That is, I think, the fair con- quashing convictions goes before judges
eni Ction of this clause. With regard to of the higher courts who are entrusted
argmg the powers of justices, I can with trials at assizes and circuits. If you
u1re My hon. friend that it does not do will look at the Procedure Act of 1869,
It merely enlarges the powers of you will see that very large powers are
îndges to deal with matters which magis- given to those judges to make the indicttes have passed upon.
ment suit the evidence-very much wider
powers than we are proposing to give the
floN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-This
whole question is
and clause is intended to meet a case of judges here. The would really be prewhether a prisoner
t kind; where a man is brought up judiced by this clause. I cannot see that
ore a magistrate and the conviction
he would, and I cannot see why we should
states the offence, or states it short so not give to the judge the same powers
ot to make all the facts plain, then it
of much
in
nI1tended that although the conviction that we give He cases necessarilygreater conbe guided
sequence.
will
tfcome short of giving a full statement by the spirit of the legislation, which is
the offence, yet if an offence has been that the defendant in the case must have
»riitted over which the magistrate has thoroughly appreciated the nature of the
the Iction, it shall not be incumbent on charge. A judge would not put a man in
ecourt to quash the conviction. That
the false position of allowing him to be
not seern unreasonable. The court convicted of a charge that he had not the
The judge
more knowledge and better opportunity of answering.
hportave
and runities of judging of these matters, simply sees that the conviction is not oute l be composed of men with all the
side of the charge. It seems to me that
bility of lawyers imposed upon it is quite in line with the ordinary
the
ces sf hey find that the conviction powers of the courts.
hort of stating the offence accuratel
bey but also find that the offence has
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLOmmitted, it shall not be incumbent Supposing there are two offences commit1
to quash the conviction because ted, one destroying a shrub and another
Of dee
efectiv form.
committing an assault. Should we use
iON. MR. LACOSTE-The clause is language which would enable a judge to
say that a conviction was good for one
nentioe he interpretation which I have offence when the other offence was the
one that was really committed ? The
thalON· MR. GOWAN-I do not think judge might hold that the evidence was
et anY court would give that construc- not sufficient to establish the destruction

484

Summary [SENATE] Proceeding8 Bill.

of the shrub, and he might find him guilty
of assault. That is the suggestion of the
hon. gentleman from DeLorimier, and he
proposes to amend the language so that it
shall read "satisfied that the offence &c.,
or " a kindred offence." Although I have.
the greatest reliance on the judges, I do
not think it is advisable to pass legislation
which looks as if we allowed a magistrate
to try a man for one offence and commit
him for another.
HON. MR. POWER-I do not think
the clause is open to the objection suggested

self on perusal of the depositions without
being confined to the particular offence
narrated therein ? I cannot think that
there is any danger such as has been
suggested, and I should like very mIIch

to have the clause retained as it is
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-'I
you use the words which I have suggested
it would remove the objection which has
0
been urged by the hon. member fr0o
DeLorimier, and prevent a man bein'
committed for an offence altogether
distinct from that with which he is
charged.

by the hon. member from DeLorimier,
because the judge has to be satisfied by a
" perusal of the depositions," and the deHoN. MR. SCOTT-I think the words
positions will show what offence was should be " of the nature described."
committed.

If the justice who tried the

case is ignorant, and, for instance, says
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-hat
that destroying a shrub is larceny, although phrase would meet the idea of the hoJ1the magistrate makes that gross blunder member from DeLorimier.
in naming the offence, if the judge thinks
it is clear from the depositions that the
HON. MR. LACOSTE-Suppose a
offence was committed, the mistake in prisoner were brought before a nagistrate
.naming the offence should not be allowed accused of assault, and convicted upoh
to prevent the punishment of the guilty that charge, and the conviction W
party. I think that the wording of the brought before a higher tribunal; "a
Bill as it stands is better than it would be suppose the judge came to the conclusio
if it were amended as has been suggested. that there was no evidence to prove thlt
The judge will gather from the deposi- an assault has been committed, but at
tions what the character of the offence is. the same time that there was a breach of
the peace, under the clause as it is the

hat
conviction could be maintained.
Suppose we say " satisfied that an offence seems to me to be unreasonable. Perhal
of the character specified in the de- a judge would not apply the law in tht
positions is committed."
way, but there is an ambiguity In
clause as it stands.
HON. MR. GOWAN-If the Minister
of Justice will read the clause as a whole he
The clause was amended, by insertîI'
will see that no amendment of the kind is the words "of the nature therein
It is enacted that no con- scribed," and adopted.
necessary.
viction shall be invalid because of informality or insufficiency provided the judge,
HON. MR. GOWAN-On the
on perusal of the depositions, is satisfied clause I have heard from sone of the
that an offence has been committed. judges, and Justice Osler entirely approhas
The words "an offence" are put there of it. It is doing nothing more thanb
for the purpose of limiting the cases to been done by the Statutes of Ontario.
those coming within the criminal law.
Very frequently cases partake of civil
HON. MR. LACOSTE-By the Wo
injury rather than crime, and if they are ing of this clause it would apply to actio
mere civil injuries they cannot come for damages against magistrates.
under the Summary Trials Act. I do not
think that a judge could substitute one
HON. MR. SCOTT-Yes.
offence for the other. "An offence"
means an offence punishable by a magisHON. MR LACOSTE-That is a civa
trate, and how can the judge satisfy him- right, and I do not know that we have &
HON. SIR

ALEX.

CAMPBELL-

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL

Summary [APRIL 8, 1885] Proceeding8 Bill.

485

ht to say that a judge may prevent a
HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
il action being taken. It seems to me have no objection to trust the judges, but
that that is going too (ar.
it seems rather odd that a man, in order
to get what he is intitled to, should be rel'ON. MR. GOWAN-He cannot com- quired to give up his right. The man has
Pi Parties, under the existing law, to two rights at present, one to quash the
Ccept that condition. This clause enables conviction if it is wrong, and the other to
To get the convict1nr to make it part and parcel of his bring a civil action.
quashed he would be
or r The judges ini Toronto approve ion his right to bring a civilobliged to give
action.
up
HON. MR. SCOTT-Not necessarily.
ALEX. CAMPBELL-This
Ç1Oes impose the condition at ail, but
lot
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,
Person does not want his civil right because the judge would say " I will
14terfered with, he need not accept the not quash the conviction unless you do.*
tder. The judge will say " I will quash
te Conviction but you must undertake
HON. MR. SCOTT-But it is optional
to bring an action."
with the judge.
"ON

SIR

oN. MR. LACOSTE-If a man has
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
condemned
trat1 wrongly higher court by the magis- can do no harm to let the clause stand
.te, and the
so decides, it and consider it at any rate.
to bad that the judge should be allowed
ay " I will not quash the conviction
The clause was allowed to stand.
th ss you forego the right you have under
Z Common law." Under the law of the
On the 6th clause,
.Vince of Quebec we have recourse
t inst any man who has injured us
HON. MR. GOWAN-This clause is
through malice, and this law applies to
almost in the terms of a statute of George
agIStrates as well as to others. Now, II., which has been held over and over
decision of the higher tribunal would again to be in force in this country. It
thi s "if you do not renounce your is introduced here to bring it under the
t of action against the magistrate, I notice of magistrates, because they are not
* 110t quash the conviction although it always aware that the statute is in force.
One or two judges have written to me
suggestng the introduction of one or two
th 0. MR. GOWAN-We must suppose words in the clause, to enable a party to
t the judge would not make that order find one surety where he could not get
.sit was a slight mistake. If the two sureties. Another suggestion is, to
38istrate acted corruptly or maliciously introduce in the 28th line the words, "the,
Wh an order would not be made. But writ of certiorari," in order to make it clear
rthe magistrate makes a slight mis- that it applies to the writ of certiorari.
be Without any criminal intent it would Another change suggested by one of the
Certainly harsh to set aside the pro- judges is, to insert in the 3oth line, after
itdings and make the conviction void the word "and," " if ordered so to do" I
Without
out protecting the magistrate in some do not know that it is absolutely necessary,
Yt I know that some of the judges but Justice Osler, who is perhaps one of the
favoraexperienced in the matter are very most experienced judges dealing with these
Orable to this clause.
matters, suggested it, and it is not a very
important point.
only optional
Wit N· MR. SCOTT-It is
HON. MR. KAULBACF-It seems to
tr'ate e judge. If he thinks the magishe acted from an improper motive me that in this clause we are certainly
he tould not make that condition, but if giving large powers to magistrates. We
he thOught the magistrate acted bonafide require a security of $2oo, and that is
Would. Surely we can trust the judges. interfering with justice.

486

Sum ary [SEN ATE] Proceeding Bill.

HON. MR. GOWAN-That is already matter of that kind to dispose of, as it
provided by statute.
would be to another man to have a case
involving ten times as much, and it iS tO
HON. MR. KAULBACH-The amount protect that kind of a litigant that I think
is too large, and I think it should be left the suggestion of my hon. friend shoUhe
to the discretion of the court to whom the be adopted. I know something of the
application is made for certiorari, to fix the tyranny of irresponsible parties who some'
security, otheiwise many a man who has a times hold positions as justices Of the
good case for appeal would be denied peace. The magistrates of England are
justice.
an entirely different class of rnen fro0n
those who hold commissions of the peacc
HoN. MR. GOWAN-The amount is in this country, many of whom are ot
already fixed by the statute to which I trained in law and are deficient in educahave referred, and in case it is deemed tion, and I should be very sorry indeed
expedient to reduce the amount of the to have any case of mine in the hands f
security, I have provided a clause to sub- some of the individuals who hold those
stitute for the 6th section. If there is any commissions.
serious modification made it would be
necessary to say that the statute to which
HON. MR. KAULBACH-As my ho'
I have referred is no longer in force, other- friend has remarked, it would be an abso
wise it might be contended that the two lute deprivation of justice in most cases i
Acts were in force. Then in the 3 oth the $2oo bond was absolute. In Nova
Une i propose to add the words " if Scotia the penalty is generally left to the
ordered to do so." I must say that I discretion of the judges. I think it should
cannot see the force of it, but a very ex- be left entirely to the discretion of the
perienced judge who has had a great deal court to which the application is rnade,
to do with those cases thought it desirable. and if the party cannot get the suretete
The amendments were agreed to.
that he should be allowed to make a de,
posit of money.
HON. MR. POWER-Before we leave
the 6th clause I would suggest to my hon
HON. MR. FLINT-I think it shouîd
friend that he should make an amend- be left to the judge to decide, and We
ment in the direction indicated by the should limit it so that it shall not exce
hon. member from Lunenburg. I do not $200.
see any reason why the sum of $200
should be fixed as the security. It might
HON. MR. LACOSTE-In the Pro'
be a very inconvenient sum for the person vince of Quebec the Imperial Statute
convicted, if he was a very poor man, to referred to by the hon. gentleman fro
give security for, and I think it is a mat- Barrie, is not in force. We obtain a writ
ter that might be left to the discretion of of certiorari by merely making a Motio
the judges.
supported by affidavit. This motion he
served upon the magistrate, and the
HON. MR. PLUMB-I think the sug- magistrate appears before a judge's court'
gestion of my hon. friend from Halifax is and can make an oral objection if.e
a good one. Many of those cases are of choose, against the granting of the motion•
a petty nature, and they almost always The clause might be amended by addio'
involve small sums, and it seems quite that the judge may in certain cases oblige
out of proportion to require that a bond a party to give security without binding
of $200 should be given in ail cases. I the judge to take security in every case.
do not see how my hon. friend makes
"$200" the translation of "£ 5 o" in
HON. MR. GOWAN-I was under the
the Statute of George Il. I think $2oo impression that the Statute of Georgeki
rpight be stated as the highest sum re- was in force in Lower Canada, and I ask
quired as security and the amount might Mr. Wicksteed whether by the adoPtiOd
otherwise be left to the discretion of the of the English Criminal Law, as Ib
judges. It may be just as great a trouble always understood, that was not adopt
and misfortune to a poor man to have a with it.

Summary [APRIL 8, 1885] ProceedingsBill.

487

imit, because I have known many cases
HON. MR. LACOSTE-We have 1
sPecial legislation in Quebec, and I say nyself in which a $200 security would be
that statute is not in force in that province ; an absurd limit.
it is regulated by the cde of civil procedure.
HON. MR. GOWAN-Would this meet
he views of hon. gentlemen, to provide
HON. MR. GOWAN-Civil procedure tthat it shall be a sum not exceeding $1oo ?
COuld not touch criminal matters.
HoN. GENTLEMEN-No, no, no !
HON. MR. LACOSTE-No, but it
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
aPPlies to all convictions before magistrates.
sum to be left to the discretion of the
court or judge.
HoN. MR. GOWAN-There may be a
difficulty in getting the order in the first
HON. MR. GOWAN-Then it would
Place from the judge to fix the amount read in this way " in a sum to be fixed by
Of security. It involves a considerable the court or judge."
ount of extra trouble and expense, and
I think it would be better to reduce it at The amendment was agreed to.
01ce to half the sum-to have a fixed sum
The remaining clauses were adopted
rather than have to make an application.
without debate.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Let it be an
HON. MR. GOWAN-As these amenda1nount in the discretion of the judge.
ments have been agreed to it may be
HON. MR. POWER-I think the better necessary to adopt as a new section a
Way is to insert instead of the words clause to the effect that the statute of
$20o," the words "such sum as to such George II is no longer in force.
Court shall seem proper."

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
. HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Then is not necessary to repeal the Imperial

't Would involve the necessity of going
'efore the full court. If we said " such
sm as to such judge may seem fit," and
the counsel might argue that his client
as Poor and he would hope the amount
hs honor would fix would be small.

Act. If we enact a provision contrary to
an Imperial statute the latter ceases to be
the law.
HON. MR. GOWAN-It can do no
possible harm, and will help the Consolidating Act.

oN. MR. OGILVIE-Do I understand that the extreme amount to be
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-We
demnanded is $200 ?
have been enacting every now and then
for the last twenty years provisions conHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-As trary to some Imperial Statute, and have
the clause now is that is the amount.
not considered it necessary to repeal the
Imperial Act. The new law supersedes it.
"ON MR. OGILVIE-That is what I
Object to, because there are certain cases HON. MR. LACOSTE-Can we repeal
'here $200 would be a great deal too an Imperial Act ?
little, while in other cases $20 would be
t00 nuch.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
but we can make a new provision with
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It respect to it.
Yould be better to strike out the limit
altogether.
HON. MR. POWER suggested that the
question of a repealing clause should be
HON. MR. OGILVIE-That is exactly allowed to stand until the next sitting of
'hat I was coming to, to strike out the the Committee.

488

Insolvent Banks and [SEN ATE] Trading Corpovations Bill.

'An Act respectiag Insolvent
Banks, Insurance Companies, Loan Con
panies, Building Societies and Trading
Corporations.'"
He said: This Bill is intended to
apply a principle that is usually to be
found in all Acts relating to bankruptcies and insolvencies, of allowing
clerks and other persons in the employ ofsuch companies their full salaries or wages
for a period not exceeding three mnonths
prior to the insolvency. No provision of
that kind is inserted in the law for wind
ing up those corporations, and it seeIn
only reasonable and just that those clerks
HON. MR PAQUET, from the Com- and employes should be given this right.
mittee, reported that they had made It also provides that if the tern of ensome progress with the Bill, and asked gagement is unfinished, they may dra1l
two months of the unexpired terns and
leave to sit again on Monday.
that they be allowed to perform the serThe motion was agreed to,
vice for the liquidator or other party who
may be appointed to wind up the
BILLS INTRODUCED.
insolvent institution.
Bill (48) " An Act to authorize the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-a
Royal Canadian Insurance Company to
reduce its capital stock, and for other pur- any case come under the hon. gentleman's notice where such a provision is
poses." (Mr. Ryan.)
Bill (5o) "An Act to incorporate the necessary ? It seems a small matter tO
Fredericton and St. Mary's Railway require a special Act of Parliament.
Bridge Company." (Mr. Wark.)
Bill (6o) " An Act to incorporate the
HON. MR. SCOTT-Yes, I understand
Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church there have been such cases where it Is
of Canada." (Mr. McClelan.)
thought a great hardship that clerks and
Bill (78) "An Act to incorporate the employes should receive only a dividend,
Alberta and Athabaska Railway Co." This Bill is placing the employes of suçh
(Mr. Vidal.)
companies on the same level as persons ir'
Bill (1o1) "An Act to amend the law ordinary cases of insolvency.
respecting bridges, booms, and other works
constructed )ver or in navigable waters
HON. MR. POWER-There was an
under the authority of Provincial Acts." Act last year which amended the Act Of
(Mr. Macfarlane.)
I have not the Act before me just
Bill (1o8) " An Act to amend the Act 1882. but I presune ny hon. friend will
the con- now,
45 Vic., Cap. 17, to encourage
allowing this Bill to extend
struction of dry docks." (Sir Alex. Camp- not -object to last year's Act. I happen
to cases under
bell.)
know one aggravated case where a nuin~
Bill (102) " An Act to amend the Acts re- to
ber of employes, to whom large sumis are
specting the Department of the Secretary
due, are without any remedy.
of State." (Sir Alex. Campbell.)
HON. MR. GOWAN-I would like to amend

introduce as a ioth clause a provision for
enlarging the appeals. In some very
remote parts of the country it is almost
impossible to make out the papers within
the time that the law requires, and the
clause which I propose has been submitted to the Minister of Justice and to
the Law Clerk of the Senate. It is to
extend the time to ten and fourteen days
-that is fourteen days before the court,
and ten days for the notice of appeal
instead of six days.
The clause was agreed to.

The motion was agreed to and the Bill
INSOLVENT BANKS AND TRAD- was read the second time.
ING CORPORATIONS BILL.
SECOND READING.

HoN. MR. SCOTT moved the 2nd
reading of Bill (N) "An Act to further

The Senate adjourned at 9:35 P-ni.

Communication [APRIL 9, 1885] with P. E. Il8and.

AS9-

representatives from every section of the
Dominion, and that the larger provinces
Ottawa, Wednesda 9 April 9th, 1885. of Ontario and Quebec have such a largeunit, if I may use the term, in this ParliaThe SPEAKER took the Chair at three ment, that one coming from a smaller
province is disadvantageously situated. If,
'clock.
for instance, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia,
and Prince Edward Island were federated
Prayers and routine proceedings.
THE SENATE.

into one province, with their population

COMMUNICATION WITH PRINCE and their intelligence they would possess
more influence in this great Confederation
EDWARD ISLAND.
than they do at present. I do not say for
a moment that this subject will not receive
INQUIRY.
the consideration from the gentlemen
H1ON. MR. HOWLAN rose to ask the representing the larger provinces that its
Government whether after due consider- importance deserves, but it must be apparation they will be prepared to recommend ent to everyone who has held a seat in this
a survey to be made between Capes Tra- Parliament ever since the union, as it has
l'erse in Prince Edward Island and Tor- been apparent to myself, that if a union
mentine in New Brunswick, with a view had taken place between the Maritime
of building a subway or tunnel between provinces we would be in a better position
the said points, so as to make a "continu- to promote our interests here.
Ous communication " with the said Island
l accordance with one of the terms of
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is
uliofn with the Dominion of Canada?
not too late yet.
Hle said :-For some time past-I may
HON. MR. HOWLAN-I am glad to
saY ever since Prince Edward Island
became part and parcel of the Dominion hear the hon. gentleman say so, and I
Of Canada-the question of winter navi- hope his reply to my question will be in
gation between that Island and the main- accordance with what he has just said.
land has occupied the attention of many When Prince Edward Island gave up her
minds. The Government from time to constitution she had been in the enjoytime have provided what tbey believed to ment of constitutional government for i oo
be a sufficient answer to that portion of years. During that period I do not
the terms which were made with Prince think, speaking from a governnental
edward Island, but it is a fact which I standpoint, that she had anything to comtleed not go outside of this Senate to plain of with regard to her executive
establish, that there has been a great deal powers in managing the affairs of her own
Of dissatisfaction with regard to how that people. For a long time she stood aloof
Particular service has been performed. It from the Confederation-from 1867 to
may be surprising to some gentlemen that 1872-73-and one of the principal reasons
8hould take up the time of the Senate in was that certain ideas, views and opinions
s
bringing this matter before it, as it may which the people of the province enterrerhaps be considered a subject affecting tained with regard to giving up their
8
Pecially Prince Edward Island, but it is individuality and self government was
tO the Senate of Canada that the smaller that very question of communication with
provinces must look to have their rights the mainland in winter and summer.
protected and the agreements made When the terms of union were made this
between them and the Dominion carried question was fully discussed in all its
out. It is to the Senate of Canada that bearings not only at that particular time
they have to apply, in the first place, as the but in the future, and the gentlemen who
g"eat bulwark of their rights and privileges. made those terms, amongst whom I had the
San aware, at the outset, that I stand in honor to be one, particularly provided for
Very difficult position because of the efficient steam communication between the
8tallness of the populhtion of the province provinceandthe mainlandsummerand winfrom which I come. I am aware that I ter. Before I go any further I will read
am standing in a Parliament composed of the exact words contained in those terms :

490

Communication [SENATE] with P. E. Iland.

gested to build another vessel like the
" Northern Light " was, that Capt. Finlayson, who gave his testimony before the
Committee, said that the "Northern Light,)
in his opinion, from the character of the
service she had to perform, would be useless after two or three more years' service.
All this, as hon. gentlemen will see, will
necessarily lead to a much larger expenditure than that on the "Northern Light."
The " Northern Light " cost $6o,ooo, and
to build one double her tonnage would
involve an expenditure of about $150,000With the increased cost of the vesšel would
come increased cost of maintenance and
also the cost of two steamers between the
Capes. But even after ail that, after
building another vessel to take the place
of the "Northern Light," granting that
the new vessel would be more successful
than the "Northern Light," and granting
that the two small tug boats between the
Capes would perform to a very great extent the service assigned to them, it is yet
beyond a doubt, that to have complete
communication, winter and summer, between Prince Edward Island and the
mainland, it is necessary to have some
other mode than that given to us by sailing craft or steamers. The question goes
without dispute. I propose, as I shall
presently show you, a means of communication which will give access every day,
HON. MR. PLUMB-Who bought her? summer and winter. We are paying
$ 15,ooo a year for the "Northern Light,
HON. MR. HOWLAN-The Mac- and $1o,ooo a year for the two small
kenzie Government. The working ex- boats; that would be $25,ooo a year for
penses up to 3oth June, 1884, exclusive that particular service. Many plans have
of her earnings, amounted to $177,849.92, been suggested with regard to getting over
or about an average of $15,ooo a year. this particular difficulty. Some have said
Time wore on in that way with different that a tunnel would be the best ; others
communications between the Government that a bridge should be built; and after
of Prince Edward Island and the Govern- paying some attention to this subject, I
ment of the Dominion, until 1882, three take.up the tunnel question to see what
years ago, when a special committee was would be the necessary outlay required tO
appointed by the House of Commons to construct the tunnel, then with regard to
investigate and report upon this particular the bridge, andthen the course which I prosubject, and to receive information from pose. In looking at the matter of tunnels,
those best enabled to give it-in fact, to I find, looking at the Globe Encyclopædia,
use parliamentary parlance-they were page 334, the following:empowered to send for persons, papers Mont Cenis Tunnel, which pierces Le Grand
and records.
That committee recom- Vallon, 15 miles south west ofMont Cenis, Of
mended that a new steamer should be built commenced in 1857 and opened as a junction,
in place of the " Northern Light," and between the Railways of Savoy and Piedmove
e
that two other steamers should be built to sea1871. The northern entrance,3nl feetalove
leyel, is situated near Modane, and the
run between Cape Tormentine and Cape southern 4,236 teet above sea level at Bar
Traverse. The reason why it was sug- donneche. The dimensions of the tunnel are:

"Efficient steam service for the conveyance of mails and passengers to be established and maintained between the Island
and the Dominion, winter and summer,
thus placing the Island in continuous
communication with the Intercolonial
Railway and the railway system of the
Dominion." It is a notorious fact that
that has not been done. The Government may say in answer thereto that
many plans and propositions were made,
that difficulties arose and that differences
existed perhaps between the Island members themselves, as also with regard to
the most intelligent way of carrying out
those particular terms. Be that as it
may, and let those differences have what
bearing they may on this question, it is a
notorious fact, beyond doubt, that those
terms have not been fulfilled as fulfilment
was expected at the time they were made.
The first step towards carrying out the
terms of union was made by the selection
of the " Northern Light." That vessel, as is
well known, was not specially built for this
service, but happened to be at the time on
the stocks at Quebec, and, having been
designed for contention with the ice in
the River St. Lawrence, it was thought
she would perform the work which she
was called upon to do. She was purchased at a cost of $6o,736.79.

HON. MR. HOWLAN.

Communication [APRIL 9, 1885] with P. E. klland.
Length, 74 miles; greatest width,over 26 feet,
height at Modane end 244 feet and 11 inches
more at southern extremity. The gradient
rises to the centre on jhe French side 1 in 45
and on the Italian side 1 in 2,000. The tunnel is one mile beneath the summit of the
Inountain. The Mont Cenis tunnel is straight,
lined throughoutwith brick, and the total cost
was £167.12.0 per yard.
St. Gothard Tunnel, commenced in the
autumn of 1872, now in progress through the
]nountain of that name, will, when completed,
be 91 miles long.
The Hoosac Tunnel in Massachusetts, the
longest in the U. S., was commenced in 1856,
and after several suspensions was completed

A91

ing. He gives an account of all the tunnels that were built at the time of the publication of his work in 1875. I find that
the cheapest tunnel is that from Loch
Katrine to supply the Glasgow waterworks. Its length is 2,325 feet, and it
cost only f 10 sterling per yard. It runs
through old red sandstone, but it is not
lined.
I find that the cheapest lined
tunnel is £ 3 8. That is what is called the
Lindal enlargement. I turn from that to
see what a tunnel would cost for our
Island, or whether it would be preferable
to have a bridge, as some gentlemen have
suggested, in preference to anything else.
I addressed a letter to Mr. Vernon Smith,
a well known engineer, to whom I am
indebted for many favors, a gentleman
well known for his engineering skill and
capacity, both in this country and in Great
Britain, having been a pupil of the great
Robert Stephenson, and asked him for information on this subject. His reply is
as follows :

in 1874. It is 44 miles in length, is lined with
inasonry, and cost about £180 per yard.
A tunnel 4ù miles to connect the Bristol
and S. Wales Railways is at present being
driven under the Severn.-the crowning enterprise in tunneling will be the Channel TunnIel which it is proposed to drive from the
South Foreland in Kent to a point near Calais
in France to join the railway system of England with that of the Continent.
The Box Tunnel on the Great Western
Railway between Chippenham and Bath is
3,200 yards long; width, 30 feet; heightabove
rails. 24J feet. It has 7 shafts brick lined,
the deepest being 300 feet.
PROPOSED SCHEME FOR CROSSING NORTHUMBERWoodhead Tunnel near Manchester is the
LAND STRAIT, AS COMPARED WITH EITRER
longest in Great Britain, and measures 3 miles
A BRIDGE OR TUNNEL.
and 26 feet.
Since its construction a second
1st-Tunnel. The shorteet distance across
tunnel bas been driven through parallel to it.
Kelsby Tunnel on the London and N. W. the strait is 84 miles, and the deepest water,
Railway measures 2,398 yards and 27 feet by which is near the middle or, say 4 miles from
234 feet in section. A quicksand was en- the nearest end, is about 90 feet. The bottom
cOuntered in driving the heading, causing de- is sand for a few feet and then it is believed to
lay and greatly increased expense. The total be the soft sandstone rock of the upper carboniferous formation. In this material and
cost was £125 per lineal yard.
Netherton Tunnel on a branch of the Bir- with the probability that the loose sand is the
ningham Canal is 3,036 yards in length ; deepest wnere the water is the deepest, and
section 27 by 24ft., cost only £50.0.0 per ineal the surface of the bottom the lowest, it would
yard. Cost of the tunnel alone £89.5.0, and nut be prudent to put the top of the tunnel
with canal and side walls, £45.5.0 per yard. less than 45 feet from the lowest soundings,
The Thames Tunnel under the Thames at say 140 feet below low water in the middle.
Rotherhithe was commenced in 1825 from Nor would it be prudent to put the shaft at
designs by Sir I. K. Brunel, and after several either side at less than 1,000 feet from the
irruptions of the river completed and opened usual water level, or about 1 of a mile from
a a public footway in 1843. It hai a double the low water line, making the distance bePassage 400 yds long, and is now used as a tween the shafts on either shore 9 miles, or
railway tunnel. The cost of construction say 47,500 feet. To drain the tunnel it would
Was £1137 per yard.
need to be put down on a grade of at least 1
The London Metropolitan Underground in 400, making the shafts 60 feet at least,
Railway also furnishes a remarkable example lower than the middle or highest part of the
Of tunneling on an extended scale.
tunnel, and if we assume that the shafts are
But all these achievements pale before the only 25 feet above low water mark on the
shore where they would be sunk, their depth
Great Alpine Tunnels.
There have been several tunnels built vould be 225 feet, up which every gallon of
and ton of
at a Small expense through material some- water to be lifted. excavated inaterial would
have
What similar to that which will be found
Such a tunnel, under favorable circunat the bottom of the Straits. I give those stances, could be driven and properly lined
figures so as to satisfy the minds of hon. for $100 per foot forward, at all events for the
gentlemen who believe that a tunnel greater part of the distance, and ought to proworkWould be better under the circumstances. gress at each end, say 10 feet per day, proper
ing 24 hours, at which rate the tunnel
I take this from Simms' Practical Tunnel- could be completed in something less than 8

492

Communication [SE NATE] with P. E.

years. Assuning the same gradient to be
employed 1 in 50, from the bottom of the
shaft at either end to the railways connecting
the tunnel with the main line, the 225 feet of
the depth of the shaft would require over two
miles of tunnel at either end, say 11,250 feet,
making the total length of the tunnel from
the outer end of these approaches, 70,000 feet,
or over 13 miles, and its cost, at $100 per
foot, $7,000,000, besides the fixed plant, shafts,
pumping and ventilating machinery. Tunnels in similar niaterial have been driven for
less than this sum, but not where the depth
is so great, and wiere the quantity of water
has to be dealt with, that would undoubtedly
be found in this stratification, and wvth 8
miles of water within a few ieet over hend,
and it is doubtful whether this tunnel could
be contracted for at that price.
Another serious item in all tunnel work is
the ventilation, and the difficulties on this
head increase in an alarming ratio as the
length increases. In this case there is no
ventilation to be obtained in the nine miles of

Jsland.

England or Scotland. The Tower Hi
tunnel under the Thares is one, and there
is a subway from Scotland Yard acroSS
the Thares into Middlesex, the
diameter of cy'inder, 300 feet
wrought iron and filled around
concrete to sustain the weight of the

sane
long1
with
earth

It is laid down at a
and traffic on top.
depth Of 45 feet from the surface.
HON. Mr. HAYTHORNE-Can rny
hon friend state to the House the dimensions of that cylinder? Is it used for foot
passengers only or for horses and carnages?

sîze as the subway 1 propose-i5 feet.
One subway has the 3 feet 6 gauge track
that we have in Prince Edward Island,
distance between the shafts, so that special and the other has got the 4 feet 8/4 gauge
and expensive arrangements would have to be
made, not only for the prosecution of the
works, but for the safe and efficient operation Parliament at the present time there are
of themi afterwards. A tunnel seems, tiere- several Bis for the incorporation of subfore, apart from its great expense, a dangerous way companies. 1 quote from Engineering
and not a feasible means of overcoming the December 5th, 1884, in which I find undifficulty.
der the heading of " Private Bil LegisiaWith the last remark I quite agree-that tion," that the number of projects for
to come to this Parliament and ask con- which plans have been deposited at the
sideration of any scheme like that, would, Private Bil Office, is i
of which 74 are
in my opinion, be out of the question. He for railways, 21 for tramways, 59 miscelnext proceeds to give the cost of a bridge. laneous, including subways, and 45 for
A bridge, however, would be such a com- works for which provisional orders wili be
siz ts The foliowingprpoe-15 are
plete stop to navigation that I do not think sought. heo subwlay tue descriptions feet.
given of some of the proposed subways
I will weary the House with the details.
for which the promoters are seeking to
HON. MR. BOTSFORD-What is his obtain charters from the Imperial ParH
T
liament
estimate of the costS?
The Central bondon Subway, to construct
a company is to be incorporated, s
HON. MR. HOWLAN-His estimate which
of the cost is about $ 1,000,000, and it evidently, as arenany otiers afterwards to be
referred to, a result of the success of the CitY
wouid take a very long tume to build it, and tfoutiwark scheme of last session, for
and the difficulty would be that the which povers were granted to construct
unfinished portions each year would be between thie Elephant and Castle and King
subway consisting Of
Williamn
damnaged to a great extent, so that I need two hnes Street, city a iron tubes 10 feet in
of brick or
ot weary the Hhuse with the details of diameter, along which a frequent succession
such a projectp The tunnel is entirely of vehicles reseiblin tram cars were to ar
5
beside the question, and in my judgment drawn by cable traction on the Hallidie ByL
of what is caied practical teH. The present scheme 18 the constructo
it is outside
e
et
a te
politics. We comenowtotheconsideration Cross w
Cross. Commencing atand Chari
of subways which, in Engaand, are taking Liverpool Street, htey pass alon the south
the place of tunnels, and I nay be asked sde of the Euston Road, but inshe Iroperty
what a subway ineans. A subway is a to Gower Street Station. Thence they tural
cylinder of wrought iron which may b to the south and are carried down Gower
Thence they tk
diameter-8, iso, or up to 15 feet- Sreet and Bloorsbur.
aay course o the new street already described
15 feet is the
wrought iron cyiinder targest as St. Martinb Pace, from wich
as far
subway that has yet been constructed in point to their tereination opposite Craig'
HON. MR. HOWLAN.

Conmnunication [APRIL 9, 1885] with P. E. Iland.
Court existing streets are followed. A short
spur near Mabledon Place permnits of a depot
being formed clear of the subway. The total
length is about two rhiles. The maximum
depth below the surface is about 40 feet. The
gauge is to be 3ft. 6in., and during the construction of the works, temporary opeuings
Tnay be made in the streets.
The working of the subways is to be on the
above mentioned cable traction system, or by
some other means. other than steam locomotives, which may be sanctioned by the inteinded Act or by the Board of Trade.
The remaining rival scheme is also independently promoted and is called the King's
Cross, Charing Cross and Waterloo Subway.
It commences within the property of the
London and South-Western Railway Company,
on the north-west side of Waterloo Station, at
a point about a chain south-east of York
Road, opposite Vine street; it traverses that
street and College street, then crosses the
Thames to Northumberland Avenue, along
%vhichit is taken to Charing Cross; thence
it is carried under St. Martin's Lane, Long
Acre, Little Queen street, Theobald's Roa
and Gray's Inn Road, and terminates at the
Iorth-west corner of Liverpool street, near
Ring's Cross Station. The works consist of'
two tunnels, each about 2¾ miles in length,
and 10 feet in diameter, in some place laid
alongside, in others one is above the other.
The greatest depth is at the Thames crossing,
where the tubes are 72 feet below hi h water;
elsewhere the depth is about 60 feet >elow the
The maximum
surface of the ground.
gradient is 1 in 17, and the gauge is to be 4
leet 84 inches. Land, apparently for station
Purposes, is taken at the commencement and
the termination of the line, and at Hemming's
Row, Drury Lane, Little Queen street, and at
the corner of Gray's Inn Road and Theobald's
Road. Powers are also to be taken to enable
the Great Northern, Midland, Metropolitan
and South-Western Railway Companies to
enter into agreement for the construction,
-naintenance and working of the subway, the
latter of which is to be, as described in the
Preceding case, by cable traction or other
2
Ieans excluding steam locomotives.
The improvement of the communication
between the city and west end is also pro»Posed to be obtained by the construction of
subways similar to those last executed from
iyde Park to the Royal Exchange by an
dpendent company; the scheme is called
the Marble Arch, Regent Circus and City
Subway. Commencing opposite the Marble
Arch it traverses Oxford street for its whole
,Ilt olborn (avoidin g te vîauc b
"na ing a detour along Charterhouse street
and Snow hill), Newgate street, the Poultry,
and terminates in Cornhill, opposite the
centre of the Royal Exchange. T he length is
about 31 miles; the subway is formed of two
tunnels o feet n diameter, laid as described
i n the preceding scheme ; the greatest depths
are 70 eet, 67 feet, and 62 feet; the maximum
gradient is 1 in 20. Land, apparently for

493

station purprses, is included at Regent Circus,
Totenham Court road, Southampton row,
Great Turnstile, Farringdon street, St. Paul's
Churchyard, and at the commencement and
termination.
The gauge is to be 4 ft. 84 in., and the
working i8 to be as mentioned in the description of the London Central Subway, and
similar clauses, with the exception of that
relating to easement and that relating to
property, are to be inserted in the Bill.
Another independent company is to be
formed for the purpose of constructing the
Islington (Angel) and City subway, which
commences opposite that tavern in the
city-road, is carried along the latter foi its
whole length, and thence along Finsbury
Pavement and Moorgate-street, and terminates
at Lothbury. The length is about 1A miles,
and it is formed by two tunnels 10 fet in
diameter, laid as before described; the maximuin depth is 48 feet below the surface.
Stations will probably be placed at Macclesfield street, Nelson street, Old street, and
Ropemaker street, and at the " Angel" and
the bank. The gauge is to be as mentioned
in the descripton of the London 'Central
Subway, and clauses similar to those in the
last described scheme are to be inserted in the
Bill.
The only subway or railway scheme relating
to the south side of the metropolis proper is
that called the Clapham and city subway,
which is proposed to be an independent
extension of the authorized city and southwark subway before alluded to, along the
Kennington and Clapham roads to Clapham
common, a distance of 21 miles. The tunnels, two in number and 10 feet in diameter,
are to be laid as described in the three last
mentioned schemes, the greatest depth being
56 feet. The gauge and method of working
are also the same as in those schemes.
Powers are to be taken to enable the city and
Southwark Subway Company to construct or
work the proposed subways. Stations will be
placed at Clapham Common, South Lambeth
road, South Island place, Kennington road
and lower Kennington lane.
The editor describes other projects of
the kind, and I have only read those to
show to the House that this subway is no
new project ; that it has been tried before,
although not upon as long a reach as I
It may strike
propose to adapt it to.
some hon. gentleman as a new feature in
engineering; but if we were to stop at all
new features, the world would retrograde.
We boast, with some degree of truth, that
there is no portion of the world in which
civilization is so rapidly extending, and in
which science has been so successfully
brought into operation to remove physical
difficulties mathe way of engineering as in

Canada.

It has just occurred to me that

494

Communication [SENATE] with P. E. Jsland.

building houses of brick is not more than the shore some 2,100 feet. I propose to
If my memory is correct extend those two piers. For instance I
200 years old.
the Earl of Arundel was the first to build propose to go out on the New Brunswick
a brick house, about 200 years ago, and side îo,ooo feet. That would be nearly
he was looked upon as taking a step in two miles. It would be about 8,ooo feet
advance. But in this Dominion of which of an extention on the New Brunswick
we are so proud, we can admire the side further than is now proposed.
grandeur of nature which is stamped on
HON. MR. KAULBACH-How much.
every hand. Look at those massive buildings we occupy, perched on the mountain water would that give you ?
walls of the fair Ottawa River ! Look at
HON. MR. HOWLAN-That would
the influence of such gems of architectural
beauty on the Church architecture of this give about thirty feet. The reason I
city, as well as its many handsome private make it thirty feet is that vessels on,
mansions. Look at the railway bridge, going through the straits do not draw
and the Suspension bridge across the generally more than about twenty-eight
Chaudiere Falls; the gigantic lumber in- feet, and that would leave the subwaY
dustries which greet one's eye at the city low enough to avoid any possible obstrucof Hull, where is heard the " hum " of tion to vessels. On the Prince Edward
the busy wheels of one great branch of our Island side I propose to extend the pier
commercial industry. Go farther down 2,000 feet, to the same depth of water.
the St. Lawrence to the wealthy city of This would leave the gap to be filled by
Montreal, and there you behold one of the subway, of between four and five miles.
grandest works of the age in the Victoria I have provided for five miles, as there is
Bridge, which spans that noble river ; and some difficuity about the charts, one
then think of the magnitude of the Cana- authority calling it eight miles, and,
dian Pacific Railway enterprise, now s0 another seven and a-haif mii-s, Bayfieid
near completion, and one's mind becomes caîls it seven nautical miles. The iron
impregnated with large ideas, which find a cylinder wouid be fifteen teet in dianeter.
Not being an engineer myseif I appiied
quiet resting place in the contemplation
of out great canals. I have asked myself to Mr. Vernon Smith and asked him to
many times when contemplatng those give me his report upon that particular
great triumphs of the age, whether our question, and as he is an authority upofi
winter navigation might not be improved, the matter I had better read you what he
and I do think that my present proposal says:
will intelligently meet this difficulty. «In repiy to your letter of the lOth mat. ask
But if this mode of establishing com- ng for some information respecting the 0 Ost
munication under the Severn and n feasibility of a subway under the NorThames has been a success there, there is thunberland Straits, I have examined the
no reason why it cannot be done over charte and other sources of information in the
this four or five mile stretch between Department of Marine and have constructed
froin thein the accom panying profile ot the
Prince Edward Island and the mainland. sub.aqueous surface of the ground which is
What I propose then is to build a subway probably sufficiently correct for the present
between Capes Tormentine and Traverse, reliminary estimate. The bottom of the
utilizing the wharves and approaches that trait s 'marked in the charts Isard sud,
SurvY
are now proposed to be built at bothGeologica
are ow
ropsedto e biltat othwho bas examined the locality, is of opifliOf
1
capes, only making them longer.
The that the covering of sand and grave is 11
Dominion Government have built a short great depth, and that it is generally the soft
branch from the Prince Edward Island sandstone rock of the carboniferous formation
Railway to Cape Traverse, and at Cape for a considerable distance vertically, Of the
rocks as the Island itself, the
have epored
of the pper
in favor ofsaine generai
Traverse they have reported i favr ofdenudation
building some 2,1oo feet of pier extending sofler portions.
1Theshortestdistance across the Straits and
out into ten or twelve feet of water. It is
also proposed to build a pier in conjunc- apparentiy the best route for the conica

tionwit th dwad Island andcove
tion with the Price Edward Isandandtion proposed, is that now followed by the ice
Prince
north
Railway, at
TorTormentine across the Jourirnain
Cape Tormentinepier wiii reachCape from of Cape on the New Brunswick side. The
out
Shoals
mentine. That
HON. MR. HOWLAN.

Communication [APRIL 9, 1885] with P. E. I8land.
total distance is roughly 8 miles, and the
deepest water is 90 feet, which occurs about 4
!Miles from the New Brunswick shore extending probably for ha!f a mile; it sheals gradually and regularly from this to the Island, at
about 20 feet to the mile, and for about a mile
at the same gradient on the New Brunswick
'ide. It then rises abruptly 40 to 50 feet in
half a mile, and then shoals at a low angle
Over the Jourimain Flats to the Cape Tomentine shore. The distance between the 6 fathom
unes on either aide is about 5 miles, and between the 4 fathom lines about 6 miles, whilst
I a mile on the Island aide, and 1] miles on
the west shore is not over 12 feet in depth at
low water. The tide runs with no great
v'elocity, probably 2 knots an hour, and the
tides round the north and south ends of the
Island meet off the Tryon shoals, only 4
knots from the pro osed crossing. The rise
Of tide is 6 feet at the spring and 3 at neaps,
and averages about 5 feet, which I have
mnarked in the profile by the dotted black line
for low and the full blue line for high water.
This appears to vary soniewhat according to
the direction of the wind, and in certain con.
ditions of the weather the rate of the tidal
flow and the height of the tides varies widely
from the normal condition.
"There appears to be very little reliable information about the ice, but from all I can
Çather there is nothing below-say 10 feet, to,
anae the works, and even the worst accurnulation is generally broken up and loosely
Piled together, very annoying undoubtedly for
h1avigation, but not, as a rule, dangerously
destructive to a fairly substantial bridge or
Wharf structure. The tact that the submarine
cable has been so little damaged with such a
Ong expanse of shoal water is tolerably good
evidence that the ice is not so dangerous as
iiht be supposed, with the quantity that
'lndtoubtedly accumulates every winter. Athough the Straits are navigable for any sized
veasel, it does not appear to be very much
frequented by the largest class, and I have as81tMed that a clear depth of 25 feet at the
abutments would be sufficiently deep to be
safe fron a vessel striking the top of the subWay. As this dips at the rate of 1 foot in
50 t the New Brunswick side, and probably
1 in 200 at the Island side, there is ample
Water at a short distance fron either end of
the Subway, and as the total space is 5 miles
the proposed works forni no obstruction to
Ordinary navigation.
fTaking therefore the 6 fathom line as the
face of the two abutnients, between which
the subway proper extends, there is a distance
0f 5 miles, or more exactly of 25,200
feet, as
8hewn by the charts to provide for, and this
c Would propose to cover by an iron and
cenent tube to be lowered in lengths from the
surface and joined together below the water,
esting either on the bottom direct or supPorted u pon concrete blocks at distances of
about 150 feet apart. As this tube is the
ieaortant feature in the scheme, it may
be
'1to describe it more minutely. The outer

496

shell or case is of wrought iron boiler work,
i of an inch in thickness, 15 feet in diameter,
rivetted together in the ordinary manner,
and weighing 800 lbs. to the running foot.
The tubes would be put together on the shore
in lengths of about 300 feet, which fitted with
temporary ends would be floated to the spot
where they were required and then sunk.
When complete there would be inside this
casing a ring of concrete 2j feet in thickness,
leaving an opening through the tube of 10 feet
in internai diameter. The strength of this.
concrete being ample to carry ail the strains
of the traffic and the water, should from any
cause the outer iron casing ever be removed
being when finished a solid nonolith of stone
impervious to water, strong enough to carry
any weight that can be placed within it, and
lieavy enough to withstand any upward or
sideway stram that ice or anything else could
bring against it.
"Concrete as a material for building, and
especially under water, has not received the
attention on this aide of the Atlantic that it
deserves, and has not been made use of to the
same extent that European and especially
French engineers have employed it. The
Pont Napoleon, a brid e carrying a double
track railway acroas t e Seine, with clear
spans of 115 feet, is simply a block of cement
of no greater thickness than would be usually
allowed for first-class masonry. The Pont
d'Alma, also carrying a railway, has arches
varying in span from 126 feet to 141 feet in the
clear, entirely of cement and less than 5 feet
in thickness in the centre of the span. Nor
is the use of cement where strength and
tenacity is an object, at ail a modern application, the dome of the Pantheon at Rome
nearly 2,000 years since, was built of this
material entirely, it was 142 feet in diameter
and had no artificial or external support
excepting its own strength to withstand the
thrust of the arch, whilst the done of St.
Paul's in London, under precisely similar
circumstances, has an enormous chain round
the base to resist the strains due to the shape
of the dome. As a material under water, or
for bad foundations, it is now regarded as
almost a necessity, and the huge dock at
Toulon rests on a bad water soaked foundation one great nionolith of cenent. The
material therefore of which these tubes would
be constructed is perfectly reliable, and if they
once get into their place no ordinary catastrophe will destroy their strength or utility,
they will be as strong and durable as a tunnel
under the solid ground, and they will be free
from the filtration of water which finds it way
through the best of brick or stone lin ings. The
totalweight of a 300 feet length of such a tube,
with a 24 feet cement lining, would be about
4,750,000 lbs., or 2,375 tns, and its displacement would be approximatelv 3,300,000 lbs,
or 1,650 tons of water, so that its weight in
water would be something over 2 tons to the
foot forward or 725 tons altogether, besides
this the weight of rails roadbed and ballast
would bring up the total weight of the tube in

496

Communication [SENATE] with P. E. kleand.

water to about 3' tons per running foot as a to be enlarged considerably in diameter at

resistance to any lateral or vertical displacement. In practice the tubes would be when
launched only partially lined with cement,
and would be floated to the point where they
were to be sunk with a ring of 18 inches of
cenent only. The weight of the tube would
then be in round numbers 1,620 tons, and it
would require an additional weight of 30 tons
to sink it. This would be added by an ordinary set of water ballast bags, a line of which
24 inches in diameter would sink the tube and
at the same time keep it from turning out of
the position intended to be the bottom. These
bags in communication with a steam pump
on the sinking barges would enable the tube
to be raised, lowered or handled lu the water
as easily as a very much less weight by any
other nechanical arrangement on the land.
The ends of the two tubes would have a spigot
and faucet arrangement slightly tapering and
the socket end lined with wood, on the method
nsually adopted to keep the screw propellers
water tight in the stern of a vesse
When
the end of the following tube was once entered
fnto the taper end of the one previously fixed,
the opening of a valve in the false end of the
one already in position would bring the whole
hydraulic pressure due to the displacement of
the tube to force it into its position, and niake
a perfectly tight joint. The subsequent ring
io cement after the two false ends were reAnoved would make this portion of the tube
just as strong and watertight and reliable as
any other portion, whilst the subsequent ring
of one foot in thickness through the whole of
both tubes would make one honogenous mass
of the tube from end to end.
" The deepest part of the strait as betore
mentioned occurs about four miles from
the New Brunswick shore, and one and
one-half miles from the New Brunswick
abutment. At this point it would be necessary to sink a pumping and ventilating
shaft, and fron this towards both shores
the tubes would be laid so that all the water
would run to this common receptacle from
which it would be pumped up to the surface,
and by this would the workmen find access
to their work for fixing and lining the tubes.
Whether it would be necessary to retain this
as a ventilating shaft after the work is complete may be left to subsequent experience,
utl think it will be tound necessary for
ventilating purposes, and perhaps occasionally for pumping, as more or less water may
find its way down the slopes from the two
ends, and of course in case of an accident it
would be essential to have it maintained in a
permanent working condition. The sinking
and arrangement of this vertical tube would
be nothing more than is usual in such works
as the Forth and other places where cylinders
and caissons are being largely used as fonndations in masonry and bridges. It would be
cement-lined like the tubes, and to exclude
the water percolating through the porous
rock foundation, the bottom length would be
formed of solid concrete. It would also need
HON.

MR. HOWLAN.

the base, as the rock there will in all probability be but very slightly covered with loose
naterial, to give sulicient stability to a structure so high, and exposed at the top to cOUstant and sonetines excessive strains. This
shaft would also contain the pumping and
ventilating machinery, and be the point from2
which the laying of the tubes in either direction would commence."
In looking at my model a great many
gentlemen who have paid some attention
to this subject thought that the central
shaft was a weak point, that the ice
floating up and down the strait would
destroy it-in fact that it was the weakest
part of the project. That being the case,
I had a conversation with a very eminent
engineer to whom I explained the dilliculty. He said that it could be remedied
-that by running out some 6oo feet or
more on the New Brunswick shore we
can get 38 feet of water where the punPing gear can be put and the ventilating
shaft can be constructed by altering the
gradient coming from the New Brunswick
side. As proposed on the plan here, the
gradient would be about i in 50, starting
from the Prince Edward Island side, and
running down to i in 1,ooo, and thein
rising i in 50 on the New Brunswick
side, so that the water would be
all running that way. We would be able tO
put the pumping machinery and ventilating shaft on the New Brunswick side,
thus relieving the project of one of the
greatest difficulties that surround it.
I
am not an engineer, and I do not presuie
to say that the statements which I make
are absolutely correct, but I have the
statement of Mr. Vernon Smith, who has
the reputation of being a first class
engineer, who made those plans.
HON.

MR.

KAULBACH-What

iS

the maximum current ?
HON. MR. HOWLAN-I will corme
to that directly. Mr. Smith continues
The abutments at each end would consist
primarily of a 40 feet diameter caisson sunk
to the bottom and lined with concrete. ln
this would be rivetted at the proper angle,.a
section of tube corresponding to the miain
tube, and projecting beyond the abutment for
a distance of 3 feet, so as to form a socket for
the tubes from it in either direction, the depth
of this tube at the straits end at either abutment would be 25 feet clear from low water,
and the connecting tube in the abutment

Communication [APRIL 9, 1885] with P. E. Iland.

497

Would be at an angle of 1 in 50. At a point afterwards be a slab of stone, the sand under
500 feet fron this outer caisson, but 300 feet
fron the centre line of the tube and consequently shewing 400 feet longitudinally of the
plan, vould be sunk two caissons each 15 feet
In dianeter, and of course 600 feet apart across
the tube, and between each of these caissons,
and the large outer caisson would be a wharf,
10 feet wide of wrought iron filled with cement
blocks. These three caissons with the intervenlino wharves would thus shew an enormous
triangle 500 feet long on each of the sloping
seaward sides and 600 feet wide at the base,
Which when filled up with earth would form a
structure strong enough to resist any ice that
'8 likely to occur in the Northumberland
strait. Through this mass the tubes would
be laid supported by cement blocks, and at
the shore end of this structure they would be
17 feet only below low-water. At a distance
011000 feet back of this a second structure
1400 feet in length, 60 feet wide and strengthened at its outer end by a T piece 400 feet
1
ong and 100 feet wide would support the end
of the tube as it emerged from the water, and
forrn at the same time a wharf where vessels
could load and discharge their cargoes for
the accommodation of which sidings from the
railway on either side would be~ rovided.
hetween this wharf and the outer abutment,
the tube rising at a gradient of 1 in 50 would
b Protected by a series of iron piles 5 feet in
dialmeter in pairs between which it would be
pported. In this 1000 feet the tube rising
at the 1 in 50 gradient, would be above lowwater 3 feet at the to , and 12 feet below it at
the bottom, a roalvay, supported by the
Wrought iron piles being over the top of itand
Protecting it from injury from vessels. At a
4
'stance of 200 feet from the outer end of the
Wharf the tube would cease to be a closed
tunnel, the sides being carried up vertically
d being open at the top, a wall 5 feet in
around this open part protecting the
et
c-passing to and fro on the wharf from
ng into the space thus left. At 100 feet
1
o the inner end of the wharf, the rails
now
gnd 6 feet above high-water the wall
% Wrought iron structure would cease, and
comunication with the shore forward
by
n11g a bridge or embankment as may
si',bequently be determined.
the only point remaining to refer to is the
Uport for the tube along the bottom of the
straits. It is difficult to form an estimate of
the quantities in these as each one might
dredging.
some may
It 1 in height andto suppose requirefor a large
reasonable
that
Proportion of the distance the tube will rest
early upon the bottom. In this case if the
ttom is of sand likely to be washed or uneern.ined, it will be necessary to sink whener the supports are necessary what the
rench cail I mattrasses," which consist of
a tarpaulin bag about a foot in thiekness, ten
'Wide, and perhaps twenty long, filled with
cancrete, and laid upon the surface of the
tu-d In a couple of hours this will set
9ng shape of the tube, and for ever
the
Gi

which will never be disturbed. Near the
Island abutment some dredging will be
necessary, and in the channel thus dredged
the sand itself will soon form all the support
necessary. At other places where the tube is
some distance from the bottom, and probably
near to the pumping shaft, piers from four to
fifteen feet may be necessary. Each of these
would consist of a cement block, probably
eight feet wide and twenty feet long across
the line of the tube, with the top hollowed
out the proper shape to receive and retain it.
These piers in most cases could be got into
position before the tube was sunk. [n other
cases they might be left till the tube was in
place, a wood or iron box the shape of the
ntended piece beincr placed under it after it
was in position, ana these filled with concrete from the surface, the material being
simply shovelled from the floor of the barge
into a wooden or canvas spout so as to reach
its final resting place without having its
cementing material washed out by the water
in passing loosely through it. With respect
to the material for this concrete, I would
suggest using only the best Portland cement
without the admixture of any lime whatever,
similar to what the French engineers call
" beton," to one measure of which two of
clean sand, and from three to four measures
of broken limestone rock, such as Mr. Elle
tells me can be procured from Cape TormenThis would be
tine, might be mixed.
sufficient for the abutinents and piers. For
the linings of the tubes I wouild suggest two
of sand and two of gravel, or limestone
spalls; but the exact proportions should be
determined by experiment when the quality of
the sand, gravel and limestone would be exactly tested. In any case the materials
should be incorporated, and thoroughly
mixed by machinery and used quite fresh.
Before I read the cost of it, I will read
to you a statement of Mr. Smith of the
time it would take to build and complete
it.
Speaking of the comparison between
a bridge and a tunnel and a subway, I
have already read what he said about a
tunnel. The bridge I do not think it
necessary to trouble the House with. He
says :In one respect the proposed structure would
have a singular advantage over either of its
competitors, each portion as finished would
be of use, would mitigate the difficulties and
objections ofthe passage, and reducethe length
of inconvenient or dangerous transit. Whatever was commenced each season would be finished before theseason ended and would reduce
for the next winter the labor and difficulty of
the passage. For instance, supposing for the
first season it were determined to finish the
New Brunswick abutment and to connect
this by bridge with the shore, there is nothing
to prevent thie being accomplished within the

498

communication [SENATE] with P. E. Jsland.

season, and the next winter the usual ice
boats would have two miles of bad passage
less te make and the railways at either end
would be so much the nearer. Another
season a similar work at the Island end would
narrow the Straits te five miles and make the
passage that much better and nearer. The
saie season, or another, the conipletion of
the ventilating shaft and its connection with
the New Brunswick side would bring this te
about three miles, and this last gap could
easily be completed within the space of one
season. The operations of rivetting up the
tubes and their preparation is work necessarily done under cover, and may be proceeding ail winter. It is the most tedious
process of the lot, requires the most time, and
would be best done by continuous labor
The first layer of
winter and summer.
cernent would take probably a fortni ht te
iut into the tubes, and they would b the
better of another fortnight drying and setting
before being put into the water. In a month
from commencing the cement, which I think
should net be begun before the lst of May,
the tubes would be ready for sinkiig, and by
that time the winter's ice would be disappearing. There would be about 90 of these tubes
across the Straits, each 300 feet long, and
after everything was in working order each
tube ought certainly te be put down, made
watertigfht and secured within the 24 hours.
If three per week, or half this pertormance,
were put down this portion of the work would
occupy 30 weeks, and at this rate of progress
it would not be necessary te have two sets of
plant for this purpose, and the whole could be
laid fron one end, and by one party, if the
work were in other respects ready to receive
it. These tubes would ail actually be laid
from the ventilating shaft in the middle, and
in practice probably those te the New Brunswick shore would be all that could be undertaken during one season. But there would
be nothing to prevent the whole work being
completed in two working seaons, an advantage over either a continuous bridge or a
tunnel that should net be lost sight of.

4 00'

Launching and sinking ..........

$50 00,

Makes total'per foot forward.
Total length of tube, including
abutment 29,000 feet, froi
station 105 te 395, $50.00 per
$1,450,000
foot ..................
Central caisson-Iron
154,000 lbs........$4,620 00
Concrete 850 yards
5,100 00
@ $6.00 .........
Sinking........... 2,280 00
--

Abutment-Ironinone
40footand two 15feet
caissons, with iron
wharfbetween, 185,000 lbs............ 5,550 00
Concette-600yards 3,600 00
Sinkingandsundries 850 00

00'

12,000 0O

0

DO

Abutinent - Opposite
10,000
side...............
Wharf-Iron, 120,000
lbs............. 3,600 00
Concrete. 400 yards 2,400 00
Earth filling and
rock ...........
20,000 00
Cribworkandfilling 4,000 00
Iron piles and supports for tubes..... 8,000 00
Sundries .......... 2,000 00
---40,000 00
40,000 O0
Wharf at other end..
Iron piling 2,000 feet
between abutnients
and wharves, say
20 pair piles, with
cernent filling com20,000 Do
plete ..............
Concrete piers te support tube, say 140
altogether r&$1,000
140,000 Oc
each ..............
Plant-launching ways
shops, steamers and
150,000 00
tools generally....
Permanent pumpin80
18,000 00
That is his opinion with regard to con- plant.............c
190,000 00
Con tingencies, 10 p. c.
struction. Now with regard to the cost
he says :$2,080,000 OU
The following estimate of cost is uecessarily
only an approximation as ne surveys have
HON. MR. KAULBACH-What are
yet been made, and the nature of the difficulties te be encountered are in some cases un- the piers or wharves to be built of?
known. But I assume that in a work of this
magnitude the best plant will be used and
HON. MR. HOWLAN-The bridges
everything be done on the best and most
are to be built of wood and the wharves
economical system.
of iron filled with concrete.
Tubes-' plates, about 800 lbs te
foot forward, say at 3 cents per
...
$24 00
lb, equals per foot .....
HON. MR. KAULBACH - Trestie
Concrete-10 feet inside diam. 15
works?
outside=ring of 22 feet thick,
area 98,275 super feet=11 cubic
HON. MR. HOWLAN-No, a solid
yards per yard in depth=3.67 c.
The first thing that
22 00 1 er of wood.
pi
a $6.00..........
yds. per foot
HON. MR. HOWLAN,

Communication [APRIL 9, 1885] wit/ P. E. 1kland.
strikes a practical man is ý/-inch iron
rnight not rust out, and if it rusted out
Whether it would not destroy the whole
affair. Having that contingency in view,
I wrote to Mr. Smith asking his opinion
On the subject, and I will read his reply --

499

merged tubes is that no permanent dependence is placed upon this outer skin at al. It
is essential in the construction of the work,

it is necessary as a protection during the
process of sinking and fixing, and for the
jointing of the tubes, and it is necessary to
protect from washing or injury the softer
portions of the cenent during the chemical
. ln reference to the protection of the outside changes which transform the soft mass of
iron plates of the tubes proposed for the concrete into the dense compact stone which
Northumberland Straits sub-way, there are a it ultimately becomes. This chemical change
number of paints and protective coverings in is slow in its operation, and takes probably
use, any of which last for a long time in sait twelve months to thoroughly complete, but
Water, and some of them as the Torbay min- after this bas taken place the iron skin is no
eral, the Silicate Oxide, and Bell's prepar- longer essential, and as I remarked before in
ation of Asbestos claim to be indestructible, my previous letter, if entirely moved it would
and certainly these ail seem to fulfil the pur- not destrov the solid mass of stone that would
sintended. Iron steam vessels so protected then be le't. The Thames tunnel built fifty
have been running for 25 or 30 years, such as years since by the elder Brunel is so near the
the Great Eeastern, which bas never been bed of the river that subsequent dredging and
docked since she was launched, and so far deepening has left it aIl but exposed directly
seem none the worse for their long immersion to the water and there is no doubt that in
In salt water, so that there is no doubt that many places the sait water has now direct
the well known preparations already before contact with it, and exerts its pressure imthe public will protect any of these iron mediately upon it. Yet it stands without any
Structures.
iron skin at ail as a protection, and carries
A second consideration is that it is bv no one of the busiest railways on the metropolitreans proved that sait water does so utterly tan system. On the same railway another
destroy ordinary wrought iron as to mnake it structure of brick work and cement carries
Useless for a protection to a cement backing, the traffic under the St. Catherines docks,
and when honey-combings or even a hol e where there is scarcely six feet between the
eaten through it would be a natter of perfect bottom of the water and the top of the tunnel,
Ildifference.
Long before any important without any protection whatever but the
change of this kind can have taken place, cement and concrete of which it is conthe nternal dampness of the cement will structed. In both these cases the bricks used
have partially oxidvzed the iron in contact are an inferior mnaterial to the indurated
With it, and the chemical incorporation of limestone and granite rock that it is proposed
this iron oxide with the cernent produces one to use in this concrete, which are impervious
Cf the hardest and most indestructible to water, and not liable to retain or transmit
Inateriais in existence, the iron cement used it. In both the Thames tunnel and the St.
for joining together the flanges of cast-iron Catherines dock work, there has been no
P'Pes. The cylinders upon which Hunger- difficulty or leakage and neither of them
tord bridge rests crossing the Thames are of have required any repairs since they were
precisely the same construction as here pro- completed. As I stated in my previous letsed: a thin wrought iron skin, backed with ter, if your subway is once finished to the
ortland cement concrete. Any protecting strength and with the material proposed it
coverings or paint must have been rubbed off will never give any further trouble, whether
!ithrin a very short time of their being placed the iron is rusted away or not.
iii Position from the warping of ropes round
I think that puts the danger of rust
em, and the working of barges and boats
It
. nst then. They have now been in their altogether outside of the question.
exposed to was necessary to get the facts as several
a
thaces for a quarter ofof century, the busiest
e terrible weight
one of
gentlemen like myself thought it might be
eeilways in the world, and carrying four lines a serious obstacle.
The next difficulty
of railway across thern close to a busy London
rm'inus. It is of course as impossible to was to ascertain whether the bed of the
repaint these tubes as it will be those under strait was of such a nature that it could
Iortlmlniberland Straits, but it is apparently be dredged or a tunnel could be successaS perfect as it ever was and no symptoms of fully laid in it. The first thing to be
dissolution or destruction are visible. The
earne thing is observable in pontoons and ascertained was whether the bed of the
strait was sufficient to lay the pipes in,
Wharves both on the Thames and
Mersey,
and in fact after a certain amount of oxydation and whether the ice would endanger the
as taken place, the very film of rust itself works.
I shall now attempt to address
dec y.to act as a preservative against further myself to those two points of the subject.
'A third and still more important consider First with regard to the bed of the strait ;
tion in connection with the Northumberland I find the soundings given by Bayfield's
traits structures and especially in the sub- charts of the straits on a straight line

Communication [SENATE] with P. E. Iland.

500
drawn between

Cape Tormentine and extent the whole current.

Cape Traverse to be thus-commencing
at Prince Edward Island it is given in
fathoms to Cape Tormentine, and the
shape is like a saucer. Commencing at

Cape Traverse the depths are 2, 3, 6, 7,
8, ro, 14, 8, 6, 4, and 2 fathoms to
the shore again; so that the deepest
water across the straits is 14 fathoms, a
little under go feet. That is for about
three-quarters of a mile. Bayfield, in
his book on sailing directions for the Gulf
of St. Lawrence, says that "the bottom is
of sand with clay underneath," whilst Captain Phillips giving his testimony before
engineer McLeod says it " is a stiff clay."
Captain Arthur Irving says that the bot-

tom is mud and sand. F. H. Gisborn,
Esq., the Superintendant of Telegraphs,
who has had a great deal of experience in
laying down telegraph cables there, says
it is "sand all the way across, with some

reefs of rock on the New Brunswick side
at Jourimain." Judging from this information there can be no difficulty in laying
the tube in this clay or sand in such a
manner as not to foul ships' anchors or to
interfere with such ships as frequent the
straits, as the tube will be submerged 28
feet in the water, so that the first objection
is satisfactorily answered. We now come
to consider the second objection-would
the ice currents interfere with the piers,

ventilating tower and pumping apparatus ?
Now, we find that the ventilating
towers can be placed on both sides
and I need not answer that question.
It was an objection raised by several
gentlemen and we made up our minds to
remove it from the centre of the strait

towards the New Brunswick shore. In
the report before alluded to of engineer
McLeod, who was sent down by the Government and spent the summer there
watching the tides and getting all the information he could, he says: "The currents were traced and measured for
several days, but at that time they did
not exceed a mile per hour. Captain
Bayfield and others give a velocity of
three miles, and the ice with high winds
is said to pass at the rate of four miles
per hour.

Captain Philip Irving says it

It appears
there are two tides ; there is a tide coming from Canso eastward, and a tide running from the north part of Prince Edward Island from the westward. They
meet somewhere about four miles from
Cape Traverse and a vessel coming Up
from Canso might come with the current
and get the flood tide on the other side
and have the flood tide all the way
through. There is a curious circumstance
connected with this matter. I find that
for a long period vessels were forbidden
to enter the straits at all. I will just
read what Captain Bayfield says with
regard to the directions of tidal streams :
The direction of the tidal streams corres'
ponds generally, and in fine weather, with the
progress of the tide-wave, but is disturbed
occasionally by strong winds. The easterl
flood stream enters the strait from the northeast, running at the rate of 24 knots round
the east point of Prince Edward Island, but
is much weaker in the offing and over towards
the southern shore. It runs round Cape
Bear, and with an increasing rate along the
land to the westward; is strongest in the
deep water near the ]and, and runs at its
extreme rate of 3 knots, close past the Indian
Rocks and Riflemen Reef.
Losing strength as it proceeds further to
the niorth-west, it is quite a weak streain when
it meets the other flood stream off the Tryon
Shoals.
This eastern flood stream is not so strolg
along the southern or Nova Scotian shore,
unless it be in Caribou Channel, for a short
space near Caribou Reef; and it is weak, not
generally exceeding 4 a knot in the middle Of
the strait.
The other or western flood stream comes
from the northward, along the west coast Of
Prince Edward Island, sweeping round the
West Point and running strongest in the deep
water near the West Reef, where its rate 10
2J knots. Over towards the New Brunswick
shore its rate seldom exceeds lI knots, and
this is its average rate as it pursues its course
to the sou'th-east, until we arrive near Cap
Tormentine, where the strongest part of te
stream runs near the Jouramain Shoals, and
thence to the southward, round and over the
dangerous Tormentine Reefs with a great
ripple, and at the rate of 3 knots.
After passing these reefs part of it curves
round to the south west, with decrea8sn
strength, and unites with the other C
strean in the Bay Verte, whilst the reninli'
der is lost in the central part of the strait.
The ebb streanm, generally a eaking, pursues
a contrary course to the floo , and at nearly

is about three knots per hour." There is
rates.
a curious fact about this tide that Captain the samethis account of the tidal streamus, it
From
Bayfield gives in his book of sailing appears that a fast sailing vessel, under favordirections which would nullify to a great able circumetances, might enter the straight
HON. MR. HOWLAN.

Communication [APRIL 9, 1885] with P. _E. Island.
With the flood, and arriving at Cape Tormentine soon after hi h water, might there take
the ebb, and thus have the etreain with ber,
With but slight interruption froin one end of
the strait to the other. Or, a vessel beating
With the flood, might so time ber arrival at
the same point as to be able to continue her
Voyage in the same direction with the ebb.
So I do not think the tide would interfere with it ; but on the ice question Capt.
Irving said before the Commission of 1883,
When asked how long he was connected
With Cape Traverse, " I commenced when
16 years of age and have worked for 42
Years." When before the commissioners,
at page 39 of the report of 1883, he was
examined as follows by the Chairman:Q. Yesterday you said that the general
thickness of the ice was about six inches
there ?
A. Yes, this winter.
Q. That is not the general thickness ?
A. No; I would think fron a foot to filteen
'nches would be the average thickness of it in
"Il ordinary winter.

That is a reply to the question which
the hon. member from Lunenburg put.
The ice is from a foot tO 15 inches thick
'il an ordinary winter; and the current
runs from a minimum of one mile to a
rnaximum of four miles. Now I do not
think any difficulty would be experienced
fromn the currents ; I do not think there
Would be any difficulty with regard to the
Ice, and therefore on these two points the

Project is perfectly safe. At the north
side of the Island, at Tignish, there is a
breakwater situated, as any one can see by
1ooking at the map, in a manner very
s8nilar to that which would be built in
this case at Cape Tormentine. The
breakwater at Tignish is exposed to the
whole force of the Gulf, while the other
breakwater would be exposed to only nine

501

am prepared to be laughed at a good deal

about this project as I was when I spoke
of a railway on the island, but after a
good deal of thought I consider it is the
only solution of the difficulty of communication at all seasons with Prince Edward
Island. Ail I care to ask from the Government is that they will consider the
question, and by that I mean that they
will refer the question to some one of the
eminent engineers we have in this country.

We have in Canada the man who built
the Hoosac tunnel, Mr. Walter Shanly,

who is an eminent engineer, and we have
others whose names I need not now reThere is an engineer who
fer to.
occupies a distinguished position in this
particular

branch

of

engineering,

Sir

Fredrick Bramwell, who is now chief engineer of the contemplated tunnel from
Kent to Calais. He has had experience
in constructing works of this kind.

He

was in Montreal last summer as chairman
of Section G. of the British Association.
I say submit all those plans and estimates
to him ; I think it is the least the Government can do in this matter. It would be
to them, at all events, and myself and
other gentlemen who think this matter
should be met in an intelligent way, a
source of satisfaction and gratification because it is well known at the present time
the Legislature of Prince Edward Island
have forwarded a memorial to the Queen,
stating that the terms of union have not
been carried out.
Without passing an
opinion as to whether it is just or unjust,
I may say it necessarily leads to trouble

and irritation, and it would not be in the
interest of the Dominion to have irritation

in any part of it. "Only about 120 thousand people," I hear an hon. gentleman
rniles of strait, three and a-half miles of say, Yes, but I tell him they are, taken
which is shallow water.

The breakwater as a whole, the most intelligent and the

at Tignish has stood for years and has not
en damaged by ice, so I think the
question of danger from ice is not to be
tOnsidered. I have said that the cost of
thl tuniel would be about $2,ooo,ooo. I
.O not think any hon. gentleman has a
right to bring a proposition of this kind
blere any legislative body without being
e to show that it can be to a

best educated people, not only in this
Dominion, but on this continent. The
House will perhaps better understand this
when I tell hon. gentlemen that we have
on that Island 428 schools and 2 colleges,
with 484 teachers. 0f the teachers, 264
are men and 220 women; that the whole

school population of the Island is esti-

mated at 22,5oo, whilst those actually en.
I do not rolled in the Public Schools number
e'Pect on this occasion that the Minister 21,488, the difference to which may be
Certain extent self-sustaining.

Justice will give any other answer to added the pupils attending schools not
ry inquiry, but the stereotyped one. I under Government control, which will

502

Communicatiorn [SENATE] with' P. E ksland.

show that every boy and girl in that Island
of fit age is an attendant at school. Mr.
Montgomery, the Superintendent of our
schools, in a recent report says : " Of the
pupils in attendance at the first and
second-class schools last year, 441 studied
Latin, 15 Greek, 51o French (exclusive of
those studying French in third-class and
acadian districts), 405 Algebra, 402
,Geometry, and 298 Chemistry and Phi.
losophy." It may be as well to remark
here that such a population as this
do not usually sleep on their rights.
cost
Now, with reference to the
of the work, it would be $2,ooo,ooo, the interest on which would be
$8o,ooo a year, capitalized at 4%. How
am I going to get $8o,ooo a year by this
work ? It is a very pertinent question, and
I ask the leader of the Government to pay
particular attention to this matter, because I wish to show how the money
is to be made up. I have already
stated that the expenditures on the Prince
Edward Island Railway exceed the revenue
by about $1oo,ooo a year. There is not
much loss in the summer. It is only in the
There is the same exwinter season.
pense in running the road in winter, and
there is less traffic. I contend that this
improved means of communication with
the mainland, with trains passing between
the Island and the mainland four times a
day throughout the year-you would
cross in 25 minutes-would soon have
the effect of wiping out that deficit of
$1oo,ooo a year. At all events, half of it
would disappear. I do not see any reason
why the whole of it should not be wiped

For mail service at the present
time we pay to the Prince Edward Island Steam Navigation
Company per year....... .. $10,000 OU
15,000 00
Maintenance of 'Northern Light.
2,400 00
Interest on her cost, ( 4%......
Depreciation per year, snpposing
her to last but three years
longer,as per Pilot Finlayson's
4,000 00
report .................
$31,400 00
Amount paid at present is.
And it is proposed to put on another ship at Georgetown to
assist the " Northern Light"
which will cost no less than
21,400
ber, say ...............
Allow one-halt for two tug boats
10,700
to be used at the Capes ......
The present cost of the mail service between the Capes in
winter as paid by the P. O.
3,000 00
Dept. here is about...... ...

And you have in round numbers $66,500 00
If you add to thie, say a saving
of fifty per cent. in earnings of
the Prince Edward Railway,
which I do not consider to be
an unfair estimate, about.....
50,000 00
We have a sum of.........
$116,500 00
Deduct the interest on $2,000,000.00 @ 4°/,, the cost of my
80,000 00
subway ............ ........

$36,500 00
And you leave a margin of ....
For profit and loss account.
To my mmd this undertaking would be the
first step towards consolidating the Maritime provinces and in my judgment, after
an experience of ten or twelve years in
this Chamber, I believe it would confer
lasting advantages on them.
Looking
from another standpoint Mr. Ketchum, in
his pamphlet on the construction of the
out. We have 200 miles of railway on
the Island, and there are as many people Baie Verte Ship Railway and Canalto the square mile in that Province as in
HON. MR. POWER-Hear, hear!
Nova Scotia or New Brunswick. There
HON. MR. HOWLAN-My hon. friend
is no reason why the carriage of freight
and passengers over that line should not says " hear, hear." The statistics are nOt
They are furnished by gentlemen
make it self-sustaining. It would relieve mine.
for whom he has the highest respect,
the Government in that way, and if they gentlemen who, he believes, as I believe
bought the 35 miles from Sackville to would not furnish information that he
The
Cape Tormentine they would have control they did not believe to be correct.
of the whole of the railway traffic in that figures are furnished by Mr. J. C. Hall,
who did a large business at Charlottepart of the Dominion. It is a statement town, Hon. J. C. Pope, C. Burpee, M.P.,
that cannot be controverted that by this
U. Elder, M. P. P., and Hon. J. S. Carmeans the deficiency in the operation of vell. Here are the facts and figures as
the Prince Edward Island Railway would given by this pamphlet. I find that he estibe reduced 50 per cent.
mates the amount of freight passing from
HON. MR. HOWLAN.

Communication [APRIL 9, 1885] with P. E. sland.
lrinCe Edward Island to the mainland
at So,ooo tons of agricultural products
alone. If that quantity passes from Prince
Edward Island at present, its volume
!Ould not be lessened but would be
'ncreased if we had this outlet. In my
Judgment it would increase 50 per cent.
There is one portion of the industry of
Prince Edward Island which has never
been tapped and cannot be tapped on
account of want of this communicationthat is fresh fish. After due consideration,
nýild
after an experience of thirty years
In the business myself, and having the
experience of others and talking this
question over very fully, I believe that
S,ooo tons of fresh fish and oysters
Would come out of that country every year.
I do not think therefore that roo,ooo tons
of freight would be too much to expect,
*anld it would make it self-supporting.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-What kind?
HION. MR. HOWLAN-Smelt, hertings, eels, shad, bass mackerel and oysters.
bOu would have all these. They are now
building a bridge across the St. John river.
And with this improved communication
't would then be within twenty hours of
the Boston and twenty-four hours of the
New York markets. By this arrangement
the fresh fish that are used in this city of
Ottawa in winter could be brought from
Prince Edward Island. They are now
brought from Portland and Boston, much
further off. Then there would be no
di.culty in establishing manufactories in
Prince Edward Island. We might as
Wel have a sugar refinery in Prince
tdward Island as in Halifax.
IION. MR. POWER-Hear, hear; we

Wi1 give you one.
liON. MR. HOWLAN-We would
h e the facilities to establish boot and
ShOe and other factories in Prince Ed!ard Island. Then it would be of
incalculable benefit to the farmers of
Price Edward Island. We raise large

qutiities of agricultural products, but we

not get them to the markets of Boston
ad New York before June, and when we
%ch there we find that the market is
ie, whereas, if we had this subway
catit we would have every day communion with the outside world. So far as

503

the question of payment is concerned, I
think there would be no difficulty on that
point. It would be an outlay that the
Government would have a return for in
that way. They would be simply taking
the money out of one pocket and putting
it into the other. That Prince Edward
Island railway will always be in debt more
or less from the facts which I have men,
tioned. We use largely on the island
coal and limestone, which must be procured from the mainland. If the farmers
could procure these supplies in winter
they would use more lime upon their
land. Looking at it any way you please
it would confer great benefit upon the
Province of Prince Edward Island. She
entered the Union on condition that continuous communication would be established, and has behaved loyally ever
since. Even in the unfortunate troubles
which have occurred in the North-West,
she has shown a loyal spirit, and is willing
to-day to send 1,ooo men to the west
for the protection of Canada. She is
bearing her portion of the burden,
and I do think, all things considered, that
if the Government were to submit all those
facts to eminent engineers and order a
survey to ascertain that the statements
made here are correct then we would be
in a position to see what should be done,
and whether this subway could be built
for the sum mentioned or not. Something should be done. I state this with
a full knowledge of the facts, and of the
value of the words I am making use of,
that if the Government. can for $8o,ooo
a year give Prince Edward Island that
continuous communication with the main.
land which was provided for in the terms
of Union, this subway should be built.
Let me say to the Government one word
in conclusion. They should approach
this question from a national standpoint,
may I say from a lofty standpoint of
national honor, where that honor has been
undoubtedly pledged to the people of that
Island, a people who, whilst they value
highly their constitutional rights, have
borne in dignified patience what they have
every right to consider as a great wrong
having been done them.
I know there is great irritation amongst
our people, and it is a matter of public
notoriety which cannot have escaped the
eyes of the Government that there is a

504A

Communication [SEINATE] with P. E. l8land.

strong feeling existent in the Maritime
Provinces that they, their rights and their
peculiarities have not received that consideration at the hands ot this Parliament
to which, in their opinion, they were
entitled.
I need not say to the hon. gentlemen
who compose this House that, using the
words of a great statesman, " irration
weakens the nation." To meet, to destroy and to set at rest all such carping as
this then, let the Government build this
work, and leave it in the East as a monument to their wisdom, which will long
bear testimony by its connecting link with
this continent, their anxiety that all members of this young nation shall believe
they are, one and all, the wards of a
paternal Government.
I have to thank the House for the patient
and kindly hearing they have given my
remarks on a subject which, to many,
must be a dry one, and I hope some of
my hon. friends from the Maritime Provinces will give me the assistance of their
voices, at any rate, in furtherance of the
project I have advocated.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-In my
judgment the hon. gentleman who has
just resumed bis seat bas used excellent
discretion in handling this question. In
the first place, the motion itself has been
carefully framed. It is not calculated to
pledge the Government to the adoption
of any particular course, further than in
the first instance, after due consideration,
to cause inquiries to be made into this
important matter. I think also that my
hon. friend is entitled to the greatest
credit for the diligence, talent, and
research with which he bas investigated
this subject, and I am the more inclined
to give him credit on that score, because
I know that the kindred question of approaching the Island by means of a tunnel has generally been treated with a good
deal of ridicule. I notice that in the
opening part of his address my hon.
friend alluded to certain tunneling
schemes, and showed, I think, pretty
clearly the great additional expense which
would be caused by tunneling under the
Straits of Northumberland as compared
with this project of a subway. He mentions several large undertakings of that
kind. One I remember was the box tunHON. MR. HOWLAN.

nel. That was a work which was undertaken by the younger Brunel. It Wa0
part of the Great Western Railway of
England-a broad gauge railway-broad
gauge in the English sense. and not the
American-and it certainly was a prodigious work of its kind-I think about
three miles long, and bored for the most
part through a stone pretty generallY
known as Oolite, or Bath stone, not a
very hard stone, and very suitable for
tunneling purposes. Then he alluded tosome of the Alpine tunnels, but in MY
opinion no land tunnel affords any analogy
to a marine tunnel. It is just as well that
this subject of tunneling should be set at
rest. We have very few instances of tUnnels of any considerable length under the
sea. The most important one which has
been undertaken is that between England
and France, and that possesses peculiar
advantages, advantages which could perhaps scarcely be found in any other part
of the world. Its great feature is that the
chalk formation is unbroken underneath
that channel, and consequently the tunnel
between England and France is through
chalk the whole way. Chalk is not only
an easy substance to bore through, but it
has this advantage that it is a dry substance, and no water is met with in it as
long as the chalk is present. I am aware
of certain other attempts that have beenl
made to construct submarine tunnels, one
particularly under the Severn estuary,
which bears a more exact analogy to the
case of the Northumberland Strait in this
way; the distance although somewhat
less is under a strait which is liable to the
same objections as the Straits of Northumberland are. I refer to the difficulty of
flowing springs. I have here an extract
that I made some years ago at the tine
the tunnel question was under consideration, describing difficulties which had been
encountered in the attempt of the Great
Western Railway Co. of England to connect its English and Welsh lines by means
of a tunnel under the estuary of the Severn
-I think about four miles from land to
land, and about two and three-quarter
miles under the sea; but without troubling
the House to read the details of those
operations, I may say that the workmen
were driven out of that tunnel by tapping
one single spring. They were driven Out
so completely that the men had some dif'

Communiction [APRIL 9, 1885] with P. E. Iland.
ficulty in escaping with their lives, and the
horses were actually drowned. The tapPing of that spring retarded the work for
8everal years. It was again undertaken
and this spring was mastered ; but more
recently some advance had been made,
When another such spring was encountered with similar results. I mention
these things to show what we should probably meet with if we attempted a tunnel
nder the Strait of Northumberland. That
Strait, as we Islanders know perfectly
Well, is on the old red sandstone formation, and we know from experience that we
can always find abundance of water by
8
inking to a depth of forty or fifty feet or
even less. Hon. gentlemen know how
extremely difficult it would be under these
circumstances to drive a tunnel under the
Straits, and for these reasons I am rather
glad that this project of my hon. friend
eVen if it should result in no other benefit,
bas hy its comparative cheapness and
faciity of construction put an end to any
Project for tunneling the Straits of Northurnberland. I may say in my judgment
there is nothing impracticable in the
scheme proposed by the hon. gentleman
from Alberton.

It seems to me that it is

as applicable to our strait as it has proved

in mnany other instances.

I might mention

that there are difficulties incidental to it
which must be met, but we have already
'n different parts of Canada, and round
the shores of the Maritime provinces
encountered very great and formidable
difficulties in the way of building wharves,
and building breakwaters which will stand
the power of the wind and waves, and
Perhaps the still greater pressure of the ice;
and therefore I am not one to despair that
the adits of this subway can be constructed
Ifl such a way that the tube itself shall
bave a fair starting point into the deep
Water as described by my hon. friend.
course I am not a professional
and do not profess to have studiedman,
the
question as the hon. gentleman has done,
and I am not prepared to offer any general
OP'nions on this question ; but I think
nite enough has been stated to warrant
the Government in making close and
¶m'nlete inquiry into this important subect. It certainly would have the effect if
't cOuld not be carried into operation of
Phtting a satisfactory end to the trouble
which has risen as to the fulfilment of the

505

terms of union between Prince Edward
Island and the Dominion. It would have
a further effect, to which my hon. friend
alluded in the latter part of his addressthat it would completely revolutionize the
industries of Prince Edward Island. Every
description of industry there would be still
further stimulated. The great objection
which has beset our industries hitherto is
that they have been suddenly shut down at
one particular part of the year, and we
might almost say of them that they hybernate for five months until the warnth of
May has let loose our bonds ; but we
should never, should this plan prove to be
practicable and carried into effect, be imprisoned in the future as we have been in
the past, and not only would the old industries of the province be stimulated and
put on a level with the industries of the
other provinces, but 1 can conceive that;
quite a large number of new industriesnew to us at all events-would be inaugurated. Many industries cannot be even
attempted in Prince Edward Island at the
present time-industries for which its
shores and soils are admirably adapted,
and which might become thriving enterprises, not only bringing wealth into the
country, but assisting the Government in
paying the interest on the large outlay in
this proposed undertaking. I allude to
the smelt trade, and hon. gentlemen from
other parts of the Lower Provinces know
what a profitable industry that has become;
I allude also to the possibilities of the
oyster trade. It is well known that oysters
are becoming scarcer and scarcer every
year. The oyster beds, for which the coast
of Prince Edward Island is perhaps better
adapted than any other part of the world,
could be made to produce a large supply.
It is not a bold assertion to make, because
we have it in our daily experience at home
that a large proportion of our population
are engaged two or three months of every
year while we are here attending to our
legislative duties, taking out the deposits
of decayed oysters which have been deposited there for centuries. What is there
to prevent the renewal of those oyster
beds ? And that alone would become
such an important item in the trade of the
Island, that I firmly believe the oysters
of Prince Edward Island would become
as celebrated as any others on the continent. After the long address that has

506

Comnmunication [SE NATE] with P. E. Iland.

been made by my hon. friend, I am quite
.aware that the House must be somewhat weary of this subject, but I think
I should be acting an unpatriotic part
if I did not give my hon. friend full
credit for the great ability and industry
he has shown in handling this subject.
For my own part I can only say that in
,debating the question of winter navigation
across the straits, in this House of anywhere else, I never took the ground that
the Government of Canada should be held
to the performance of impossibilities. It
seems to me that such language involves an
absurdity, and of that absurdity I certainly
should not be guilty. I have claimed for
my province, and I claim it still, that the
best that circumstances will permit to be
done should be done to render communi,cation with the mainland easy and safe at
all seasons of the year ; but my contention,
in speaking from my place in this House,
.and in the memorial which I put in before the committee of the other House
has been that although I would not
.attempt to bind the Dominion Government to the immediate carrying out of
those terms of Confederation, which up
to the present time have been virtually
impossible, yet at the same time if they
perform their duty as a Government to
the best of their present ability, I still
maintain that the improvements in science
and navigation might at some future, and
perhaps not very remote date, be such
that by means of new inventions, or the
discovery of greater powers, it might be
within their means to literally carry
those provisions of the confederation into
effect, and it seems to me that this project
of my hon. friend's is the dawn of the
I hope
possibility that I anticipated.
it will meet the favorable consideration of
the Government, and that it will not be
thrown aside as a forgotten and useless
thing. I shall await with the greatest interest the reply which I am sure the
leader of the Government is prepared to
give us, and which I hope will be in all
respects favorable.

a project; but when I heard his arguments
and found that they were supported by
such a practical and eminent engineer as
Mr. Vernon Smith, I thought it worth
while to give the subject some attentiol

I have listened to my hon. friend this
afternoon with great interest, and I thinlk
he has gone far to take the matter beyond
the realms of fancy. I believe that the
work can be done, but whether it could
be brought within the estimates of mY
hon. friend, I would not like to admit.
It is true that there have been, as he says,
in the Clyde and in the Thames and
Severn, short tunnels of some half a mile
in length ; but when we come to cross
such a mighty water stretch as the Northumberland Straits, it is a project of quite
a different character, and though I believe
the Government should by all reasonable
means do their utmost to carry out the
terms on which Prince Edward Island
entered the Union, and establish regular
communication with the mainland at all
seasons of the year, I hope that while
considering this matter, and employing
competent engineers to look into it,
they will not have their minds diverted
from what is due to that province, and
neglect the improvements already at their
command. No doubt this project would
cost a large sum of money, and the interest
on it would be $ioo,ooo. The railway of
the Island is run at a loss of about $îoO,
ooo a year, and the mail service costs about
$25,ooo a year, which is a large subsidY
given to Prince Edward Island. That
those deficiencies would be in any way
reduced by the construction of this tunnel
is not quite as clear to my mind as it iStO
that of my hon. friend. I am not sure
that larger crops would be raised in the
Island because of the construction of this
subway; neither would there be much
more fish caught and cured. It would,
however, enable the Islanders to keeP
their produce till the winter when theY
could get a larger price for it.
HoN. MR. HOWLAN-How are yOU
going to ship your fish without it in the

HON. MR. KAULBACH-When I saw winter?
this notice of motion on the order paper
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It might
I considered it quixotic-a midsummer
night's dream. I did not think that a man have the effect of over-doing busines
of my hon. friend's practical ability and We find the lobster business in Nova
common sense would have advanced such Scotia is going down in consequence of

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

Communication [APRIL 9, 1885] with P. E. Island.
Over-fishing, Though I looked upon this
Project at first as absurd, the arguments of
'nY hon. friend have caused me to change
rY opinion, and I think it is worthy of
the favorable consideration of the GovernInent. A survey should be made and
estirnates prepared by some engineer in
'Whom the Government has confidence, to
report to this House.

507

any of the representatives of the Province
of Quebec to depart ftom that policy now.
The Dominion bas done much to unite
the smaller provinces of the west. The
Government bas gone to great expense
to attain that object. The building of the
Pacific Railway was certainly a work which
at the beginning many of us in both
Houses thought was of such magnitude
that it was too much for a population of
some four millions, but we have carried
that into effect, and without imposing a
new burden on the people of this country,
we wîll very soon have a road from ocean
to ocean, and that will be in the interest
of every province of the Dominion. The
only province that will not benefit by it is
Prince Edward Island, and 1 believe that
the Dominion ought to do spmething for
that province. Since Prince Edward
Island entered the Confederation, I might
fairly say that the Government have done
their best to carry out the arrangements
for winter communication which were
entered into at the time that province
came into the Union, but there are many
difficulties in the way-difficulties which I
believe cannot be met except by some
great project such as the hon. member
trom Prince Edward Island alluded to
a moment ago. If such a work could be
carried out at the expense mentioned by
the hon. gentleman, I do not believe
that the Dominion ought to hesitate
to undertake it.
Indeed the hon.
gentleman from Prince Edward Island
has pretty well shown that even in

hION. MR BOTSFORD-I certainly
shall not resist the appeal from the hon.
Menber from Prince Edward Island, as
he has made a very able statement of a
question which at first sight appeared to
a very absurd one; but the more he
discussed the subject, and the more information he gave the Senate, the more
feasible the project seemed to be. He
ertainly has given it very great consideratlOn. He has shown great ability in the
ariner in which he has collected and
Ccade use of the information which he has
derived from various sources, and if this
Project is feasible, and the subway can be
cOnstructed for the amount of money
Which has been estimated by the engineer, it
Would be difficult to estimate the great
advantages which not only Prince Edward
Island but the Dominion at large, would
derive from such a work. I may say,
Without expressing an opinion upon it,
that the hon, gentleman has shown that it
1s the duty ot the Government to make
nquiries with respect to this great work.
Offer no opinion about it, but I say I
COngratulate the hon. gentleman on the
'erY able manner in which he has pre- expending $2,000,o00, or even $3,000,o00
sernted this question for the consideration the Government would not impose a
of the House.
great burden on the Dominion, so that
under the circumstances there should be
LIoN. MR. BELLEROSE--Coming no objection to carry on that work. I
one of the large provinces of the know there is a great deal of difficulty in
toion,
I believe that it is expected the way. The hon. gentleman himself
thate representatives of that province does not ask that such a project be underall say a word on this important ques- taken; he merely asks that the question
t. I believe that the representatives be taken into consideration, so that the
Of people of Quebec
the
already Government can see whether such
ahoDIn snce Confederation have they are ject can be carried out effectively. a prothat
I only
always happy to assist the other provinces hope that the Government will see their
i anything which they ask for that would way to assist that province which now
to the benefit of the Dominion at large. stands in a very bad position towards the
every instance that province, which has rest of the Dominion. They helped us
t1erally supported the Conservative Gov- in carrying on ail the other public works
e rent, has favored all measures which of the country, and it is only right that
wereit is not, I believe, the intention of we should help them in having tasy cornin the interests of the other provinces, munication
with the mainland. Two mie

Communication [SENATE] with P. E. Iland.

C)08

lions of dollars is a large sum of money,
but we know that if peace is not restored
we will expend more than $2,ooo,ooo in
the North-West. I hope we will not be
put to that expense, but if peace is not
restored we will not only expend millions
of dollars but will have blood shed there,
and not only for months, but possibly for
years.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
hope not.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I hope not,
but I say if peace is lot restored we will
have both loss of blood and money. It is
well known that this rebellion in the West
has not sprung up without some reason.
I am one of those who, in 1870, stood
up in my place and said that I did not
consider that the rebellion at Red River
was such a crime as many people thought,
and to-day I say the same. I say that
according to my principles it is a crime,
but there are other crimes also, and the
first crime is sometimes worse than the
second, because it has been the cause of
the second. Well, hon. gentlemen there
have been causesHON. MR. POWER-I rise to a question of order. I do not say but what the
hon. gentleman's remarks may be perfectly
proper at another time, but they are not
germane to the subject before the House.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I will speak
to the question of order. I want to show
why the population of Prince Edward
Island may, some day, think they are not
well treated, and as an example of the
consequence of ill-treatment I am referring
to the troubles in the North-West.

the North-West, but there may be othe
trouble and dissatisfaction. I believe that
since Confederation we have been endeavoring to unite the whole Dominion as a
contented people, and I say that so'ne
millions expended to secure that unity' of
spirit and heart and feeling is something
worthy of consideration. In answer to the
hon. member from Halifax that hon. gen'
tleman may perhaps remember that Nova
Scotia cost us $1o,oooooo for peace. I-e
may remember that, so that even if I were
to refer to that question now and say that
Nova Scotia is entitled to more money, he
might not consider it quite out of order,
so I say that to have peace with the peo'
ple of Prince Edward Island, it is worth
expending a few hundred thousand dollars
I hope that the Government may see their
way to take the proposition of the hor·
member from Alberton into favourable
consideration, and see whether it can be
carried into effect.
HON. MR. WARK-I think the ho".
gentleman from Prince Edward Island .i
to be congratulated on the manner in
which he has brought this matter betore
the attention of the House. I have for
some forty years lived within sight Of
Prince Edward Island, and I have always
sympathized with the people of that province in the inconvenience, hardship, and
danger that they have to encounter in
crossing the Straits in winter. I think it
was one of the great drawbacks to the cOn"
federation of the Maritime provinces, the
difficulty of having communication between
the Island and the mainland in winter. i
the hon gentleman is correct in the estimates he has made of the expense of this
project-even if it were a million dollars
more, I think it is well worth the considertion of the Government to give satisfaction
to the people of that Island.

THE SPEAKER-I think the remarks
of the hon. gentleman in the sense in
which he has made them, may be germane
HON. MR. OGILVIE-I am delighted
to the discussion ; but I am inclined to to hear from my hon. friend, the hOnbelieve that my hon. friend was going a member for DeLanaudière, the generous
little too far when he was called to order. sentiments he has expressed towards
Prince Edward Island for this-I cannot
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-In- the tell you what it is-this hybrid article
North-West there are difficulties, and there that one cannot find a name for. If there
are reasons for it, and in Prince Edward is one thing with which I am perfectly
Island there may be dissatisfaction in the acquainted it is the power of water, for
future that may cause trouble-no doubt have made a special study of it for sorne
not such trouble as we are now facing in thirty years. The idea of a structUre
HON.

MR. BELLEROSE.

Communication [APRIL 9, 1885] with P. E Il8and.
sUch as the hon. gentleman proposes, to
Contendagainstthetideand ice of the Straits
Of Northumberland is so thorougly absurd
an1d ridiculous that I would not like to have
it go out of this Chamber without opposition. I have been put to a great deal of
trouble to retain a column of nine feet of
Water. I have been put to an immense
deal of trouble to keep back twenty feet
9f water in a situation of that kind. That
1s What I intended to speak of first, but I
Was more than delighted with the quixoti

509

with our approval that is so utterly ridiculous and absurd as this subway across the
Stiaits of Northumberland. I have had
experience with all kinds of water works,
and I have 3een a six inch hole in a bank
carry away a four story building inside of
six hours. The thing is perfectly ridiculous, and if it is undertaken $2,ooo,ooo
will hardly make a good beginning. No
doubt $2,ooo,ooo would begin it, and
about $1o,ooo,ooo might finish it but cer-

tainly nothing less, and I speak advisedly.

Cisrn of my hon. friend from DeLanaudière
HON. MR. FERRIER-I was very
Who thinks that so much should be done
for Prince Edward Island. It is the first much pleased with the manner in which
timne I ever saw him pose as a philanthro- my hon. friend submitted his project to
Pist, anxious to please everybody, and aid the House, and I am one of those who
?verything to satisfy the rest of the Dom- think that there is no danger of his in"lion. Never mind ourselves hon. gen- curring any of the ridicule which my hon.
tlernen ; let us try to please those other friend (Mr. Ogilvie) has spoken of in rePeople. He speaks about the millions to ference to recommending that the Governbe spent in the North-West in this rebel- ment look into this matter and give it
40n. I am neither a philosopher nor the their best attention. I am disposed now,
SOn of a philosopher; nor am I a pro- and have been for some years past to get
Phet or the son of a prophet, but I will rid of the word " impossible."
I cannot
venture one prophecy : I believe there will understand how we should hesitate to benot be one fight in the North-West. lieve a project is feasible when we have
TO-day we had reports about the principal seen so many great works accomplished in
trOuble being at Crow Foot Crossing, be- various parts of the world. My hon.
CaUse the Indians did not meet Capt. friend from Prince Edward Island has not
Potton there. I was at Crow Foot Cross- brought this matter before the House in
14g last year, and met old Chief Crowfoot an inconsiderate manner. I have followed
there myself. He is a very intelligent, him closely, and I think on the whole he
ide-awake, able man, and he and his has placed details before the House which
band know what they are doing just as are worthy of careful consideration on the
Well as anybody, and I say that the Gov- part of the Government; because if that
MmlIment were dealing with those Indians tunnel can be constructed for $2,ooo,ooo,
as fairly as it was possible to do. I have it will be the best spent money that
8een it myself with my own eyes. I have Parliament has ever voted. I am deseen the old chief pick up good bacon lighted at having had an opportunity to
that any of us would be glad to have on hear my hon. friend submit his project to
our table, and pitch it away contempt- the House in a detailed manner. When
Own
4oUsly and say "No want that ! Want we were considering the question of Confresh beef! " That is the way the Indians federationthere was the greatest imaginable
RCted. I say that they are well treated, difference of opinion about the constructrd when I heard my hon. friend from ion of the Intercolonial Railway. On
eLanaudiere express his deep anxiety to that occasion, as the official report of the
ease the people of Prince Edward Island Confederation debates will show, I was of
thought a new feeling of benevolence the opinion that there was no risk whatad struck him that I never knew him to ever in constructing that coad, and I
'fluenced by before, but that is apart supported my view with the details of
t r the question. The project submitted of what I knew the railways of the world
o US, when laid before competent hydrau- were doing, and had done. From the
e engineers, will prove to be utterly fallamanner in which my hon. friend has gone
£"us. I do not trouble the House very into this question he deserves that every
Often, but I would object very much to consideration
should be extended to him.
ave anything go out from the Senate And we should not reject a scheme of

510

Communication [SEN ATE] with P. E. I8land.

Now, I think too much money has been
spent in the North-West and in a great
many other quarters of the Dominion; but,
if we expect this Confederation to hold
together, the time has come when vie
should be a little cautious about rushing
into these expenditures. Our debt IS
increasing with tremendous rapidity. Tax"
ation is increasing; and our financial
future is anything but cheerful, so that this
would be an unfortunate time to underAlready the
take heavy expenditures.
feeling has grown in some of the Provinces,
and is beginning to grow even in Ontario
that Confederation costs rather more than
it is worth; and, if we are to do a great
deal more for the Province of Prince
Edward Island and go into expenditures
of this kind, the feeling will grovi
HON. MR. POWER-I did not propose as to that Island at any rate. Wheil
to say anything on this subject until the Prince Edward Island came into the
hon. gentleman from DeLanaudièreseemed Union she came in on most advanto express on behalf of the Province of tageous terms, one of which was that this
Quebec the opinion that we should be communication with the'mainland was tO
quite prepared to spend two or three be maintained. The Government made
millions of dollars for this object. And an effort to maintain the communication;
I am somewhat surprised to find that the that effort has not been altogether successNestor of the House to whom we might ful. Two years ago a Committee of the
look for counsels of prudence seems to House of Commons was appointed to deal
endorse the view of the hon. gentleman with this matter. They sat for a number
trom DeLanaudière. I quite agree with of days, took a great deal of evidence and
the hon. gentlemen who have spoken who made certain recommendations.
That
say that the hon. gentleman from Alberton committee did not recommend a subwaY
deserves a great deal of credit for the very or tunnel; and I think that until the resatisfactory way in which he has put his commendation of that committee has been
scheme before the Senate. When that tried and found not to be satisfactory it
hon. gentleman undertakes to do a thing is too soon to initiate another scheme;
he does it thoroughly, as he has done in still it is to be hoped that the Government
this instance. I think that what the hon. will get information on this subject, and if
gentleman asked, that the Government they are satisfied that the scheme is a
should make a survey, is not altogether an feasible one that they will cause surveys tO
unreasonable request. Perhaps before be made. But I hope that they will hasten
making the survey the Government would slowly in this matter. There has been in
do well to have the opinion of some other Canada altogether too much fighting
engineers as to the feasibility of my hon. against nature. We are fighting against
friend's scheme. Probably an engineer of nature out in the Rocky Mountains,
as good standing as Mr. Vernon Smith There are schemes for navigating Hudwould not have endorsed the scheme if it son's Bay and all sorts of undertakings Of
were not practicable ; but there are engi- that kind which much wealthier and more
neers, like Mr. Page for instance, whose prosperous countries would not venture
opinions would be of great value. The to undertake. We are not responsible for
doctrine laid down by the hon. gentleman the fact that Prince Edward is an island.
from DeLanaudière is to my mind a most Providence separated her from the mam-l
extraordinary one. He says that because land, and she has to take the consequences.
we have been guilty of extravagance in the If we get over the inconvenience for a
North-West therefore we should imme- reasonable figure it is all very well, but ve
diately be extravagant in the south-east. are not bound to do it coute qui coute.

this kind if it is feasible. To my mind it
is quite possible that the project may be
worked out in a most satisfactory manner.
I think it would be well if the Government would look into it. We have in our
country one of the most eminent engineers
on the continent, Mr. Walter Shanly, who
so successfully carried to completion the
famous Hoosac tunnel, after the American
engineers had failed, and if the matter
were referred to him he could look into
the details of the project, and report as to
its feasibility. From my personal knowledge of his ability as an engineer, and his
thorough integrity of character, I am confident that the Government could rely on
any statement he would make on the
subject.

HON.

MR. FERRIER.

Communication [APRIL 9, 1885] with P. E. 8land.

511

HON. MR. HOWLAN-You are by the tration of the day built the railway, because
terms of Union.
they felt that the Island would be obliged
to come into the Union as she could not
the railway was
HON. MR. POWER-There is another bear the debt ; and when
reason why I feel that it is rather soon under way the Island entered the Con.
just yet to undertake to make much further federation.
expenditures on account of Prince Edward
HON. MR. HOWLAN-The hon.
Island. The hon. gentleman from Alberton referred to the fact that the Island gentleman's information is not correct.
Railway cost about $1oo,ooo a year more
than it brought in. It is only a little
HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentleWhile ago that we undertook to give them man from DeLanaudiere spoke of Nova
tnore railway on the Island. The com- Scotia having cost $1o,ooo,ooo.
Nova
rnunication with the mainland costs a great Scotia came in ultimately with a debt of
deal now. The population of the Island $10,000,000 just as Prince Edward Island
is about i 1o,ooo or i 15,000 people.
came in with her debt, and Canada with
hers. Canada came in with a debt of
HON. MR. HOWLAN-But look what $7o,ooo,ooo, and I am quite sure that
Nova Scotia brought in as much value in
a class of people we have got.
HON. MR. POWER-They are a very
uperior class of people, but it might
perhaps pay as well to bring them all over
to the mainland, if we are going to spend
So much for communication with the
Island. While so much money has been
8
Pent for this Island with its 11o,ooo or
8

proportion to the amount of her debt as
either Canada or Prince Edward Island.
The island of Cape Breton has not a single
mile of public railway. This Government has spent no money on Cape Breton,
except upon the enlarging of the St Peter's
Canal and some harbor improvements.
The strait separating the island from the

is not 9 miles across-it is not
115,ooo people and while so much has mainland
one mile, and if there are to be subways
been done for Vancouver Island, with its

people, there is an island which I
think is of quite as much value as either
Of these-Cape Breton-for which almost
o10thing has been done. I really think
that the 85,900 or 90,000 people of the
Island of Cape Breton deserve a little
consideration from the Government before
a large expenditure is gone into in Prince
7£dward Island.
12,000

HON. MR. HOWLAN-Do not be a
dog in the manger.

HoN. MR. POWER-There is no railWay in Cape Breton, whereas there are
200 miles of railway in Prince Edward
Island.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-We paid foi
that ourselves.

that is a much better place for them than
Northumberland Strait. After a subway
is made across the Strait of Canso, and
the railway is extended to Sydney, then it
will be time to ask for $2,ooo,ooo to
build a subway from Cape Tormentine to
Cape Traverse.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I wish to

make a brief explanation in reply to the
remarks of the hon. gentleman from Halifax. I never mentioned the $1o,ooo,ooo
as an argument for granting this to Prince
Edward Island. The hon. gentleman
from Halifax interrupted me,and I said i
I had been discussing the $ 1,o000o000 for
Nova Scotia he might have allowed me to
proceed with my argument without inter
raption.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am

sure the hon. gentleman who introduced
lION. MR. POWER-The hon. gentle - this subject to the House must be gratified
tnan is right in one way ; the Island1 by the very marked impression his speech
GOvernment built the railway, but thýe has made. The information he has laid
debt is assumed by the Dominion. It i! before the House, I think, is admirably
s
generally understood that the adminis - calculated to bring the .minds of hon.

ý512

Conmunication [SEINATE] with P. E. kland.

gentlemen to the conclusion at which his
own has arrived. He has brought details
of a most interesting character, and I
think has given us all information which
we did not possess until he rose to make
his remarks, and evidently by the discussion
which has taken place he has produced a
very decided impression upon the minds
of hon. gentlemen who have listened to
his speech and who, perhaps-some o
them at all events-were rather disposed
to be prejudiced against the project which
he has laid before us. I am not able to
give my hon. friend the exact promise
which he seeks for in his inquiry. I will
say frankly to him, and to the House,
that the promise to undertake the survey
of this work is one which I am not prepared to make. That the Government
will give attention to the subject I
can promise with great pleasure and
in perfect faith, but not that it may
lead to any survey. The question as
put by the hon. gentleman is whether
the Government, after due consideration,
will be prepared to recommend the survey. I am not able to say whether the
Government will at any stage of their inquiry recommend a survey or not, but I
will take care that the remarks which my
hon. friend has made, and an account of
the effect which has been produced by
those remarks on the House, are conveyed
to the Government, and more particularly
to the Minister who is charged with this
class of Government business. I will take
care that full information is given, and I
think it is very likely that the impression
made on this House may, to some extent,
be communicated to the members of the
Government when they have the benefit
of the report, which no doubt will appear,
of the speech which my hon. friend has
made. I will take care that due consideration is given by the Government to the
proposition which my hon. friend has put
forward and the arguments by which he
has supported it. Beyond that, and with
reference to a survey, or the result of it, I
am not able to give my hon. friend the
promise which he desires, but I hope he
will be satisfied that he has made a very
considerable impression upon the House
and that the Government will give consideration to the subject to which he has
called attention.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL

MARITIME COURT OF ONTARIO
JURISDICTION BILL.
SECOND READING.

HON. MR. TURNER moved the second
reading of Bill (i1), " An Act to extend
the jurisdiction of the Maritime Court Of
Ontario."
He said-I may mention that certain
powers of the Vice-Admiralty Court do
not extend to Ontario, and that it has
much greater powers than we propose.
All asked for by this Bill is simply that
the building, equipping, repairing a ship,
and the materials used for the purpose,
shall be a first lien on the vessel. In the
Maritime provinces, where there are tidal
waters, the powers are very much more
extended. The reason for asking for this
legislation is that there has been considerable grievance on account of non-payment
for work done for parties owning vessels
nominally, having those vessels mortgaged
to a very large extent, and such clainis,
being against the owners only, could not
be enforced. I think it but reasonable
that if anything is done towards improving
a vessel that the money so expended
should be a first lien on the vessel. The
only other point of this Bill is that it is
not retroactive.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I shall at
the next stage of the Bill oppose it upofl
the ground that it is not in the interest Of
the shipowners, but is prompted by the
ship chandlers. The claim should not be
a first lien on the vessel to the detrim1ent
of other existing liens, only for what i5
absolutely necessary for the voyage. 011
the Upper Lakes the owner of the vessel ls
accessible and can easily be communicated
with, and there is not the same necessitY
there for this legislation that there is for
sea-going vessels.

HON.

MR.

GOWAN-The

present

jurisdiction of the Maritime Court does
not extend to building, equipping or repairing vessels, but the common law right
exists of a lien. A vessel may be repaired
and work done upon it, and it could be
taken for that as property for rent 1
former years. The Dry Dock CompanY
at Owen Sound having undertaken to do
work upon a vessel found that it Was

North- West [APRIL 10, 1885] Troubles.
Irortgaged and the ownership distributed
amongst niany persons, and none of whom
Were willing to pay the money, and there
the claim rested. I know another case
where a ship carpenter put $1,8oo worth
of work on a vessel and could not recover
the money in consequence of it being
rnortgaged, and the property distributed
alongst several persons. The only objection I have heard to the Bill is that it
Would enable masters of vessels to pledge
vessels to the prejudice of the owners.
They cannot do that because the common
law right exists. The vessel can be detained, but it is very inconvenient to do
Su, and this simply extends the jurisdiction
so as to enable that to be done in Ontario
Which is done elsewhere and which is done
In respect of the various matters connected
With vessels. The Bill as it originally
stood authorized the vessel to be detained
for certain supplies.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
Was read the second time.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (40) "An Act further relating to
The Central Bank of New Brunswick."
(Mr. Wark.)
THE COX DIVORCE CASE.
SECOND READING POSTPONED.

The order of the day having been
called for the second reading of Bill (H)
'An Act for the relief of George Branford
COX," and that the petitioner do attend
at the Bar and be heard by counsel,
HON. MR. OGILVIE said: I have had
to appear so often as an apologist in this

case that I really feel almost ashamed to
do so again, but yet there is no help for
it. We have only telegraphic evidence.
I ask leave now that the order of the day
for the second reading of the Bill be disCharged and that it be read the second
tie On Monday the 2oth April inst.
The motion was agreed to.

513

to amend the Act to encourage the construction of Dry Docks, by granting assistance on certain conditions to companies
constructing them. He said: In the
original Bill it was only an incorporated
company that was authorized to undertake the work of constructing a dry dock;
it is proposed to allow the City of Halifax
to do so in the same manner as an incorporated company.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time.
The Senate adjourned at six o'clock.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Friday April zoth, 1885.
The

SPEAKER took

the Chair at three

o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
NORTH-WEST TROUBLES.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I regret to have to announce to the House the
receipt of the following telegram from
Battleford: " Indian massacre has taken
place at Frog Lake. The following killed :
Rev. Father Forfar and Rev. Father
Lemarchand, priests; T. T. Quinn, Indian
Agent; John Delaney, farm instructor;
Mr. Gowanlock and wife; two men, names
not mentioned. Mrs. Delaney is prisoner.
The fate of Mr. Cameron of Hudson's
Bay Company is unknown." I have no
further intelligence from the North-West
than this telegram which notifiesus of a very
serious calamity. A copy of the telegram
has been forwarded to the commander of
the troops for confirmation and from whom
we have heard nothing so far.
HON. MR. MACDONALD (B. C.)What Indians are they ?

DRY DOCKS BILL.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
Crees and Stonies. The telegram is from
h'ON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved Battleford. Frog Lake is somewhere in
the second reading of Bill (1o8) "An Act the vicinity of Fort Pitt.
H I
SECOND READING.

514

Parliamentary [SENATE] Rteturns.

HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON hands of two or three different parties who
-Frog Lake is about 40 miles north-west may be interested in them, but it is very
of Fort Pitt, and Fort Pitt is 93 miles seldom that the public see or hear anything
of them. As far as the addresses that
from Battleford.
have come to my hand are concerned, I
HON. MR. PLUMB-When did this generally send them to the press of ny
county, and I just get an acknowledgment
take place ?
that they have been received and that is all.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
took place yesterday, so far as we know.

PUBLIC AFFAIRS OF THE
DOMINION.
MOTION POSTPONED.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER rose to call
attention to the present state of the affairs
of the Dominion and to ask the Government how they propose to remedy existing
evils. He said : I hope the House will
permit me to postpone this motion until
As was
Wednesday the 1 5 th April.
observed by a prominent preacher from
one of the pulpits last Sunday, "When fire
breaks out on board ship the first duty of
all is to unite in stopping it. When the

chief danger is over we may then proceed
to courtmartial those who caused it."
The order of the day was discharged.
PARLIAMENTARY RETURNS.
MOTION.

HON. MR. PLUMB-They are throw'
away and wasted.
HON. MR. FLINT-Yes, as my hon.
friend says, they are thrown away and
wasted, and if we are bound to waste
money it may as well be wasted in some
other way. I was in the Legislative Counl
cil for some years and I have been in this
House ever since Confederation, and I
have always found that if I wanted to get
information from any Department of the
Government it was a very easy matter for
me to write a letter and get that information or to go to the Department myself
and obtain it without any cost to the
Government for notices or printing. That
is the course I have taken hitherto, and
this is the first occasion since 1862, the
time of my coming into the Upper House
and into the Senate that I have ever put a
notice on the paper asking for an address
to His Excellency. I trust therefore I
may be excused for moving the address of
which I have given notice.

HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I regret
HON. MR. FILNT moved:that I cannot accept the observations of
That an humble address be presented to
member who has moved this ad-

Ris Excellency the Governor-General, praying the hon.
that he will cause to be laid before this House, dress without saying a few words. Accora detailed statement of the number ofaddresses ding to my judgment the hon. gentlemal
asked for by varions members of the Senate is now sinning in the very way that he is
and House of Commons, for the sessions of reproaching others for having sinned. If
1884 and 1885,giving the natureof the address,
the nanie of the niember asking the saine, and addresses are not necessary, why ask for
the cost of each return iso made, said return this one ? The hon. gentleman ought to
to be made as soon as practicable after the know that members of both Houses may
close of the present session.
have good reason to ask for information,
He said :-My reason for asking for this and if Parliament is good for anything it
return is, so much has been said about the is to assist the Government in carrying ofl
expense of carrying on public affairs, and the business of the country, and to carry
the extravagance of the Government that on the business of the country requires
I think it is no more than right that the information, and to have that information,
House and the country should know how when we are not at the seat of governmuch money it costs for those addresses. ment the whole year, we must be
Those returns are obtained; they are made aware of what is going on by adprinted and they are put into the hands of dresses and returns and questions when
members of the House, and where do they Parlianent meets, so that I do not believe
go to ? They may possibly go into the the hon. gentleman is right in criticising

Parliamentary [APRIL 10, 1885] Returmn.
those who have occasion to ask for such
information. No doubt there are abuses
of this privilege, and if the hon. gentleman
can suggest a remedy so that anything
that is good may never be abused, then I
an ready to stand by him ; but in criticising in a general way this well established
mode of asking for information in ParliaI have
ment I cannot support him.
rnoved an address in this House that I
believe has cost the country as much as
the whole of the addresses which have
been referred to by the hon. member op-

For that reason I believe I am
Posite.
m
ore criticised by this motion than any
other member, though if I had to do it
again I would move for that return at any
expense. I say before the whole country
that anything that is necessasy in this
direction must be obtained at any expense,
otherwise it would be better to do away
With Parliament altogether and leave to
the Government the administration of the
whole business of the country, believing as
We all believe that they are trustworthy
and that they will go on and do everything
that is right. I do not mean to say, as I
Said before, that there are no abuses of
this practice of calling for returns, but who
Is to be the judge of that but the Government. When the Government state from
their place in the House, that an address
cannot be accepted then the House usually
submits ; and when the Government disapproves of it there is no other tribunal to
appeal to, and I cannot accept the criticism
Of rniy hon. friend without protest.
HON. MR. READ-The motion I sup
Pose is a proper one, but I can only say,
as Chairman of the Printing Committee,
that those addresses when they come before
that Committee are thoroughly criticised
and looked over. If they are of public
inportance they are printed either for
distribution or in the Sessional Papers,
according to their value as public docuinents or the requirements of the public
interest; but not one-fourth of them, I think,
are printed at all. To-day we have beforeus
seven pages of an order paper containing
1 0 addresses or more, perhaps not onethird of which will be printed. Many of
th en are of great importance to members,
hoWever, and I think that the information
sf necessary to be given to Parliament
under any circumstances. The member

who moves an address takes the responsibility of doing so, and it is his duty to doi
so, because abuses may exist that require
to be ventilated, and he can only get this,
information in a proper and Parliamentary
manner. The Committee do not incur,
any more expense in printing those docu-,
ments than is necessary in the public
interest, and some of them are of vast
importance indeed. For instance there
was one brought down to-day on a matter
in which I was interested, and I went to
the Clerk and got a copy of it. It is a
paper that is not to be printed.
HoN. MR. PLUMB-As the seconder
of the motion before the House, I can
hardly allow the remark of my hon. friend
on my left (Mr. Bellerose) to pass without
saying a word. I do not think anything
could be further from the thoughts of the.
mover of this address than to have said
anything personal to my hon. friend;
and I think that my hon. friend opposite,
(I say it with great respect), is beside the
mark in presuming that the motion of the
hon. gentleman from Belleville is intended
as a general criticism or an objectionable
criticism to the Parliamentary practice of
moving for addresses. That is certainly
the inherent right of every member
who sits in this hon. House, or who sits in
the other House ; but I think it is not
improper for my hon. friend, who has.
seen, as most of us have seen, that ai
practice of this knd, however laudable
and necessary it may be as a means of
procuring information, is open to certain
abuses, to move this address. He has not
presumed to limit in hisresolution the right
to move for returns ; he simply asks for
the in1formation that the public may see
who does move for them. That is a matter of public notoriety already, but it is
not condensed in the form he proposes
-the names of the members who move
the addresses, what are thesubjectsof those
addresses, and how far the country has
been put to expense for the publication of
those addresses. It is not limited to this
House. Although I am not sure that an
inquiry of that kind will be accepted by
the Government, I certainly think it is
in the right direction, and that my hon.
friend is entitled to credit for having
brought up such a resolution, and I trust
that the address will be granted.

516

ParlianentaryLSENATE] Return.

HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I would ask
the hon. gentleman from Niagara whether
he believes that, when this address is accepted by the House and the Government,
the people will be in a position to judge
whether the practice has been abused or
not ? Is it not a criticism on the actions
of this House ? When a return is called
for, and has to be printed, we have to
vote for or against it, and the House is
now condemning itself for its own action
in voting for such returns.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I think it is a

perfectly proper motion. I do not think
it is a criticism on the actions of the
House; it is merely a motion for information. My hon. friend (Mr. Flint) was
very careful to say that while he himself
had never made any request of the kind
-while he had been able without expense
to get information from the Departments,
-he did not criticize those who took this
mode of getting information, on an address. He does not imply by his motion
a censure on those who moved for returns,
but he may call attention to a practice
which is liable to great abuse. As my
hon. friend says the system was a good
one, but I have seen the thing carried to
great excess. I have seen returns brought
upon the table of the House that I shall
not mention, which were so voluminous
that they would never be read or printed,
nevertheless returns that cost a great deal
of money to prepare.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-My question was will the people be better judges
than this House as to whether the returns moved for are of value to the country, or that members have abused the
practice ?
HON. MR. PLUMB-It is almost always the custom to allow a motion of this
kind to pass as a matter of courtesy.
Perhaps the only protection the Government would have would be something of
this kind. It does not necessarily follow
that because a motion for a return is
passed, the House considers it a laudable
one or in the interests of the country.

dering them to be printed, and they are
oniy approved for printing when it is
ascertained that they contain information
that is of value to the country.
HON.

SiR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I

think a good object which might be
gained by the passage of the address is,
not the putting a stop to the practice
which is the right of Parliament, to move
addresses and call for papers, but to
direct the notice of members of both
Houses to the number of papers that are
asked for constantly, and the expense that
their preparation entails. It is not to put
down the practice, but to draw the attention of members to it, leaving themselves to judge whether in the face of
such a large expenditure it is expedient
for them to make motions from time to
time for addresses which nay involve a
very large expense without having any
value or importance to the country. I
have no objection to the address except
that I think the hon. member should not
have asked for the names of the members
of the House of Commons who have
moved for those returns. There might
be something invidious in that, and
besides the Government has not the information. The motion comes up, it is
simply an address for papers, and the
name of the person at whose instance it
is moved is not given with it. The object of giving the name would be rather
to point out that member as having asked
something which has entailed a large expense on the country, and which he ought
not to have asked for ; but even if it is not
open to that interpretation the Government has not the information. The
Government has simply the addresses
which have been passed by the House of
Commons and signed by the Speaker. I
would suggest to my hon. friend to strike
out of his motion the words " the name
of the member asking the same."

HON. MR. FLINT-I have not the
least objection to amending the motion in
the way suggested by the Minister of Justice. As I said before this is the first
time I have ever moved an address to His
Excellency, and it may be wrongly worded.
HON. MR. WARK-The Printing I wish it distinctly understood that in getCommittee examine the returns that are ing up this motion I had no one person in
referred to them very carefully before or- my mind in reference to it ; my object

Tracadie [APRIL 10, 1885] Iarbor.

517

was to try and obtain information as to
what it has cost the country for those
addresses, and although my hon. friend
from the Printing Committee has stated
that many of those returns are not printed,
Still there is a large expense in connection
with the preparing of them, and if there is
any way of limiting this expense it will
certainly be a benefit to the country. I
have no desire to impugn the motives of
hon. gentlemen who choose to ask for
addresses, and I had no idea of giving
Offence to any gentleman or to any number
of gentlemen when moving the resolution
of which I have given notice.

make some remarks with regard to this,
but I have failed to observe that he is a
faithful leader of that party. He never
comes to the front when anything transpires on the floor of this House which
would enable him to advocate the rights
of Parliament. He might have reminded
the House, as I remind them now, that
when the present party were in opposition
they spent any amount of money, and did
not grudge any expense, to damage the
Government of that day. Now I have a
motion on the paper which is coming up
calling for a return of the assets of the
bank of Upper Canada, which if the
House would grant me I could prove that
HON. MR. PLUMB-The printing is certain Ministerial supporters of this
the smallest part of the expense.
Government have evaded the paymentHON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-The
HON. MR. FLINT-I understood from
members of the other House that a return hon. gentleman is out of order.
was brought down there the other day the
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentlePreparing of which cost $8oo, and it is
nlot to be printed. That was given as a man's remarks are entirely irrelevant to
the question before the House.
reason for asking for this return.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I believe
that there has been an unusual number of
addresses asked for during the last two
years, and I dare say there has been in
some cases an abuse of this privilege of
Parliament ; but I am rather surprised at
MY hon. friend behind me placing this
Motion on the paper, because I regard him
asone of the most upright and most independent members of this House, who
always acts according to his convictions,
and I am surprised that he should specially
challenge the right of members to move for
those addresses. We all remember when
the other party were in power how active
SOIme of the Opposition members were. We
all remember the committees called for by
the Minister of the Interior, and by my
hon. friend from Belleville upon the
subject of the steel rails, and the Neebing
hotel and putting the country to an enOrmous expense simply to prove that the
Neebing hotel was built of a few slabs.
We all remember the rapacity with which
the Minister of the Interior when he was
1in Opposition, and other gentlemen in this
Itofuse, endeavored to ring the changes
tnPOn the policy and expenditures of the
Reform Party. I am surprised that the
hon. gentleman from Ottawa (Mr. Scott),
the leader of the Opposition, does not

THE SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman
will confine hinself to the subject.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I will not
say anything further on that subject. I
am utterly surprised at the silence of the
hon. gentleman from Ottawa on this
occasion.

The amendment was agreed to and the
motion as amended was adopted.
TRACADIE HARBOR.
INQUIRY.
HON.

MR.

HAYTHORNE

rose to

inquire from the leader of the Government
in this House whether it is intended,
during the ensuing summer, to make any
improvements at the entrance of Tracadie
Harbor, Prince Edward Island, by constructing a breakwater or otherwise.
He said :-This motion does not involve
a return of papers, so I hope it will receive
a favorable hearing. It refers to what was
once a very safe and much frequented
harbor on the north shore of Prince
Edward Island, but which, from circumstances that I will briefly detail, has
become far less useful than it formerly was.

Tracadie [SENATE]
In a state of nature Prince Edward Island
possessed many very valuable harbors on
its north coast which, for many years past,
since the settlement of the country, have
silted up at their entrances with sand and
other debris, and this has been the case
with the harbor called Tracadie, concerning which I have given notice. There is
a large area of land-locked water there,
inside of the harbor, round which reside a
numerous and enterprising body of fishermen.

The industry of these men is now

very much confined to boat fishing, whereas
in former times, notably during the time
of the French occupation, vessels of con-

siderable burden used to frequent the
harbor ; and not only so, but vessels that
had the misfortune to be caught in storms
off the coast frequently sought safe refuge
in Tracadie harbor from the winds and
waves. I have recently received letters from
fishermen residing in that neighborhood
calling my attention to the fact that they

have perceived that no arrangement is
spoken of for improving the entrance to

their harbor this year, as they had been
led to expect would be the case. I see
that some very considerable amounts have
been voted for other purposes in Prince
Edward Island, and I think it will cause a
great deal of disappointment if nothing is
done for this particular harbor. I should
like to add that the action of the Government of late years, with reference to several
other harbors similarly situated on the
coast of Prince Edward Island, has been
very successful, that the silting up of the
bars has not only been arrested, but they
have been very considerably deepened in
many instances, and I believe as a rule

Harbor.

causes which give rise to the necessity for
these exceedingly costly undertakings. I
remember hearing not very long since the
leader of the Government in this House
mention a visit that he had paid to Hali.
fax. Should he repeat that visit I hope he
will extend it to the shores of Prince
Edward Island, where I am sure he will
receive a very hearty welcome, and fron
his well known experience and sagacity in
these matters-because after all sagacity is
the main thing-good results will no doubt
ensue. Without extending my remarks
unnecessarily, I make the inquiry of which
I have given notice.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--In
reply to the question which the hon.
gentleman has put, I ask permission of
the House to read a short memorandun
which has been furnished me by the
Department before I give a direct answer
to the question. It is as follows :Tracadie Harbor is situated on the northern side of Prince Edward Island, and like
all the harbors on that coast is obstructed by
a " bar," which, being composed of sand,
shifts in position during heavy gales trom the
northward, but at al tines obstructs the
entrance to vessels drawing over seven feet.

I do not know whether that is the information my hon. friend has.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-It was a
great deal more in former years.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
memorandum continuesIn a report to the Departnent of Public
Works dated March, 1883, the Chief Engineer
referred to the success obtained by the con'

the works lately constructed have with- struction of works at New London and St.
stood the winds and waves remarkably Peters on the sanie side of the Island in deep»
well. There is, therefore, the greater ening and imaintaining the depth over the
encouragement to repeat the experiment " bar " at those places and reconnends the
construction of similar work', the cost at that
with regard to Tracadie Harbor, and as time being estimated at $7,000-but as it is
the harbors east and west of this particular possible that physical changes have taken
one have been successfully treated, it is place since then, a fresh examination mnigbt
hoped that the sane will be done with lead to a revision of this estiniate of cost.
regard to Tracadie. I may say that what Then I asked my hon. friend, the Minister

is very much needed on that shore on of Public Works, whether he proposed to
which the fisheries are prosecuted is a visit take any vote for the work during the
from an expert who not only understands present session and he sends me a note tO
the natural history of fish, but has some state that it is impossible to say now, the
knowledge of the causes which lead to the supplementary estimates being under conblocking up of harbor mouths. A visit of sideration of the Government at the
such a person as that would be of very present time. I will take care to mention
great benefit to us. It would indicate the the matter, and the interest which the hon.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

York Station [APRIL 10, 1885] P.E.1. Railway.
gentleman says the people in that part of
the country naturally take in the subject,
to the Minister of Public Works, and will
also inform him of the remarks which the
hon. gentleman has made to-day.

519

siding because it did notpay. Now if itdoes
not pay certainly means should have been
taken to make it pay before such an extreme course was taken. I may say, for
the information of hon. gentlemen
opposite, and the House generally, that
'YORK STATION PRINCE EDWARD this station is located in a most populous
and fertile district. There is not an acre
ISLAND RAILWAY.
of unoccupied or unproductive land in
the neighborhood. The settlements are
INQUIRY.
very old indeed ; they were old settlements
HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE rose to call when I first arrived in Prince Edward
the attention of the House to the recent Island more than 40 years ago, and they
closing of the York Station of the Prince are in a high state of cultivation. Beside
Edward Island Railroad, and will ask the the agricultural products, which are very
leader of the Government in this House, large and various, there is one cheese
by what authority and for what causes, the factory, and one starch factory in the
Said station was closed ; also whether it is neighborhood, and those very fisheries
intended to re-open said station, and if so which we have been just now talking of
are not far from the same station, but
when ?
He said: I regret that it should be strange to say neither the agriculturists
necessary for me to trouble the House so nor the fishermen are in the habit of
frequently with the affairs of the province availing themselves to this railway. One
from which I come, but the notice on would suppose that men, with a railway
Which I now propose to make some passing through their settlement would
remarks arose from the abrupt closing of a abandon the ordinary use of the main
Station on the Prince Edward Island Rail- roads and horse cartage, and carriages,
Way some months ago-last autumn I and travel by the railroad. It is a strange
think. The people were very much thing indeed that such is not the case.
Surprised tofind that York Station had been My correspondent tells me the reasons for
Suddenly dismantled, that the telegraphic this ; he says that the usual facilities are not
apparatus had been taken down, the afforded. I have often asked persons in
station master dismissed or ceased to be that neighborhood why instead of driving
engaged, and the station house converted long distances in the fall of the year in
Partly into a residence and partly into a wet weather, through muddy roads, they
shed. Of course the people residing in did not avail themselves of the trains, and
the immediate neighborhood were very they have told me it was impossible for
idignant at this, and that indignation was them to do so because they did not pass
felt quite as much by the supporters of the there at times which would enable them
'Government as by anybody else. In fact, to attend and return from markets. Now
*although I live very near the station my. the first thing a railway company would
Self, I have derived most of my information do to make their business profitable would
On this subject from strong supporters of be to establish a train service which would
the Government, and they feel exceedingly enable the farming population to reach
disappointed and disgusted. This feeling the markets in time, and to return to their
of disappointment and disgust was not at homes at convenient hours, but such has
all confined to them. In other parts not been the practice on the Prince
Of the Island it was felt that the same rule Edward Island Railway. You can travel
rnight be applied to other stations, and the on the trains if you take them at hours to
great evil it has done is more than I can suit the management, but they will not
VerY well describe. In the first place change the time to suit the people. Now
Vork Station was not established when the that is not the way to make a railway pay.
"'ad was built, but only some five or six Until some such experiment has been tried
Years ago, and another station somewhat as I have described, I cannot believe that
frther east was established about the same those railway stations cannot be made
"r.t The current idea in the Island is self-sustaining.
They are in a fertile
that this York Station was degraded to a district and there are the factories and

520)

York Station [SENATE] P.E.. Bailway.

fisheries in the vicinity that I have alluded
to, and besides that nearly the whole of
- that population is obliged to obtain supplies
of fuel, either of wood or coal, from a
distance, which they would, if proper
facilities were afforded, have carried on the
Prince Edward Island Railway. That
road requires to be dealt with per se. It
is not like a line on the mainland with a
vast collecting area for freight in its
vicinity. Prince Edward Island being a
small place, of course the gathering ground
for traffic is small, and it is rendered
asnaller by the intervention of salt water.
For instance, the rivers which intersect
that province make the area for railway
traffic very small ; but if that be a disadvantage, which perhaps it is to some
extent, it is met on the other hand
by this advantage, that the first cost of
that railway was very small indeed, and its
working expenses would naturally be very
small also. In my opinion, the proper
way to make that railway pay is to adapt
the trains to the convenience of the people
and not require the inhabitants to adapt
their convenience to the trains. That is
the first great and important change which
should be made, and there might be an
improvement in other ways. For instance,
my correspondent tells me that at the
crossing of two main roads within a few
miles of this same station, where switches
formerly existed at the first formation
of the road, those switches have been
removed, and the inhabitants who before
that could drop freight at that particular
crossing have no longer that privilege,
and if they wish to avail themselves
of the use of the railway they have
to go such a distance to the nearest
station that practically the railroad is
useless to them. There are some other
objections which my correspondent has
alluded to, as, for instance, that under
existing circumstances York station being
degraded now to a siding, when passengers
get into the trains they have to pay their
fares in the carriage, and of course the
conductors are not authorized to grant
them return tickets. That is another
obstacle to traffic which might be very
easily removed. Another great hardship
connected with this affair has been that
on the erection of this station, of course,
it made a great change in the value of
property there. Property which formerly
HON. MR.

HAYTHORNE.

had been merely valuable as farming land
became at once available for other purpose
and changed hands at enhanced prices,
being purchased by persons intending tO
carry on trading. All those purchasers are
manifestly at a great disadvantage, and it
cannot be said that they have been fairlY
dealt with. They would not have bought
land at high prices and established themlselves there if they had supposed that the
station could have been removed. I think
the Government cannot fail to see that
those men have not been fairly treated.
To myself, individually, it is a matter Of
little consequence, but as a representative
of the Island I see some great principles
involved in it. Not only does it entail
inconvenience and loss upon the people in
the vicinity, but it is an absolute breach of
the terms of Confederation.
HON. MR. ALMON-Hear! hear!
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-My honfriend from Halifax smiles, but he would
not smile if he heard that Halifax station
was to be closed. The hon. Minister of
Justice was one of those who negotiated
the terms of union with Prince Edward
Island, and he must know perfectly well
that it was not only agreed that the Government of Canada should take that road
over, but that they should also operate it.
Now it is a strange way to operate a railway to close a station such as this one 1
have described.
I hope the matter will
receive the attention of the Government.
When we first heard that York station was
closed in seemed incredible that the Government could think of permanently degrading such a station to a siding, and We
expected that when the spring came it
would be opened again ; but there is no
indication yet, at all events, of any such
intention. I do hope that it will receive
the Government's mature consideration.
I purposely forebore touching on the circumstances which surrounded the first
erection of this particular siding into a
station, because it does not bear ifmediately on the question. It has rather
a political bearing which I wish to avoid,
and I shall abstain from alluding tO it
unless the necessity arises. I hope .to
hear from the hon. gentlemen opposite
that they will re-open that station before
long not only in the interest of those who

York Station [APRIL 10, 1885] P.i.L Railway.

521

are in opposition to the Government, but It may be that there is an evil there be.
'I the interest of their own political friends. cause you cannot buy a return ticket. I
will mention that to the Minister and perHION. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
haps steps will be taken to provide for the
do not think my hon. friend need at all issuing of return tickets. If the business
bave apologized to the House for intro- was too small to warrant the management
ducing this or any question that seems to in keeping a clerk there and maintaining
bim of importance to Prince Edward it as a booking station, I think it was right
Island. No doubt he does his duty to to close it. It was not in the interests of
the Island in bringing up any question the country to keep open a station which
Which he deems of importance to those he involved the loss, and if the management
represents, and I recognize the fact that thought it was not justifiable to maintain
Itu doing so he has often rendered essential an officer there, he did right to close it.
service to the inhabitants of that part of I do not think it should be closed abruptthe Dominion. Undoubtedly the obliga- ly, because for a month or so the business
tiOn of the Dominion was to operate as was small, but if for a reasonable space of
Well as take over the railway, but there time there was not business enough there
'nust be reason in the operation. There to justify them in keeping the office open,
Tust be some discretion left to those who I think the management should not be
nanage the line as to what stations shall blamed for closing the station, and it
be opened and what stations closed. The seems that they have closed it only so
bon., gentleman may be quite right as to far as regards the booking of passengers.
this station. But the conclusions which It is open for the reception of freight, and
those who manage the road have arrived passengers can take trains there if they
at are different from his. They may be like. I will inquire about the return
Wrong but the hon. gentleman will admit tickets and see if that cannot be arranged
that those who manage the railway would and I will mention also to the Department
naturally desire to get the most traffic what my hon. friend has said about the
they can. It may not immediately affect want of market trains and the possibility
their salaries, but their position and their of establishing such trains for the convenbeing retained in the services of the rail- ience of the public there, but I am sure
'aY and the amount of eclat which they that I can say confidently that whatever
get from managing the railway depends can be done towards augmenting the busin'ore or less on their success. Undoubt- ness of the railway it is the earnest desire
edly in their judgment it may be assumed of the Government and the management
that they do the best they can in the in- of the railway to do it.
terests of the road. About market trains,
I do not know the reasons why they are HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-The towntlot furnished, but I will take care to in- ship on which that station stands comform myself on the subject and recur to it prises about 22,ooo acres, and I think its
again. I have no doubt it will be found population at the present day is not under
tait there are good reasons why such 2,ooo, and it comprises all those industries
trans do not run from this particular which I have stated. The agricultural
,station to Charlottetown. I have no doubt commerce of that large fertile area, instead
If those who manage the road thought of being carried as it would be if it were
that they could make market trains there situated in this part of the Dominion, near
a Success, their first wish would be to any of the great lines of railway, with the
augment in every way the business of the exception of oats is pretty nearly all carroad. With reference to the question ried on the main road and passengers
!hich the hon. geatleman has put, I am travel in the same wav. What I contend
'flformed that the station is not closed, is that the railway sh'ould hold out such
but Owing to the comparatively small inducements for passengers and trade that
amfOunt of business done there, it has, the business would be increased at that
by the authority of the Minister, ceased particular place.
t be a booking station. That is, you
cannot buy a ticket there but you can buy
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-What
t ticket on the car after getting into it. distance is the station from Charlottetown ?

Royal Canadian [SE NATE] Insurance Co'8 Bill.

522

- HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE-About ten PENSION FUND SOCIETY, BANK

miles.

OF MONTREAL, BILL.

-CANADA CO-OPERATIVE SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION BILL.
SECOND READING.

HON. MR. RYAN moved the second

reading of Bill (81), "An Act respecting
the Canada Co-operative Supply Association, hmited."
He said: This is a Bill to enable the
Co-operative Association of Montreal to
take steps which they believe will enable
them to carry on their business successfully. Hitherto the business has not been
very prosperous, and they ask permission
to re-issue, as preference stock, any ordinary stock of the said Association which
has been or may hereafter be cancelled or
forfeited under the by-laws of the Association. A motion to this effect was brought
forward at their annual meeting last year
and approved of. They ask also that such
privileges be granted as will enable them
to pay dividends on the preference stock
of the Association. The object of the
Bill is to enable them to issue preference
stock and by that means to raise additional and sufficient capital, and in order
to facilitate that they ask to be allowed to
pay dividends on the preference stock.
They have that power already, but in the
general law it is provided that if the stock
of a company be not at par, or in a prosperous condition, that power is not to be
exercised, and it is to enable them to do
that, although the stock is in a rather
depreciated condition, that they ask for
this legislation. The second clause is as
follows :
2. The preference stock of the said association shall be kept and deened distinct from
and independent of the ordinary stock, and
dividends not exceeding six per cent. per
annum may be declared thereon and made
payable out of the profits earned by the
said association.
This Bill has received, as I have said,
the concurrence of the shareholders of the
company, and it has passed through the
other House and will go before the proper
committee here, where it will be carefully
considered.

SECOND READING.
HON. MR. RYAN moved the second
reading of Bill (49 ),"An Act to incorporate the Pension Fund Society of the Bank
of Montreal."
He said: I have been requested by the
Hon. Mr. Hamilton to attend to this Bill
and the one following it on the order
paper, in his absence. The employes Of
the Bank of Montreal have had a society
which they call the Annuity and Guarantee Funds Society. They are about tO
wind up that concern and the object of
this Bill is to accept the funds and take
the responsibilities of the previous societY,
and to provide funds for the benefit of retired employes of the bank and of their
widows and children in case of their
death.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time.
ANNUITY AND GUARANTEE FUNV
SOCIETY, BANK OF MONTREAL, BILL.
SECOND READING.

HON. MR. RYAN moved the secon 4
reading of Bill (48), "An Act respecting
the Annuity and Guarantee Funds SocietY
of the Bank of MontreaL"
He said: This Bill is to enable the
Annuity and Guarantee Funds Society Of
the

Bank of Montreal to wind up its

affairs and to transfer the funds of the
company to the Pension Fund Society of
the Bank of Montreal.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time.
ROYAL CANADIAN INSURANCE
COMPANY'S BILL.
SECOND READING.

HON. MR. RYAN moved the second

reading of Bill (43) " An Act to authorizd
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill the Royal Insurance Company to reduc
was read the second time.
its stock, and for other purposes."

The North- West [APiRIL 13, 1885] Troiuble.

523

lie said: I think I shall best convey the
Objects of this Bill by reading a few lines
ofrmiT report of the Directors at their
the
aI1nlual meeting in December last :S"The Directors have petitioned Parlarnent for a Bill to amend the charterfirst, to empower them to reduce the
capital stock of the Company to $500,000,

and there is a railway being built from
Miramichi to Fredericton. The object is
to connect with the railways of the United
States, and a bridge will be necessary for
that purpose. Then there is the Short
Line Railway contemplated between
Montreal and Halifax which is expected
to cross there.
being 20,000 shares at $25 per share, of
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
w'hich $ 2 0 is paid up, leaving a liability of was read the second time.
$5 per share. Second, to reduce the
'number of Directors from nine to any
The Senate adjourned at 4:30 p.m.
,Itlnber not less than seven. Third, to
change the day of annual meeting from
the first to the last Thursday in February in
each year. Fourth, to invest the funds in
THE SENATE.
an11Y
British, Canadian or United States of
Arnerica securities, public or private, with
Ottawa, Monday, April 13th, 1885.
respect to which no liability does or can
attach to the holder or owner thereof."
The Speaker took the Chair at three
There is one provision which is very
o'clock.
"rPortant, and although it looks a little

bjectionable to reduce the capital of an

Prayers and routine proceedngs.

which I think will remove any difficulty

BILLS INTRODUCED.

usurance Company on the first reading
ofit, still they have made provision here
on that

point. Clause two is as follows:
Bill (O) "An Act further to amend the
Until all the policies granted by the said Act for the Better Preservation of Peace
Mpany shall have expired, or shall have
en ëxchanged for policies based on the said in the vicinity of Public Works (Sir Alex,

Campbell).
Bill (P) "An Act to amend the Act
clpital, sha remain suspeuided so far as the respecting the Central Prison for the Propaid portion only of the said capital is con- vince of Ontario (Sir Alex. Campbell).
duced capital, the action of the said shareders, with regard to the said reduction of

h oed; but so soon as ail such policies shall
cve expired, or shall have been 8o exanged, as aforesaid, the whole of the capistock of the said company shall be reducth, to all intents and purposes whatsoever, to
;the extent so agreed upon and deternined by
e said shareholders."

THE NORTH-WEST TROUBLES.
MOTION.

HoN. MR. ALEXANDER moved
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
That an humble Address be presented to
as read the second time.
His Excellency the Governor General, praying
that he will cause to be laid before this House
ýrEDERICTON AND ST. MARY'S a copy of the Instructions given to the three
Commissioners appointed to proceed to the
RAILWAY BRIDGE CO'S BILL
North-West, to enquire into and adjudicate
upon the claims of the Half-Breeds and others
in the Saskatchewan settlements.
SECOND READING.

He said: It may be observed that ever

-ON. MR. WARK moved the second since the first intelligence reached us of
ading of Bill (50), "An Act to incorpor- the outbreak in the North-West, Parliae

the Fredericton and St. Mary's RailBridge Company."
lte said: This Bridge crosses the river
John at or near Fredericton. There

•t

ment has been actuated by a loyal desire
to postpone as long as possible any enquiry into the causes of the discontent,
which has at last culminated in acts of

a a railway from St. John now terminating rebellion and bloodshed. When open
hcredericton ; there is another up river rebellion takes place, no matter whether it
terminates opposite Fredericton, has been orought about by incapacity of

e24A

The North- West [SENATE] Troubles.

our rulers or not, it must, for the common
safety and well-being, be instantaneously
crushed by the united efforts of all, and
law and order must be established. That
is the first duty devolving upon us. But
a not less important duty devolving upon
Parliament, is to inform itself, by the most
searching investigation, as to the grievances
which led men to have recourse to arms.
The public press have again and again
shown that during the whole of last summer the Half-breeds and others around
Prince Albert gave repeated manifestations
of feeling, that they did not receive justice
at the hands of the Ottawa Government.
I understand that those Half-breeds are a
shrewd class of men-descended on the
one side from families of the Province of
Quebec. And I further understand that
such were the manifestations of discontent that a portion of the Mounted Police
were required to be sent down by the
Government to Fort Carlton. And we
are further informed that last September
or October, representations were made
through the Anglican Bishop of the Saskatchewan, and Archbishop Tache, that
there were then threatenings of outbreak
by those Half-breeds if they did not receive
from the Ottawa Government what they
conceived to be justice, in regard to their
land claims.
Now, I think that an imperative duty
is resting upon Parliament to inform itself,
by the most searching enquiry, what steps
were then taken, or have since been taken,
by the Government to have those disputed
land claims adjudicated upon. With all
the experience which we had before, of
the Red River outbreak in 1869-70, arising very much in the same manner and
from precisely similar causes, our Government ought to have felt that this was no
matter to be treated lightly or in any way
neglected. The most active steps should
have been taken then, immediatelyupon the
receipt of those representations from the
heads of the churches in the North-West,
and I consider it my duty to observe
now that the adjudication of such disputed
claims under the peculiar circumstances
of those isolated settlements, and knowing
as we do, the sympathy which is so likely
to spring up amongst the Indian tribes
around, who are often badly off for foodI say that such adjudication should not
be left to any ordinary man or men who
HON.

MR. ALEXANDER.

may perhaps have a knowledge of law
and legal rights. The selection of such a
commission should be made with the'
greatest care (and certainly demoralized
politicians, whether lawyers or laynien,
should not be placed on such an important trust)-I say such a commission
should be composed of the most respon'
sible men, instructed to adjust thOse
claims in an equitable and even liberal
spirit-and in such matters of dispute there
should be no lawyers' quibbling or narrOe
ness of spirit. At this moment in the
country's progress, the person filling the
office of Minister of the Interior should be
a man in the prime of life, and one Who
would have an earnest sympathy with the
position of those Indians-those untutored
children of the forest, who from time in'
memorial have been accustomed to live
upon the buffalo, and the fish of those
inland waters. We ought not to forget
that the inroads of civilization have
marred and destroyed their hunting
grounds; and no intelligent observer Of
mankind can fail to see that you cannot
at once train the Indian to cultivate the
soil. This must be the work of time ; and
many persons doubt whether that experment will ever be a success-and sUch
hold the opinion that the Indian race eil
gradually disappear from the earth. 1oe
ever this may be, we ought as a Christian
people to act in the meantime kindly and
mercifully by them. And I am sure it is
never difficult to settle matters with the
Indians. And as regarding those clailms
of the half-breeds at Prince Albert, why
a few thousand acres of land would have
removed all the discontent in that quarter,
if the subject had been dealt with as it
ought to have been, last autumn ; and all
the dread consequences of this outbreak
have been averted.
I will in conclusion observe, that while
every one deprecates rebellion, and mien
of all parties now unite with their whole
strength to put it down, we are constramed
to express the opinion, that the Government would appear to have treated this
grave matter with the most culpable
negligence, and hence the dire calamhitY
which has befallen the country.
It is no agreeable duty, to have to refer
to information elicited elsewhere, that
while this rebellion was hatching and
smouldering to such an extent as to alarfil

Sumnary [APRIL 13, 1885] Proceedings Bill.
those Bishops of the two churches in our
ýXrth-West, the first Minister was obliged
to confess that his Minister of the Interior
Wenit off to Europe for upwards of three
,,onths, not upon any public business but
rImour says to obtain that rubbishy knighthood, while the first Minister professed to
Perform the duties of that Departnient,
and there is a widespread feeling and
'Onviction, that between them they have
brought upon the country the greatest
'Clamity that could have happened to it.
I will only in conclusion add, that I indi"idually have notbeen surprised at what has
transpired. I have for some time felt that
e practises and methods pursued by the
Irst Minister of our Government and his
twO leaders in this House, could not fail
t bring some dire calamity upon the
Omimion.

lION. MR. HAYTHORNE-I wish to

attention to a single epithet which the
on. gentleman applied to the word
knighthood." It seemed to me to be
exceedingly unbecoming to allow such an
exression to be used in this House
wthout noticing it. It certainly would
flOt tend to increase our dignity at home
or fabroad, and I shall therefore call the
Peakers attention to the word and see
What his opinion is of it.
THE SPEAKER-I thought the re4ark of the hon. gentleman was offensive
at the time, but no hon. gentleman rose to
e exception, and no member having
done so at the time it is now too late ;
it I certainly think it is most unbecom81g use such language in this
to
House.

525

HoN. MR. SMITH-Well, it is rubbish.
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONIt is the earnest desire of the Government to have a full discussion of everything connected with the unfortunate outbreak in the North-West at the earliest
possible opportune moment, but that
moment has not arrived, as, I am sure,
every hon. gentleman in this House, with
the single exception perhaps of the mover
of this motion, will admit. Perhaps no
member of the Government or of this
House is as anxious as myself that that
time should corme. I will only add that
there is no objection to the address.

The motion was agreed to.
SUMMARYPROCEEDINGSBEFORE
MAGISTRATES BILL.
IN CoMMITTEE.

The House resumed in Committee of
the Whole consideration of Bill (L) "An
Act to make further provision respecting
Summary Proceedings before'Justices and
other Magistrates."
HON. MR. GOWAN-After the very
decided expression of opinion in the
House upon the second clause, I do not
desire to press for any alteration other
than that which has been made, but I
merely wish to correct a clerical error by
striking out in the 14th line the word
" therein" and inserting after the word
"describe " in the i5 th line, the following:
"In the conviction, order or warrant." I
move that these amendments be made.

"ON.
MR. ALEXANDER - I am
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLeady to withdraw any expression that I think that would be a very good amend4ay seerm offensive to the House.
ment, and I quite concur in the opinion
that it should be made.
IoN. GENTLEMEN-Withdraw it !
ithdraw it!
The motion was agreed to and the clause
as amended was adopted.
t01V. MR. ALEXANDER-I withdraw
HoN. MR. GOWAN-The next clause
reserved is the 3rd. The Minister of Jus"ON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-It tice made some objection to the adoption
ZUld be better for the hon. gentlemen to of illustrations.
'Adraw the whole of his rubbish.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
"ON. MR. ALEXANDER-No.
withdraw those objections and I am quite

[SENATE] Proceedings Bill.
&Summary

626

willing that the illustrations should go as
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-If the
clause is to be retained, and I think it
part of the Bill.
should be retained, the amendment proHoN. MR. GOWAN-I am quite pre- posed by the hon. gentleman is .good
pared to show that such illustrations have Instead of driving the person who is con'
been adopted in Imperial Acts and in cerned to apply to a court or judge tO fi'
the amount for which security should bc
some of our own.
giveh, the court would be asked to fiX

The 3rd clause was adopted.
On the 6th clause,
HON. MR. GOWAN-This clause was
amended by leaving the sum to be fixed
by the court or judge. Now that will be
found to be practically a denial of justice.
It will prevent those who desire to appeal,
and who are not possessed of large means,
from doing so. It would be quite impossible to carry out such a provision, but if
the clause is retained in its present shape
I have no objection to strike it and the
ioth clause out, and leave the appeal to
be disposed of as now, according to the
laws of the several provinces. If this
clause, as altered, is to be retained, it
must be left to the general order of the
court, so as not to make an application
necessary in every instance. The alteration which I would propose is this : to
strike out the words "court or judge,"
and insert the following: "by general
orders of the court having authority to
quash any such conviction, order or proceeding." That would leave the particular tribunal in each province that had
charge of it to make any general rules or
orders that would be necessary to fix the
amount, and they could do so, having
reference to the amount of the penalty
imposed-that is to say, if the penalty imposed is small, the security should be
small, or if the imprisonment is for a short
time the amount of the security should be
small; but to say that the reference should
be made to the court or judge on every
case that certiorari is applied for would be
a complete denial of justice. I myself
would rather see the clause as it originally
stood, but in deference to the strongly
expressed opinion of the House I should
like to alter it in such a way as to give
practical effect to it. As it stands now it
would have no practical effect, and would
be for the poor man a complete denial of
justice.
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL

it

by general rule. I suppose a court would
fix it in proportion to the fine imposed
That would leave the law open tO '
person who is interested in putting it in
force, without compelling him to go before
a judge in the first instance at his oVJ
expense. I think the clause should be
retained because, although there is a
in Ontario and in other provinces, it iS
under the Imperial Act, and the aioUfln
mentioned in it is larger than the courts
would be likely to fix.
HON. MR. DICKEY-I rise with soie
.ittle hesitation to make a remark upon
this particular clause of the Bill, because
it is in the recollection of the House that
the hon. gentleman who has charge of it,
when I ventured to make a suggestion .'
the second reading, received my suggestion
with very great impatience, and it was with
difficulty that I could get him to consider
the suggestion I was about to make. In the
first place I said that the amount was e,'
orbitant, and that it bore no proportion
whatever to the gravity of the offence One
way or the other. I also called hls
attention to the fact that there wa5
already existing a section with regard to
certiorari on the statute book. I am gla
that my hon. friend from Ottawa has conle
in, because when I made that suggestifl
it was met by a peremptory statemlenlt
from both sides of the House, from the
hon. gentleman who had charge of the
Bill, and from the hon. member fro1
Ottawa, that that section had been repealed. I was bound to accept the ans'
wer to my suggestion, because I had nOt
then an opportunity of consulting the
Acts, but I have taken the opportinity to
do so since, and I find that these gentle.
men, while literally correct in a part Of
the statement, conveyed a wrong impres1
sion entirely. They stated that by the
Act 33 Vic. which was in the year 1870,
the year immediately after this Act Wa
passed, this particular section was repeale
So it was; but the hon. members ought ln

Summary [APRIL 13, 1885] ProceedingsBill.

527

all candor to have told the House that that that was made, and that I say is the law of
Section, although it was repealed, was in the land to-day.
I rose to ask particuthat very Act re-enacted and made a part larily where was the necessity for this
Of the law. I was surprised ; I am sur- legislation, and if there was not an existing
prised now until I hear what explanation law already applicable to this matter, and
there is to it, that gentlemen who had the when I put the question, my hon. friend
rneans of knowing and who stated that they said " no, it has been repealed." That
Particularly knew that this section was was a good answer, but it turns out not to.
repealed by the Act passed in 1870, with- be correct, and it only shows the necessity

held from the House the knowledge
which they possessed, and which I did not,
that although that Act was strictly speak"'g repealed, it was repealed as is often
done, for the purpose of moving another
Section in substitution for it. I have the
Act before me, and I will just call the atteltion of the House to the law, not as it
Was made in 1870, but as it is to-day, and
as it is in the consolidation of the statutes
Which has been in our hands for several
Weeks.
The section to which I call attention,
the original Act, was to this effect :-

of inspecting those things fron the bottom
We find
and from the beginning.
now, after this matter has been before the
House on several occasions, that we have

an entirely different Bill from the measure
first presented to us-a Bill which my
hon. friend himself would scarcely know
as his own-with three or four new
sections added to it, and the others greatly
amended, and I think very much improved, because take this section that I
am now talking about, as it now stands,
and I do not hesitate to say that the

amendment which has been made to it in
the direction of the contention of the 2nd
blade in appeal therefrom, shall be quashed reading has removed entirely the objection
'No conviction, or o- der or adjudication

f Want of fori, or be removed by certiorari
'ttO any of Her Majesty's Superior Courts of
eord ; and no warrant of conmitment shall
Sheld void by reason of any defect therein,
trovided it be therein alleged that the party
ad been convicted and there be a ood and
alid conviction to sustain the same.
This was amended ; how?
The 71st
section of the Act of 1869 is repealed by

the 2nd section of the Act of 1870, and
the following is substituted therefor:I0N. MR. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
ON. MR. DICKEY-My hon. friend
says "hear, hear," but I should like him
to explain to the House why he
did not
POint that out before. Here is a subsenenlt section on the face of the statute of

'87,

which the hon. gentleman who had

Ooked into this matter and who has charge

which I had to it. It is because it makes
it exactly what the law now is in my own

province, and I believe in the other
provinces, that the amount of security
shall be left to the discretion of the court
to which the appeal is to be taken, and
that it shall not be a fixed inelastic amount,
but one in proportion to the gravity of
I took the opportunity of
the offence.
calling the attention of the House to it,
not with a view of putting my hon. friend
in a false position, but with the object of
showing the necessity for those inquiries
and those suggestions being made in the
course of our proceedings, and when the
hon. gentleman becomes a little more
accustomed to the procedure of this
House he will find that we all of us, like
the leader of the House, are gratified to
have suggestions made to us from time to
time.

0f this Bill ought to have known, and
O1IUght to have stated to the House. And
that is that section ? Except in the first
HoN. MR. GOWAN-I take in good
tfne it is absolutely a literal transcript of part the lecture that the hon. gentleman
the 71st section of the Act of 1869.
It from Amherst has been kind enough to
eads ("no conviction, or order affirmed give me.
I dare say I deserve it in part,
r affimed and amended, in appeal shall as I may not be able in the remarks I
equashed for want of form, &c."
That make to do justice to my own conception
ecression "affirmed and amended" seems of matters that come before the House,
a0 have been left out in the Act of 1869, nor am I as familiar with the procedure of
Was introduced as an amendment in the House as he is ; therefore I no doubt
170. That is the whole amendment have deserved the lecture, and I take it in

528

5îmnmary [SENATE]

.good part ; but I entirely disclaim any intention on my part to deceive the House,
nor did I assert or attempt to assert
that clause 71, in the Act of 1869, was
not replaced by another in the amending
Act. I heard imperfectlywhatmyhon friend
said, and spoke perhaps not with the same
accuracy that he is capable of when speaking, but I certainly never intended to convey to this House that another clause was
not substituted in the Act of 1870 for the
clause in the Act of 1869 that was repealed.
All I contend is this, that the Statute of
George Il still regulates the securities to
be given in Ontario, and that that clause
has relation, according to the way I view
it, to matters amended on appeal. There
are two remedies ; first the remedy of
appeal to the sessions when the case is
examined and determined upon on the
merits, and to that, after having been so
dealt with and brought up on certiorari,
this would apply " No conviction or order
or adjudication made in appeal therefrom,
shall be quashed for want of form." That
does not touch the case of convictions
that have been appealed to the sessions.
That has no relation whatever to such
cases. The cases covered by this bill
would be brought up directly before
the Superior Court. They may be
brought under a habeas corpus, or on a
.writ of mandamus. If the judge orders
papers to be up under special provision, I
think it is in 32 Vic. no security is necessary at all ; but if a certiorari is sued out

Proceeding8 Bill.

want of form. That is a true state1ent.
This Bill of my hon. friend has reference
to cases that do not go to appeal. I cannot see where there is any misconceptifl
on the point. It was stated in the fHouse
that this clause of the Act in 1869 was repealed by the Act of the following year.
Both Acts sustain what was urged thel,
that cases that go to appeal before justices
can be quashed for want of formality. But
this does not relate to any such cases.
Why should there be a distinction ? SurelY
the judge of the higher court is quite as
capable of forming an opinion as to the
merits of a conviction as the justices Of
the sessions, who have the right to amend.
There was not an opportunity for miscOn'
ception on this point. In one case theY
could not bring it up by cerf iorari. because
the justices had the power to amend or
correct it. If a party moves against a
conviction where it does not go to appeal,
then the courts were bound on the mere
matter of form to quash the conviction5
and that is what I understand this Bill is
intended to provide against.
HON. MR. DICKEY.-The hon. gel

tleman is entirely mistaken again.
HON.

MR. SCOTT.-I fail to see it.

HON. MR. DICKEY.-The hon. gel'
tleman has not answered the point I made
at all-that I was told that that sectifl
and papers brought up no order being given was repealed.
by the judge to bring up those papers
HON. MR. SCOTT-Where convictiOn'
from the court below then security is
necessary. Now this does not relate to a is moved against without going to appeal
case that has been dealt with by the
sessions. So that while my hon. friend is
HON. MR. DICKEY.-It is very sin'
strictly correct in part, it does not touch gular that my hon. friend should find so
the class of cases that are to be dealt with much difficulty in explaining his views 011
in this Bill. I am exceedingly obliged to this point, because he is entirely wrOnlg
my hon. friend for the lecture he has been again. The section reads in this waY-'
kind enough to give me, and as a young this is the original section in the Act Of
member I hope to profit by it, but I 1869 which he says did not contain .any
entirely repudiate any idea of an attempt provision of that kind-the 71st section >
on my part to deceive the House.
it says " no conviction "-that is no cOnviction where a party has been convicted
HON. MR. SCOTT-My hon. friend -" or order or adjudication made in apbehind me is under an extraordinary mis- peal therefrom shall be quashed for Want
conception, and I think the House thor- of form, &c." So it applies in both cases;
oughly understood the point. It was it applies to the conviction, and it applieo
urged that where you went to appeal you also to the order where the action is taken
could not quash the convictions for mere upon appeal.
HON. MR.

GOWAN.

Summary [APRIL 13, 1885] Proceeding8 Bill.

529

HON. MR. GOWAN-I gladly accept
HON. MR. SCOTT-It is not an interPretation put upon it by our courts.
it, and only that I trembled at the possibility of generating discussions, I would
ION. MR. DICKEY-Then the Act of have proposedit myself.
1870 makes it a little larger, because it
applies it to cases where it is " affirmed " On the 7th clause.
Or " denied " in appeal. My contention
HON. MR. POWER-I do not rise to
was that there is already a law upon this
subject, a more stringent law than the one oppose the 7th section, but I have some
MY hon. friend has introduced with regard doubt as to the wisdom of doing away
to certiorari;that is the certiorariby this with the right of certiorari even where
section was taken away altogether, but I there has been an appeal. This writ of
Was told "O ! that section is repealed !" certiorari is one of prerogative, and ocMy contention, and I was supported in it casionally injustice is done even on apby my hon. friend from Halifax, was that peal, and I have a good deal of doubt as to
whether it is a wise thing to take away
it was not repealed.
this right to sue out a writ of certiorari,
HON. MR. GOWAN-I am exceedingly even where the case has been decided on
Sorry that the hon. gentleman has taken appeal. I quite agree that it is undesirthat view of the matter. I certainly never able that the two should go on together,
iltended to convey that impression, and I but if the appeal has been decided one
Understood my hon. friend from Ottawa way I think it is doubtful whether the
to present the same view that I did. The party should not have the right of certio
clause of the Act of 187o reads : " No con- rari afterwards.
iction or order affirmed, or affirmed
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I hope my
The
and amended in appeal, etc."
Whole is descriptive, and the marginal note hon. friend will not press that. It seems
shows at all events what the person who to me that it is only provoking litigation
Prepared it thought when he drafted it:- unnecessarily, because if there is an ap" No conviction approved may.be removed peal purely on the merits, a man who
does not wish to take technical objections
by certiorari etc."
should be satisfied with the result. Having
HON. MR. SCOTT-Perhaps my hon. sufficient choice of appeal, I think a man
friend from Amherst may be right in his should be bound by the results.
Contention, but certainly under the interThe clause was adopted.
Pretation given to this Statute for the last
'4 years by the Courts of Ontario, the
Clause in this Bill and the clause in the
HON. MR. McCLELAN, from the
Statute of 1870 do not relate to the same Committee, reported the Bill with amendcses at all.
ments which were concurred in.

HON. MR. POWER-I hope that the
hon. gentleman from Barrie will have no
objection to accept a slight additional
arnendment. There are a great many
'ases such as were referred to by the hon.
gentleman from Lunenburg when we were
i Committee on this Bill before, where
the accused may find it inconvenient to
give security, but where he is in a position
to make a deposit. I think there can be
no objection to inserting a provision that
the Court may accept a deposit instead of
recognizance. The amendment I propose
is to insert the words " or to have made a
leposit of a sum to be fixed in like
'Uanner."

HON.

MR. GOWAN -

The Bill has

been very fully discussed and I would
suggest that it be read the third time now.
HON. MR. POWER-I do not propose
to suggest any more amendments to this
Bill. I merely rise to object to its being
read the third time presently. The order in
a great many parliamentary bodies-it is not
so in our House-is that, when a Bill
has been amended as this has been,
the amendments be engrossed, and
I know that in certain cases this session
inconvenience has arisen from ordering
the third reading torthwith after reporting
the Bill from committee. It is very in-

530

Inolvent Banks and [SENATE] Trading Corporations Bill.

convenient to find out after a Bill has the Bill goes before the Private Bills
been read the third time that the amend- Committee.
ments have not been made as intended.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
I think it is better that the third reading
of this Bill should take place to-morrow. was read the second time.
HON. MR. GOWAN-I have no objection to postponing the third reading, but
I have noticed in at least six cases this
session that the third reading took place
on the same day that the bills were reported
from committee.

ALBERTA AND ATHABASKA
RAILWAY COMPANY'S
BILL.
SECOND READING.

The order of the day having been
The third reading was fixed for to- called for the second reading of Bill (73)
morrow.
" An Act to incorporate the Alberta and
Athabaska Railway Company."
LUTHERAN CHURCH SYNOD
HON. MR. VIDAL said-Prior tO
BILL
moving the second reading of this Bill I
have taken the precaution to inquire if the
SECOND READING.
petition has been properly reported upon.
HON. MR. McCLELAN moved the I find it has not been reported upon, and
second reading of Bill (6o) " A n Act to I therefore move that the order of the
incorporate the Synod of the Evangelical day be discharged and that it stand for the
second reading on Friday next.
Lutheran Church of Canada."
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-There
are one or two points in this Bill to which
I wish to draw the attention of the hon.
gentleman who has charge of it, or the
committee to whom it is to be referred.
The third clause empowers the synod to
make regulations for enforcing discipline,
etc. It does not say that these regulations
are to be approved of in any way by
any body in the denomination or any
body outside of the denomination. Might
it not be possible, under such circumstances, that regulations might be made
which would be harsh and ought not to
exist ? Another clause is with reference
to real estate which the corporation may
hold. Generally there is some limit placed
to that. There is no limit in this Bill.
Another provision in the 5th clause is
unusual ; that is with reference to mortgages. Perhaps my hon. friend will refer
the Bill to the Private Bills Committee.

The motion was agreed to.
INSOLVENT BANKS AND TRADING CORPORATIONS BILL.
THIRD

READING.

The House resolved itself into a coinmittee of the whole on Bill (N) " An Act
to further amend 'An Act respecting
insolvent Banks, Insurance Companies,
Loan Companies, Building Societies and
Trading Corporations.'"
In the Committee.

HON. MR. SCOTT-The third clause
of the Bill is the important one. It relates
to privileged claims of clerks and other
employes of insolvent companies; at the
same time it authorizes the parties having
charge of the winding up of such institutions to avail themselves of the services of
such clerks and employes, which would
HON. MR. McCLELAN-Yes, I intend often be a great advantage.
to refer it to the Committee on Standing
Orders and Private Bills.
HON. MR. POWER-The first section
of the Act which my hon. friend's Bill
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
proposes to amend was repealed by an
will send my hon. friend a memorandum Act introduced I think by the Minister of
on the subject between now and the time Justice last year, chap. 39 of the Acts of
ION. MR.

POWER.

Maritime Court of Ontario [APRIL 13, 1885] Juri8dictionBill.
1884. It repeals the first section of the
Act which is proposed to be amended by
this Bill, and substitutes another section
which alters the application of that Act.
The question that occurred to me was
whether without any reference to this Act
of last year the Bill of the hon. gentleman
from Ottawa would apply to the Act as
amended. My own view is that it would,
but I should like to ask the Minister of
Justice what his opinion is. It will not
be necessary I presume to insert section
6o of that Act as amended by the other?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
should think not.

be approved of.

531

I do not think it is in

the interest of the shipowner or the man

who has money involved in a ship. It is
giving to certain persons a first lien upon
a vessel on which there may be existing

claims. Now these hypothecation claims
are not called for as in former times. Of
course on the lakes of Ontario the owner
of a vessel can always be within call.
Letters and telegrams could be sent to
him. Originally when these rights were
given there were no railways or telegraphs,
and to grant such a right now is not in
the interests of shipping or bona fide
creditors who have liens on vessels. It is

somethingwhich should not beentertained,
except for necessaries, in order to enable
HON. MR. SCOTT-It applies to the a ship to complete the voyage she is on.
Act with all its amendments.
It gives power to the master of a vessel to
go to a port, and without it being necesHON. MR. VIDAL, from the committee, sary, make any repairs he may think proper,

reported the Bill without amendment.

and the cost of these repairs would be a
first lien on the vessel.

It might be a lien

The Bill was then read the third time made without the approval or knowledge
of the owners. The Bill is one that is in
and passed.
the interests of ship-chandlers and mer-

MARITIME COURT OF ONTARIO chants, to enable them to bring big bills
against the owners of vessels. I do not
JURISDICTION BILL.
think this Bill has sprung from a proper
IN COMMITTEE.

source, and the lien should be limited to
necessaries for the voyage the vessel may be

The House resolved itself into a Com- engaged upon.
flittee of the Whole on Bill (i ) "An Act
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPELL-My
to amend the jurisdiction of the Maritime
hon. friend will see it is for vessels in
Court of Ontario."
Ontario, and they do not go on long

HON. MR. TURNER-I propose to
alter the first clause of the Bill a little by
striking out in the second line after
equipping " the word "or" and insert
after " repairing " "the material supplied
for such purposes."

voyages. I think the Bill, as amended, is
safe and should be passed. It does not
give a lien for grocers' bills or anything of
that kind, but only for repairs to vessels
and materials used in those repairs. The

lien is confined to that.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
HON.
WvOuld limit the materials to those supplied repairs ?

MR.

KAULBACH-Necessary

for building, equipping or repairing?
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL-Not

Then necessary for particular voyages. The
TURNER-Yes.
the Word " necessaries " in the last line I voyages the hon. gentleman has in his
Propose to change for the word " material." mind are to the West Indies and other
liON. MR.

distant places ; but the voyages in Ontario
. 1ON. MR. KAULBACH-I must dis- waters are short, as for instance frbm
dissent from part of the Bill, but it being Owen Sound to Buffalo, and would hardly
a.' Ontario matter, I do not press my be called a voyage, but rather a trip. If a
Objection so strongly as I would if it vessel is repaired and thereby improved or
affected the Maritime Provinces, but it equipped and made more seaworthy, I
seens to me that this legislation is not to think for such improvernent it is reason-

532 Maritime Court of Ontario [SENATE] JurisdictionBill.
able there should be a lien. If the word
"necessary" was introduced, who is to
judge of the necessity ? The master of
the vessel must judge, or the owner, if he
is there, and would not that be exposing
the builder or person who makes the
repairs to undue risk when it is necessary
for hin to establish that the repairs were
necessary ? They might not be necessary
for keeping the vessel afloat in the same
sense that they would be if made to an
ocean-going vessel. It seems to me it is
safe enough if the lien is confned to
building, equipping, or repairing.
,HON. MR. KAULBACH-My contention is just this ; it is necessary if you
cannot get the owner of the vessel, but in
the case of vessels on the lakes it is easy
to consult the owner of the vessel. A
first lien to take precedence of mortgages
on vessels should not be given unless in
case of emergency, and where the owner
cannot be got at. The order of the
owner can easily be got if anything important is wanted.
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-Suppose we put the word "necessary" and
limit it to repairs, and the lien shall be
for building, equipping or necessary
repairs. The building is distinct; we
know what that is; and we know what
equipping is, and therefore if you say
"necessary repairs" it will be enough.

HON. MR. RYAN-Who is to judge of
that ? As I understand, this applies to
all vessels going into the ports of Ontario.
By this Bill you subject the owners of
vessels who have, unfortunately, perhaps
incompetent or bad captains, to the
danger of such men allowing repairs of an
exorbitant nature to be made on a ship
and there should be some means of
checking such captains.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL---I say
" necessary repairs."
HON. MR. RYAN-Who is to decide
whether they are necessary or not ?
HON

SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL-The

man who makes the repairs must see that

they are necessary.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

HON. MR. RYAN-This Bill is in the
interest of persons who furnish supplies in
Ontario, and it gives them facilities for
getting orders of that sort, and being
secured for the expenses they have been
put to, but it places the owner of the vessel
completely at the mercy of his captain,
and we all know that there are very inferior captains sometimes, particularly
those who go on short voyages.
HON. MR. GOWAN-I am exceedingly
sorry to differ from the hon. member froni
Lunenburg, who has had considerable experience in those matters, and the last
speaker, but I cannot see any injurious
effects that can arise from this Bill. The
law at present is this : the common law
would apply to cases of this kind, and the
captain certainly, under the common law
rule, would have the right to put himself
in the position and be in the position of
an agent for the owner. He goes in and
orders repairs to be made, and repairs are
effected on the ship. Under the law as it
now stands that vessel could be detained,
but it could not be sold. In precisely the
same way, if a waggon was brought to a
waggon-maker's shop, and certain repairs
were made to it, the waggon might be retained, but it could not be sold. In the
ame way, distress could formerly be made
for rent, but the property could not be
sold. I cannot see any possible injurY
that could arise under this Bill, and I
know two cases of great hardship where
parties have suffered severe loss. one
was a case in the dry-dock of Owen Sound
where large repairs were made to a ship,
and then it was discovered that the owner
was worthless, and nothing could be recovered. They retained the ship, and it
lies there this moment, and will probably
lie there until it rots. I know another
case where a ship carpenter at Collingwood
expended some $i,8oo on a vessel which
he allowed to go out of his possession,
and he has lost his claim. While I would
be sorry to give a first lien for suppbles
furnished to a vessel, I think that anY
thing done to the vessel itself which imn
proves it, the owners ought to be obliged
Beyond that the captain
to pay for.
would certainly have no right; but so far
as that is concerned, under the common
law, as it exists, he would have to be considered, and would, in point of fact, be the

-Maritime Court of Ontario [APRIL 13, 1885] Jueri8dictionBill.
agent of the owner for the purpose of having the necessary repairs done, and when
they were done the only remedy of the
Party accomplishing the work would be
to detain the vessel. This Bill simply
gives him the power of sale.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-How
would it do to restrict it, as regards repairs, to repairs done by authority of the
owner ? Because the owner is within the
province ; I think there is no objection
to that.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-No there is
no objection to that.
HON. MR. TURNER-I think there
is a serious objection to that. You could
fnot get hold of the owner.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Why

not ?

533

captain. No serious injury can be done
under the circumstances.
HON. MR. SMITH-It may be too
late to prevent injury. In this Bill, as it
now stands, you put the whole power in
the hands of the captain, and it may be
too late before the owner gets any information about it, and the captain may do
a great deal of harm. When vessels do
not go on long voyages it is very easy to
reach the president of the vessel or somebody in charge for the owners, but no
captain ought to have power to put any
expense he pleases on a vessel without the
consent of the owner. My attention was
drawn to this subject last Saturday, and I
was requested to be sure to be here to-day
and direct the attention of the leader of
the House to this particular point. I
think it is better that the sanction of the
owner should be required, and then there
can be no hardship whatever to anybody.

HON. MR. TURNER-Suppose the
HON. MR. HOWLAN-This is no new
repairs are made in a place where there is measure. It was introduced here six or
eight years ago. Now, what excuse can
no telegraph office ?
there be for giving such a lien in the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is Province of Ontario ? You have telegraph
always possible to communicate by letter. wires all over the Province and daily
mails in every direction, and why should
HON. MR. TURNER-There might you empower any rascally captain to give
lot be time. The gentlemen from the a lien on a property in which he has no
Lower Provinces should remember that ownership ? The Bill is the greatest outour seasons are very short, and towards rage I ever knew, and it is advocated
the close of the season a delay of a few here on the miserable excuse that there
hours may be a matter of very serious may be sixty-four owners and the whole
of them could not be communicated with;
Consequence to a vessel.
but where there are several owners there
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do is always a ship's husband to whom apflot see any difficulty in communicating lication cati be made. There is no Act
With the owner. How can there be any of Parliament to compel a man to put his
difficulty ?
material into the repairing of a ship : he
does it as a matter of business, and he
HON. MR. TURNER-Suppose there should see that he is safe in doing so. If
are 64 owners; you cannot communicate the master of a ship calls upon him to
With the whole of them.
make repairs to the extent of $1,ooo or
$1,500 it is an important item, and before
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBEELL-But entering into such a contract he should
You can communicate with the ship's consult with the ship's husband by letter
husband ?
He could have a
or by telegraph.
prompt reply and no harm could come to
HON. MR. TURNER-The captain is the ship in the meantime. I think it is
the agent of the owner. He certainly is an outrageous thing to allow the captain
lot going to do anything for that owner of a ship to give a lien on a vessel that he
but what the vessel requires. If he does, does not own. I have known the master
the owner knows how to deal with the of a ship to take off the sails in New

534 Mantime Court of Ontario SENATE] JurisdictionBill.
York harbor and sell them and procure
new sails at the expense of the owner,
and I have known men to lose their ships
through the actions of their captains.
This Bill would give further facilities for
robbery and villiany. It would assist a
rascally captain with a rascally ship carpenter or ship broker, to rob a vessel
owner.
HON. MR. DICKEY-I do not see

materials supplied for repairs. " With the
authority of the owner " would include
every way of getting authority, by an agent,
by letter or by telegram.
HON. MR. POWER-I was under the
impression that with the amendment suggested a moment ago, the clause could
not do much harm. It limited the lien to
fitting, equipping and necessary repairs.
The repairs would have to be shown
to be necessary. I do not see any
good reason why there should not be a
lien.

why there should be any difficulty about
the matter, because the rule which has
been referred to about the power of captains is a rule resulting from necessity
HON. MR. DICKEY-This makes it
where captains are with vessels in distant
ports and it is impossible to communicate more extensive.
with the owners. The captain is necesHON. MR. POWER-I know it does,
sarily an agent, but only under those exbut those repairs are sometimes made by
ceptional circumstances.
people who would not be very familiar
HON, MR. HOWLAN-Not in the with the latest legislation on the subject,
and a mechanic may make repairs on a
home port.
vessel which are absolutely necessary, and
do them under instructions from the capHON. MR. DICKEY-The same rule
does not apply to inland navigation, the tain, and then, when he comes to look for
owners being accessible. The reason of his pay he has this enactment held up tO
the rule ceasing, I think the rule itself him, and he is told that he ought to have
ought to cease with regard to that. There- seen that the captain had authority from1
fore, you ought not to apply the same the owner to order the work. I think if
rule to vessels navigating inland waters the repairs that are made are necessarY
that you do to ocean going ships. The repairs, then the man who makes them
rule was established from the necessity of should have a lien.
things, long before the days of cables, so
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Who
that it is only because it is an absolute
necessity that it has been introduced ; but is to judge of the necessity for the repairs ?
where there is no necessity the reason for
HON. MR. POWER-The Court will
the rule ceases, and the rule should not
judge of the necessity.
be the same. With regard to the owner
you might qualify that by saying " the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
owner or his agent."
only answer to that is to get the authority
of the owner.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It not only
affects the owner, but the vessel may be
HON. MR. GOWAN-A good many of
mortgaged to its full value and you would the vessels in the northeastern ports of
deprive the mortagee of his rights.
Lake Huron are owned by persons residing
in the United States and in various parts
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
of this country, and there would be a great
would suggest to introduce these words deal of difficulty in getting their assent
" repairing with the authority of the
owner." That would make it quite clear.
HON. MR. POWER moved that the
It also would meet the suggestion of the Committee rise and report progress, and
hon. member from Amherst, because if ask leave to sit again to-morrow.
there was an agent who had authority he
would do. We must take care and limit
HON. MR. ALLAN, from the Commfitthe matter to the original idea, which is tee, reported that they had made somle
HON.

MR. HOWLAN.

Halifax [APRIL 14, 1885] Volunteers.

535

progress with the Bill, and asked leave to pushed on in a such haste that the men
should not be afforded an opportunity of
Sit again.
having a necessary meal, and in fact they
The report was received, and the motion were not pushed on with any speed.
was adopted.
They were detained, as I said, some two
hours in Montreal, and they were a long
The Senate adjourned at-5 p.m.
time on the journey to Ottawa. Friends
of the volunteers had no accurate
information as to when they were
to be here. They were not informed
either that the volunteers had not their
THE SENATE.
dinner en route; and the consequence
was that when they got here at half-past
Ottawa, Tuesday, April 14, 885.
eleven last night no arrangements were
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three made to give them a meal in Ottawa. The
O'clock.
consequence of that was that those men
had nothing to eat from the time they got
breakfast at Point Levis yesterday morning
Prayers and routine proceedings.
until they got breakfast at Carleton Place
this morning. I think there is some serious
THIRD READINGS.
blame resting sonewhere for that hardThe following Bills were reported from ship. Those men will have to undergo a
the Committee on Banking and Com- severe trial of endurance on the march
Inerce, read the third time, and passed around Lake Superior, and it is most desirable that they should be in the best
Without debate :Bill (15) " An Act to continue an Act possible condition to commence that
respecting the Albion Mines Savings march; and no worse preparation can be
ank."-(Mr. Allan.)
made for undergoing that kind of hardBill (49) "An Act to incorporate the ship than to be without regular meals, and
Pension Fund Society of the Bank of to go 24 hours without eating anything.
I do not wish to be understood as saying
Montreal."-(Mr. Ryan.)
Bill (48) " An Act respecting the An- that the Government are to blame for the
nuity and Guarantee Funds Society of the neglect ; but I call the attention of the
Government to the matter, in the hope
Bank of Montreal."-(Mr. Ryan.)
that they will be able to explain how the
mishap occurred, and whether the responTHE HALIFAX VOLUNTEERS.
sibility rests with the Militia Department
11ON. MR. POWER-Before the orders or with the Grand Trunk Railway Co.
Of the day are called, I wish to call the
attention of the Government to the exHON. MR. KAULBACH-What my
perience of the Halifax volunteers on their hon. friend says is quite correct. I went
Way to the West. The volunteers got to the station last night, with some of my
their breakfast, as I am informed, at Point hon. friends from Nova Scotia, to give the
'evis
yesterday morning. The news- Halifax men a cordial welcome on their
Papers stated, and I suppose stated cor- arrival. I learned, as my hon. friend did,
tectly, that arrangements had been made that from 8 o'clock in the morning until
in Montreal to give the battalion dinner their arrival here at half-past eleven at night
at that city. They did not get their dinner they had had nothing to eat. Like true
there. They were detained at Montreal, soldiers they made no complaint, but still
or in the immediate neighborhood of they were weak from hunger. As my hon.
Montreal, for I think some two hours. friend from Halifax says, they will have
They got nothing to eat, it is stated, be- enough fatigue and suffering in passing
eause the officer in command was informed north of Lake Superior, and in the Norththat the orders from headquarters were West, without having to endure discomfort
that they should push on at once. I cannot and hardship needlessly. My hon. friend
'y'self imagine that the intention of the from Amherst postponed some remarks he
Iepartment was that they were to be desired to make here, wishing to be at the

536

Central Bank of [SENATE] New Brunswick Bill.

station in time to meet our friends from
Nova Scotia. The information we got
was very uncertain. I went up at 8
o'clock, and the only way I could learn
anything was by telegraphing myself, and
I found at half-past eight that the troops
were 30 miles from the station.

ing any work to which either of the saiCd
Acts applies. The 9th section of the Act
is amended by striking out "or the River
St. John."
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time.

HON. MR. OGILVIE-As a represent- DEPARTMENT OF SECRETARY
OF STATE BILL.
ative from Montreal, I wish to say that I
have private information that our new
SECOND READING.
mayor, Mr. Beaugrand, a gentleman from
whom I differ in politics, but a very fine
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
man whom I admire very much, had a
capital meal ready for the whole force on the second reading of Bill (102) " An Act
their arrival at Montreal. As to why or to amend the Acts respecting the Departhow they did not partake of the meal, I ment of the Secretary of State."
He said-This Bill contains no procannot give any explanation.
visions of any moment. It is for the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am purpose of enabling the Secretary of State
unable to give any explanation. I regret to be called the Registrar General. I.t
that the incident occurred. I will inquire seems that in foreign countries the certiof the Minister of Militia what the cause ficates which come from the Secretary of
was, and inform my hon. friends of his State are in some cases described as
coming from the Registrar General, and
reply to-morrow.
difficulties have occurred in consequence.
SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS BE- The object of this Bill is to enable him tO
sign in either capacity.
FORE MAGISTRATES BILL
THIRD READING.

HON. MR. GOWAN moved the third

reading of Bill (L) "An Act to make
further provision respecting summary proceedings before Justices of the Peace and
other Magistrates."
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the third time and passed.
BRIDGES AND BOOMS, NAVIGABLE
WATERS, BILL.

HON. MR. POWER-Unless the Bill
was amended in the other House there is
a second clause, to which the Minister
has not referred, which is of some consequence. It provides for the appointment
of an officer to be known as the DeputY
Registrar General. I should like to know
whether it is proposed to appoint a neW
officer, or to empower one of the existing
officers of the Department to discharge the
duties of the Deputy Registrar General.
HON.

SIR

ALEX.

CAMPBELL

-

Simply to authorize one of the existing
officers of the department to discharge
SECOND READING.
the duties.
HON. S1R ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
the second reading of Bill (1oi), "An Act was read the second time.
to amend the law respecting Bridges,
Booms and other Works constructed over CENTRAL BANK 0F NEW BRUNSWICK BILL
or in Navigable Waters, under the authority
ôf Provincial Acts." He said: This is a
SECOND READING.
Bill to enable the Governor in Council
from time to time to make, revoke or alter
HON. MR. WARK roved the second
such orders or regulations as he deems
expedient for the purpose of maintaining reading of Bil (40) "An Act respecting
existing facilities for navigation, or for the Central Bank of New Brunswick."
ie
securing better faciBities therefor, respectsaid-This Bill relates tn an important
HON. MR. KAULBACH.

Ike Indu8tries and [APRIL 14, 1885.] Alanuf'r8 of Canada.
ilstitution that went out of existence a
quarter of a century ago, and I had thought
its affairs were all settled and wound up
long ago The president and several of
the directors have died ; there are only
three directors remaining, and they want
authority to dispose of some little assets.
The debts are all paid up.
17ON. MR. BOTSFORD-I would ask
the hon. gentleman what the assets consist
Of ?

do not know ;
HON. MR. WARK-I
they are very trifling.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
INDUSTRIES AND MANUFACTURES OF THE DOMINION.
THE DEBATE CONTINUED.

The order of the day having been.called
for resuming the debate on Hon. Mr.

Mlacdonald's motion, viz.:That he will call attention to the report of
the Commission issued by the Government
lat year to enquire into the effect of the
ariff of 1879, on the Industries and ManufactUres of the country, and will ask the Govern?'lent whether the Rport will be furnished to

4ernbers of the Senate and a certain number
to the country ?

HION. MR. FLINT said-I am well
aware that this subject, which is now before the House, has been so much debated
ý1 so much has been said in reference to
it, that it might be considered as worn
tleadbare. I have, however, taken upon
rnself to speak for a short time on the
question as it touches upon our National
.Olicy, and what I consider to be the best
"lterests of our country. A great deal
bas been said with reference to Free
Trade, and it has been argued that a Free
Trade Policy would be better for our
couLtry We have been told that because
P"'gland pursued a policy of Free Trade,
therefore Canada should also adopt it,
nsltead of levying heavy duties such as
'ave been imposed on imports to enable
us to manufacture in our own country.
t'gland being a very rich country, and
able to protect herself, supposed that in
kdopting Free Trade she would naturally
carrY other countries with her.
But

British statesmen

have

53T

found out that

they have as yet carried no country with
them throughout the whole length and
breadth of the world. Their example has
had no effect on any other nation, consequently they stand alone in their Free
Trade Policy to-day. Notwithstanding the
fact that we are a portion of the British
Empire, we are permitted to make such
laws as we think are most beneficial to
It may be considered very
ourselves.
liberal on the part of the British Government to allow us that privilege, but they
have done so. I believe they look upon
Canada as being one of the brightest gems
in the British Crown, and consequently
they have no desire to interfere with our
internal arrangements, and what we feel to
be for the good of our country. I listened
with great attention, not only to the hon.
gentleman from Victoria who introduced
this question, but to others who have
spoken upon it from time to time, and I
think there has been a great deal of needless repetition. As far as I am concerned,
I shall endeavor to confine myself to such
remarks as I think are necessary on this
question. In the first place, I take up the
speech of the hon. Member from Ottawa.
I am sorry that he is not in his place, but
that is no fault of mineHON. MR. ALEXANDER-He
never in his place.

is

HON. MR. FLINT-Yes he is ; it is no.
fault of mine that the hon. gentleman is
not in his place to-day, but I wish to deal

with some facts that he profçssed to introduce in his speech in answer to the hon.
member from Victoria. Referring to the
stocks of manufacturing enterprises, he
said:" Taking up the Journal of Commerce of
February 27th, I find the stocks of some of

the most favored industries quoted as follows:
The Canada Cotton Conpany's stock stands
at 25 cents in the dollar; the Dundas Cotton
Factory, 30 cents in the dollar; the Hudon
Cotton Factory, a large concern with a capital
of $2,000,000, stands a little high-r, 65 and,
something in the dollar. Here is one of those
industries, the Nova Scotia Sugar Refinery;
I find its stock quoted at 25 cents in the
dollar, What has become of the other 75 cents?
Now I am sure that that hon. gentleman
knows enough about the trade of the
country to understand very well what has

538

The Indutries and [SENATE] Manuff'r8 of Canada.

become of some of this money. It has time-the supply and demand must gov
been lost, but if those are the only losses ern trade as regards our manufactures or
in the country since 1879, how was it anything else we have to sell. The samle
before we had this National Policy ? How law affects the farmer and the mechanmc.
many industries in our country suffered for If the mechanic has no work-if there is
years and years before the National Policy not a sufficient number of buildings for
came into existence ? Take the lumbering him to construct-he must lie idle. If the
industry as an illustration. It suffered farmer cannot get remunerative prices for
from time to time very seriously, and his produce he must take the prices that
nany men of large as well as men of small are going, and it is not the fault of the
means engaged in it had to go to the wall. policy of the country, but the effect of a
The consequence was that many were large crop and a greater supply than there
ruined, but we did not say that it was the was the year before, and the want of a
effect of the National Policy, because there demand for the surplus produce.
Ir
was no such policy in operation at that reference to the sugar refining industry
time. It was the effect of over-trading- the same rule applies. L do not find any
over-production. How was it as regards fault with the National Policy because
the square timber interest? Quebec had sugar refineries stock went down 75 cents
been flooded from time to time with square on the dollar. I think it is mismanage
timber and the consequence was that ment to a great extent that has been the
prices fell so rapidly that many persons cause of it. Those manufacturies are
engaged in the business were totally ruined gotten up by men who have a large surWhose fault was it ? It was brought about plus of capital on hand. They think theY
by over-production-the fault of those who can make money out of such ventures,
were engaged in the business, which and go into them blind-fold and put their
caused the supply to be so much greater money into businesses that they do not
than the demand that prices had to go understand ; and therefore they must fail;
down ruinously low. I may speak freely but in failing they have no right to turO
and feelingly on this subject from the fact round and say it was the effect of the
that I have lost largely in square timber National Policy. The hon. gentlenan
and sawn lumber myself. I lost large from Ottawa, speaking in reference tO
sums of money, even before the National this policy says:
Policycame into existence, in the timber
" I say
trade, and I might as well turn round and disgraceful there never was so ininfamous 8nd
a tariflestablished any countrY;
charge those losses on the National Policy never one which discriminated so unfairly.
before it came into existence as to charge
Now, I think that is a bold assertion.
any depression inthat trade to the National
Policy at the present time. The cause is
HON. MR. BOTSFORD.-Hear, hear
not the National Policy, but over-trading
and over-producing on the part of those
HON. MR. FLINT.-It is an asserwho are engaged in business; and if they
see fit to pursue that policy, whether it be tion which, I think, the hon. gentleman
in timber, lumber, cotton, sugar or any cannot prove, and therefore i think it
other product, if the supply is made to would be better if he had left it out of the
exceed the demand, the producers must question. He goes on to say :naturally expect to take the consequences. "Lt is quite proper for the hon. gentlenl
It is true that the National Policy has had from Niagara to say hear, hear, because wh6
the effect of building up industries in this I say I can emphatically prove if I choose to
country that we did not have before ; still go into it."
that does not affect the law of supply and
Then why did he not go into it? There
demand, and I know of no industry built was plenty of time for him to have gole
up since the National Policy came into into the proof which was necessary in
existence that has failed because of the order to set us right, but he has not done
National Policy; if there has been any so; he makes a bold assertion and leaves
failure or loss it is because of the want of it without proof, for I have looked all
demand for the supplies that have been through the hon. gentleman's speech and
produced. So it will be until the end of have failed to find in any one respect
HON. MR.

FLINT.

TÀe Indu8tries and [APRIL 14, 1885]
Proof of any of these assertions which he
has made. He says further,
" I arn speaking now on the broad principle
all tariifs; the tariff ot the United States
as been as great a curse to that country as
ours has been to Canada."
Where is the proof ? I cannot find any
Proof that it has been a curse to that
Country. If it is a curse to the United
States why do they keep it up ? It is
8aid that in 188o there were employed in
r"anufactures in the United States
3,837,112 operatives; in mechanical and
rnining pursuits, 2,738,930, and in agriculture 7,670,493.
Now, is it to be supposed if those agriClturists were taxed so much higher, or if
they had to pay so much more for the
goods that they were purchasing than they
.ad to do before the high tariff, that they
WOuld not rise in their might and put
down this protective tariff and those monoPolies ? The very fact that they have not
done so is quite sufficient to convince me
that the hon. gentleman has been altoeether mistaken in saying that the protective tariff has been a curse to the United
States; for if it were, under the present
administration, if not under the previous
one, they would naturally come to the
Conclusion that it was time to change their
POlicy and do away with the protection
which their native industries have hitherto
enjoyed. But will they do it ? I say they
not. We do not see anything to indi*ate that they will. The United States
now too well what they are about to
abolish that which they believe is making
theii a great and powerful nation, and
'Onequently they will not adopt a policy
lch will in any way
towards
lestroying their prosperity.tendThe
same
argunent

fanuf'r8 of Canada.

539

with it." But have they done so ? The
result of the last election shows that they
did not think so then; the Government
were sustained by a large majority, and I
have no doubt that if they were to go
before the country again on this very
policy they would be as unmistakably
sustained on it as in the last election.
Some hon. gentlemen will say that in their
opinion the Government would be overthrown if they were to appeal to the
country now. I doubt it very much.
In my opinion the people do not desire
to abolish the protection they now have
through what is called the National Policy,
and under such circumstances I do not
think it is fair to say that either the
United States or Canada is cursed by a
protective policy. The hon. gentleman
has made that broad and bold assertion;
he has made it more than once in this
House, but I have never yet known him to
give tangible proof of its correctness. He
said further :

"We carn all point out where it (the
National Policy) has operated to enrich a
few wealthy people, and to imnpoverish the
many."
Now the question is where are those
few people who have been enriched by it?
We all remember that when the National
Policy was being introduced, we were told
that under its operation a few were going
to become very rich at the expense of the
Now we hear that those very
many.
manufacturers who have put their money
into those manufacturing industries are
That being the case there
being ruined.
Either one or
is a plain contradiction.
the other must be wrong. Then the hon.
gentleman goes on to say :
" Everyone reniembers how our people
may be applied to Canada were told between 1876 and 1878 that they
a slaughter
'day.
I do not see why the National were being ruined by Canada being people were
The great mass of the
market
ilcy should be considered a curse to being benefitted by it ; they
were getting
anada, when a protective
their good cheaper than they otherwise could.

policy has not
ea curse to the United States. The
n. gentleman from Ottawa in speaking
that point said that 90 per cent. of the
oýeple in Canada are taxed for the beneAt Of the 1o per cent. that are manufacng or words to that effect.

Now if

en the case why do not those 90 per
rise
G in "We will and say to the
overnment, their might abolish this National Policy; it is ruinous to our interests
we will have nothing further to do

There is no doubt our country was
being ruined ; our nianufacturers were

being ruined by the Americans sending
over their surplus stocks, and their poorer
stocks and making a slaughter market of
In talking with American
Canada.
manufacturers I have found that that was
their desire, and even when the National
Policy question was being considered in
Canada, I heard an American manufacturer say that it was very hard that we

54A0

The Indutries and [SENATE] 3fanuf'r8 of Canada.

should not have given them six months before I get through. I think we should
notice before adopting our National be careful, in making statements like that,

Policy, so that they might have a chance to be in a position to sustain then bY
to bring in their goods under the old tariff. proof. Then the hon. gentleman says :
I said that that was not the object of our
"The National Policy, amongst other
policy ; that if we gave them six months things, was to give us a home market."
notice the markets of Canada would be so
That is correct; it should give Us a
flooded with American goods that our home market. He continues :
manufacturers could not do anything for
Where is the home market to-day-dWf'
six years. He said it was not fair to the down, with the bottom knocked out of ''
American manufacturers.
However, we The farmers, before the introduction of Tl"
were acting on the same principle that ways even, got more for their grain than the
The
they acted upon themselves; we were are getting now.63 cents best wheat i11
world is down to
a bushel.
protecting our manufacturers against them,
was that ? At the furthest end
Where
the same as they had protected themselves
against us. The hon. gentleman from of the North-West; it certainly was not
in any other part of the country, because
Ottawa said:
while the hon. gentleman was speaking
" Why should we in Canada be obliged to
tax ourselves in order to maintain a handful wheat was selling at from 75 to 82 cents
of industries, simply because they are in the part of the country from which I
come, so that his remarks could not p0s'
Canadian ? "
For the very best reason, that we can- sbly have applied to any of the 0lder
not build up Canada as a nation unless we provinces. I say it is unfair to take the
build it up by manufactures as well as by furthest and most inaccessible point I.
agriculture.
To say that this is to be a the North-West and quote the lowest Price
purely agricultural country and that we paid for wheat there and undertake tO
must not expect anything from manufac- palm that off as the prevailing price for
wheat in the markets of Canada. I knoO
tures is altogether out of the question.
The manufacturers and the agriculturists that at Belleville they were paying at that
must all advance together. They must very time from 75 to 8o cents, and at
make a long pull and a strong pull and a Bridgewater, 30 miles further back, they
pull together in order to bring up our were paying from 75 to 82 cents-paying
country to what it ought to be as a new cash for all they could get for home con'
country with 5,ooo,ooo of people, lying sumption. If they were getting that price
beside a nation of 5o,ooo,ooo.
We have there it should not have been stated that
to protect ourselves in every respect, so that wheat was selling at 63 cents. If the h1e1'
we may see our own industries rise, instead gentleman had accompanied the stateof helping to develop the industries of ment by the explanation that that was the
another country. Then the hon. gentle- price in the Far West nobody would have
been left in doubt on the subject.
man says :
know if our wheat in the county of

aSe

" Why should we pay double prices in
order to have those goode manufactured in the ings is not as good as the wheat raised
Dominion ? In the eyes of some gentlemen it in the North-West it is good enough to
may be very patriotic to do so, but I do not enable us to make first-class flour out o
think it is wise."
it. The hon. gentleman goes on to say •
Now, how do we pay double prices ? Then, this attempt to equalize the dutie
The hon. gentleman makes the assertion
but he brings no proof-not a particle of
proof can he bring to support his statement,
I know in my own part of the country
prices are far lower now than they were in
1878 and 1879, and the consequence is

that the people are not paying double

prices, but are getting their goods at prices
5o per cent. less than they could procure
them for in 1878. Now that is a bold
assertion, but I am going to prove it
HON. MR. FLINT.

on flour and wheat-the miller paying ha
much on grain-what has it led to ? I
juet shown how utterly impossible it h
been for the Government to reconcile interea?
of that kind and to place on each man bie
fair proportion of taxes. We had a dep t
tion of millers coming to the Government .be
other day who said: "Here they are iro
porting flour into Canada; we canno t COae
pete with the United States; we must hae
protection."
Now what is the effect of this protection? The duty on wheat is 15 cents A

The Indu8tries and [APRIL 14, 1885] JIanqf'r8 of Canada.
bushel, and we are told that it takes four
a half bushels to make a barrel of
superfine No. i flour, or 67 Y cents on
the wheat required for a barrel of flour,
Whereas the duty on flour imported into
the country is 50 cents on the barrel, a
difference of 17 %/2 cents. Now let us look
atthis question for a moment and see
how It really stands.

This is a subject

that I know something about. I think I
Can go into any mill in this country and
4flake as good a barrel of superfine flour
as the best of them. I think I ought to
be able to do so, for I have had a good
deal to do with milling. I have had mills
oif My own, and I have ground hundreds
of thousands of bushels of wheat in them.
o Put a duty of 15 cents on wheat and
OIY 5o cents on flour was going to be

n1111ous
to the miller, we were told, as it

Would leave a margin of 17Y2 cents per
arrel against the miller and in favor of
<'Merican flour. To prove that this is not
the Case, I take 4Y2 bushels of wheat or
270 ibs. ; I allow for waste four pounds,
1 45 lbs., shorts 9 Ibs.-in all 58 lbs.
educting this from 270 lbs. we have 212
left; allowing to one barrel of flour
196 lbs., leaves 16 ibs. flour over. Sixeen lbs. of flour at 2Y2 cents is worth 40
eIts ; fifty-four Ibs. of bran and shorts at
cents per oo ibs. would be worth 32
nrts-making 72 cents; cost of barrel
25 cents and duty on flour 17 Y cents, or
42Y2 cents. Profit, 29Y2 cents.

1W hon. gentlemen I have got a mill
, I should be very glad to contract with
th one who would furnish my mill during
.e time I could run it day and night
t'th wheat to grind for 20 cts. per barrel,
they furnishing everything. I should be
ýer glad to do the work and I could
ake noney faster that way than any
aerway I know of. There is nothing in
kernel of wheat but flour, except the
and
it the, if you have got the machinery
S easy to take it out. I used to wonder
biiI

got flour in Oswego for $4.25 per

e, when wheat was selling at 90 to 95
t hWow it could pay them, but I found
ak -experiment how they managed to
profitable. I found that I could
ete
oe outitof a bushel of wheat 49>Y pounds
a "Perfine No. i flour. I have done it,
fourI can do it again, and consequently
f bushels of wheat would make two
Dourds uver the barrel of flour. The way

541

I came to try this question was this : a
lumberman came to. me and wanted to
get a quantity of flour, 6o barrels,
and offered me $4.25 per barrel.I undertook it and I gave him 200 lbs. to
the barrel, and I found after getting
through that I had made 65 cts. and I
had the bran and shorts to the good. I
thought that was making a very good
profit. I would be glad to work all my
life at that ; I would leave the Senate and
pull off my coat and go to work if I could
make that profit. Therefore I can see no
difficulty about the duties on wheat and
flour ; but if they wish to equalize the
duties let them say that 5 bushels of
wheat would be equal to a barrel of
flour and put 25 cts. extra on the flour,
and they will then equalize the duty. I
do not want to put down the millers ; they
are like other people; they want to make
all they can, but there is no doubt they
only wish to increase the profit they are
already making, and they thought it no
more than right that the duty on flour
should be increased, or the duty on wheat
diminished. I have no objection to the
change being made either way, whichever
is most convenient. I have given these
figures, because I wished to show that I
am familiar with the subject. I have
been engaged for a number of years in
the business, and I ought to know something about it.
I now come to the question of corn
meal. My hon. friend from St. John (Mr.
Lewin) spoke of the difficulties and the
great hardships to which the people in his
part of the country were subjected through
the National Policy, and spoke particularly
of the duty on corn meal. So far as corn
meal is concerned, there is no doubt it is
a very good article of food at some seasons
of the year, but there are people who do
not like to use it in summer because they
say it makes them feel inclined to rub
their shoulders. Whether that is so or
not, the purchaser need not buy the barrel
when he is purchasing the meal. I have
ground i oo,ooo bushels of corn into meal,

and I know that the best way is to grind
the corn when it is two years old.
HON. MR. OGILVIE-Two years old,
do you say ?
HON. MR. FLINT-I mean corn of
the year before, because the corn should

5 A2

The Industries and [SENATE]

not be ground the year that it is grown,
It is too soft, and unless it has had a year
to dry when it is ground into meal, it will
surely spoil.
It will not do to kiln
dry it, because it will lose most of the
saccharine matter and will not be so good
for food. When it is thoroughly dried it
makes the best meal. The duty on corn
meal at 2 mills per

lb.,is 40 cents per barrel.

-Manuf'reof Canada.

than they received in 1878 they are better

able to pay the duty. We should put One
thing against the other and look at thenf
trom a practical point of view, and see
whether the gain does not more than Offset the increased duties.
I hope I have made, so far as I have
gone, everything that I have said clear
enough for the House to understand it.
I try to be plain and practical, and if I
fail it is because I do not understand the
question. As I stated sometime ago, e
were told at the time the National Policy
was adopted that it would create bloated
monopolies, and that the few would get
rich at the expense of the many. The
question is, have they done so ? No, they
have not. We are now told the contrary
but there is no let-up to the statement that
the poor man or the farmer does not get
his goods any cheaper because these
monopolies have to a great extent failed
Oh no, we are told that he has to paY as
much for his goods as he ever did. The
question is, does he or does he not paY as
much ? We will take, for instance, the
article of sugar. I can go into any grocery store in Belleville where sugar iS
sold and buy 20 lbs. of good suge
to day for $i.oo ; whereas in 1878 1
could get only i r. lbs of sugar O
I wa
the same quality for $1.oo.
to know if that is not a gain to everyone
who has to buy sugar ; and what classes
of the community buy more sugar tha
the farmers, the mechanics and the laborers ? Tea sells at 15 to 20 cents a Poun
cheaper now than it did then ;Who
benefits by that ? I can buy cotton
cheaper; I can get twenty yards of goo d
factory cotton (I will not say the best, bu
as good as you often see) for $1.oo-El *
cents a yard for cotton a yard wide. NO
I think they should not complain, because
I know that they could not get in 1878
of that quality of cotton more than fron' 1
to 12 yards for $1.oo. Having dealt for
so many years as I have in dry goods as
well as in other articles, I have a good
right to know the prices and qualities O
all sorts of goods excepting whiskey- 1 do
not know anything about that. Now these
farmers are suffering wonderfully, we are
told. Take the article of fulled cloth;
they can get as good an article of fulled

The price of the barrel should not be taken
into account, because people need not buy
it ; they cannot eat it and they would have
to throw it away or burn it. Therefore
the hon. gentleman's complaint is, that the
people of the Lower Provinces have to pay
a duty of 40 cents on a barrel of corn meal.
The duty on corn is 7 j12 cents per bushel;
4 bushels will make 200 Ibs. of meal, and
leave 22 lbs. of offal. By grinding the
corn io cents per 200 lbs. would be
saved, besides the cost of the barrel.
Now it is well known that since the
National Policy came into operation in
this country labor has increased in value,
and the increase has been from 75 cents a
day to $1 a day for common labor. But
put the increase at 20 cents, that is, from
8o cents to $i ; a laborer receives now $6
for 6 days' labor, instead of $4.8o a week,
as formerly ; that is, an increase of $1 .20
per week in his earnings. With an ordinary family he could not use too pounds of
cornmeal in a week ; that would be allowing 15 pounds a day. Consequently the
amount of duty paid on a week's supply of
cornmeal would not exceed 20 cts. Take
that 20 cts. out of the $1.20 representinrg
his increased earnings, and he would have
$1 to the good. I think he could well afford
to pay the duty. Then the hon. gentle
man spoke of laborers working only half
time. Supposing the laborer works only
three days in the week, he gets $3 for his
labor; he buys 100 lbs. of cornmeal and
even then he would save 40 cts., as compared with what he could have done in
1878. But suppose we go a little further
into the question ; suppose there is no
duty on cornmeal and the laborer has no
work to get and earns no money, as was
the case before the adoption of the
National Policy, I want to know how he
is to live ? Is it not better to have a little
d'ty to pay than to have free trade and
no work? I think the hon. gentleman
has not looked at that side of the question. cloth in Belleville to-day for 50 to 60
If men are receiving higher wages now cents as they could in 1878 for 80 tO 90
HON.

MR. FLINT.

The Industries and [APRIL 14, 18851
-ents. I am not speaking of what I do
nOt know. i can prove these things withOut any great difficulty. The sanie staternent applies to other classes of goods.
Ou can hardly mention any of the necessaries of life that are not lower, with the
exception perhaps now and then of some
almiple article. Now, who gets the benefit
0f these reduced prices ? It is not the
bloated monopolist, but the farmer, the
hiechanic, the laborer and even the
*eaithy man who does not have to work,
but who gets his living from the interest
of his money. Now, our farmers, we are
told, are suffering from the operation of
the National Policy. For a bushel of
Wheat the farmer can get from 15 to 16
Yards of factory cotton, or 15 to 16
Pounds of sugar, and so on in proportion
Of Other goods. Oats sell at from 35 to
40 cents a bushel. I have known oats to
.sold at 121/2 cents a bushel. I do not
thiflk our farmers have any reason to
erurnble at the prices which prevail to-day.
fhey can get 7 to 8 pounds of sugar for a
uJshel of oats. The price of pease is 6o
Cents a bushel, for which the farmer can
Y 12 pounds of sugar, or 12 yards of
otton or a good yard of fulled cloth.
kye is 6o cents ; barley from 50 to 6o.
Ularley has been a drug in the market the
Past year, and there is a reason for that,
the Prices being regulated by the supply
3d demand. There was so much old
rley held in the United States and Cana Of the crop of 1883 that the price fell.
kowa great many farmers in this country
ePt all their barley, thinking that they
th uld get larger prices, because they
thought the National Policy would raise
hPrices, and they have lost money by
gdig their grain too long. However a
at deal of barley in our county this
t year was of a dark color in conseSuence of the rainy season ; and conseq'1ently was not as saleable as if the season
Sbeen dry. If farmers will produce
too
qich barley they must take the consethences. Like the lumbermen they think
S .Must produce so much every year,
S instead of being benefited by it they
uce prices and suffer accordingly. Now
tecomne down to another simple article
You
.keys! cannot get a common
s
ail turkey short of 8o cents to $1, and

fanuf'r8 of Canada. 543

cents to 75 and 8o cents. I have bought
one, weighing 16 lbs, dressed, for 6o
cents, and the man was glad to get rid of
it for that price. Everything else that the
farmer has to sell, butter, cheese and
everything else, is the same-the farmer
is getting larger prices for everything and
buying his goods from the merchants at
lower prices than ever before. My hon.
friend from Belleville in speaking of the
cheese exports from Canada remarked
that in 1884 this country exported $7,25 7,989 worth of cheese-the total exports of
cheese was within $3,876,737 worth of the
export of cheese from the whole of the
United States. When we compare the
difference in population of the two countries and take into account the fact that
they have as good grazing lands as Canada
possesses, I think we have in this industry far outgrown the United States. I
think we deserve credit for having manufactured so much cheese and exported so
much. I recollect perfectly well when we
had to import cheese into this country
from the United States. I have bought
sleigh loads of it myself. At that time,
while we were importing our cheese, we
were selling our cows for $io to $12. The
hon. gentleman spoke of cows selling at
from $16 to $2o at the time these cheese
factories were started ; but what would
you have to pay for cows now ? You
cannot get a cow short of $25 and, if the
animal is at all a good one not for less
than $40 or $50.
HON. MR. SMITH-You cannot get a
good one for less than $6o.

HON. MR. FLINT-I was told by a
farmer that he had not sold a cow for
years short of $5o, but he took care that
he had none but good animals on his
farm. The consequence of the development of the cheese industry is that the
farmers keep better cattle than they ever
did before, and their farms are in better
condition. The farmers who are engaged
in the cheese industry are bringing their
land to a higher state of cultivation than
ever before. They use their straw, coarse
grain, hay, etc., in feeding their cattle and
keeping them in first-rate order during the
winter, and the consequence is that they
nu Pay from that up to $1.5o and $2. have a large amount of manure, with
eOrrerly they used to sell at about 40 which they can improve their farms and

6544

The Indus8tries and (SEN ATE] Manuf'rm of Canada.

increase their value, because they yield ing money, and why ? We always have
larger crops. The man who sells his hay with us, and I suppose it is the same il
and straw and lets his cattle run in the other parts of the country, some farmers
street cannot expect to have a good who spend more of their time in attending
farm; but those who are engaged in the to other people's affairs than to their ownt
cheese industry are obliged to take good and who are in town two or three days Of
care of their farms and stock, and thus the week, perhaps with a basket of egg 5
they increase their value. A farmer recent- and spend their time anywhere but oln
ly showed me a field on which, through their farms, and the consequence is, as a
careful cultivation, he had actually raised general thing, these men have to go to,
6o bushels of oats to the acre, for which money lenders and mortgage their farms
he got 40 cents a bushel-$24 an acre ; to keep themselves going. Taking everyand then he had all the straw with which thing into consideration, we have 1o
to feed his cattle. Taking these facts into reason to complain of the position i
consideration, I venture to say that the which we stand under the operation o
increased value thus given to the farms of the National Policy. I never expected
the country through the cheese industry that the National Policy was going tO
alone cannot be short of two or three make me rich, or to make anybody else
millions of dollars. There is another rich, but I expected that it was going to be
question to which I wish to refer-the the means of establishing manufactures i"
improvements which are going on in the our country and enabling us to keep Our
country. I will take the county of Hast- money at home instead of sending it
ings as an illustration, because it is one abroad. And will not this be a hapPY
with which I am better acquainted than country when we are in the position,
any other. I know that the log houses in instead of sending money out of the
that county are giving place to good stone, country for the purpose of paying our
brick or frame houses. In every direction debts, we can send the products of Our
people are building better houses. They factories. When we can export $io,00'
are laying out the profits derived from the ooo, or $2o,ooo,ooo more than we import,
sale of their products in improvements we are on the road to wealth. Until we
either one way or the other upon their can do that, although we are gaiming
farms. Then, there are more churches ground, we are not as prosperous as e
being built. New churches are going up ought to be. I know well enough that
in every direction, and they are mostly all some hon. gentlemen have contended
built either of brick or of stone, so that hitherto that it is better to be in debtthe money which the farmers get from their that it is better not to have as much to
produce is being expended for laudable export as we import-but I do not believe
purposes, either for improving their farms, in that policy. I think that every dollar
or dwellings, or constructing houses for we can retain in our country is helping to
the worship of God.
build up the wealth of the Dominion, and
And the reason for this is, money is tending to make us what we want to be-plentiful. Money never was so plentiful nation capable of taking care of ourselves,
in the district I come from as it is to-day. and looking after our own welfare. I do
I do not pretend to say that every man not want to detain the House. I have
has it, because every man is not entitled spoken now perhaps far longer than t
to have it. I know that the amount of should have spoken, but I have tried tO
money deposited in the savings banks is make my points, and if I have not Made
wonderful, and there is also a great deal them as clearly as I ought to have done,
put into the chartered banks on deposit at I trust that hon. gentlemen who have heard
three or four per cent., because the own- me will not say that it is because I do lot
ers have no present use for it, and they understand the question. I am only sorry
want to have it where it will be drawing for one thing, that my hon. friends Who
for them some little interest. If the coun- are opposed to the National Policy, an
try was not prospering surely there would who have spoken so much against it cae
be a want of money, and there would be not or will not see as I see in reference to
none to deposit in the banks. It is true this subject. I am sure if they sat doWn
that there are some persons who are loan- and calmly considered and calculated the
HON. MR. FLINT.

The Industrie8 and [APRIL 14, 1885]
question from both sides, instead of taking
a One-sided view of it, they would soon
COrne to the same conclusion, and we
Would all be a happy united family doing
Our best to promote the welfare and prosPerity of our common country.
H-ON. MR. McCLELAN-The debate
has occupied considerable time and I
suppose the House is weary of the subject,
but inasmuch as there are so many gentleMen in this Chamber who are not of my
Opinions on this subject it becomes the
nlore incumbent on me to make a few
Observations on the opposite side of the
argument advanced by my hon. and aged
'friend the senior member from Belleville.
I should be very glad indeed if many of
his observations were quite correct, esPecially when he informs us that several
Of the necessaries of life are purchased
tO-day under the National Policy for so
very much less than they used to be.
That was a cheering announcement, and
if it were true we would be able to live
very cheaply indeed in this Canada of
Ours. Although I make but a passing
allusion to the remarks of my hon.
friend, I might say that if while speakiflg of the reduction in the price of
Ornmodities in the last few years he had
'fade a comparison between the average
reductions during the last decade and the
four or five decades previous, he would
have discovered that the reductions in
prices in the previous decades had been
quite as great as during the last ten
Years; but even that would prove nothing
as regards the effect one way or the other
Of the high protective tariff. He instanced
arnongst other things the price of sugar,
and that seems to be a debateable article,
and an untenable illustration brought up
here to show to the people of this country
the. great advantage of the present high
duties. We are told that the consumer
110W gets 20 lbs. of yellow sugar for $1.
On. gentlemen do not place alongside of
that observation the fact that the coneumner can get 4o lbs. of the same kind of
sugar for $1, if he goes to the Custom

IlOuse to buy it. If it were not for the
duty on this article, the consumers could
get double the quantity for $i that they
11
W do ; yet hon. gentlemen persist
'l telling the House and the country
that the low price of sugar to-day is due
K i

fangf'r8 of Canada.

545

to the National Policy. That is the inference to be drawn from the remarks of
several gentlemen ; but I say again that I
believe that certain grades of yellow sugar
could be purchased to-day at half the
price it now is if it were not for this high
protective tariff. Now, with reference to
the cheese industry, and the observations
made by my hon. friend from Belleville, I
contend that it has no connection whatever with the National Policy, but is a
justification of the argument of those who
are opposed to that policy, and who advocate a revenue tariff. The manufacture
of cheese is an industry which, as the hon.
gentleman from Belleville told us, originated in this country some 18 years ago.
He has told us truly enough that he believes he is one of the promotors of that
industry. That was not developed under
the National Policy at all ; that had grown
to be a large industry, and it has not
benefited by the protective tariff, and it
just shows that along with the export of
cattle, the cheese industry is tending to
keep a certain element of prosperity in
this country. Without these elements I
do not know what condition the country
would be in at this present moment. But
the hon. gentleman from Belleville amused
me not a little when he said that he remembered when we imported cheese from
the United States. I think his memory
would not have to be a very long one to
remember that. The truth is we import
more cheese from the United States now
than we did in 1877 before the present
duty was imposed on it at all. I did not
intend to make special reference to the
remarks of my hon. friend opposite, and
will turn to the general question. My
hon. friend from Victoria in the inquiry
of which we gave notice says he will call
attention to the report of the commission
issued by the Government last year to inquire into the effect of the tariff of 1879,
on the industries and manufactures of
the country, and will ask whether the report
will be furnished to memibers of the Senate
and so on. If the debate had been confined
to the proper object of the inquiry, no
doubt it would have ended long ago; but
it has taken a very much wider range, and
the whole question of free trade and protection has been discussed, and special
reference has been made to the relations
of certain countries with the trade policy

5A6

The Industrie8 and [SEN ATE] .Manuf'rs of Canada.

of Canada. I suppose in the discussion
of this question it would be a work of
supererogation to undertake to speak of
the abstract principles of free trade and
protection. What we mean in this
country by free trade, is, of course, a
revenue tariff, for the purpose of raising
sufficient revenue for carrying on the
government of the country. As between
free trade and protection, I fancy there is
not much difference of opinion on the
abstract question. No respectable university in Europe or America would wish
to invite to its chair of political economy
any gentleman who would advocate and
I think
teach protectionist doctrines.
there is one university in Pennsylvania in
which the professor of political economy,
if I am correctly informed, holds exceptional views, and he is the only professor
of political economy in the United States
who takes that side of the question. The
others in all their writings, in all their
lectures, and in all their truatises, are
opposed to the idea of protection as an
abstract principle.
HON. MR. PLUMB-They do not
seem to have had much influence on the
country.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I think they

are having a very large influence on the
country, as is pretty well proven by the
result of the recent presidential election
in that country.
HON. MR. PLUMB-That was not a

free trade issue.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-The free trade
question entered largely into that contest,

but as to the practical bearing of free trade
on the prosperity of a country, the
United States has not yet supplied a
proper test.
Take the effect of the
adoption of free trade in England, which
has been alluded to by several hon. gentlemen during the progress of this debate.
They have labored in some way or otherI have never been able to follow their
argument to a proper conclusion-very
much to show that free trade in England
was brought about because Great Britain
had come to be a very wealthy nation, and
her wealth had been developed through
a protective system, and having more
HON. MR.

McCLELAN.

wealth than they knew what to do with,
they adopted free trade to get rid of sol"e
of it. If hon. gentlemen will read the
history of England more carefully they wiil
discover that it was not a sudden whin1
which caused the reversion of opinion if
England ; it was not the result of a tene
porary famine or depression, although the
depression was very great no doubt when
the bill repealing the Corn Laws Was
passed. I think hon. gentlemen will find
that much earlier than that there was a
very strong feeling got up in the cities of
London and Edinburgh in favor O
repealing the Corn Laws. They Will
discover that petitions were gotten up by
the manufacturers and it is a very interesting item of history that the very parties
that are so much sought to be protecteâ
now by a National Policy, are in the
United States coming to believe that theY
are as great sufferers as any other memberS
of the community. In 1820 great trouble
and distress began to arise in England,
and then it was that numerous petitiOns
were sent to Parliament from London and
Edinburgh in favor of the repeal of the
Corn Laws, and the introduction of a free
trade policy. From that time up we find
that the mills were many of them subject
to be shut down periodically ; depression
existed from time to time, and even famine
came occasionally, and the feeling greW
and grew as long as the high protective
duty continued to exist, shutting out raw
material and cramping the commerce O
England, until the people would stand it nO
longer, and they came wisely to the concluto adopt a free-trade system. The condition of England ought to be looked at
in viewing this question. England is a
country of comparatively small area. .
is not a country certainly which entices
immigration to it. It has not an area for
extended settlement ; in fact it is more an
object of the English statesman to provide
for an exodus or emigration fron that
country. They have a comparativelY
small amount of land available. They
have, it is true, many square miles of coal
and iron, and the celebrated Hugh Miller
has made the observation that if those feW
square miles of iron and coal have done
so much for Great Britain, what willeventually so many square leagues of the sanie
material do for the United States, show1ng
how much advantage in these particular

1ihe

Industrie8 and [APRIL 14, 1885.] .Manuf'r8of Canada.

lines the United States have over Great
Britain.
We have in Great Britain a
snall area of land, and the coal and iron
areas are comparatively small.
Beyond
these materials, Great Britain has never
had the advantage of possessing the raw
material of its manufactures. They do
not grow the articles which enter into the
manufacture of textile fabrics. This is
certainly a very great drawback to the
manufacturing industries of that country,
and yet what do we find?
We find that
since Sir Robert Peel and his colleagues
adopted the free-trade policy the exports
of that country, which amounted then, if
I remember rightly, to 200,000,ooo pounds
sterling, have increased ten or eleven fold
since the adoption of the change of policy,
and that is in a country small in area, and
lot nearly so well adapted to the extension
of its trade or population. We know very
well, too, the wealth of England; it is
Simply the banking house of the world,
loaning money to all nations, with her
motto of "ships, colonies and commerce."
She could never have attained to her
present greatness only under her system
of free trade. Her commerce could never
have been developed, her ships could not
have so well maintained supremacy on all
seas, and her colonies could not have ocCupied the high position that they do today, if it had not been for the adoption of
that policy. Take the cotton industry
alone. In 1874 Great Britain imported
raw cotton to the value of £50,000,000
sterling, and exported cotton manufactures
to the value of £74,247,000 sterling, beSides supplying home requirements. In
the same year Britain imported 344,000,000 pounds of wool, and exported woolen
Itanufactures to the value of £28,000,000
sterling.

547

opinion as to the effects of a protective
tariff ; the Boston Journal of Commerce
of a recent date, in an article on the cotton mills of Oldham, England, thus refers
to the state of affairs there, and it must
be borne in mind that the Journal of
Commerce is published in a protected
country, where the effects of a high protective tariff have been experienced for
years. It says :
Much bas been said about depression in
manifacturing in England, and, no doubt, it
is true to a great extent, but when one takes
up the foreign newspapers and reads of the
large dividends paid by many of the cotton
corporations in the Oldham district, Lancashire, England, it gives rise to the query, is
all that has been said true. Statistices do not
seem to bear out the reports. Out of the
nearly ninety cotton mills in the district.
sixty of them have recently declared dividends
that are large enough to indicate a most prosperous condition of things. Two and a quarter
per cent. is the lowest dividend that we have
seen declared, and from that it rises to the
bandsome fioure of 132 per cent. These may
be some explanation for this seeming discrepancy between the statements of depression
and statistical situation. The reports of the
market for cotton mill shares, represent a
very confident feeling, and large transactions
have taken place at improved prices. Money
that can be invested in England at such an
advantage is considered much better than
would be the same in this country. The consequence is, people who can possibly obtain
the money are freely buying these securities,
which now show a disposition to make further
advances before the year is out.
This certainly reads as if it were not
biased testimony, and it shows clearly the
greater value of stocks in a free-trade country than in the highly-protected country
across our border. I mentioned the great
difficulty that Great Britain labours under
in the want of the raw material for the
manufacture of textile fabrics. When it
is considered that a country situated as

Hox. MR. PLUMB.-What was the England is must go 3,ooo miles for her
value of the wool ?
cotton, and import flour, beef, bacon and
other produce to feed her operatives, and
17ON. MR. McCLELAN.-In 1846 the after transporting those natural products
'hole foreign commerce of the Kingdom 3,ooo miles, can upon that basis pro(n1ports and exports) was no more than duce manufactured goods and send them
134,oooooo. Thirty years later it had into the rieutral markets of the world, so
grown to the enormous aggregate of £655, as almost entirely to shut out the manu000,000. The British Board of Trade factures of protected countries, I think it
returns for last year, just published, are
of must be clear to the mind of unprejudiced
Unusual interest, showing the value of ex- persons that in the practical application of
)orts and imports to have been £685, free-trade as a policy Great Britain has
145,839 sterling. But here is an American decidedly the advantage over any other

54A8

The Industris and [SENATE] .Manuf'reof Canada.

nation which has refused to follow her enlightened policy.
Some gentlemen may say that it is
owing to the low price of labor-slave
labor, as it is called-and a good deal has
been said about the protected countries of
Germany and Austro-Hungary, and how
much better situated they are in the scale
of nations than England is. I think my
hon. friend from Lunenburg referred to
Bismarck as a gentleman with great German sagacity who stood first amongst the
statesmen of the world-no not of the
world, because in that way he should be
interfering with his own leaders in Canada
-but at least foremost amongst the statesmen of Europe. Take that country,
which is very highly protected, and one
can scarcely read a European newspaper
without becoming aware of the fact that
with the introduction of a high tariff,
emigration began to flow out of Germany.
The first year after the very high duties
were imposed the emigration increased
300 per cent. It became so great that
that very sagacious German has been
casting about to discover some place to
colonize, with a viewof building up colonial
possessions such as England has been
able to acquire under the free trade
system, in order that the great German
brotherhood may be kept together as
much as possible-at least that they
should not go to America and amalgamate
with other races. Not only has this great
emigration taken place from Germany,
but other evils have sprung up such as
have been witnessed in other countriesevils which arise under the same corrupt
system, the bitterness engendered between
class and class as soon as they begin to
thoroughly understand the true condition
of things, as soon as they can remove
from their eyes the specious glamour and
humbug so industriously kept up and see
the evils which result from protectionjust as soon as the question is thoroughly
understood in those older countries, Jwe
find socialism spreading amongst the
masses. That particularly prevails in those
countries which are afflicted with a protective system.
HON MR. KAULBACH-Is that the
reason they go to the United States ?
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I now revert
to the subject of wages. It is well-known
HON. MR.

McCLELAN.

that the wages of the operatives of England have increased very much as compared with the wages of the operatives 111
Germany, Austro-Hungary and France.
That is, I think, a well known and wellrecognized fact. I read in the London
Mail of February 27th an interesting
statement made by a gentleman, a memnber of the French Parliament on that subject, in which he speaks about the difference
of hours being 56 hours in England for
operatives and 72 hours in France, and he
speaks of the great increase in wages Of
the laboring masses in England.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It shows
the great demand for labor in France.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-This is in
answer to those who say that while it is
very true that English manufacturers can
supply all the markets of the world with
her productions, although suffering under
great disadvantages, they do not do it with
that pauper labor that we so often hear
spoken of on the other side of the border.
They do not do it because their people
are ground down by poverty. The truth
is recognized by all respectable and leading political economists in the United
States-every one who writes about it ;
that is every one who is not mixed up with
party fights, but who is writing historicallY
on the subject-all admit that wages i11
England have risen very much during the
last decade, and they now compare very
favorably in their purchasing power with1
the wages paid in the United States, and
yet the British manufacturers are able to
compete with those of the United Statesnot only able to compete, but they are able
to supply them to all the foreign markets
-and the amount of manufactured goods
which the United States is able to
supply alongside of the exports of Great
Then as
Britain is a mere bagatelle
comparing France with England, France
is a larger country. France has superiorities in climate and in fertility of the sOll
in many respects. It has a very extended
sea coast bordering on the Mediterranean
as well as the Atlantic, and it has great
climatic advantages. We all know that
almost every part of France is susceptible
of high cultivation and great improvement,
and yet with all these advantages we find
a continual reign of discontent amongst

The Indu8trie8 and [APRIL 14, 1885] 3anuf'r8 of Canada. 549
the people. We find them more restive
and less settled than their neighbors across
the channel. Then we come to the
United States. The United States occu
pies a very different position from England
in many respects. The area of the country,
the variety of climate and of natural products, the capabilities of settlement and
the advantage which nature has furnished
there are something wonderful to contemPlate. I read a statement the other day
Which showed briefly the almost incomPrehensible amount of natural products in
that country. The following are some of
the figures: Cereals-Wheat, Corn, Oats,
Barley, Rye and Buckwheat, 2,698,ooo,90o bushels; Cotton (crop 1879), chiefly

republican institutions which prevail there
and which in the view of many of those
who live in the older countries of Europe
render it freer to live in, called by its
admirers the "land of the free and the
home of the brave." Possibly one of the
causes may be the facilities afforded for
immigration into and settiement in that
country. There are boundless and fertile
prairies in the west, and facilities for
reaching them; but whatever the cause
may have been they have had the benefit
of this large immigration into that country.
Now, the United States as compared with
England, has not been subjected to the
enormous strain upon it of maintaining a
standing army; they have neyer had a
In 9 Southern States, 5,737,257 bales, the standing army or the enormous expendiProduce of 14,442,ooo acres; Tobacco- ture for that. They have not been enKentucky, Virginia, &c.-638,841 acres gaged in toreign wars; they have had a
472,661,r59 pounds; Sugar-Louisi- disastrous civil war among themselves, but
arna, 218,314 hogsheads; Salt-Michigan, they have not been engaged inthoseforeign
New York, &c., 29,8oo.ooo bushels or wars which we ail know tend so much to ex.
$4,817,636; Rice-Carolina; Coal-over haust the wealth of a country, and yet
3
0oooo square miles-66,oooooo tons or with ail these advantages the nation
Gold - California, &c., has not been enabled to compete with
$73,5 24,992 ;
$36,500,000, Silver-Colorada, Nevada, Great Britain, while their unfortunate trade
&F., $42,100,0oo, total $78,600,ooo ; system has totally destroyed their comTuTber-area 56o,ooo,ooo acres-Wis- merce. Thirty years ago, as is well known,
Consin alone has 250,000,000 acres of 86 per cent. of ail the natural products of
3Uperfine timber; Land for settlement in the United States was carried under the
Western Prairies 5,000,000,000 acres. American fag, while to-day there is not
Scrne of these may be over-estimated, but over 14 or 15 percent. carried in Amercan
1 have no doubt they are as nearly correct vessels, and s0 far as supplying the neutral
s such estimates and statistics generally markets of the world is concerned, they
have
From these figures we can have care. not been able with ail the advantages
80
1e idea of the vast area and limitless they possess, with ail the immense faciliresOurces of that country. Not only that, ties and unbounded resources of their
but they have had for a long term of country, they have not been enabled to
Years the immense benefit, to which I compete with free trade England in supthink some allusion has been made by the plying the markets of the world, and hence
selior member from Halifax, of the strean it is that the factories of England are able
Of emnigration into the country without to increase the wages of the workingman
anly expenditure for it. I believe they and multiply the manufacturing industries
have had no annual expenditure to en- to an almost limitless extent. A country
co"Urage immigration as we have for that that intends to compete in foreign markets
PurPose. Possibly they have derived needs no bolstering up by protection.
5
OIde benefit from our annual expenditure, Protection gives no assistance to anything
but they have averaged nearly haîf a mil- that seeks the markets of the world out3People
a year, and sonie years have side of the country of production. That
eXceeded that. These people have be- was much better stated than I can say it
3ne most valuable additions to the
$7,9try. They have brought not only
heir labor but their money, and added John the other day.
I.oensely to the wealth of the United
HON. MR. READ-How did England
States, and this has been going on for
Years and years, possibly because of the manage before 1846?

550

The Industrie8 and [SENATE]

HON. MR. McCLELAN-They got
along very lamely. The fact that the
manufacturers themselves petitioned Parliament for a change ought to show the
hon. gentleman more than anything else
that they were not very contented.

Manuf'rs of Canada.

has been immensely hampered, and anybody who looks upon it with an unbaised
eye must feel that had it not been for this
incubus on the trade of that country the
United States would at this time have
taken the position of one of the foremost
nations of the world as a manufacturing
HON. MR. ALMON-Perhaps their country. Not only has it hampered their
petitions were got up very much in the commerce, but it has been a very serious
same way that the petitions are with which tax upon themselves. Professor Perry, of
this House has been flooded this session. Williams College, makes the suggestive,
and remarkable statement, that since 18 6 1
HON. MR. McCLELAN-They were the population of the United States has
got up in the cities of London and Edin- paid over twelve billions of dollars in the
burgh. I do not know where you can extra price of home products, not a cent
go for intelligence if you cannot get it in of which has gone into the public treasury
those two cities. The United States -more than twice the cost of the whole
manufactures less than Ath of the goods civil war. I have not any doubt about
manufactured by Great Britain. This is the correctness of that statement. That
very remarkable as showing the eflects of is the natural effect of a high protective
the two trade systems situated as these tariff the world over. It is a calculation
countries are. Including raw materials which is perhaps difficult of verification;
not protected they have not over /3 of but we know that under the unfortunate
England's and not 34rth of the products system which we have here the people are
of the United States are carried under the paying, in addition to what is necessary for
United States flag. Now the United revenue purposes, a vast amount every
States as a country in one sense furnishes year. What we pay into the revenue is
the best illustration that one can get of visible taxation, but what does not go into
free trade. It is very large in area-not the revenue no person can accurately tell.
any larger than our own country in area- But this incidence of the taxation is necesbut the country adapted for settlement sarily large. Then, referring to the effects
and rich in natural products is larger than upon different countries we may come nearer
ours. It is composed of 38 states and a home, and look at the striking effects which
number of territories, and the natural are visible all around us ofthe protective tariff
products are scattered amongst those during the six years it has been in operationt
states and territories and the interchange in Canada. The system in this country
of those products among the different has not met the expectation of anybodY
states is perfectly unrestricted. If pro- except its opponents, and once or twice or
tection is beneficial, then it should be thrice I have heard hon. gentlemen repeatextended to its utmost limits, and one ing that it has, because in the argument il'
state should be protected against another; this Chamber where hon. gentlemen are
but we find that they have perfect free nearly all upon the one side, it is remarktrade amongst themselves. In looking able how many use the same line of
at the effect which the general system has, argument - repeating over and over
so far as the United States is concerned again the same words; how often
we may look at the effect it has on the have we heard about cheese; hoW
commerce of the country, and when we often have we heard about cattle and
go there what do we find ? We find, as I sugar and about this and that. These are
said before, that their ships are driven really arguments against this policy, every
from the seas ; that they have little exter- one of them, and the speeches which are
nal commerce. Hon. gentlemen may founded on such statements as those are
speak about the flourishing condition of as good free-trade speeches as could go
the United States. A country such to the country, if they thoroughly underas that is would flourish in spite stood the question. I say here in Canada
of any trade system that might the protective system has failed to meet
be forced upon them.
It cannot the expectations of any but its opponents.
fail to flourish to a certain extent, but it It was predicted that some of the manu

ie Industries and [APRIL 14, 1885] Manuf'r8 of Canada.
facturers would become monopolists, and
prosper for a period, and that undue
cOmpetition would cause inflation and loss.
1 remember an observation which was
rfade by an hon. gentleman on the same
5
ide of the House as myself that while
those factories which were then in working
Order and some of the new ones possibly
Inight for some years make enornously
Out of the people and their stocks advance
largely, and certain manipulators might get
rich, the ultimate effect, so far as the
rnanufactures were concerned, would be
ruinl and destruction-that their money

Would be ultimately lost. That assertion
I heard frequently made, and I say the

Course of events during the past six years,
though they have been years of prosperity
has, unfortunately, verified the statement,
Very considerably. We should not take
the deposits in the savings banks to draw
Corparisons between that period and the
six years which preceded it. The former
Six years were years of depression ail over
the world; the latter six years have been
Years of general prosperity ; but yet we
have discovered that the effect of the
National Policy has been just what its
OPPonents predicted. I think the hon.
gentleman from Ottawa who is not
1
10w in his place, alluded to it in that way,
that it would create an inflation and its
usual results. The most surprising feature
l' Connection with this is that the Finance
lkinister himself, although no one in the
'ountry would suppose that he was sincere

1 imposing this protective policy on the
c.ountry except as a matter of party necesslty, advised the people of Canada to

crowd on ail sail that they were ail right
for seven years to come-to invest in these
Cotton mils when already there were more
Cotton mills than were necessary to produce what the country required or could
C.Qnsume. The effect of that has been to
tle Up a great deal of capital. Hon. genleMen may think it is a very trifling thing
1OW, and may say "more fools they
are," but they were told to put on
Irlore sail, and such advice coming from
such an authority as the Finance Minister
of Canada naturally influenced them a
geat deal, and they invested their money,
nd much of it will remain invested, I
Presume, without any very remunerative
returns. This is not only a loss to them,
but U is a general loss that so much money

551

should be taken out of circulation and
permanently lost to the country. The
senior member for Belleville spoke about
the slaughter market which existed a few
years ago-that the manufacturers in the
United States were sacrificing their goods
in the Canadian market. Then he spoke
about the cheapness of cottons here. The
Canadian market has ceased to be the
slaughter market for the manufacturers of
the United States ; but with the help of
this policy the present administration has
provided a sacrifice market for our own
manufactures. Now the very worst kind
of competition, it appears to me, in that
line, is the competition amongst the manufacturers of a country. While our people
may be getting some articles cheaper than,
they formerly could, they are losing it in
another way. Our mills are lying idle, our
operatives who have been trained in certain kinds of labor, and are thereby unfitted
for others, are turned loose on the community. I do not know to what extent
this prevails, but I hope it will not prevail
to a very great extent.
But I know that it does prevail to a
great extent in the United States in these
periods of depression. We know that thç
farmers, the bone and sinew of the country, and who are the main stay of the
nation's wealth, that those very farmers,
after they have been taxed to' build up
factories that are shut down or pooled
by arrangement, when these periodic
seasons of depression cone on after ail
the taxation that the lands of the
country have been subjected to, they
then have practically to feed those operatives, because few of them have accumulated any savings. These laborers come
to be dependent for support upon the
very class which has been compelled by
legalized enactment to contribute to the
building up of an unnecessary number
of those works. Except in a few cases,
taking the last six years as an instance, has the practical application of
protection been beneficial to those who
have chosen, and commendably so, to
voluntarily place their money in manufacturing enterprises ? The actual experiment, as some hon. gentlemen in this
Chamber know to their sorrow, seldom
pays in a new country. It is a commend.
able enterprise to build up a healthy
business-not a business that depends

552

The Industrie8 and [SENATE] .Manhif'r8 of Canada.

on the aid of the community by Act of
Parliament-but to build up a healthy
manufacturing business is a commendable
thing, and gentlemen who have been
blessed with means in this world should
always aid such undertakings as are adapted to the country and are calculated to
grow and develop according to actual
needs ; but under this system it is not so
desirable if the whole of the circumstances
are properly taken into consideration.
But the whole experiment fails to pay.
The advocacy of ,the system I think is
really all that has paid, except, as I have
detailed before, certain wealthy establishments and some that existed at the time of
the passingofthehigh protetivetariff. Some
of these industries have prospered and
stocks have risen, but the general result of
the working~of protection in Canada has not
been to add to the wealth of the country.
What has been the effect of it upon the
shipping industry? My hon. friend from
Lunenburg in his somewhat lengthened
observations of a few days ago thought
proper among other things to say that the
coasting trade of Nova Scotia was very considerably increased, and that the West
India trade of Halifax was largely increased, and he spoke generally of the
increase of trade and commerce so necessary and vital to the interests of his own
province that I was led to look into the
statement of the tonnage of vessels built
in Nova Scotia, and I found to my astonishment that there was a considerable
falling off in the amounts of tonnage
owned in Nova Scotia. In the statement
given in the report of the Department of
Marine and Fisheries I find, strange to
say, that from 1873 to 1874 almost every
year up to 1879 there was an increase in
the tonnage in Nova Scotia and an increase in New Brunswick and an increase
in the Dominion, and that every year
since 1879 shows a decrease of tonnage.
That is a rather singular fact taking so
long a period, and shows rather conclusively that the introduction of iron ships
was not alone the reason for this falling
off in the tonnage of sailing vessels. The
hon. member from Lunenburg gives
another reason and rather a peculiar reason for it ; he mentioned it three times
in his speech, that the Government of the
country had cheapened the rate for the
transport of cattle, and in that way there

had been advantages through the National
Policy of course in facilitating this export
trade. If they have in their might and in
their strength and in their wisdom, managed to reduce the freights on cattle sent
in ocean ships, then that may be one reason why there has been such a wonderful
falling off in the building of sailing
But is it true ? We have
vessels.
not heard it stated by anybody else. If
it be true that the Governiment of the
country have cheapened rates of freight
for the export of cattle, that has been a
direct blow to the shipping trade of the
country, and that may account in, part for
the very remarkable decrease from 1879
in the tonnage of ships; but there are
other reasons why the high tariff has had
an adverse effect on the shipping interest.
We know very well that our coasting trade
-that is the trade between the Maritimfle
Provinces and the American ports-has
been very much restricted. We knoW
that under the old system we could get
our flour and cornmeal and a great manY
other things from the United States as
return freight, but now a great number of
small craft employed in that trade have to
return in ballast. There are a great
many products that must of necessitY
find a market in the United States if they
are to find a market at all, and the class
of vessels employed are less remunerative,
if not very much reduced in number, by
being cut off from the return freights.
This class of trading vessels although
small form the basis for our mercantile
marine. The crews of them are at hoitne
in the winter and they sail those schooners
in the summer. They become habituated
to the sea without contracting, perhaps,
the habits of deep sea men, and they s0 o
become aspirants for higher positions and
the result is that in some comparatively
small districts it is surprising to see the
number of the population that are captains
of ships. I know in my own county there
are nearly 1oo captains of square-rigged
ships, nearly all of whom started in that
humble way. The National Policy struck
a blow at the profits of these small cOasters, because as I said before they were
limited in their return freights, and
seafaring men are discouraged from In'
vesting in new ships. Our shipPing
industry is going the same way as that Of
the United States under their policy which

The Jndstrie8 and [APRIL 14, 1885] Manuf'r8 of Canada. 553
hon. gentlemen seem so eager to follow.
There was one argument used by each of
the hon. gentlemen who have spoken in
favor of the National Policy to show that
the country is prosperous, and that is that
Money is plentiful.

They contend that

if the country is full of money, the
National Policy has had a good effect. If
Money is plentiful when times are good
and prosperous the world over-if the
Canadians have managed to get along at
ail, handicapped as they are with this
SYstem, and are able to deposit money in
the savings bank, it is claimed to be evidence that the National Policy is all that its
friends supposed it to be. Now I differ a
great deal from the hon. gentlemen as to
these savings banks deposits being taken
as proof of a surplus of laborers' earnings.
I happen to know myself of a very considerable number of persons in my own
county who have come to me for advice
about investing small sums of money. Of
Course it is a small item comparatively in
the whole, but what happens in one place
Is generally an indication of what occurs
il other parts of the country. My advice
has been asked about investing small
Sum s, and I have stated that under the
1
circumstances in which the country stood
I thought it would be better to place the
1oney in the savings than to invest it, and
rnany farmers and retired dealers have invested small sums in that way amounting
to $3,ooo, at 4%7. Some of them had
rToney already accumulated and deposited
in the chartered banks. Finding that the
rate of interest was reduced they withdrew
their money from the chartered banks and
deposited it in the savings bank. The
reason they did this is because of the
depreciation in the value of property
generally, making it inadvisable to run the
risk of any investing in real estate, and
UnIdesirable to loan money on mortgages.
Thý shrinkage in the value of farm proPerty in parts of New Brunswick has been
extraordinarily great during the last six
Years and it is a surprising thing that it has
.een so during the last six years, because
it has been a period of prosperity. I think
that shrinkage has been placed at 50 per
Cent in New Brunswick in some instances.
This is owing largely to the enormous
eregration from the country and I may
state that although the Government spent
aîf a million of dollars last year in

encouraging immigration to the NorthWest, more people left the Maritime
Provinces during that time than have
settled in the North-West. It was only
the other day I saw in the St. John Globe
an account of some 150 persons that were
going away from Kings and Annapolis
counties, Nova Scotia, and were detained
at St. John for a few days on account of
the snow blockade. They were en route
for the western states.
HON. MR. PLUMB-They were going
to a more protected country.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-They were to
be joined by three or four hundred more
who were going from the same localities.
It was contended by the supporters of the
Government that the object of the National
Policy was to keep our young men in the
country. It has failed to secure that
object, and instead of doing that it has
driven them away from the country. Once
they are cut off, and continue to be cut off
from their natural avenues of trade, it is
almost impossible for them to live contentedly in their own 'country. That is
the impression of numbers of them, and
hence they decide that if this state of
things is to continue-if they are to be
fettered and controlled in that way in their
trade relations they will leave the country,
and it is heartrending to know the numbers
of people, respectable farmers, some of
them well advanced in years, that have
had to leave the country with their large
families. I know one instance in which
a well to do farmer sold his place at a
considerable sacrifice a few years ago, for
$5,ooo and nioved away to Washington
Territory ; in other instances, the proceeds
of sales are placed in the Savings Bank, to
draw upon as necessities require.
HON. MR. PLUMB--Will the hon.
gentleman explain how it is that the population of the Dominion of Canada is constantly drifting to the United States when
the argument is that it is the protective
system of Canada that is driving them out,
although the United States, to which they
are attracted, has a higher system of protection, that has destroyed its shipping
interest and crippled its industries generally, as we are told?

554A

Matnime Court LSENATE] of Ontario Bill.

HON. MR. McCLELAN-I

suppose considering that that country could thrive

what actuates some of them in moving
from one country to another is the
same thing that induces people to leave
the land of their birth and come to Canada
to improve their condition; and I have
no doubt that some hon. gentlemen who
have taken that course have improved
their condition. But I think the question
can be answered in another way. I think
it is a very different thing leaving a
country that is just habilitating itself in
the old worn out rags of another nation,
and going to that nation when they are
about casting their rags off. It is evident
from the feeling that developed during the
recent election in the United States that
the trade policy was largely an element in
the defeat of Blaine for the Presidency;
that the growing feeling arising from the
production and publication of those treatises on political economy, emanating from
eminent and distinguished men is having
a good effect. I say that the very literature that is coming from that land of
freedom and land of free trade, Great
Britain, cannot fail to have its influence
on the trade policy of the United States,
a country which largely exceeds it in
area and resources and yet up to
this time has resisted everything whîch
tends to freedom of trade. Is it
strange that having lagged so long
after Great Britain in the effort to remove
the shackles from the black man, that it
should linger a little longer behind England
in removing the shackles from the white
man ?
In order to fully attain that condition of
liberty and brotherhood which they so
much desire, the United States must soon
discover that freedom of trade is an important factor. As I said before, free
trade influences are largely extending in
the United States, and a different state of
affairs will finally prevail in that country.
Those people of whom I have spoken as
leaving their native province include
farmers of intelligence who had lived and
grown up alongside of myself. It was

heartrending to find that they were dis-

even under that miserable Upas tree of
protection which we are trying to transplant to this more northern country, they
concluded, unwisely perhaps, to find a
home amongst that 50,000,000 of people
who are too intelligent to allow themselves
to remain fettered much longer. It being
now near 6 o'clock, I move the adjournment of the debate.
The motion was agreed to.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (75) "An Act to incorporate the
Canadian Pacific Railway Employes Relief Association." (Laid on the table).
Bill (77) "An Act to incorporate the
Hamilton, Guelph & Buffalo Railway
Company." (Mr. Plumb).
Bill (72),"An Act respecting the Ontario
& Pacific Railway Company." (Mr.Plurb)
Bill (69) "An Act respecting the
Huron & Ontario Ship Canal Company.
(Laid on the table).
Bill (62) "An Act to amend the Act to
incorporate the Bank of Winnipeg." (Mr.
Sutherland).
MARITIME COURT OF ONTARIO
BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.

The House resolved itself into a Con'
mittee of the Whole on Bill (11) "An Act
to extend the jurisdiction of the Maritiine
Court of Ontario."
In the Committee,
HON. MR. TURNER moved that the
first clause be reconsidered and amende•
The amendment was agreed to.
HON. MR. TURNER moved that the
clause be reconsidered and amended.
The amendment was agreed to.

2nd

HoN. MR. ALLAN, from the Corn-

contented and discouraged owing to the mittee, reported the Bill as amended.

condition of the affairs of the country, and
The amendments were concurred In
the restrictions thrown upon its trade and
be read
commerce. Looking at the changing cir- and it was ordered that the Bill
the third time to-morrow.
cumstances of the United States, and the
The Senate adjourned at six o'clock.
vast resources that they have there, and

St. Vincent de Paul [APRIL 15, 1885] Penitentiary.
THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Wednesday, April 15th, 1885.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
'Clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.

PUBLIC AFFAIRS OF THE
DOMINION.
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
IiON. MR. ALEXANDER rose to call
attention to the present state of the public
affairs of the Dominion, and to ask the
1overnment how they proposed to remedy
existing evils. He said : I hesitate to
80 on with this motion to-day, because of
the rebellion and outbreak in the Northwest, caused by the most reprehensible
t1 eglect and incapacity of two prominent
leaders of the Government ; but I am so
ýtrOngly impressed that our present rulers,
If they go on as they are now doing, must
ring the country to bankruptcy, that with
the permission of the House I will withdraw the motion now, but proceed with it
'o Monday next.

555

The question was the following
tem of the estimates : " St. Vincent de
Paul Penitentiary $81,721."
I could not let pass the statements
which were then made, and which were to
a great extent a repetition of the calumnious assertions made in certain newspapers
for some three or four months past, without giving them a complete denial in this
House, as I did in the press, at the time
they were published. These charges have
been made in the press at the instance of
the very men who are responsible for the
trouble this penitentiary has been laboring
under for some years past, evidently with
a view of throwing upon me, a resident of
the little town wherein this prison is situated, the odium of such an unpatriotic act.
The Hon. Mr. Blake is reported to have
said :
With reference to this Penitentiary, so far
as I can judge from the public press, the
principal criminal in it is the Warden-at
least he is under a constaut examination and
interrogation and other inquisitorial tortures.

sside.

The adiministration seems to be in a condition
of chronic disorganisation. . . . It seems

to me that this place is cursed by the quarrels
of rival politicians verv largeiy, and by the
introduction of politics into the question of
appointments, the contracts, and so forth.
It is a question between the individual
members of the Upper and Lower Chamber,
ST VINCENT DE PAUL PENITEN- who should be uppermost with respect to the
appointment and administration.

TIARY.

The Secretary of State, in answer, admits
that there is trouble, but he assures the
House that1
1ON. MR. BELLEROSE moved:
The real difficulty is outside of the Peniadds,) I
.That an humble Address be presented to tentiary rather than inside; (and . he. . has
local
*5 Excellency the Governor-General,praying am afraid some of the influence
trouble.
1s Excellency to cause to be laid before this been the cause
between
thuse a copy of al] correspondence
Had the Secretary of State stood by the
]p* e)partment of J ustice and any Member of first part of his answer, " That the diffiinvesin
tia1rhament or othersplacerelation to the
gation which took
last summer in re- culty was rather outside than inside," I
gard to the administration of the Penitentiary would have felt it my duty to remain silent
Of St. Vincent de Paul, and the difficulties in and let time shew from what part of the
the administration of the said Institution.
country came the whole cause of the
le said : I regret that I think it my trouble. But he having stated that it was
I am bound
thuto occupy the time of the House on due "to a local influence,"
sf question. The idea of giving notice to join issue with the hon. Minister and
the motion now before us was forced solemnly declare from my seat in this
iiMe by reading the report of a debate House that such is not the case, and that
'ich
took place in another place last he perfectly knows that his utterances are
t oursday. It was a discussion between not in accord with the facts. I defy him
Iembers on the Opposition side, Mr. to state positively that the influences which
13ake and Mr. Langelier, and the hon. have caused the mischief come from anysecretary of State on the Government where else but frorn Montreal and Ottawa
MOTION.

556

St. Vincent de Paul [SENATE] Penitentiary.

helped as they have been from inside the of the locality. How easy then for 'him
Penitentiary. Let him use his influence to say : " I am afraid some local influence
over his colleagues in the Cabinet to have has been the cause of the trouble." But,
a commission appointed to discover what hon. gentlemen, whatever regard the
is at the bottom of all this trouble, and I leaders of the party may have for nie,
will be ready to make good every one of I am bound to believe that after over fortY
the assertions which I am about to make years services, and let me say usefil
to-day, in answer to the statements made services to the party, I have a right to ex,
in the Commons, as well as many others pect if not favors at least justice at their
which I might bring before this hon. House hands, and that they will give me a chance
if I thought this was the proper time. But of pointing out the cause of the trouble,
this I will not do, desirous as I am to as was done some years ago, when an
injure no man, except it becomes my duty officer of the Department of Justice had
to do so to prove the innocence of others to leave his post. When these attacks
who might fall victims to the ill feeling of were made upon me in the newspapers, 1
others. A private enquiry was held last thought I should not mind them and that
summer. The commission was not alto- I ought to wait for the report of the
gether what it ought to have been to secure commission. For a time therefore I mai1nthe confidence of those who knew some- tained silence, until an article appeared il'
thing of the past history of this Peniten- a Montreal newspaper, 7he Share/wlder,
tiary, and I doubt if the two commissioners of the 13th ultimo, attacking me in the
will ever agree on a joint report. Never- most brutal manner and concluding byai
theless, knowing the ability of the hon. appeal to prejudices in the following
Minister of Justice, his devotion to these terms :institutions, and his desire to do what is " In the Reformatory days he (Mr. Belleright, I feel it my duty to say no more on rose) ran foul of the warden, Mr. Prieur,
this subject. Neither will I give names whom he persecuted to the bitter end. Then
for the present. I leave the Minister to he tried to undermine Dr. Tasse, especially
1873.
the
settle the whole case without any more after by thechange of Government in who52
assistance of his creatures,
Next
trouble and without injury to anyone.
he drilled as witnesses, he succeeded 1
The hon. Secretary of State, wishing to procuring the removal from the wardenshiP
excite ill feeling against me, thought it was ot Mr. Luchesnau. The acting warden, Mr.
the ill-natured and
the proper time to do so, when the public Mackay, did not escape Mr. Bellerose. Theuncalled for flings of
press had published almost every day for man whose cause he now so warmly espouses
some weeks past, articles representing me Mr. Laviolette, was, uitil lately, the butt for
as the cause of the troubles at our peniten- his venomous and envious remarks. At the
tiary ; articles which were inspired by the present moment all his rancour and malice
be directed against the deputY
very men who have for months past de- appear tobecause his brother Mr. Alderic
warden,
termined to ruin the present chief of this Ouimet, M.P. for Laval, has refused to sIbprison, the nominee of the hon. Minister. mit to the dictation of the noisy Senator."
Is it not somewhat extraordinary to hear
I thought the time had come when
Mr. Chapleau trying to injure me at the
ought to make some brief answer. 0n
very moment that I am working at his the 27th ot last March, I made my answer
side in defence of the gentleman he succeeded in getting appointed in preference to the first part of the article ; reserving
last part for
3 rd April
to the one I had recommended for the my reply to the last part was thethe follow
in
instant. This
situation? The reason of this conduct of
the Secretary of State is obvious. While ing words
assertiols'
Mr. Chapleau wishes to save his nominee, In answer to such calumniousReformatory
me remind you that the
Mr. Laviolette, he also has determined to let
opened at St. Vincent de Paul 1
save his associates and their friends and prison Iwas elected to represent that consticu'
1862. was
their relations, who have been working for ency in 1863. Later, in 1869, two of O'y
years past to ruin the warden. No better constituents put into my hands a very imporserious charges
tant document,
plan suggested itself to him than the one against the then containing the Reformatory,
Warden of
which he has adopted ; that of throwing gr. Prieur, and prayine that an investigatioa
upon me the responsibility of the mis- be made. They insiste that I should trals
chief done by his friends. I am a resident mit this document to the Goverument a
HON. MR. BELLEROSE.

St. Vincent de Paul [APRIL 15, 1885] Penitentiary.
eee that an enquiry was granted. I did so,
and an en uiry took place. As a result Mr.
Warden rieur was appointed a member of

557

Ottawa, 24th March, 1885.
H. B. MACKAY, Esq.,

DEAR SIR,-I find in one of our newspapers
the Board of Commissioners under the Penitentiary Act, and was replaced at the Refor- the following" The Acting-Warden, Mr. MacKay, did
uatory b Dr.Tassé, whom you assert I have
not escape the ill-natured and un-cal led for
lil-treate .
Uaving read the charge, I wrote to that flings of Mr. Bellerose."
Recalling to my mind, while reading this
gentleman in the following words:paragraph, the good words which you have
1885.
Ottawa, 25th March,
often used towards me in your letters to me,
Dr. Tasse,
before and since you left St. Vincent de Paul,
St. Laurent.
My DEAR Da.-Allow me to askyou whether I was surprised ; and I thought I might fairly
or not you ever stated that during the time ask whether or not you approve of it, and
You have remained Warden of our penal in- whether you had. given to any one occasion to
Stitutions in St. Vincent de Paul I ever tried apply them to me.
Yours truly,
tO undermine you, and oblige.
Jos. H. BELLEROSE.
Yours truly,
Jos. H. BELLEROSE.
To this letter Mr. MacKay was good
To this Dr. Tassé answered,enough to answer in the following terms" St Laurent, 26th*March, 1885.
Montreal, 26th March, 1885.
he Hon. J. H. BELLEROSE, Senator,
The Hon. J. H. BELLEROsE,
Ottawa.
The Senate, Ottawa.
SI,-I am ordered by my father, Dr. Tassé,
MY
tho is sick and very weak, to acknowledge stant DEAR SIR,-Your favor of; the 24th inreceived this morning, referring to a
!he receipt of your letter of yesterday, and to
item, namelyuliform you that he will, as soon as he will be newaperActing-Warden, Mr.
"6 e
MacKay, did
and tdo so, give you an answer in his own not escape the
ill-natured and uncalled-for
flings of Mr. Bellerose."
EmmÂ DEFoY.
In reply I have to state
p .S.-My father much regrets such stories. the first intimation 1 had ofthat your note was
any such remarks
de acknowledges the services you have ren- having been made; that I never authorized
4ered to him during the time he was at St. them in any shape or form ; and that I do not
t.incent de Paul, as Warden of both institu- approve of them.
tofs:,the Reformatory and the PenitenI am, yours faithfully,
tary.-E.D.''

Let me mention here that in 1883 the , ReorInatorv was transferred to Montreal, and
the buildings at St.Vincent used since by the
enitentiary of our Province. The Warden
the Reformatory, Dr. Tassé, also became
arden of the Penitentiary.
Ini 1875, Dr. Tassé resigned and was suceeeded by Dr. Duchesnau.
ths gentleman dismissed, in 1880, four of
e Officers of this institution. Those four
er, constituents of mine, wrote to me at
Once to Ottawa, where I was then attending
rny duties as a Senator, conplaining of the
tbitrary conduct of the Warden, and praving
at.I should lay the matter before the Ion.
Plister of Justice. This I did. The Hon.
e lister
that he could
tie tananswered was asked for. not interfere
enquiry
I conimuniSuthis answer to the four poor dismissed
cials. Th asked for an enquiry, which
r.InspectorMoylanconducted
te granted.
lovestigation, which laste for some few
re ths, and, having com pleted it, he laid his
,'rt
before the Hon. Minister of Justice,
p o aproved of it and recommended to the
ch
vyUouncil the dismissal of Warden Due8nau. This entleman was replaced by
thetigWarden . B. Mackay, who has held
Position for 17 months.
I view of the charges laid against me in
acr article above mentioned, I wrote to Mr.
aR2cay the following letter :-'

H. B. MAcKAY.

Mr. MacKay left the Wardship in the fall
of 1881, when Mr. Laviolette was appointed to
that position.
I emphatically deny that I have ever uttered
a single word against r. Laviolette. Though
he had been appointed in preference to th e
gentlemen I and others had recommended, I
knew too well what an honorable and clever
man he had always shown himself to be to
try to injure or belittle him in the least. No
one knows this better than your informant,
whom I had on more than one occasion to
advise not to excite himself against that
gentleman lest it could injure him (your
inspirer).
I said at the time of the appointment, and I
say now, that the Government were wrong in
not appointing a younger man, such as my
nominee was. Mr. Laviolette, though not an
old man, was not a young man. But the
appointment having been made, I was then,
and I am now, bound in justice and in honor
-and so is the Government-to judge this
officer by his acts and his merits as Warden;
and so I have done. I saw hin at work, I
also saw his works, and I was forced to the
conclusion that he was a hard-workin man,
that he succeeded well, that the institution
made good progress, that in the opinion of any
disinterested party it could fairly compare
with even the Kingston Penitentiary, and that

558

St. Vcent de Paul [SENATE] Penitentiary.

he had shown himself to be the proper man to
take charge of that prison at such a critical
period of its existence, when there existed
inside the walls two parties quite adverse one
to the other as shown by the reports of Mr.
Acting-Warden Mackay and of the Inspector.
Mr. Laviolette, before his appointment, had
had generally under his control some few
hundred men, which gave him valuable
experience as to the proper mode of dealing
with men.
It was comparatively easy for
him to gain the good will of his staff. This
he did, and succeeded so well that that esprit
de corps, so important to the good working of
such an institution, had already been pretty
well restored when two gentlemen, from whom
the conntry expected better, raised a cry of
vengeance against him. Froi that day things
becane worse and worse every day through
the efforts which were continually made to
throw on Warden Laviolette the responsibility
of this nefarious work with its consequences.
Such are the facts, so that if the Government desire to have justice done let them
appoint a Commission of which every member
will inspire confidence-men who will not
allow themselves to be interfered with nor
care which party will have to be pronounced
guilty, men whose conscience will have full
power over their passions. Let every member
of that Commission show his determination to
get at the bottom of ail this trouble. Then
and then only can the Governruent be satisfied
that they have done their duty. They will
be in a position to absolve the innocent and
punish the guilty party.
As to Mr. Ouiiet, M. P., no doubt I have
said enough in my first letter toshow that the
charge is nothing but a base calumny. Even
if your informant had not inspired you to write
the following words which I find in your
article:el The Minister of Justice can readily
"afford to pay no attention in future to this
"man, when improperly interfering with one
" ofthose imîportant institutions."
I have said enough to show that he (your
inspirer) has good reasons to be so uneasy as
he seems to be, as to the degree of credibility
which the Minister may attach to my assertions on charges against him. Let him be
sure that any action which I may consider it
my duty to take I will do so in daylight, and
will give him every opportunity to shew that
lie lias never worked in the dark, as many
may believe lie bas.
I hope I have fully shown that the four
or five charges I have referred to to-day
are untrue and calunnious, and that if they
can have any effect it can be no other than
that of showing what confidence can be
placed in your informant.
I remain, Sir,
Jos. H. BELLEROSE.
SENATE CHAMBER, Ottawa, March 25, 1885.
Mr. Blake is perfectly right when he

"under a constant examination and interrogation, &c." My letter to Te Shareholder, to which I have referred sheWS
that such is the case, and if I should repeat before this hon. body, every word
which a witness from Montreal, summoled

by the Commissioners to give evidence
during last summer's inquiry, related tO
me as to the evident hostility to the Warden, shown by one of the Conmissioners,
I am sure hon. gentlemen would not believe it. This witness, very well known as
an honest and trustworthy man, went
even further and assured me that havirig
had occasion a few weeks after his eVI'
dence had been written, to read it over,
he found that a whole question and an
important answer of his to the questi0l
had been omitted. But, while I ani
bound to admit the truth of Mr. Blake's
charge, I am sure he would be wrong,
by using these words: "the administrl'
tion seems to be in a condition of chronic
disorganization," he desired to conveY
the idea that the Warden had not show 3
himself to be the proper man for the situation for the time being.
Indeed, his sUc-

cess in the administration of this instittion at such a critical moment of its existence, when there were two parties inside
the walls of the institution, at the time he
entered into office, is good evidence that
the choice was a happy one, and that the
appointment was in the interest of the
public.
Mr. Blake adds:" There has been a condition of insubOrdi
nation or something approaching to espiollqe
and want of fidelity to the interests of tre
institution."
Now, hon. gentlemen, I know that there
is also much truth in that statement.
answer to an attack made upon me,
wrote in the Shareholderof the 27th Ultimlol
" Is not the one (meaning one of the co0"
spirators) who considers spying so low
party to a plot some of whose members ha
gene so far as to offer noney or favors W
officials of this verv institution at St. Vincent
de Paul if they would act as spies ? There.is
in Montreal a party who will bear me Out ish
this matter. A general inquiry will establig'
that such bas been the case. This grav

charge I make over my own signature."

Mr. Chapleau adds:« The inquiry will at least have this gooa
states that the Warden of that prison is effect, that the misunderstanding which has
HoN. MR. BELLEROSE.

S?. Vincent de Paul [APRIL 15, 1885] Penitentiary.
existed between them (the warden and the
deputy warden) will cease."
To this statement I am bound to answer
that it is no misunderstanding; it is war
against the Warden, as the last investigation
Will no doubt show, and a war far worse
than that which took place under a former
regime, when the inspector, having finished
the inquiry, reported in the following
words:4 I consider it out of question to hope that
the institution could be conducted properly or
sFuccessfully by the warden with the present
staff of officers, however com petent and
experienced they be, on account of the mutual
feelings of aversion, distrust and hostility that
eXists. In my opinion a change is unavoidable.''
Then the Secretary of State continues:
"I repeat, the warden and the deputy
Warden are quite able to fil] most efficiently
and for the benefit of the public, their respectIve duties at this establish ment."
That the warden is quite able to fulfil
his duties I have already shown, but as to
his deputy, I will say nothing more than
state here what I stated under oath
When called by the commissioners to
give evidence during the last inquiry.
I then said, that having been asked by
the brother of the present Deputy Warden
to recommend the latter for the situation,
I refused, stating that I could not take the
responsibility of favoring the appointment
Of a man whom I knew was not qualified
for the situation.
The hon. member for Megantic (Mr.
angelier) having then taken the floor,
Said:

559

answer made by the member of the other
House referred to, saying the statements were
wrong. But, judging from the tone of the
correspondence, I am inclined to believe that
the statements made in the correspondence
against the Senator in question, are pretty
well founded. The statements seem to be
supported by the report.
These remarks of the member for
Megantic are somewhat extraordinary, to
say the least. "Charges," says Mr. Langelier, " have been made against a Senator ;
this Senator has denied the charges, &c."
Having heard such a statement, no doubt,
gentlemen, every one of you remembering
the maxim, " odia sunt restiugenda," expected to hear the hon. member declaring
the charges not proven ; but no, it seems
that this was too much to expect from that
gentleman, who on the contrary, draws
the following conclusion:" Judging from the tone of the correspondence, I am inclined to believe that the
statements made against the Senator are
pretty well founded.

Now, let me show you hon. gentlemen
the tone of the two articles.
The Morning Chronide of the 3rd
March last, having related the difficulties
under which the penitentiary of St.
Vincent de Paul had been laboring for
some time, concludes as follows:l The Minerve of February 24th throws
some light upon the cause and origin of the
troubles which have existed as well in the reformatory as in the penitentiary of St. Vincent
de Paul for the last twenty years. It tells us
that the conscientious senatur Bellerose bas
been the head and front of all the unpleasantnees and difficulties, and that there will be no
I cannot speak as to the origin of the peace so long as he lives.
dficulties, but judging from something I read
To this I answered
tue other day in a paper supporting the
novernment-and no doubt the Secretary of
" The insinuation contained in these few
8
ta.te read the saine correspondence-it is due lines illustrates the honesty of the Rev.
to outside influence. That paper contained a gentleman who gave the information, but who
very fierce article against a certain member dare not make the statement over his own
of the other House. According to the state- signature. Have I not, given already through
'nent contained in that correspondence, the the press a most emphatic denial to the
cause of the trouble is this: That the appoint- charge? Have I not also challenged my
4ent of subordinates is more or less controlled accuser to furnish any proof that I have ever
.the Senator in question, and those sub- meddled with the penitentiary except to the
àrdinates, knowing they would be supported extent that I was bound to do as a representdainst the warden or deputy warden if any ative of the people, and as the mediunm
fliculty arose between thein, have become through which the people could communicate
lOsubordinate. They do not seem to be afraid with the executive, and lay their complaints
against the officials ?
of being reported to the deputy

anete powver behind the thoeis supposed

have more weight than those officers who
811uld have full and complete control over
I on y repeat what I
their sUbordinates.
ave seen in that correspondence. I saw an

The two gentlemen who 'have secretly furnished such information to the French ani
English press are known to be personally initerested in the present cases.
Thev are not
strangers to the difficulties under which the

560

St. Vincent de Paul [SENATE] Penitentiary.

St. Vincent de Paul Penitentiary bas been
and is now laboring. They believe that it is
sound policy on their part to prejudice publie
opinion before the investigation of the case is
over. Let them have their way ; they have
already profitted by so doing, but they are
not sure that they will always be equally
successful.
For my part, I have no fear of the ultimate
result. 1 prefer to await the conclusion of the
case before sayin any thing further than to
give a com plete 'denial to your char ge against
myself. The papers will yet be made public,
and it would be difficult to say what an investigation na reveal of w at is taking
place behind t e curtain. In conclusion, I
eg to say that the time has not vet come
when anyone can arrive at a fair and honest
conclusion as to the conduct of all the parties
interested in the matter."
Surely, if the tone ot these articles shows
anything, it demonstrates that the charges
are not founded, that they are calumnious
assertions, and nothing else.
It is always a very dangerous thing to
put aside old maxims and follow new
rules-rules invented for the moment, as I
iwill illustrate by the following example:
suppose I were to retort and follow the rule
which Mr. Langelier has applied in my
case, I would make known to the Senate
every one of the crimes with which some
Quebec newspapers have charged Mr.
Langelier and his associates, crimes which,
if they were proven, would deprive the
Commons of the presence of the member
for Megantic, and increase the population
of our penitentiary.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I rise to a
question of order. I think my hon. friend
is stepping beyond the rule of debate, and
is stating something which is irrelevant to
the question before the House, and reflecting on a member of the other Chamber.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I have been
quoting fron a speech made in another
place, and showing how the rule adopted
by a member there in attacking me could
be made to work against himself-

THE SPEAKER-I do not think the
hon. member from Delanaudiere is out of
order.

ness, I am much mistaken if he would consider my argument a logical one, or anything but nonsensical and stupid.
Mr. Langelier adds : "The statements
seem to be supported by the report."
Even if such were the case, it would not
strengthen the position of the hon. member
as this report carries with itself good ev
dence that it cannot be relied upon. A
portion of the press of Quebec and Montreal has severely criticized this publiC
document, which I will abstain for the
moment from qualifying in any way. But
this report does nothing of the kind. It
does not contain a single word which
could be so construed. It requires the
ingenuity of the hon. member for Megantic
to find in it a single sentence having such
a meaning.
\ The Hon, Mr. Blake concluded as
follows :" It it be true that persons outside the Pententiary are interfering with the appointments-'
it is quite easy to understand how it is per
fectly impossible to preserve discipline in thb
Penitentiary. I think the law was very wie
which prescribed, as to certain higher officers
in the penitentiary, that they should be in the
nomination of the Minister of Justice, but as
to the rank and file of the officers-if I ina5y
b term theim-the guards, etc., they shouîd
be appointed by the warden. I think it was '%
wise provision, because the warden is respo"
sible and must be responsible for the disciPline, and in order to a proper responsibility
these officers must be appointed hv hi"
Wlheu I hiad the honor of fi lling the office o
Minister of Justice, I received-as I dare saY
my predecessors and successors received'
applications to forward the interests of those
who desired to be appointed guards and those
other officers in the penitentiary. I invariabY
declined to coumuncate to the warden on the
subjest of such nominations, but I gave binl
this general instruction : the law vests in Yog
1
t
the appointment of these officers, and I sha
not, therefore, make any communication to
you as to whom you shail appoint, but I ld
you responsible that you shal appoint goO
efficient men; I do not care what their pOr
tics are-but I hold you responsible for t'eir
being good officers, and in order that you IIay
be so responsible I shall have nothing to .Y
to you as to the men whom you shall put ib.
That is the osition as I conceive that the
Minister ought to take, because if the Minister
exercises that control which if he chooses to
exercise, he can exercise, over an officer in the
position of a warden with reference to those
appointments which nominally are in the

HON. 'MR. BELLEROSE-Suppose i warden's gift, it is worse than useless to PUt
were to add that Mr. Langelier was a great theni in the warden's gitt."
criminal, that the tone of the charges made
I believe Mr. Blake is perfectly right,
against him conclusively shewed his guilti- It seems to be evident that in ordinarY

HON. MR. BELLEROSE.

St. Vincent de Paul [APRIL 15, 1885] Penitentiary.

561

circumstances with such trouble as that the chief officer of such an institution
Which exists in our penitentiary, discipline ought not to be interfered with in his manis an impossibility, but I may assure this agement of the prison. I think, with Mr.
Hlouse that through the exertions of the Blake, that the law was very wise which
Warden, helped as he was by a great ma- prescribed that the guards should be apjority of his staff who have stood by him, pointed by the Warden who has the whole
the discipline is good, as any disinterested' responsibility of the discipline of the instiIman who will make a serious inspection of tution. Justitia et pax oscuilate sunt.
this institution will say, and will express
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
his astonishment at the success of the
Chief officer under such difficult circum- Government has no objection to the
stances.
Address, but upon enquiry this morning
I am happy to be able to again con- I was informed in the Department that no
gratulate Mr. Blake on the way he dealt correspondence has taken place between
with this Penitentiary when he was at the the Department and any member of
head of the Department of Justice,a com- Parliament on the subject, as far as known,
Pliment which I paid him from my seat in up to that time. However, if there is any
this Senate at the time. But I am still such correspondence it will be brought
iore happy to be able to bear testimony down. I take occasion to say that the
to the devotion to this establishment which rule which the hon. gentleman has referred
the present Minister of Justice has shown to as having been in force when Mr. Blake
under all circumstances. If there is trou- was Minister of Justice has obtained ever
ble there, it is no fault of the Minister, since, and no influence has been used by
who has been deceived on more than one the Government with regard to the ap
occasion and who has been kept in ignor- pointment of guards or officers of the
ance of facts which ought to have been penitentiary. Those appointments are
reported to him, but which were not. As left in the hands of the wardens, for the
for myself, I emphatically deny having in very reasons that the hon. gentleman has
any way been the cause, direct or indirect, mentioned-that as the warden is held
Of any trouble or disagreement among the responsible for the discipline and manageOfficers of the prison. Neither have I ment of the penitentiary, it is felt that it
ever exercised pressure upon Warden is safer to leave to him the appointment
Laviolette to get any of my proteges ap- of the guards and other officers under his
POinted. As a matter of fact, I may add control.
that I never asked Mr. Laviolette for such
an appointment, and that Mr. Laviolette,
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-That is the
'during very nearly four years that he has idea I wish to convey, that the present
been in office, has not appointed a single Minister has always shown himself to be
One of my friends-so that in undertaking adverse to any political influence entering
the defence of that officer in the present into the appointment of officers of the
instance I cannot be accused of being in- penitentiary.
terested. I even said to the Warden, the
HON. MR. KAULBACH-With regard
very first year he entered upon his duties,
that even if I should sign ordinary recom- to the appointment of subordinates in the
Mendations which might be presented to penitentiary during the term of office of
him, he should not consider them other- the previous Minister of Justice, a letter
Wise than as mere recommendations ; that was sent to me by some person soliciting
the Warden being responsible for the good my influence with the Minister with
Vrking of the institution, no public man reference to the appointment of officers
Ought to use his influence to force the ap- in the penitentiary, and I got the same
Pointment of his friend, and that I would answer from the Minister of Justice then
never do so. But I am free to admit that that is now given ; that he had nothing at
all our politicians do not view this matter all to do with the appointments ; that the
In the same light. I even know some warden was responsible for the discipline
Who claim the right to have their support- of the prison, and for the appointment
ers appointed by the Warden. I believe and the conduct of the subordinates, and
that such a principle is wrong, and that unless he had the power to make the apL1

562

The llalifax [SENATE]

pointnents he could not be held responsible for the proper management of the
institution. I considered that I had received a fair rebuke and I was impressed
with the force of the argument used. I
am very sorry that the hon. gentleman
from Delanaudiere has brought up this
motion. We have it before us every'year,
and I think it is rather unseemly that the
Senate should be mixed up with the little
petty questions in dispute respecting the
internal economy of the penitentiary. It
is an institution that is intended to be so set
apart from the rest of the world, that there
is supposed to be no correspondence or
communication between it and the outside
public, and I think it is well that Senators
should not seem to be as familiar with the
internal arrangements of the penitentiary
as my hon. friend would appear to be. I
would advise him to keep away from it
and its officers.
The motion was agreed to.
THE HALIFAX VOLUNTEERS.
AN EXPLANATION.

HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-Before the orders of the day are called, I
desire to refer again to the question which
was put yesterday by my hon. friend from
Halifax, with reference to the disappointment which attended the arrival of the
volunteers from Montreal, on their way up
from Halifax. The volunteers who then
arrived were obliged to leave Montreal
without getting their supper, after having
fasted all day long, and my hon. friend
asked whether any information could be
given by the Government on the subject.
After the House had adjourned, I saw the
Minister of Militia and spoke to him about
it, and he telegraphed to the Manager of
the Grand Trunk Railway, and in reply
received the following despatch
Ottawa, April 14th, 1885
From MontrealNo instructions received here beyond the
order that volunteers were to be run through
to Ottawa ; we did not think it proper theretore to bring train into Montreai without
authority. Volunteers were two hours at
Richmond and an hour at St. Henri Junction
and we understood it was desired to push
theni through to Ottawa with despatch ; had
Colonel Bremner fixed any time to remain
HON. MR. KAULBACH.

Voluateers.

here we should of course bave com plied, but
it was only four o'clock when they arrived
and we had no information they desired tO
take a meal here before proceeding. I sent
Mayor and party out special to junction to
receive them.
W. WAINWRIGflT•
Although there is some misunderstanding on the part of the Grand Trunk Railway people, as to the orders which were
received from the Minister of Militia,
which were to send on the troops with
despatch, but which could hardly be construed into sending them on without
necessary food, I think the fault really lay
(although I desire to say it with hesitation)
with the officer who commanded the reglment. If he desired that his men should
take a meal in Montreal, he should have
said so distinctly and firmly, and then his
wishes would have been carried out and
the train would have been sent into Montreal, and the men would have had their
refreshments to which they were so justlY
entitled.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I should
not like to hear any censure applied tO
Colonel Bremner, as he would not be
aware of what the circumstances were at
the time. I do not desire to take up the
time of the House unnecessarily, but I
am very glad that my hon. friend front
Halifax has taken such an interest in the
volunteers from Nova Scotia. I would
like to read an article showingHON.
order.

GENTLEMEN-It is out Of

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-There is nothing before the House.

HON. MR. DICKEY-In commoIn
with many of the Maritime Province
members, and most of the nembers Of
this House I trust, I fully share the regret,
and I might almost add the indignation
which was expressed yesterday at the Unnecessary discomfort and hardship tO
which the Halifax volunteers were exposed ; at the same time I feel bound tO
say that we never contemplated for a
moment that any order which was issued
for expediting the transport of the trooPs
could possibly be intended to impiy-~
knowing as well as I do the high character
and good feeling of the Minister of Militia

The Halifax [APRIL 15, 1885] Volunteers.
-that those men were not to receive the
same comforts in the shape of food that
other passengers on the railway were
receiving. These brave fellows were on
their third night of travel in second class
cars, without any sleeping accommodation,
and the complaint is that they were kept
from the morning of Monday to the morning of Tuesday without any food. That
is a matter that would touch the feelings
of any person, and nuch more would it
do so the feelings of those who are acquainted with many of those volunteers,
and who consider that they were wronged.
I think there is some misunderstanding
about the dispatch that has just been
read, because it was well known through
the newspapers that an entertainment was
prepared for those men at Montreal, and
it was stated also in the newspapers that
the Mayor of that city went to the traffic
manager of the Grand Trunk Railway
and told him so, and stated in a dispatch
that he was sent out to meet them; yet they
were not allowed time, because as stated
in that telegram they threw the blame on
the Minister of Militia and said that
their orders were not to delay the troops,
but to send them on immediately. So that
the traffic manager had the information
that those men required the food that was
there for them, and that may possibly
account for any want of action on the part
of Colonel Bremner along the road-that
he expected food for his men at Montreal,
because he knew it was there for them. I
Onlv desire to state further, because I do
not want to impute blame to the Government, that out of the 360 men who comPose that battalion, 75, I understand, were
reserve men ; that these were veterans of
Zululand and Afghanistan and other
Places, where they showed the kind of
Metal they were made of, and I am glad to
be able to state it because it will be an
assurance to the House that when those
men come to the front and are called upon
to act-as I hope and trust they never may
be called upon to act-the element which
is infused into the various companies of
this battalion by the addition of the reserve
Men, will show the metal they are made of,
and if called upon to meet the enemy they
Will do their duty. I arn very glad to
receive the assurance, which I was quite
Prepared to hear, that as far as the Goverrinent is concerned, they had no wish

6

that those men should be kept on the line
without food. It would have been inhuman to expect that they should have
been so kept, and I think some explanation should be called for from the managers
of the Grand Trunk Railway as to the
harsh and inhuman treatment to which
those men were subjected.
HON. MR. READ-I think that the
explanation given in the telegram is not a
very correct one. It is evident that the
men were to be pushed on, but in the
explanation given by the telegram they
were allowed to remain two hours at
Richmond and an hour at St. Henri. If
they were to be pushed on, it does not
show that the railway managers acted according to orders, when they were delayed
such a time at those places.
HON. MR. HOWLAN - And there
was nothing for them to eat there either.
HON. Mr. READ-It is well known
that volunteers will put up with privations
where it is necessary, and without grumbling; but when the food is ready for them
and they are not permitted to obtain it, I
think the explanation given is a very poor
one, after a delay of two hours in one
place and one hour at another place.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
manager of the Grand Trunk Railway said
that he was ready to take them into Montreal if Col. Bremner had expressed that
desire : but the Colonel seems to have
been carried away with the impression
that the men were to be pushed through
without reference to their meals. It seems
to me that the blame is not with the
managers of the railway, but with the
Colonel of the regiment. He should have
said to the railway manager: "There is a
meal ready in Montreal for my men, and
I must go into Montreal," and if he had
done so and insisted on it, it is evident
from the telegram that the train would
have been sent into Montieal, and the
men would have had their dinners.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-But Col.
Bremner could not do that in the face of
the telegramr from the Government, that
the men were to be pushed on without
any delay.

.564A

.Mantime Court [SENATE] of Ontario Bill.
BILL INTRODUCED.

Bill (7) "An Act respecting certain Ad-

vances to the Provinces."
Campbell).

(Sir Alex.

YORK STATION, PRINCE EDWARD
ISLAND RAILWAY.
AN EXPLANATION.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--There
is one other explanation which I desire to
make before going to the orders of the
day. It is in reference to the question
put by the hon. gentleman from Prince
Edward Island (Mr. Haythorne) two or
three days ago, in regard to the Island
Railway. The hon. gentleman desired to
know why, or by whose authority, the
siding had been taken up at two points,
particularly at the point called York Station. The answer of the Department of
Railways is, that those branches or sidings
were taken up in 1877 by Mr. Mackenzie's
orders, as they were never used.

HON. MR. ALMON-Hear, hear!

I will stake my reputation that by the high
road it is seven miles from Charlottetown,
and if I am driven to the point, I may
explain how that station came to be built
there, and perhaps the hon. gentleman will
not be very proud of it when he hears the
explanation. The statement sent down
by the Department is quite incorrect as tO
the distance of York Station from the city,
and if York Station has not been a productive station so far as business is concerned, it has, at ail events, highly productive lands and fisheries around it.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That
was the point that I answered the other
day. The reason the station has been
closed is that there was not sufficient
business to warrant the Railway Department in keeping it open.

HON. MR. HAYTHORE-Is it the
intention to re-open it ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do

not know.

HON. MR. WARK-We had a systei
in New Brunswick before confederation
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Then by which family tickets were issued. They
with reference to the train service upon were numbered up to 24, which made 12
the Prince Edward Island Railway, I am trips of an adult. Two numbers were
safe in saying it is more extensive and punched out for the round trip, and if it
complete in proportion to the business was a child one was punched out. Any
-done on the road, than upon any other member of the family could use it, and
railway in Canada. To better accomo- the same system might be introduced on
date the public, a re-arrangement of the this road where the people are not able tO
arrival and departure of the trains was get return tickets.
made a year or two ago, when the press of
Charlottetown commented favorably upon
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
the change. I am also told that one suggested to the gentleman who has charge
reason why the traffic at York Station is of that part of the railway business, soie
very small is that it is only five miles to plan of that kind might be adopted if this
Charlottetown from there by the public station was not to be opened, so that those
highway, whereas it is ten miles by the who travel from York Station to Charlotterailway, and that accounts for the small- town or elsewhere may obtain the advantness of the business done at that station, ahe of a return ticket if they seek it.
and the smallness of the business led to
the doing away with the station.
MARITIME COURT OF ONTARIO
BILL.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-While the
hon. Minister of Justice has mentioned
THIRD READING.
two incidental matters referred to in my
question, he has not touched upon the
HoN. MR. TURNER moved the third
cause as to why York Station was removed. reading of Bill (11) " An Act to extend
It is an entire mistake to say that York the jurisdiction of the Maritime Court of
Station is only five miles from the city. Ontario."

Law of 1%idence, [APRIL 15, 1885] Criminal Cases, Bill. 56&
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-That 1LAW OF EVIDENCE, CRIMINAL
Bill has not been amended as it was
CASES, BILL.
understood in the committee, if the
minutes and proceedings are right.
SECOND READING.
HON. MR. POWER-I did intend
calling the attention of the Minister of
Justice to the way this Bill reads as amended
but he was too busy until now with other
things, and I had not the chance to do so,
but I call his attention to it now. The
first clause as amended reads this way :e1. The Maritime Court of Ontario shall

have jurisdiction over any claim for the
building, equipping, repairing or material
supplied for such purposes by authority of
the managing owner or any of the managing

owners, if more than one, of any ship to
which the jurisdiction of the court extends."
I do not wish to go into a minute
verbal criticism, but as we have under
taken to amend this Bill which comes up
from the House of Commons, I think our
amendments out to be such as would not
excite reasonable criticism in the other
branch of Parliament, and I think it is
quite clear that those amendments have
been so inserted as to make the clause
ungrammatical. I would suggest that my
hon. friend should move that the Bill be
re committed for the purpose of being
amended, and I think the Minister of
Justice will agree with me.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
agree with the hon. gentleman. The
amendment I suggested originally was
" with the authority of the owner of any
ship to which the jurisdiction of the Maritime Court of Ontario extends, etc."
The way it is now, makes the Bill almost
nonsense. I move that the said Bill be
not read the third time, but that it be referred back to a Committee of the whole
Hlouse for further consideration.
The motion was agreed to, and the
louse resolved itself into a Committee of
the Whole on the Bill.
In the Committee, the amendments
suggested were made.

HON. MR. POWER moved the second
reading of Bill (6)-" An Act to further
amend the Law of Evidence in Criminal.
Cases." He said-I regret that this Bill;
has not fallen into the hands of some one
who is more familiar with the law of
criminal evidence than I am. I approved
of the Bill, and when it was brought up to
this House, as no one undertook to take
charge of it I gave notice that I would
move the second reading. Since that
time another hon. gentleman has been
spoken to in connection with it, but only
a very little while since ; so I shall proceed to move the second reading of the
Bill and state as briefly as I can some of
the reasons why I think the House should
give it a second reading. As the law
stands at present while the accuser in a
criminal case, no matter of what character,.
is allowed to give evidence under oath,
the accused in cases of a serious nature is
not allowed to do so. The object of this
Bill is to remove that disability from the
accused. The first clause contains the
gist of it. It is as follows :1. Every person charged with an offence,
and the wife and husband, as the case may
be, of the person so charged, shall be a competent witness on every hearing at every stage
of such charge, and whether the person so
charged is charged or arraigned solely or
jointly with another or others.
Then the second clause of the Bill pro.
vides that while a person accused is a
competent witness he shall not be compellable to be a witness. The fifth clause
of the Bill provides that if the accused
person does not tender himself as a witness, no observation shall be allowed to
be made by the prosecutor at the trial on
that fact. That is an amendment made
to the Bill in the House of Commons.
The Bill as originally introduced in the
House of Commons, without this fifth
clause, was an exact copy of a Bill which
has passed the House of Lords in the
Imperial Parliament during the present
session.

HION. MR. ALLAN, from the Comrnittee, reported the Bill as aniended.
The amendments were concurred in
and the Bill was read the third time and
HON. MR. DICKEY-The House of
passed.
Commons.

566

Law of Evidence [SENATE]

Criminal Cases, Bill.

HON. MR. POWER-And the House if the Bill was not necessary we should
of Commons, too. I think that the not have found it introduced and passed
principle of the Bill is a very reasonable almost without any dissenting sentiment
one. At one time the object of the law in the House of Lords, in England, and
seemed to be to exclude every one from also passed by the House of Commons
giving evidence either in a civil or a crimi- there; and the member who had charge
nal case, who had a direct interest in the of this Bill in the other House, the hon.
result of the case. That law has been member from Huron, mentioned a recent
altered as regards civil matters, and it has case in which very great hardship had
been altered to a very considerable degree been caused to comparatively respectable
also with regard to criminal matters. In men by the fact that they were shut out
1878 we passed an Act here allowing the from giving evidence on their own behalf.
defendant in a case of criminal assault to It is a case with which the Minister of
give evidence in his own behalf. In i88o Justice is familiar. The accused persons
that Act was extended and the defendant were named Beamish, and they were conin a case of battery was allowed to give victed of having killed one Main.
evidence on his own behalf. Then there On the advice of the Minister of Jusare certain offences made crimes under tice the sentences of those men who
the election law, and the accused persons had been convicted were commuted tO
are allowed to give evidence on their short terms of imprisonment ; because it
own behalf. In the Bill which we was thought that the evidence given by
passed here the other day, and the prosecutors was not reliable, and it was
which has not yet become law, but felt that if the accused could have given
which I think has been passed by both evidence on their own behalf the verdict
Houses-the Explosives Act-there is a of the jury would have been the other way.
provision that the party accused shall be In a great many cases the persons accused
allowed to give evidence on his own be- are convicted on evidence which is almost
half. The House will see that in the purely circumstantial. In cases where the
case of certain minor offences the accused evidence is of that character a very simple
is allowed to give evidence, and under statement from the accused may be suffithe Explosives Act, where a man is cient to remove the unfavorable impression
accused of the most atrocious crime, he is caused by the circumstantial evidence. It
allowed to give evidence ; and there does seems that there is no good reason for
not seem to be any logical reason why the retaining this restriction, and there is a
accused in cases of ordinary misdemeanor necessity why it should be done away with,
and felony should be denied the same not an urgent necessity, but still a reasonright. It does seem that, if a man who able necessity. Another argument used
has been guilty of assault and battery, less this session than last against this Bill,
where the most serious penalty that can was that it was not the law of England.
be inflicted upon him is imprisonment in This Bill, or a Bill almost identical with it,
a gaol for a comparatively limited period, has been passed by the House of Commons
is allowed to give evidence on his own be- in England, I think twice. During the
half; surely where a man's liberty for present session, a Bill identical with this
years, or even his life may be at risk, except as to the 5th clause has been passed
there is a greater reason why he should by the House of Lords and has gone down
be allowed to testify. I omitted to state to the House of Commons, and an almost
that in England, in addition to the cases identical Bill has been passed by the Coinwe have here where the accused is allowed mons. I noticed with respect to this
to give evidence, under the Act respecting English Bill that there was, as I said before,
merchant shipping, known as the Plimsoll an almost entire unanimity of sentiment
Act, he is allowed to give evidence on his about it. When one found the liberal
own behalf. Looking at the debates Lord Chancellor and the conservative Exwhich took place in the other Chamber, I Lord Chancellor, Lord Cairns, who recently
find that the objections to this Bill are died, the late Lord Bramwell who intro
summarized under four heads. One is duced the Bill-all going together it was
that the Bill is not necessary. That I pretty gocd evidence that the measure was
think cannot be very well claimed, because a desirable one. The question has been

Law of Evidence, [APRIL 15, 1S85] Criminal Cases, Bill.
asked as to why it had not become law,if the
feeling in England was so strongly in favor
of it. The reason it has not become law
is the same as may be given for the failure
of a great many good measures to become
law in England during the last few years
-that the time of Parliament has been so
taken up with matters of a very urgent
character, and so much time has been
wasted there by obstruction of one kind
or another, that Parliament has been
obliged to allow very important and useful
m-easures to lie over. This law, or one
like it, is in force in most of the states of
the American Union, too. The only substantial objection to this Bill, and the one
which has been urged with the most
energy in the House of Commons is, that
it would lead to more perjury than takes
place at present in the courts. That may
or may not be true ; but the same argument was used against allowing the evi
-dence of the parties to be given in civil
,cases. That was looked upon before the
law was altered as being a very strong and
almost conclusive reason against allowing
parties to testify ; but, although there may
Possibly have been some increase of perjury under the new system, no one would
wish now to go back to the old system in
civil cases, where the mouths of the parties-those who knew most about the
facts-were closed. The object of a
judicial investigation is to ascertain the
'truth, and I think we are more likely to
do that by allowing the persons who know
lrost about the facts to testify; and the
People who know most about the facts, as
a rule, are the plaintiff and defendant in
Civil cases, and the prosecutor and accused
in criminal cases. The object of this Bill
is to put the accused in serious criminal
,cases in the same position as the defendant is in civil cases, and as the
accused is in minor and exceptional
Crininal cases. The other objection was
that it would introduce the French system.
The French judicial system is altogether
different ftom ours; and I do not think
there is the slightest danger that the judges
in this country would put accused persons on the sort of rack which the accused
is put upon in France at the first investigation. I do not think there is the
*slightest danger of that. There was very
little stress laid on that'by the gentlemen
who discussed the Bill in the other

567

Chamber. I have already stated that this
measure or one identical with it had passed
both Chambers in England. I find it has
passed the House of Commons of Canada
three times, or a Bill substantially the
same ; and it has failed to come here for
reasons that it might take too long to explain. In one case this Bill was embodied
in a Bill along with two or three others,
and it suffered from the unpopularity of
its companions. This year the same
thing was attempted in the other Chamber,
but the hon. gentleman who had charge
of this Bill refused to imperil his work ;
and the Bill has come up to us by itself.
Now looking at the reports of the debates
in the other House I find that this Bill
received its second reading on the 2oth
February, and that the vote in the Commons stood 55 against the second reading
and 87 in favor of it-that is a two-thirds
vote.

Then I find that on the i1th

March when the final division took place,
there were in favor of the Bill 76, and in
favor of the amendment that was moved
34; so that there was a majority of more
than two to one. I find that the Right
Hon. the Premier and the leader of the
Opposition, Sir Hector Langevin, and Mr.
Laurier, Mr. Dalton McCarthy, and Mr.
Mills all supported the Bill. I hope that,
under the circumstances, as it is not in
any way a party measure, and as it has
passed the House of Commons now three
times, and passed by a very large majority,
and as is has been adopted by both
Houses of Parliament in England, there
will be no objection to the Bill being read
the second time.
HON.
MR. KAULBACH-I must
oppose this Bill. I think it is a measure of
dangerous tendency, one which this House
from its peculiar nature should not hesitate
to take time to consider, for although in
theory it looks fair, in pratice it would
be the reverse. I do not agree with my
hon. friend that similar measures to this
have become the law in England.
HON.

MR. POWER-I never said so.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-The hon.
gentleman said a Bill almost identical
with this had passed both Houses of
Parliament, and the inference was that it
had become law, Therç is no such law

568

Law of Evidence [SENATE] Criminal Cases Bill.

in England. There are three Bills now
before the British Parliament clashing
with each other, one from the Minister of
Justice, one from an able jurist, Lord
Bramwell, and another from the Criminal
Code Revision, and they seem there not
to be agreed among themselves or in
harmony as to what the Bill should be, or
whether there should be legislation at all
of this nature. I consider this is a subject
above all others on which we can and
should hasten slowly, and wait until we
see what England's law is to be before we
attempt to introduce such a radical
measure in this country. I think we can
safely continue to follow England's guidance and precedents in criminal law,
especially in a matter of this kind. What
is necessary in England in these matters,
will suit us here. The promptings of
criminals are alike every where. My hon.
friend has referred to the Explosives Act
as a precedent for this. That was a
different measure from this in it object,
scope and nature, and the same principle
would not apply to both. In the case of
the Explosives Act, I think the party is
presumed to be guilty, and it is therefore
proper and necessary to bring him in and
permit him to explain how he came possessed of those explosive substances, and
for what use they were intended. The
law passed here the other day was of the
same character as the English Act, and
I think my hon. friend in bringing forward
that as a precedent for this legislation
showed the weakness of his case: at
least it did not constitute a strong argument
in support of his measure. My hon. friend
has show no necessity for this Bill. It is
a measure which effects all classes of the
community, and if there is any injustice
done under the existing law we would
soon hear of it. My hon. friend has
mentioned one isolated case, and I th ink he
cited it wrongly, because I do notthink that
any one of the parties was convicted of
murder.
HON. MR. POWER-I did not say
they were convicted of murder.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-My hon
friend made a mistake then, for he said
murder. In that case one was convicted
of man-slaughter. The accused was a very
old man and the Minister of Justice in his

HoN. MR. KAULBACH.

clemency commuted the sentence. My
hon. friend talked of the House of Lords
and the Commons passing such a Bill.
There is not and there never was such a
law in England, and I believe it will be
some time before we have such legislatiol
W'e should not only first see what will be
the form of the Act that England adoPts
but also what is the practical effect of it
before we undertake to legislate in this
direction. We might possibly pass a law
which on more matured consideration we
would be sorry for and which in a few
years we would be disposed to repeal or
alter, but the injury done would still exist.
My hon. friend speaks about the majoritY
bv which this Bill was passed in the other
House, but he must see that there were
only about half the members of the House
present at the time.
HON. MR. POWER-There were more
than half the members present.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-The vote
stood 55 to 87-14o altogether; that is
not much more than about half of the full
House.
HON. MR. POWER-There are 211
members altogether in the House of Conmons.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-My honfriend cannot contend that it was passed
in the full House. The law and the rules
of evidence relating to civil suits canlot
possibly be adopted and applied wholly tO
criminal cases. In the second clause Of
this Bill it shows that it cannot be based
on the same principles. You cannot applY
the same principle in crimnal cases and il
civil cases. The second clause admits
that you cannot apply the same rules alike
to criminal and civil actions. I wish you
to look at that section. It shows that you
cannot deal alike with criminal and civil
cases, because it says there that the accused
for any crime shall not nor shall the wife
or husband of accused be compelled to
give evidence in any stage of the proceedings and then singularly enough in the lat
clause it provides that no comment shal
be made-no observation shall be Made
or inference drawn from the fact that the
accused refuses to give evidence. Does
my hon. friend mean to tell me that a jury

Law of Lvidence, [APRIL 15, 1885] Criminal Cases, Bill.

569-

willnot see it and draw their own inferences? his supporters-I think it was Mr. DyIf a man has the power to go into the wit!ess box and give evidence of his
Inocence and does not do so, that fact
Will go far to persuade the jury of his guilt,
and he may be silent for the highest and
best of reasons, for which he should be
honored. Therefore instead of this
being a benefit to accused persons, or in
the interests of justice or morality, I contend

Bit

would have the opposite effect.

Our laws should be aimed at the perfectiOn of justice. Of course we cannot in
such matters arrive at perfection : laws will
4 imperfect but we should endeavor to
COmne as near perfection as we possibly
can. We should aim at perfection. I
cannot see that this Bill is an improvement
On the law as at present administered. It
certainly would not be in the direction
lIy hon. friend indicates. In this country we have a large number of justices
and judges administering criminal law, yet
no suggestion of this kind comes from
then, and the populace looking on would
s0on see whether any injustice was perpetted by defects in the law of evidence
and would petition for the remedy. I am
su.re that those who administer justice
fofm the highest to the lowest court
Would call the attention of the Minister of
Justice to any defect in the law which
WOuld prevent parties from obtaining justice, but nothing of the kind has been
tone. I think we should always be ready
tO accept a good measure, no matter from
Whom it comes; but I think we are
hstening a little too fast in this matter.
1%e eyes of the Minister of Justice must
th blind and his ears must be closed if
there is any necessity for this Bill, if the
scales of justice are not perfect, or have
1
1ot been perfectly poised, because he has
1ggested no such legislation as this.
Mthough the administration of justice is
hands
bthe of the judges, yet it is for the
kinister of Justice not only to see that
eyery facility for administering justice
is
gVen.; but that there be no palpable defect In this law of evidence.
I cannot
acase the Minister of Justice of neglect,
ý 1 cannot believe that this Bill is necesSay, but on the contrary unnecessary and
th a tendency to demoralize. I ask my
On friendto refer to what Mr. Blake, when
gnister of Justice in 1877, said when a
'11 this kind was introduced by one of
of

mond. No doubt he was inclined to look
as favorably as possible on a Bill emanating from such a source, but he declared
that it was not in the interest of justice,
that it was a dangerous thing to place in
the hands of the court. He gave his
reasons; they are very cogent, and I will
read some of them. He said "he could
conceive of some cases which had occurred
in his own experience in civil suits in
which an innocent man, owing to his nervous habits, great excitement at the time,
or unhappy mode of giving testimony,
would be placed rather at a disadvantage
than otherwise."
But it seems the hon. gentleman who
made that utterance on the floor of Parliament has changed his mind as to the
nervous habits, the effects of court excitement, or the security existing for the protection of the innocent. That it would be
wise to give him the privilege of going
into the box, but yet not to compel him
to give evidence or to go into the box.
We have not in this country a trained
magistracy. In England it is different.
There some special qualification is reqnired, and they are men of high intellect
and social standing. If a man is permitted
to give evidence and attempts to do so in
his own case, he can be cross-examined
before a magistrate, and we know from the
manner in which our magistrates are appointed, and those to whom the commission of the peace is given in this country,
that they are not always persons who are
likely to be the guardians in all cases.
alike of justice and afford proper protection to the innocent or even the accused.
I think it would be a grievous wrong to a
prisoner to permit him to give evidence in
his own case, for a prisoner is likely, the
more desperate his case is, to catch at
straws. He may think " if I swear I may
clear myself." His counsel cannot prevent him from doing so, even though he
may think that his giving evidence will result in his conviction. Then again a man
of a depraved character is almost certain
to perjure himself. I have had some 30
years' experience in prosecuting or defending in criminal courts, and I have seen
hundreds of cases disposed of, and I do
not believe that in defending or prosecuting under the existing law any injustice
has been done in any one of those cases.

.570

Law of Evidence, [SENATE] Criminal Cases, Bill.

I do not believe that in any of the cases their guilt and express their sorrow for it;
that have come before me professionally but they will live and die perjured, as well
anyone has ever been convicted wrong as guilty of the offence. It is quite eVi
fully. I ask my hon. friend this-of the dent from what Mr. Blake said in 1877'
hundreds of cases where men have been that he was not in favor of this measure
found guilty, supposing they had been then. He said on that occasion, " he
given an opportunity to give evidence in thought the existng securities for the inno'
their own behalf, would they not have cent were as powerful as and perhaps more
committed perjury ? If they had entered powerful than the protection obtained by
the box they would undoubtedly have the prisoner telling his own story." At that
done so-they would have called upon time he was opposed to this Bill, and 1
God to witness that they were not guilty cannot conceive how his opinions have
and they would have acted it out through been changed. Nothing has occurred
life regardless of consequences present or that I can see in the last seven or eight
future. I say it is dangerous to give an years to change his mind upon this ques
accused person this privilege. When a tion. Then again he said " if the accused
man commits crime and swears that he is did not offer his own evidence he would
innocent, he is guilty not only of the crime be exposed to the remark that he dare not
for which he was tried, but is a perjurer do so." At that time Mr. Blake evidently
besides; and he will never in this world saw that it was not in the interests o
at any rate confess his wrong, the crime or justice or the prisoner himself that an
the perjury. Therefore I cannot see in accused person should be allowed to gi'e
the interest of justice or in the intrest of evidence in criminal cases. Whatever
accused persons that this legislation is may be his present position he has give
wise. It is dangerous to accused persons no reasons why he should change his
and to the morals of the country. In a on this Bill
I do not want to take UP
civil suit we permit the defendant to give the time of the House with the further
evidence and we could not go back on it discussion of the subject, because I think
now. Where it is a question of fact, and every hon. gentleman must see that if there
not of law, we find sometimes, yes, often is any question on which we should hasten
to our great horror, the consequence of slowly it is this one. We should wait tO
allowing persons to give evidence in their see what the Parliament of England would
own cases. How much worse would it be do. The same impulses of nature which
if you allow a man who is guilty of a crime would influence a criminal giving evidence
to go into the witness box and give evi- in England would influence a crimlinal
dence. It would have this effect also ; in here. I see no difference between the
criminal matters the evidence must be circumstances here than there, and theresuch as is beyond a doubt. The counsel fore I think we can fairly wait until 1e
for the prosecution simply aids the Court see what the law of England will be in thU
in coming to a just conclusion. The judge matter, or whether there will be any leg8Ç
mostly always leans on the side of inno- lation of this kind at all. It may sound
cence. The presumption of the law is very well to tell a man that his mouth iS
that a man is innocent, and his guilt must shut ; but I tell you it is well for the safetl
be established beyond a doubt; and the cf the prisoner in most cases to have his
accused can make his statement to court mouth shut. The sympathy which he get1ý
and jury, but if you allow a man charged erally gets from the jury is from the fact tlit
with crime to give evidence in his own he cannot give evidence. He getssympathY
case, you will find instead of the doubt in that way that he would not otherWî.se
being in favor of the accused the jury will and which would be denied him in n'
be inclined to give a verdict according to cases out of ten if he were permitted to
the weight of evidence, which will be give evidence. He would simply convC
rather against the criminal than otherwise. himself, or his silence would be con
In addition to that I believe it will be the strued against him. Looking at it froflna
means of confirming criminals in their vi- moral point of view, and, beyond that, 1
cious habits instead of reforming them. the interests of the perfection of justiCe
They dare not come forward after having which is striven for, I cannot see how
sworn that they are innocent and confess can derive any benefit by legislation
HON. MR. KAULBACH.

Law of Evidence, [APRIL 15, 1885] Criminal Ca8es, Bill. 571
this kind. I fail to see in any way how
this Act would be beneficial. I do not
know what the views of the Minister of
J.stice are on this matter ; yet I feel certain that he cannot have a strong conviction in favor of this Bill ; otherwise, intead of having this Bill before the House
by its present mover, it would have cone
&Ofl the Minister ot Justice himself. We
should have no tampering with legislation
Of this kind. If there is such necessity
for the passage of this Bill as my hon.
ferind from Halifax seems to think there
18,I consider it is rather a reflection on
the Minister of Justice who ought to be
e guardian of the public interest in
8
uch matters.

which come under the operation of this
Act. I am speaking in the recollection of
some hon. members who' were present at
the discussions upon that Bill, and they
will remember, with myself, that the great
argument against it was that it would be
used as the entering wedge to alter the
whole law of evidence in criminal cases,
and to enable the sane principle
to be applied to serious cases, such
as murder or treason. That argument
was met in a very plausible way. It was
said " this is merely a case of assault and
battery, where a party chooses to indict
another instead of bringing a suit against
him for damages ; but the other stands on
an entirely different footing." The promoters of that Bill stated distinctly that
lON. MR. DICKEY-I wish to state their views would not carry them so far as
distinctly as I can in a few words the to agree to any Bill of the kind that is
difficulties presented to my mind, and now before us; but that in a trumpery
th y I cannot allow myself to consent to case of assault and battery it was very
h Passage of this Bill. My hon. friend hard that the mouth of the man accused
taPlaced it on two grounds. He urges should be shut. Therefore, Parliament
t4t this Bill ought to pass because of its went that far,
would
go
311alogy to the Act which was passed some any farther. but itneither not agree totwo
On
of these
eas ago to enable parties to give evidence points does the analogy hold, and my hon.
1 their own behalf in civil cases. In the friend who has introduced this Bill cer<jst place it is a very strange analogy to tainly gives the very strongest reason,
aw between a case in which a party is upon that argument, why we should not
alled upon to give evidence for or against pass this measure-because, as he says, if
Other parties in his own case in a matter it is right to allow a man under a trifling
9f disputed account, and a Bill deal- charge like assault and battery to give evi8.1g serious charges against a person dence to acquit himself, surely the arguWith
Which might subject him to long imprison- ment is much stronger when you apply it
ent, or possibly to a sentence of death. to murder and treason. That is the very
t there is another and a fundamental argument of my hon. friend to-day-just
l erence between the two cases, and it is the reverse of the argument that was used
als.*.-under the present law of evidence
to get the entering end of this wedge into
ci "an is compelled to give evidence in the criminal law, and which if followed up
i Suits against himself, but by this Bill would make a perfect revolution in the
do not allow the Crown or the law of criminal procedure. It is said that
pSing party to call upon an accused a Bill of this kind has been before the
rson to give evidence. By the second House of Commons in England, and
8 se of the Act you declare that his wife before the House of Lords, and that it has
lnot be allowed to give evidence passed each of those Houses, although it
hi,mnst the husband against the has not yet become law. I say that we
nor
t
if the wife is the person charged; have no right to treat it as law until it has
erefore the cases are not analogous at all. become law, and probably the very fact of
fie Other ground on which my hon. the Bill not being opposed arose from the
e rd bases his Bill is, I humbly submit, other fact that it was supposed there was
ua ly unfortunate. He says that the no probability of its becoming law. The
egslature has already enacted a law which hon. gentleman himself has truly stated
battes persons indicted for assault or that for the last year or two it was scarcely
.dr
"Yto give evidence for themselves, possible to get any leg!slation through the
ýaîl therefore he thinks they should be Imperial Parliament, and therefore the
Owed to do so in serious cases like those opposition to the Bill has never seriously

5T 2

Law of Evidence [SENATE] Criminal vases, Bill.

developed itself, and I do submit to the
Minister of Justice that we should, in regard to this particular measure, do as we
have done with regard to ail other Bills,
especially acts relating to crime-that we
should wait until legislation has taken
place in England, and copy our legislation
from that after we have seen how it has
operated in the mother country.
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL-Hear,

hear.
HON. MR. DICKEY--That is the safe

rule, and has always been the rule with us;
the other is a leap in the dark. There is
one other point that I wish to refer to,
and that is, by this Bill it must be admitted that you give the greatest possible
temptation to the accused to commit perjury to get himself acquitted. In other
words, you allow him to swear himself
clear of one heinous crime by committing
another heinous crime. I ask the hon.
gentleman is that a good principle of
legislation ? We should pause before
placing such an Act as this on the Statute
Book; an Act that would give rise to a
state of things such as I have referred to,
because I hold that of the many crimes
that are rampant in the country-and I
am not sure that the list has not been
added to by this law of evidence that is
spoken of-the crime of perjury is one
that should gravely attract the attention of
the Minister of Justice, and of ail persons
who look for order and good government
in the country. Yet here we are asked to
pass an Act that would put a premium on
perjury by inducing a man to relieve himself of the consequences of one crime by
committing another.
HON. MR. GOWAN-With a very large
experience in the administration of criminal justice-larger perhaps than any one
in the Dominion-I may say that I am
entirely and strongly opposed to this
measure.
HON. SIR ALEX.

CAMPBELL-Hear.

hear.
HON. MR. GOWAN-I believe that it
is a dangerous measure, and it is certainly
contrary to the spirit of the British law,
which makes ail exception in favor of the

HON. MR. DICKEY.

accused, and commands the very judge tO
be counsel for the prisoner. Many hUn'
dreds, I might almost have said thousand
of cases have been before me i the
long period of 42 years on the bench, ad
I can say-and my memory is good--tha
in no single instance did I feel there was
a failure of justice because the accuse
was not allowed to testify on his o
behalf. I am quite aware that there is
a great difference of opinion amongst the
profession, and amongst members of the
bench in England and elsewhere, and.
great deal has been written on the subject
but I speak from actual knowledge and a
long experience, and I have no hesitation
in saying that I believe it is not necessal
in the administration of justice-at ai
events I know of no single case in which 1
felt at ail disturbed because the accUse
waF not allowed to testify on his own
half. The prisoner can always, by hisi s
o)rby the mouth of his counsel, tell hs
own story and give his version of the
1
matter ; and whether that is given UP1
oath, or whether it is given by mere state
ment, I think, makes no substantial differ
ence. It will always be considered by the
jury, or if the fact-finding body be a judge
it will always be considered by the judg'
and if the statement made by the accus.
its
is such as, in its reasonableness and
character, to commend itself to the ja
ment of the court or jury it will rece'<
the attention it deserves, and will receîve
as much consideration as if it were assert
under oatb. The criminal who is charg
with a serious offence, and has committ
it, will not, in my opinion, scruple tO coo
mit the crime of perjury to escape from
If the prisoner is allowed to give evidet o
in his own behalf, cross-examina to
must be allowed, and he will have
expose the record of his life, and he the
be convicted not so much upon he
evidence that is against him as bythe
impression that is made upon the rn
of the jury that his conduct has beenble
the past such as would make it probabl
that he committed the offence In nait
cases I think that that would be the resud
if this Bill became law. The clever an
the unscrupulous rascal will haveact
difficulty whatever in framing facto'
He will see the weak points in his c A
and what is necessary to manufacture, On'
he will have no difficulty whatever

Law of Evidence [APRIL 15, 1885] Cirininal Ca8es, Bi/l. 573

hamning

fictitious facts just to suit the
'difficulty. He will not go beyond what is
'Iecessary to make his defence complete,
and he will be able to do it very skilfully
!f he is a practised criminal; but the
'MfOcent man, the unlettered man, the
ignorant man, perhaps the timid man, in
a nlew and very trying position, will be
Coffused in his evidence, and will be unable to do justice in his own cause, and
il often be condemned simply because
is evidence is not given in a direct manIer, or is told in a broken or hesitating
Way. I am satisfied that while to the
elever criminal, who is able to make out a
RoOd story, it may in some cases enable
hiii to escape, to the innocent man this
ett will be a fatal gift. There is some
dfference of opinion on this subject, I
ow, amongst Judges as well as amongst
"enMbers of the Bar ; but I feel satisfied,
oin what I know of both the Bench and
the Bar, that those who have had the
rgest experience in the administration of
%ainal matters, are opposed to such an
e4actment. Years ago, I mav say I felt
rather taken with the plausible theory that
thi been propounded so often, concerning
'8
measure ; but longer experience made
e change my view, and after I saw the
orkng of the examination of prisoners
France, I felt that any change in this
l
Irecton would be abhorrent to my feelIngs, and would be contrary to the very
'8ence of British law, the spirit of which
hresumes every man to be innocent until
iS found guilty.
Men were fairly
'rtured into statements, wearied into
8temnents that were afterwards used
kainst them, and although my hon. friend,
e senior member for Halifax, thinks it
ý4l be safe to leave it in the hands of the
idge, he must recollect that the prosecut1 counsel has something to say in the
er, and the interference of the judge
t .Ot always permitted or thought of, and
s1absurd
say
is
e otrol of thetojudge that itthe under the
when
examining
this may, according to his feelings,
as fit to push it to extremes It is not,
'n the old days when the Attorney
r eral or the Solicitor General, or one
th 0 leading men were intrusted with
eor criminal administration as far as the
ndUcting of the Crown business is coned. Now, numbers are required, and
considered in the various Provinces

necessary to distribute the business of
conducting the Crown prosecutions
amongst nien all over the country, so that
it will be by hundreds that men will be
engaged in conducting Crown prosecutions. I a-n bound to say, so far as
Ontario is concerned, that the Crown business has been well and fairly conducted,
but I have seen cases in which I thought
the Crown prosecutor was animated by a
very strong feeling-in favor of justice it
may he-but by a very ruthless feeling,
and a determination to secure if possible
a conviction, which, had the Attorney
General of the Province, or the Solicitor
General, or the Minister of Justice,
or anyone who pre-eminently felt the
responsibility of his position, been conducting the case, I believe would not have
been pressed so strongly and so vehemently, and I repeat, so ruthlessly as they
were pressed by the Crown prosecutor
who was authorised to act and did act.
To show what the general feeling in Ontario is, I will read a short article fron a
leading law publication, the Canada Law

Journal, until very recently the only law
journal in the Province. In volume 21,
page 7, the leading article is as follows:"The subject of prisoners giving evidence on
their own behalf has again come to the front.
It has been a favorite subject for theorists to
discuss. But the discussion lias not brought
out any necessity for the change. There are,
of course, plausible arguments in its favor,
but most cogent and practical ones against it.
At all events, it is eminently one of those
matters which should not be decided without
much more serious and lengthened attention
than it has yet received in this country. It
might be different if there were any evident or
persistent demand for the change, but there is
no such demand."
That is testimony which I think might
fairly be laid before the Senate, that there
is no such demand. This article was
written for the leading organ of the profession of the country, and it says there
is no such demand. The article continues:
" If a prisoner were to refuse to testify, it
would be accepted as an evidence of guilt, although there might often be circumstances
which would induce an innocent man to
refrain from explanations."

Now, upon that point I see that there is a
clause here which provides that in case an
accused person -ried before a jury, does
not tender himself as a witness, that no
observations on that fact shall be allowed.

574A

Law oj Evidence, [SEN ATE] Crhininal Ca8es, Bill.

It is all very well to enact that no observations shall be allowed, and no presumptions shall arise from it, but it is impossible
to shut out of the minds of the jury, if
they are aware, and they will be aware, as
the law will be known to every one, that a
man can tender himself as a witness, and
if he does not do so it will be erroneous to
suppose that the jury would not be influenced by that consideration. The article
I have been quoting continues:
The timid, rervous, but innocent prisoner
often would equally ensure his condemnation
by refraining to give evidence, or by giving it
in such a way, as, by his hesitation or nervous
self-contradiction, to induce a belief in his
guilt, whilst the hardened and guilty scound.
rel, who could cleverly invent and boldly
stick to a lie, would often escape. " Guiltv,"
or "not guilty " would become a question of
temperament or experience in crime. But
more than all, the crime of perjury would
flourish as it has never flourished before. It
has largely increased since litigants have
given evidence on their own behalf. How
much more when a man's liberty, or even his
life would depend upon it. Let us hasten
slowly in this matter, even if it is desirable
to go in that direction at all.
I may say that I heartily concur in every
word that is written in that article, and it
has left me free from the necessity of saying very much more, because iL is stated
there better than I could have expressed
it. Now, the first clause in this Act is
dangerous in the broad sense, and it is
dangerous from the very first. It provides
that :
Every person charged with an offence, and
the wife or husband, as the case may be, of
the person so charged, shall be a competent
witness on every hearing at every stage of
such charge.
That, is from the very first-from the
time the charge is initiated before the
magistrate until it goes to trial, shall be
competent to give evidence. Now will
any hon. gentleman in this House say that
the magistrates of the country are competent to deal with such a subject as this ?
Would they not, if they feel favorably disposed-because magistrates are human
beings and have their feelings-if they
feel favorably towards the prisoner,
be only too happy to find in his evidence something that will warrant them in
dismissing the charge ? If they feel unfriendly to him, would they not push him
with questions, and perhaps in all probabihty the prisoner may be unassisted by
HON. MR. GOWAN.

counsel, and no one is there to point ouIt
to him the danger of making statenients
which may afterwards be used to his dis
advantage. Will they not push hi"' to
give evidence, and put questions to hiîli
in their own particular way, the answe
to which may not be properly recorded i
the very words which the prisoner se
and which may be taken advantage of
against him at the trial? I think it would
be specially dangerous to commit sucit
power into the hands of the magistrates a
all. While on a recent occasion I en'
deavored to point out that magistrats
should have every reasonable protectiOn,
am very far indeed from desiring to eir
large their powers-particularly their
powers with respect to dealing with serioUs
offences. This Bill would do so, and do
it in a way that would very likely interfere
with the proper administration of justice
I can only repeat that I have had to
for the last 42 years with the administration of the criminal law-every varietY 0
charge from capital felony down to simPle
misdemeanor, and I assert positively that '
no single instance did a case occur !'
which I regretted that the prisoner
not allowed to give evidence in his
behalf. I must say that I am unwdlrn
to change the rule which has prevailed fo
ages and which is really the glory of the
British law; to torture a criminal into cO!'
victing himself would be abhorrent tO
nature. You might under this change Of
law be able to secure the conviction er
some guilty rascals whose abilities
not equal to their guilt, but you wou
also probably ensure the convictiont
innocent persons who would be unable to
bear the torture of cross-examination by
ruthless Crown officers. I do hope tho
the Minister of Justice will not be Pre
pared to support this Bili, but on t
contrary that he will use all the powersIte
his possession to reject it. If I was qu to
certain as to what is the proper course
take to move the six months hoist, I wor
do so, but I will leave it to the Minister
Justice who is the responsible 0 fficer
these matters to say what is the ProP
course totake to determine this questiond
once and avoid needless loss of time

not feel at all impressed with what
hon.friend the senior member fron
said respecting members of the C o
in large numbers supporting the

Law oj Evidence [APRIL 15, 1885] Criminal Ca8es, Bill.
hMany of these are young men like hiniself
earnest able and clever, and I would be
very sorry to be a criminal in their hands
Under cross-examination ; but I find as a
'lle amongst young men and men who
have not had a very large experience that
they are more strongly in favor of this
Change than men of large experience and
n1ore advanced in life. I was exceedingly
glad to find that my hon. friend from
b.ifnenburg, who has had a large experience
at the Bar in the administration of criminal
iTatters, is opposed to this matter.
ION. MR. POWER-How about Sir
He is not a young

ohn Macdonald?

nan.

lioN MR. GOWAN-Sir John Macdonald is not infallible. I would be very
sorry to suppose that he is different from

other human beings, and even if Sir John
Macdonald and all his followers were
'Inamfiously in favor of this Bill I would
still retain my opinion, that it is an extr'elfely dangerous measure, and I con.der my opinion is quite equal to that of
1John Macdonald or any other memr of the other House on that point,
and I do not hesitate to say that I differ
entirely fron him. It is one of the few
?nints however on which I have disagreed
!ith him, and I am sorry that we disagree
athis particular. My hon. friend from
linenburg has had considerable experiene at the Bar as a criminal lawyer, and
he entirely agrees with the views that I
Ve very feebly endeavored to express.
ir John Macdonald has not practised
for

nY years,

and I do not think that he

aever for any length of time engaged

d11 administration of criminal law. No
the
d0ubt he was a very successful man at the
har, but it was many years ago, and he
s not had the experience that I possess,
dthe hon. member from Lunenburg
oesin criminal justice, and therefore
do not think his opinion on that point as
alable as that of my hon. friend or my
I hope the Minister of Justice will
P all he can to prevent this Bill from
ssing into law.
MM. SCOTT-I am one of those
oth 0 yield very largely to the opinion of
hers, and I know there are many men
h stand very high in the profession,

575

and many distinguished judges, who believe that it is in the interest of the administration of justice that an accused
party should be examined or permitted to
make his statement. In such a matter as
this, perhaps I would not prefer following
my own independept opinion. I would
be very glad to support the Bill if I
thought men always told the truth, and if
the solemnity of the oath added to the
value of the evidence ; but I have come to

the conclusion, not a very gratifying one,
that men put in embarrissing positions,
charged with crime, are not disposed to
tell the truth if perjury is going to relieve
them from the position in which they are
placed. Of course any one who has had
much experience in the courts has seen
a good deal of perjury cases. Within the
last two weeks I was obliged to drop three
criminal cases rather than have perjury
perpetrated. I know very well that perjury would be perpetrated to escape conviction, and with the approval of the
court I suggested that the charges should
be withdrawn, and that the jury should be
allowed to bring in verdicts of not guilty.
They were cross actions for perjury,
simple cases, and I was satisfied that to
continue the prosecution would lead to
further perjury.
Both parties were
allowed to go into the box, and they were
swearng to what was diametrically opposite. Paradoxical as it may seem, after
a thorough investigation of the matter, I
came to the conclusion that the parties
who had the stronger case were really the
parties who were committing the perjury,
and that the party who had the weaker case
was the honest man.
HON. MR. POWER-My hon. friend
may possibly have been mistaken.
HON. MR. SCOTT-Possibly that
may have been the case ; but I am merely
stating what my conclusions were, and it
was on the assumption that my conclusions
were sound that I suggested to the court
that all parties should be aquitted rather
then follow up the prosecution. That is
one reason why I object to the person
accused being sworn. It would not embarrass the judge or the counsel, but it
would embarrass the jury, and I do not
see that the accused would be placed in
any better position. I do not myself un-

576

Law of Evidence [SENATE] Criminal Cases, Bill.

derstand the embarrassment of which my
hon. friend gave an illustration, because it
is notorious that the accused has an opportunity of making his own statement.
He either makes it himself or through his
counsel, just as he pleases. If it is his
interest to do so he gives his own statement, and is it to be assumed that where
a party is charged with a very serious
offence that he would give a statement
under oath different from a statement
that he would give if the oath were not
.administered ? My firm conviction is,
that the statement would be the sanie,
and it would just lead to this embarrassment: the jury probably wouldbe disposed
to believe a man who swore to what was
false when they would not believe him if
he simply stated what was false. At present the prisoner is at liberty to make a
statement either through his counsel or
personally. Furthermore, after he is convicted he is asked by the judge if there is
.any reason why the sentence of the court
should not be pronounced. Of course
any statement he may then make is valueless ; but in the first instance, before any
evidence is given at all, he has a right to
make his own statements either through
his counsel or through himself. For these
reasons, and many others which are suffi.ciently strong to satisfy me, I believe for
the present at all events I should not
support this Bill.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I am
in the same position as the hon. gentleman
who has just spoken-I find it impossible
to support this Bill. It seems to me it is
a direct encouragement to perjury. We
have all been present at criminal trials, or
most of us have been, and how many of
us have heard the statements of prisoners
which we believed ? The prisoner would
be likely to make any statement which
would tend to excuse him of the crime
with which he was charged. I think for
the most part the prisoner will swear to
anything which is likely to get him off
from the conviction hanging over him, and
I do not think we can possibly do anything
which would tend more to increase perjury
than to pass a measure of this kind, which
is really tempting a man to make a

ing to him, " perhaps the evidence is 'lot
complete or sufficiently strong to cOnvict

you, and here is an opportunity for youJ
to escape punishment ; swear that You
are not guilty ; explain away the circ-uni'
stances." You are tempting him to do
that, and I think without any prospects o
obtaining anything in the interests of ja''
tice. Why should a man be tempted to
commit the additional crime of perjUiY
when the jury and judge are there for the
simple purpose of saying whether he Is
guilty or not guilty-why tempt a mai bY
his own testimony to sway the result.?
Why offer him an inducement to coningt
perjury ? I desire to read to the House
the opinion of an old jurist who has givei'
5
great attention to this subject, who write
criminal procedure-Mr. Bishop, O
on
the Law College of Harvard.
HON. MR. GOWAN-The great authority in the United States.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLI
thnk the greatest authority in the United
He says referring to this very
States.
question :This legislation is exactly adapted to the
wants of old and practiced dissemblers ,
whose faces the thouoeht of their crimes brifle
no blushes, and t&e capacity of whose
stomachs for perjury has no bounds. Such'*
man when tried' for crime, site in Court ab

watches the testimony on both sides to the
end. Then he takes the stand, and, with it

.
invented story which will harmonize ail
some theory of innocence, he beguiles a. er
ions jury and outside public witi wbat sh
hapsinits nature impossible to be true, ti
secures, at least, a disagreement. And to
his other qualities, nature has added the bo
gift of an actor, and practice has made hie
master of the art of addressing public ase t
blies, it matters not how strong the evdei
nenee
against him, his triumph over bis "
and the " conspirator8 " is assured. A e
nocent man, untaught in any craft, of

If

has made an houest mistake, and

e

by
and honest nature, used to expressing h
only in private, presents, when entang'.
circumstances leading to suspicion, and Yte':
ed for trial before a court of jury, with
ing crowds around, a very different spectIc
Wn put upon the witness stand his n" t
overwhelmed. He says what he would D
and what ie would say lie onits. If a 1 tert

e

the exact truth, he is condemned. If
however unworthy of belief, bas sworn
statement on oath to excuse himself for the against him, he is condemned. If he st ble

crime with which he is charged. You are in his evidence, as pretty surely lie wilI
tempting hini to do wrong. You are say- where, he is condemnea. Had lie, k
HON. MR.

SCOTT.

50

Law of Evidence, [APRIL 15, 1885] Crininal Cases, Bil.

577

the perils, declined to testify, lie would be
equally condemned as a penalty for refusing
to condemn himself. If unfortunately he is
guilty, yet not an old an practised dissembler, he is condemned, while his more guilty
brother goes free. Between the Scylla and
Charvbdis, which the law presents to al] ex-Cept 'the most hardened, for wh:se escape
through perjury it specially provides, how
shall the practitioner choose ? That nmust
depend on the facts of the particular case, the
9ualities of the prisoner, the temper of the
Judge, and the bias of the jurors, not upon
general rule. The fate of this sort of legislation remains to be seen. It cannot vie with
the rack as a barbarous means of extorting
self-condemnation, nor can its invitations and
tenptations to perjury produce the convictions
of so manv innocent men as might an organization of drilled perjurors to wait as witnessee
Upon grand and petit juries. But as a means
to the acquittal, through perjury, of those
guilty persons who, for the public good, inost
nleed punishment, it has no rival.

ing it now, and risking the great evil of
giving temptation of the strongest kind
to accused persons to commit perjury.

Now, that is the language of an eminent,
if not the most eminent authority in the
United States on this very subject. Why
should we go on, in the face of learned
opinions of that kind, with a Bill which,
after all, without speaking of it disrespectfully, is a mere fad of some legal minds ?
It is not asked for. You hear the testirnony of the hon. member from Barrie,
Who has been trying prisoners for forty
Years ; he tells you that he has never
found a case where he has regretted the
Want of power to examine the defendant.
You have no representations from professional men or judges saying that they
have found difficulty in getting the truth
f0r want of this Bill. It is a mere theory
of some ingenious minds who want to
change the law-who see that there has
been some such suggestion made in
Eýngland and want to have it introduced
here without being able to show substantial grounds for it, without being able to
Show that this power of examining accused
Persons has resulted in people being conicted who ought not to have been conVited or people being acquitted who
should have been convicted. Without
anY evidence of that kind, without any
Cause for the change, without any demand
for it on the part of the judges, and with
the testimony which we have before us
against this measure, why should the law
be changed ? It can be changed next
Year, or five years hence, or ten years
ence if any reason can be shown for it ;
but no reason has been shown for changM i

rejecting it.

HON. MR. POWER-From the present
aspect of this House I do not think it
likely that this Bill will be read the second
time. I regret to be obliged to confess
after looking over the House with as dispassionate an eye as I could that that is
the conclusion to which I have come. At
the same time as no other member
wishes to say anything on behalf of
the Bill I think it is only right that
I should say a few words in reply
to some renarks which have been made.
The hon. gentleman from Lunenburg
said there was no clamour from outside
for this Bill, and I understood the Minister of Justice to urge that as a reason for
I do not think the hon.

gentleman will be able to point to any
reform of the criminal law which has been
preceded by a clamour from outside; because these reforms have been seen to be
necessary by members of the profession
who generally have not made a clamour.
They have gone to work in a quiet way
and the thing has been done. Then the
hon. gentleman from Lunenburg gave as
a very strong argument against this Bill
that the gentleman who now leads the
Opposition in the House of Commons,
when Minister of Justice, did not endorse
the Bill. That is perfectly true ; but it is
a much stronger argument that the hon.
gentleman does now endorse the Bill.
The principal reason the Minister of
Justice in 1877 gave why the Bill should
not be passed was that public opinion was
not ripe for it-that it had not been discussed or considered, and it had not been
shown that the public mind in England
had been made up on it in any way; but
now the case is different. Then the hon.
member from Amherst said there was no
analogy between civil and criminal cases.
There is I think a very great analogy. It
is simply a matter of there being more or
less interest. If in a civil case a man is
interested to the extent of $5,ooo there is
a very strong inducement for him to
swear in such a way as will benefit himself; and the inducement is just as strong
as if he was swearing himself out of the
risk of a year's imprisonment. It is a
mere matter of degree. Then the hon.

578

Temperance LSENATE] Legislation.

member from Barrie referred to his great
experience as a judge. No doubt he has
had a great deal of experience as a judgesomewhat longer experience than the hon.
member from Lunenburg has had as a
counsel in those criminal matters; and if
we had no other evidence from judges
and counsel than the evidence of those
two gentlemen it would be very conclusive
no doubt; but what are the facts ? The
facts are as stated at the beginning, that
we have Lord Selborne, the present
Lord Chancellor of England advocating this Bill and advocating it
very strongly. We have Lord Cairns, a
most distinguished and eminent lawyer
and a gentleman who was Chancellor of
England before Lord Selborne-we have
him agreeing most cordially with Lord
Selborne; we have Lord Bramwell, a
Conservative lawyer of great experience,
introducing the Bill of which this is a
transcript. When we look at those facts
alone it is enough to shake our belief in
the infallibility of the hon. member from
Lunenburg and even of the hon. gentleman from Barrie ; and then when we
look at the fact that the present Premier
of Canada and the Leader of the Opposition, and the Minister of Public Works,
the hon. member from Simcoe (who is a
very distinguished and able lawyer having
large experience), and the hon. member
from Bothwell-when all those support
the Bill, it goes to shake our faith in the
Infallibility of the gentlemen who have
spoken against this Bill here to-day. My
hon. friend from Barrie produced here the
Canadian Law Journal, and read an article from that as an almost conclusive
reason why we should not pass this Bill.
There are a number of periodicals in England which I did not quote from, but
which endorse the Bill introduced in
England.

a statement. Well, I think the general
practice is, in an examination before a
magistrate, that he does make a statement
in person, but before a jury the statement
is made on his behalf by counsel.
HON. Mr. KAULBACH-He can do
it there too.
HON. MR. POWER-I know he can,
but the practice is to make the statement
by counsel. It simply comes to this : shall
the accused person make the statement
without the solemnity of an oath, and
make it without any cross-examination, or
shall he make it under the sancity of an
oath, and in such a way that he is subject
to cross-examination by the counsel onl
the other side ? I think the latter is the
better way to elicit the truth. As I have
said already, notwithstanding that justice
and argument are rather in favor of the
Bill, I am afraid the votes would be against
it, and I shall not ask the House to divide,
but allow the Bill to be defeated on &
division.
The motion was rejected on a divisiOfl
The Senate adjourned at six o'clock.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Thursday, April 16, 1885
THE SPEAKER took the Chair at 3,

o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
TEMPERANCE LEGISLATION.
A PETITION PRESENTED.

HON. MR. ALMON-I ask, as a niatHoN. MR. GOWAN-I quoted it as
evidence of the opinion of the profession. ter of privilege, whether I may present a
petition which has been forwarded to ne.
HoN. MR. POWER-I take those I received it some time ago. It is from'
English periodicals as evidence of the the wholesale wine and liquor dealers o
opinion of the profession. I do not think Halifax; and they forwarded it to nie
my hon. friend would be willing to accept with a request that I would present it i'
the dicta of the Law Journal as indicating the Senate. However, on looking at the
the mature opinion of the profession. It petition, I found that it was directed to
has been said by the hon. gentleman from the House of Commons in Parlialent
Ottawa that an accused person now makes assembled. I thought it was a mistake,
HON. MR. POWER.

Banque [APRIL 16, 1885] du Peuple.
and that a similar one for the Senate had
been sent to members from Halifax in the
other House. On inquiry, however, I
found that they had not received it, and I
wrote to know whether it was an error, or
whether the other one had gone astray.
In reply, I am informed that it was a clerical
error, and that it was the desire of the petitioners that I should present it to the
louse. It is very numerously signed,
and as my hon. friend the senior member
from Halifax will say, is signed by men of
great influence. It differs from a number
of other petitions which have been sent to
this House in this respect-that the handWriting does not correspond as much as
the others did, and the same ink and pen
have not been used in making the signatures, but I do not think that will be considered an objection. I leave it to the
Hiouse to say whether I should, under the
circumstances, present this petition.

579ý

HON. MR. PAQUET moved the third
reading of the Bill.

HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I should
prefer to have the third reading of this Bill
postponed to another day. However, I
am ready to move an amendment to-day
if the House will allow me to do so without giving notice. I suppose there is no
objection to that. I regret that I cannot
concur with the report of the committee.
The Banque du Peuple is what may be
termed a close corporation. I believe
the number of shareholders who are members of the corporation do not amount to
They
more than fifteen or eighteen.
were incorporated in 1843, and the 2nd
clause of the charter is as follows :" And be it enacted, that the said above
namied persons, incorporated as aforesaid, and
their successors, shall have the sole management of the affairs of the said Bank, so to te
carried on by the said corporation, and shall
individually be jointly and severally liable
THE SPEAKER-I do not know that it for all the obligations and debts contracted
would be regular to present a petition to by the said corporation ; and no partners in
this House which is addressed to the commendam (coin manditaires) in the said
any
Hiouse of Commons. I think it would be corporation shall in any case, or under said
circumstances, either as regards the
an irregularity.
corporation, or as regards any member there
of, or any other parties or parties, be liable to
HON. MR. POWER-I think if my pay any sum beyond the amount of the stock
hon. friend were to suhmit the letter along for which he shall subscribe."
with it-or I think my hon. friend's
So this shows that there are only fourstatement is enough-showing that it was teen or fifteen gentlemen, who are named
a clerical error, there could be no objec- in the preamble, as members of the cortion to the presentation of the petition.
poration. Then the Act goes on to say
that the corporation may receive other
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
shareholders as silent partners, but they
certainly think it should not be presented shall have nothing to do, either by vote or
to this House if it is addressed to the otherwise, in the way of exercising any
lHouse of Commons, but I think my hon. authority whatsoever; that the members
friend would be justified in altering the of the corporation shall have the sole
address and presenting it.
administration of the affairs of the bank.
That is the Act, and no doubt every silent
17ON. MR. ALMON-I have much
did
Pleasure in presenting this petition. It shareholder who entered the company was
of what he
a
has a long preamble, but the prayer is so withandfull knowledge he would have to
believing that
that remuneration be given to those who doing
submit to this regulation. Therefore, to
have suffered in their business through the
that I believe there can be no objection ;
adoption of the Temperance Act.
but to-day, after having for over forty
years administered the affairs of the bank,
DU PEUPLE.
BANQUE
the members of that corporation, who
elect members to replace those who die
THIRD READING.
or resign, have brought the bank into such
HON. MR. ALLAN, from the Com- a condition that they are unable at the
rnittee on Banking and Commerce, re- present time to pay dividends. They called
Ported Bill (53) " An Act respecting La a general meeting of the stockholders,
both members of the corporation and
Banque du Peuple."

1580

Banque [SENATE] du Peuple.

silent shareholders, and there were repre- from it the Banque du Peuple ought tO
sented at that meeting, either by share- be able in six years to recover from the
holders in person or by proxy, i i,ooo efiects of its loss of $200,ooo.
By refusing what is here asked it will
shares. The number of shares in the company is 32,000; so that there were present compel the administration of the bank tO
about one-third of the number, who were change their course and adopt a better
unanimous in asking for an amendment system. Experience has shown that this
to the Act to reduce the capital of the system is a very bad one. The whole of
bank. It is to this amendment that I ob- the money, over $1,000,000, is in the
ject, because it is changing the position of hands of fourteen or fifteen men. True,
those who became shareholders in that they are responsible for it, but they cancompany, to such a degree that it becomes not be responsible for bad administration;
an injustice. Even if I did not know that the shareholders must lose if the bank
the active members of the corporation had sustains loss. To put into the hands Of
been lending money one to the other to thirteen or fourteen men the entire control
very large amounts, I could state this, that of this million of dollars, most of it belongit must be supposed (because it is ing to others, is a dangerous principle.
not otherwise shown, either in the While the bank is asking Parliament
preamble or elsewhere) that it is by to-day for this amendment to their charter,
bad management solely that the bank why should we not refuse it, and let theml
has been brought to its present con- come back with another Bill for the sane
dition. If that administration, over which object and including in it a provision
the great majority of the shareholders giving a vote to every shareholder ? It
have no control, has ruined the bank to was said in the committee that if that
the extent of 25 per cent. is it reasonable to change were to take place every shareholder
reduce the capital without giving to every would come under a double liability. But
one of the shareholders, even the silent the danger of that is only on paper.
shareholders, a vote, so that in future Where has there been danger to the sharethey may change the administration if it is holders of the hundred banks we have in
not good, and secure proper management this country on that account ? If there is
of the bank ? Now, if this Bill should no danger to the shareholders why not
become law, would it not be encouraging bring this bank under the same conditions
the present corporation to continue its as others ? No doubt it can be shown
course, and fifteen or twenty years hence that in some cases shareholders in banks
to come back to this House and ask that have been sued under the double-liabilitY
the silent shareholders should lose the clause, but is it the rale to make exceptional
balance of their money ? But there is legislation, or to legislate on a general prinmore than that. We have an example of ciple ? If we are to make special legislatiOn
what can be done by good management. for every institution we will be sitting here
Only four years ago the Hochelaga Bank, of every month of the year. As a matter Of
Montreal, got into difficulties, not through fact, it is well known that shareholders are
bad administration, but because the cash- seldom sued on the double liability; and
ier had robbed the bank of nearly $1oo,- in this case, no doubt, they would rather
ooo ; and that small bank was thereby be responsible for double their liabilitythan
almost ruined, but its directors did not not have a voice in the administration Of
come to Parliament to ask for a reduc- the affairs of the bank, by which they
The shareholders would have an opportunity of electing a
tion of its capital.
changed the administration, and under better board of management, as the Bank
good management, in three years the of Hochelaga has done. I do not want
$1oo,ooo was recouped. In the same to oppose the Bill, though I believe it is
way, the Hochelaga Bank, by their wrong in principle; though I believe it 's
statement, show that they have recovered unjust, and that the bank ought tO
from a loss of $2oo,ooo and are now in go on and try to work up their busisuch a good position that they will be ness, and see whether by economizing
able to pay dividends. Surely, if the they could not recoup themselves for
I arn
Hochelaga Bank has in three years suc- the money they have lost.
ceeded in recouping the $1oo,ooo stolen quite willing, in the name of the shareHON. MR.

BELLEROSE.

Banque [APRIL 16, 1885] du Peuple.

581

holders, and in my own name, to accept holders shall be required before a reduo,
this Bill, but why should Parliament on tion of the capital stock shall be asked for.
this occasion depart from the rule which
THE SPEAKER-When I said just
the Committee on Banking has followed
since Confederation, and which has been now that no notice was required I was
considered un fait accompli? What has under the impression that the hon, gentlebeen the principle of our legislation as to man from Delanaudiere simply intended
banks for the past sixteen years ? Is it to move that the Bill be referred back to
not that when a bank comes before Par Committee on some future day, so that
liament, and asks for a reduction of its in that case no notice was required.
capital, to only accede to the request
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-If the
when it is done on a two-thirds vote of
the shareholders ? In this case it has House is willing I am ready to move at
been proved before the Committee that once so as to prevent delay.
this Bill has not been asked for by more
than one-third of the shareholders-not
HON. MR. PLUMB-As I was on the
even a simple majority.
Why take this Committee when this matter came up,
occasion to depart from the principle we and as it was partly through my objection
have laid down as our guide in banking that the Bill was laid over from the last
legislation ? Is it not at once apparent that Committee until this sitting, perhaps the
there is something wrong in this Bill? I House will bear with me for a moment
am not willing as a shareholder of the while I make an explanation as to why
company, a large one, to lose my shares, this Bill is reported to the House. The
but I am a silent shareholder.
If hon. Banque du Peuple which has applied for
gentlemen will give me a chance to force a reduction of its capital stock, has asked
those men to do what is right, and to see for a reduction of 25 per. cent. on its
whether the stockholders representing the shares. By the preamble it sets forth that
32,000 shares of the bank are ready to I 1,ooo shares, represented at a general
accept this legislation, I will move that meeting of the shareholders called for that
this Bill be referred back to the Com- special purpose, agreed to apply to ParliamTittee with instructions to add the follow- ment for such a reduction. There are
ing clauses :32,000 shares of the capital stock, and on
(5). " This Act shall not come into force seeing that there was so small a proportion
before it has been submitted to a special of shareholders represented, my attention
general meeting of all the shareholders of the was drawn to the fact, and the Bill was
8aid bank, both of those shareholders who laid over for the purpose of getting some
are members of the corporation as well as explanation. The explanation is this : the
those who are only partners en commannitares, and that such shareholders represent- Banque du Peuple exists under a charter

!ng in person or by proxy at least two-thirds entirely different from that of any bank
lu value of the whole present stock of the that I know of in the Dominion. Its
said bank, at the said meeting, have approved charter is this : a certain number of persons
thereof."
-some fifteen or sixteen persons-were
chartered as a corporation; they had power
And the following as clause 6.
(6). " The meeting mentioned in the 5th of succession ; they had banking powers,
clause will be called by a notice given during
two weeks in the Canada Gazette, and in two
lewspapers in the English language, and in
two newspapers in the French language (in the
City of Montreal) during the two weeks

above mentioned. A circular will also be addressed by mail to each such shareholder at
least fifteen days before such meeting, giving
them notice of the day, hour and place of the
)rIeeting, and of the object of the meeting."
1 am only asking what every hon. member
in this House has for the last sixteen years
cofnsidered as safe and proper legislation
-that a two-thirds vote of the share.

but they were made absolutely liable in all

respects for every debt or liability of the
bank, no matter how large it may be.
There is no limited liability and those men
are unrestricted in their management of
the affairs of the coiporation. With
them are associated those persons who
chose to come in en commanditaire,
or as sleeping partners. The latter participate in the profits, but they have no
share in the liabilities of the bank, and
are not permitted to take any part in the
management of the institution, on the

582

-Banque [SENATE] du Peuple.

-

same principle as an ordinary commercial state of things, but it cannt be urged
partnership, where the silent partner takes against this Bil that the shareholders
no share in the management and does not have any right to plead the position in
become personally liable under the law of which they stand in order to prevent the
partnerships. Those silent shareholders passage of this Act. The contention Of
may lose their share capital, but they can- my hon. friend is of course one which, at
not interfere with the management of the first sight, ought to engage the attention
bank. They are there; they have accepted of this House ; but if the matter is exthe position-I do not know whether it is amined it will be seen that he stands in no
a pleasant one or not-but there is the différent position, except that he particl
law as it was when they became share- pates in the profits of the bank, than he
holders, and they have not a word to say would occupy if he were a depositor. le
with respect to the management of the can lose his stock, but he can lose no
I have no doubt that they more. If the shares are reduced by
institution.
could apply to Parliament to have this issuing a certificate for three shares
instead of four, the assets of the bank are
wot
charter changed. 0f course it could
aotreduced. He has as much moneY
be changed without the consent of those
who hold the purse strings. This bank there as he had before. He is ot made
is represented by those who apply any poorer. If one-haf the capital stock
for this amendment here, to have lost a is lost, and they reduce the capital oneportion of the capital of the institution. haf, it is merely a matter of account. If
As long as the capital stands as it is now, this bank, hike the Hochelaga Bank
they cannot pay any dividends. They makes up its shares hereafter the manage
wish to be put on a dividend paying basis, ment wisl fot get any more benefit than
and they wish to have the shares reduced the shareholders themselves, and the
so that the losses can be written off, and Hochelaga Bank did fot choose tO
stand in a position come and get their capital reduced. They
their shares will stilc
where, without violating the law, they can thought it better to conceal from the pu
go on paytng dividends. That is their lic the fact that they had lost a large
request. If it were a bank incorporated anount of money, and they went to work
under the ordinary form of charter, with toiake Ut) their capital. But this is an
the ordinary shareholders' liability, we entirely different case. The responsible
should, of course, under the rule that has management of the bankhave asked for the
always obtained in such cases, require the reduction of thercapital. Ithasbeenashow
consent of a larger portion of the share- before the committee that this application
holders than appear to have consented has been made under the authority whiCh
here. But the truth is, that the consent these gentlemen possess. if my ho
of the shareholders was not necessary at friend wishes to change his position wTh
al. They simply procured this consent the bank he cannot do it by this Bib. e
at the suggestion of some member of the is engaged in this concern ; he knows it
Other House when the Bin was before that charter. It has been in operationover
branch of the Legislature, and they got forty years, he says. It may have Made
the consent of a l the shareholders who money or lost money,.but he is there, and
he is just in the samenposition that every
swere present at the meeting.
The others who had had notice did flot man occupies who is a shareholder'; and
respond, and whether they got notice ornot he cannot change that position withot
ht does Bot make any difference. My own
original charter of the Bakt
impression is that any shareholder of the changing the
bank who would interfre in its manage- That has nothing to do with this Bill. Ie
ment, or even interfere with a Bie of this is a perfectly reasonable Bi and the f ct
kind, would under the law make himself is the consent of the shareholders wa
hiable and place himself in the position Of not required at al. It is a mere piece Of
a generally hiable person, because the law administration on the part of those WhO
piti tha every
sutintse
states that no one who stands in the posio the
te oruste
tion of a shareholder share have anythingcae
and e11
to do with the management of the bank. this bank, and have the absolute
the charter.
There they are; it may be an objectionable tire control of it under
HON.

MR. PLUMB.

Banque [APRIL 16, 1885] du Peuple.

583

HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I ask the time at which such person shall, from any
hon. gentleman whether he believes that cause whatever, have ceased to be a member
honestly lie can put the sleeping partners of the said corporation.
in a worse position than the depositors ? Now, the hon. gentleman who moved
Are the sleeping partners to be told that this resolution is not a member of this
they have nothing to say why that money corporation; he is simply one of the
should not be lost, when, as a matter of partners who is allowed to come in under
equity, the depositors are allowed to take this Act which provides that the bank
their money from the Bank before any- shall be allowed to receive partners. The
corporation is the number of persons
thing is done ?
originally chartered, and those persons
HON. MR. PLUMB-The corporators ask, in their perfect right, as the corporators
are mentioned. These corporators stand, themselves-not two-thirds of them, but

as I have said, as a body politic who are
entrusted with the funds of this bank abSolutely. They are allowed to manage the
business of the bank, and have become a
corporation. By the second section it is
enacted thatThe above named persons incorporated as

aforesaid, and their successors, shall have

the sole management of the affairs of the said
bank, so to be carried on by the said corporation, and shall individually be jointly and
Severally liable for all the obligations and debts
Contracted by the said corporation, and no partliers in commendam (commanditaires) in the
said corporation, shail in any case, or under
any circumstances, either as regards the said
corporation, or as regards any member thereof
Or any other party or parties, be liable to pay
any sum beyond the amount of the stock for
Which he shall subscribe; and if the sum
Whieh any partner in commendam (commanditaire) has agreed to furnish as stock, be paid
and lost in the business of the said bank, lie
shall be exonerated from any other payment.
and if any part be unpaid, he shall be liable
for that amount and no more, as well to said
Corporation as to the creditors thereof, and no
rtner in commendam (commanditaires) shall
liable to be called upon by the said corporation or its creditors, to refund any dividend
lie may have received of any net profits fairly
tuade during the solvency of the said corporatiOn; Provided also, that any person ceasing
tO be a member of the said corporation shall
r'Ot be liable for any debt contracted by the
said corporation after he shall have so ceased
toD a member of the same, if the public
be
hotice hereinafter required in that behaif be
given; provided further, that no person who
shall ave ceased to be a member of the said
Corporation shall be individually liable, nor
shall the heirs, executors, administrators or
asti ne of any person who shall have ceased
a member of the said corporation,
be
e individually liable for the debts contracted by the said corporation during the
ie that any such person shall have been a
Member of said corporation, unless the action

the whole of them-to have the capital
reduced.

My hon. friend stands in a

different position towards the bank.

It

may not be equitable or just, but there it is,
and it is the law. His remedy is, if he can
to get the partners in commendam to join
him, and endeavor some way or other to
get out of the position in which they are,
but I do not think they can change the
position they are in by an amendment to
this Bill.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-The hon.
gentleman has not answered my question.

I asked him whether he believes that this
Parliament has a right to make my position
worse, as a silent partner, than that of an
ordinary depositor in the bank. I have
some $15,ooo invested, and am I to be
told by this Parliament that I am in a
worse position than an ordinary depositor ?
HON. MR. PLUMB-Of course the
hon. gentleman would be in a worse position
in one way, because he is liable to lose all
his stock. He has nothing to do with the
management of the bank; but he is in a
better position in another way, because he

receives a share of the profits, if there are
any.
HON. MR. TRUDEL-I do not think
we can be indifferent to this measure. It
is perfectly fair that the Banque du Peuple
should have the benefit of this legislation,
but in the meantime I do not see why
part of the shareholders of the bank, who
own the majority of the stock, should not
have an opportunity to pronounce an

opinion upon or give their assent to this
Bill, and I do not see why the amendment

'r suit to be brought for the purpose of having of my hon. friend should be opposed. At
such individual liability judicially declared be first I thought he was opposing the
lnstituted within twel ve moaths from the principle of the

bill altogether, and I

Banque [SENATE] du Peuple.

584A

thought it was going tco far, but now the
hon. gentleman limits his action to a
simple amendment by which he says that
this Bill to reduce the capital should not
come in force until it receives the sanction of a majority of the shareholders
present at a general meeting. I have
listened with much attention to the
remarks of the hon. gentleman from
Niagara, and I think his argument is
inconsistent with his action. My hon.
friend shows that those silent shareholders
have no control or management whatever,
and that they are not members of the
corporation. It is true that the bank has
a special charter ; but are these shareholders members of the bank or are they
not ? Certainly they represent the larger
part of the capital of the bank. If it is
true that they have nothing to do with the
management it is not because they have
no interest in the matter, but because,
according to a special Act, they are
deprived of their natural share in the
management of the bank. It is a common
right which exists for all shareholders of
banks which is denied to the shareholders
of this particular bank. By what principle
should that majority of the shareholders be
deprived of the advantage of voting on the
proposed reduction of the capital ? It
seems to me that it is a question of justice.
My hon. friend says it may be unfair and
unjust and contrary to equity, but the law
is there ; that is, the hon. gentleman wants
to keep these shareholders in the inferior
position in which the law puts them.
Very well, but why change the law at all ?
What is the practical effect of granting
this legislation ? As a matter of fact, it is
to diminish the responsibility of the active
shareholders or administrators and to give
them an opportunity of making the position
of the ordinary shareholders worse than it
is now. As hon. members have learned
from the clause of the charter which has
been quoted, they are now responsible in
the same way that an endorser on a promissory note is-that for the actual debts
of the bank they may be held responsible.

HON. MR. TRUDEL-The

creditor 5

of the bank have two ways open to secure
payments. They can proceed against the
administrators or against the capital of
the bank. What does this Bill propose?
That the capital shall be reduced to paY
the debts. There has been either an
error of administration or losses have been
occasioned by the unfortunate conditiol
of trade. Upon whom are those losses·
to fall ? Upon the shareholders, and especially upon the silent shareholders, since
they are the majority. Is it not as clear
as daylight that the administrators are
improving their own position, and at the
sane time injuring the position of the
ordinary shareholders ? The hon. gentleman says, " but they are responsible to ail
unlimited extent." That is very true, but
the hon. gentleman ought to know that
this responsibility has a natural limitation-

the extent of their own means. I knoW
perfectly well, and I am ready to recOgnize here, that there is not, perhaps,
another institution in the country which
has at its head a body of administrators of
such high standing both as to character
and wealth ; but at the same time I cannot forget that in this country at least, and
perhaps everywhere, the millionaire of
to-day may be insolvent to-morrow. Ile
may lose his wealth, and instead of beinig
ample security to the public, may not be
able to pay his own debts. Looking at
this possibility, I say if the capital is'
reduced the chances of recovering frOmr'

the bank are reduced 25 per cent ; that is
perfectly clear. If the present adninis'
trators succeed in reducing the capital
sufficiently to cover the losses, they are to
that extent benefiting themselves. I do
not know much about the exact figures,.
but as far as I have heard, the amount Of
the losses is about $2oo,ooo, and it is

proposed to take that amount from the
capital. If, on the contrary, the course
proposed by my hon. friend were followed,
what would happen ? Instead of enabling
the administrators to pay dividends 011 a
reduced capital, the worst that could
happen would be to retain out of the
HON. MR. PLUMB-Who?
bank the dividends or a part of the diviHoN. MR. TRUDEL-The members dends to cover the losses and bring UP
the capital to what it was. The liabilitY
of the corporation-the administrators.
and responsibility of the administrators
HON. MR. PLUMB-But not the might be a little greater for some timle1
shareholders.
but the capital would be augmented anlHON. MR.

TRUDEL

Banque [APRIL 16, 1885] du Peuple.
the chances of the silent partner would be
Improved. Instead of having only threefourths of their capital they would keep
the whole of it. That seems to be exactly
the position in which the matter stands.
If it was proposed to deprive the Banque
du Peuple of this Bill I should be ready
to oppose the amendment, because I
think they ought to have the right to
reduce their capital. My hon. friend
does not propose to prevent them having
a change, but he says that the change
should receive the assent of a majority of
the shareholders. I do not see what is
fltair about that.
HON. MR. ALLAN-The hon. gentlewho has just sat down has advanced
a proposition which I confess rather sur
Prised me; he says that the reduction of
the capital is for the purpose of paying
the debts of the bank. I did not consider
It rny duty as chairman of the committee
tO defend the provisions of the Bill, beeause I presumed that that would be done
by the gentleman who had charge of it;
but I think the House is very much indebted to the hon. member for Niagara
for the very clear explanation which he
has given in regard to it. His attention
Was called at the time he was acting as
chairman of the Banking Committee to
the very provision of the Bill which is comPlained of, namely, that only a certain proPortion of the shareholders had voted for a
reduction of the stock, and he also was
kind enough to call my attention to it
When I took the chair of the committee ;
but upon looking at the matter and find11g how totally different the organinzation
ofthe bank was from that of other banks,
we Saw that that was not necessary ; and
not only that, but it was stated before the
ommrnitittee that not one single shareholder
ad petitioned against the Bill-that the
onlY one interested who, so far as was
own
the
]1iwas had offered any oppositionistonow
the hon. gentleman who
'oving this resolution in amendment, and
erefore, under these circumstances, the
coMittee were unanimous in recom"enlding that the Bill should be reported
Ithout amendment.

mtan

585.

it would be incorrect to say that a part of
the capital is taken to pay the debts ; but
it is true in another sense, and I will explain how. The reason why the management of the bank had to ask for a reduction of the capital was to give it a higher
market value, and it is well known that
when dividends are decided in the banks
the value of the stock in the market is
always taken into consideration. This Bill
will give the members of the administration of the bank a larger margin to declare
a dividend, which they othewise would not
declare if, instead of diminishing the capital, they should decide upon retaining it as
it is. It was in this sense that I said it
will have the effect of altering to some
extent the capital to pay it in dividends.
Then I say the investments of the silent
partners are diminished to that extent.
Of course I am not aware of the fact
whether there are petitions against the Bill
or not, but I know at least two stockholders
of the bank here who are opposed to the
Bill. I do not know how it stood before
the committee, but I know there are at
least two members here who are opposed
to it, and their protest should certainly
be taken as having as much force as a
petition coming from outside.

HON. MR. THIBEAUDEAU-Before
the debate is closed, I wish to make a few
remarks. I believe that this hon. House
ought not to be called upon to give shareholders-those we agree to call the silent
partners-the right to have a meeting to
decide this question. They have had
their meeting already.
The directors,
acting upon the advice of the House of
Commons, have issued circulars and advertisements in the papers to everyshareholder
to attend a general meeting, and the
shareholders, though they may number
32,ooo, at all events were represented by
11,ooo shares, and those gentlemen who
did not go there remained away because
they had full confidencein the management
of the directors. Of the 11,ooo shares
that were represented there, either personally or by proxy, there was not a dissentient
voice. And consequently I believe this
hon. House ought to be satisfied thatitis the
wish of the shareholders to have the capital
ON. MR. TRUDEL-I am afraid reduced. Those who were not there could
that I have been misunderstood by my have been present if they wished, and if
n. friend. Of course in a certain sense they did not attend it was because the

Banque [SENATE] du Peuple.

Z)86

directors had their full confidence. The
directors, as you are aware, hold the
charter of this corporation. It is a very
special charter by which the directors have
the whole responsibility of the institution.
They are responsible for whatever the
bank may owe its creditors.
Having to
bear such a large responsibility it is only
right that they should themselves have the
direction of the corporation, and that
direction they are perfectly decided to
keep. I believe that it would be wronging
them if this House to-day should give the
shareholders the right to control them.
HON.

MR.

PLUMB-Of course it

would.
HON. MR. THIBEAUDEAU-When
the directors are responsible for millions
they ought not to be controlled by the
shareholders who sometimes may number
a great many, but who may have an interest
of only a few hundred dollars each. I
know that this House will never consent
to give the shareholders a right that they
did not possess under the charter granted
by former Parliaments. As to the reduction of the capital, I believe we are just
playing upon words, because what does
that reduction mean ? It is simply a matter of book-keeping. The stock held now
by the shareholders is worth either par or
75 per cent., and whether this House
declares that it is worth 75 per cent or
more makes no difference if it is not
worth that. This is simply a measure
that is always accepted both by the
House of Commons and this hon. House
whenever it is asked for, and its object is
to allow banking institutions, instead of
going on for years without paying dividends to investors, to pay dividends at once;
because we know there are a great many
wdows and orphans who are dependent
upon those dividends either for their living
or their education. I believe it would be
unpatriotic to refuse to the first French
Canadian Bank of Lower Canada what
has been granted every year almost to
every other banking institution in the
country. The result of this legislation
will be to place the institution and its
stock before the public in a much better
and more favorable position. It is well
known that when one of the wealthiest
institutions of Montreal, the Merchants'

HON. MR. THIBEAUDEAU.

Bank, through certain losses and shrinkage
of business, found that their stock had declined to 6o or 70 per cent. on the market
they applied for legislation to reduce their
capital. It was granted, and the capital Was
reduced by 3303 per cent. In a feW
weeks the stock rose to 125.

Did the

shareholders lose by that? No, and the
shareholders of the Banque du Peuple
will lose nothing by this Bill. We are
called upon here to legislate in such a waY
as to give more confidence not only tO
the shareholder but to the depositors and
customers of the bank, and I do not see
why we should find some of our hon. colfreres opposing this legislation. It is leg'
islation that has never been discussed
before the public, either in the House O
Commons or here, and I do not believe
we ought in this instance to oppose the
Bill. The silent partners of the instit'tion, when they invested their money, were
very glad to get rid of their double liability and throw ten or fifteen times rnore
responsibility on the directors who were
wealthy inen and most of whom are sti
wealthy men. If the silent partners got
rid of the double liability and threw it 0n
the directors, it is only right that the direc'
tors should to-day have the management
of their own business, because they are
responsible for it. I do not believe there
should be one dissentient voice in thi9
House on this measure.
HON. MR. OGILVIE-The bank that
is spoken of has always conducted itg
affairs in the most careful and busintss.like
manner ; no management could have
been better. If their affairs have à
gone on as well as we could have desire
lately, it is no more than has occurred in
the case of a great many other institutions
in Canada during the last five or six yeas
The showing of the Banque du Peuple
has been so satisfactory and what they
is so reasonable that I cannot for the oife

of me see why there should be one w
uttered against this Bill. They should
have the measure just as they ask it W1t'out a word of opposition.
The amendment was declared lost.

HON. MR. TRUDEL-I wish to rePîY
briefly to a remark made by ny b
ftiend from Montreal. He seems to

The

Jndian of

the [APRIL 16, 1885] CanadianN.- Wet.

587

UInder the impression that the administra- made in 1871, and subsequent years, and the
tion of the bank has been criticised. The
%ipression may have been conveyed to
the House and the public by the hon.
gentleman who preceded me, but nothing
of the kind has been done. The question
IS, whether the ordinary shareholders
should be deprived of the advantage which
1s almost always given to shareholders of
Other banks; that is of deciding whether
this important change shall take place.
The Bill was then read ~the third time
and passed.
ROYAL

CANADIAN
INSURANCE
COMPANY'S BILL.
THIRD READING.

lION. MR. ALLAN, from the Select
'COmmittee on Banking and Commerce,

reported Bill (43) "An Act to authorize
the Royal Canadian Insurance Company
tO Reduce its Capital Stock, and for other
.Purposes," without amendment.
HON. MR. RYAN moved the third
teading of the Bill.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
as read the third time and passed.

BILL INTRODUCED.
Sbil() "An Act further to amend the
92
anada Temperance Act of 1878, and the
Liquor License Act of 1883." (Mr.Vidal).
E INDIANS OF THE CANADIAN
NORTH-WEST.
MOTION.

iON. MR. SCHULTZ moved:
hat an humble address be presented to His
tacellencv the Governer-General, praying
at he will cause to be laid before this House
Q les of all correspondence between the

ernment of the United States and that

na a relative to the presence of AmeriIndianis on Canadian soi]; all communint0 froni officers of the Mounted Police
a that subject, and all Orders-in-Council
eh.
partnental Instructions relating thereto,
I have not already been published in the
)l',ual Report of the Indian Branch of the
,Ortment of the Interior; also, an estimate
,,ate increase or decrease of the Indian popStn1 of the North-West, based upon the

number now paid; such information regarding the number of Indians who have adopted
agricultural pursuits not hitherto printed, and
copies of complaints (if any) from the Aborines Protection Society, the Bishops and
Clergy of the various Missionary Bodies in
the North-West, and from others, regarding
the treatment of the Indians of the NorthWest; also, an approximate estimate of the
cost of food supplies furnished to these Indians
since Treaty No. 1, n 1871.
He said: I desire to explain to hon.
gentlemen that this notice of motion was
given by me before news came of Halfbreed and Indian troubles in the NorthWest, and as no definite information has
yet been obtained as to the extent of their
sympathy with, or participation in, the
Half-breed rising on the Saskatchewan, it
would be premature and possibly illadvised to discuss the present condition
of the Indians of the North-West and
their relations with the Government till
the facts are fully known. I shall however
endeavor to recall some of the various
important changes which have occurred
in the conditions surrounding the Indians
since they were first treated with in the
fall of 1871 and to do this will take the
liberty of reading a speech which I delivered in the House of Commons in March,
1873, on a notice of motion for copies of
correspondence bearing upon certain
matters of discontent existing among the
Indians of Treaties Nos. i and 2; as illustrating the condition of the Indians before settlement had pressed hardly upon
them, and while yet the larger game and
fur-bearing animals were to be found in
comparative abundance.
As I am yet weak from recent illness, I
respectfully ask the indulgence of the
House in allowing rny friend the Hon.
Dr. McInnis to read the speech which I
refer to for me.
HON. GENTLEMEN-Hear!

hear !

" Dr. Schultz moved, seconded by Mr.

Bowell, that an humble address be presented to His Excellency the Governor
General, for copies of all correspondence
from Indians and others in the Province
of Manitoba with the Government, on the
subject of the dissatisfaction prevailing
among the Chiefs, Headmen and Indians,
treated with in Manitoba and adjacent
berS who were paid at the various treaties Territories in the year 1871.

588

Te Indians of the [SEN ATE] CanadianN.- West.

"Dr. Schultz, in moving this address,
said :"I have made this motion, Mr. Speaker,
mainly to enable me to place before this
honorable House, some facts in connection with the Indians of the North-West,
which, I trust, will be considered of sufficient importance at least to induce honor-

able gentlemen to investigate for themselves a subject, which for the first time,
has become a really important one in this
country.
" While everyone felt pleased when the
long negotiations between Canada and the
Hudson Bay Company drew to a close,
and proud of the Imperial proclamation of
1 5 th July, 1870, which added 3,000,000
square miles to the area of the Dominion;
few remembered however at the time that
this territory had a population of 38,000
Indians, whose rights by the conditions of
the transfer we were bound to recognize,
and to whose care and protection we were
firmly pledged.
" These Indians were, as yet, lords of the
soil, their rights, at least in their own
country, none disputed, and yet while
people grumbled at the one million and a
half which was paid by us to extinguish
the intangible title of the Hudson Bay
Company, and regretted that this corporation should have been allowed to retain
one-twentieth of all the land, together
with large special reserves, around their
posts, few reflected that the money paid
the Hudson Bay Company was not all
the cost, and that we must yet buy from
those who owned and possessed them, the
very lands that we were so graciously giving this company the one-twentieth of.
" Still, for better or for worse, the deed
is done, the bargain concluded, the money
paid, and the responsibilities incurred, and
Canada appreciating the future which
awaits her, has grappled with the question
of filling these newly acquired valleys with
the teeming population of the old world ;
we have projected railways over them, and
canals through them ; we have taken steps
to make *he rocks yield their rich and
varied contents, and the rivers their golden
sands. Discussion after discussion has
taken place in this House, from apparently every possible point of view in regard to
the development of this region, but I fail
to remember one single word that would
indicate the slightest consideration for
HoN. MR. SCHULTZ.

those who are now happy and content on
its hunting grounds, and to whom the
carrying out of these projects means, unless
a wise legislation interferes, graduai but
inevitable destruction. Population and
railway communication we must have, but
let us never forgetthat the cuttings of the
railroad will desecrate many an Indian
burying ground, and that the plough Of
the settlers along its line, wili pass through
many an Indian hearth, that is bright witb
fire to-day.
" At this moment there is a condition of
profound peace among the Indian tribes
north of the international boundary. 11
any part of this vast region the life Of a
white man is safe; no lodge would refuse
him its shelter, and its food would be
shared without the expectation of rewar&
They are absolute lords as yet of theif
hunting grounds ; the half-breeds, it 'O
true, are allowed to participate as a right
in common with themselves, but parties
of Englishmen and others, hunting for
pleasure, are compelled to pay a royalty
for the privilege, to those masters of the
soil. I mention the fact, sir, of the state
of peace which exists among the British
Indians because of its contrast to the state
of affairs in the Indian country of the
United States. There, the most ordinal
surveying party has to be protected by
strong detachment of troops, and a condt
tion of things exists which would seen' t
show that all faith between the contractfli
parties to treaties has passed away, ane
that the cruel strife will only end whet
the last Indian has uttered his death the
" Hon. gentlemen will admit that the
contrast is great, and I respectfully subthit
that there is no public question of theof
day more worthy of the consideratioofa
this House than the determination O g
policy which will ensure a continuance e
the peace which exists, and the avoidancC
of those Indian wars which are alan
characterized by brutal outrages,
enormous expense Allow me to citesOch
instance only, among the many ea
which have occurred in the United States.
west of the Red River, and south o the
boundary line is the country of the S.ou
Indians, corresponding to our Cree tr.
who occupy a similar geographical pasboth
tion on our side of the boundary.
tribes are about equal in numbers
are Indians of the prairie, practiced 1100e

The lndianm of the [APRIL 16, 1885] Canadian f.Ien and excellent shots. 'len years ago,
this tribe of Sioux were in as profound a
state of peace with the United States as
the Crees are now with us; but a griev.
arnce had been growing ; the conditions of
their treaties had not been carried out ;
remonstrances to their agents had been
Pigeon-holed in official desks; warnings
frOmT half-breeds and traders who knew
their language had been pooh-poohed by
the apostles of red tape, till suddenly, the
Wail of the massacre of'63 echoed through
the land. Western Minnesota was red
With the blood of the innocent, and for
hundreds of miles the prairie horizon was
up
Ut with burning dwellings, in which the
thrieks of women and children had been
%ilenced by the tomahawk of the savage.
The military power of the United States
Was of course called into requisition ; but
the movement of regular troops was slow,
While that of the Indian was like the "pestilence which stalks in darkness." Where
est expected; where farthest removed
om military interference; in the dead of
1ght they appeared, and the morning sun
re on the ghastly faces of the dead, and
the charred remains of their once happy
homes.
" Trained soldiers in the end overcame
the savage ; but not until a country as
arge as Nova Scotia had been depopulated; not until the terror had diverted
the stream of foreign immigration to more
southern fields, and not until three miliy expeditions, on three successive
Years, had traversed the Indian country,
at an expenditure to the United States
eovernment of many millions of dollars,
ad necessitated since that time the
rnaitenance of ten military posts, with
,,rITanent garrisons of three thousand

ie8t.

589

from tribe to tribe of broken faith and
unfulfilled promises ; and it is only necessary for us to determine a policy which
will be fair to them, and to convince them
that our promises will be rigidly kept, to
ensure to us a continuance of the present
state of peace which exists.
"I am perfectly well aware that an
opinion prevails throughout the older
provinces that there is no danger of difficulty with the Western Indians, because
we have had heretofore no serious difficulty with them in the present settled
portions of Canada, I know that the
fact of these Indians, American as well as
English, almost religiously preserving the
medals given to their forefathers in George
the Third's time, will be cited as a proof
of their hereditary loyalty to the crown,
and an argument against the possibility of
difficulties; and, while I am prepared to
admit that this sentiment among them
will make it less difficult to preserve
peace, still I warn honorable gentlemen
against placing too much reliance on that
which is at best but a very intangible idea
of the relations between the crown and
themselves, and that whenever they are
convinced that they have been unfairly
dealt with, or, as they themselves would
express it, "the face of 'Okemaqua,' their
great mother, has been hid from them,"
that the feeling of injustice will produce
the same results north of the 49 th parallel
as they have to the south, notwithstanding
the sentiment of loyalty to the British
Queen which undoubtedly exists. I have
cited our Cree nation in connection with
the American Sioux, because the lands of
that tribe will be first required by the
Dominion, and to draw attention to the
fact that difficulty with them would be
attended with the same apalling results,
< It needs, sir, no argmument to show the sane enormous expense as in the
at in Indian difficulties of this sort, pre- case of the war between the United States
"ention is better than cure. Americans and the Sioux.
adiit that this tribe of Sioux were
the
"In the determination of an Indian
et, When fairly treated, that the Govern- policy, sir, we have unfortunately very
dealings with, and confess little to gain from past experience. The
thent very many
that inhad had cases the complaints of circumstances under which the Indians of
te Indians were only too well founded, the older provinces were treated with are
lesso It is for us to profit by the bitter utterly different from those of the present
h lisn Indian matters which experience day. Then the advance of settlement
in
taught them. Fortunately for us, we was slow, and the Indian continued to
blYlence our relations with them in the hunt over and enjoy, in many cases for
be Possible manner; they have to us no fifty years after, the lands that he was rereditary hatreds, no traditions passing ceiving yearly payment for. The process

590

The Indians of the [SENATE] CanadianN.- We8t.

of change was so slow that he scarcely felt
it, and when he did, a change of
location to a short distance remedied the
evil. These were the days when railroads
were not, and when even colonization
roads followed instead of preceded the
settler. In our day the case is different,
and particularly so in a country where
farms are made in one year instead of the
fifteen which was once necessary in older
Canada. Now, the embers of the treaty
council fire will scarcely be cool till the
Railway Engineer is locating his line, and
two years will scarcely pass till the scream
of the locomotive will echo where buffalo
feed to-day. Here will be no gradual,
imperceptible change as with the Indians
of the older provinces ; we know that our
occupation of the Saskatchewan valley
means the disappearance of the buffalo and
other prairie animals ; we know that to the
prairie Indians these animals are more
than manna was to the wandering Israelite ;
their flesh feeds him, their skins clothe
him, and their hides form the house he
lives in. The question, then, to consider
is: What are we to give him in compensation for his hunting grounds? A railroad we must have; settlers along its line
is a natural consequence ; and the first
step toward this end must be a treaty with
the present occupants. Now, Sir, I take
it for granted that the Government have
as yet decided upon no special policy, that
they are willing, perhaps anxious, to hear
an expression of the views of this House.
It is true that two treaties-those of 1871
-have already been made, very much on
the same terms as the treaties of the last
century ; but, Sir, the papers which I
hope to have brought down by the moving
of this Address will show that these treaties have not been satisfactory to the
Indians, who, through their Head Chief
" Miskokanew," the Chiefs Les Grand
Oreilles, Yellow Quill and others, have
protested against them, and in some cases
have refused to receive the stipulated
annuity. Briefly stated, these treaties consist of the surrender of 3o,ooo,ooo acres

of land on the one side, and the payment
of an annuity of three dollars per capita,
a reserve of land equal to 16o acres to a
family of six, some gaudy clothing and a
wagon to the Chiefs, and a plough, harrow,
and schoolmaster to each reservation.
Now, Sir, the sum paid is inadequate to
HON. MR. SCHULTZ.

the commonest wants of an Indian! I
will not buy him the tobacco he smokesr
nor the powder and shot he uses, much
less the woolen clothing and covering
which the disappearance of the larger
animals has necessitated his using.
"Let us consider the matter fairly and
see whether we would be doing justice to
the Indians, in making these treaties the
models for all subsequent ones. East Of
the Rocky Mountains, we have acquired
an Indian Territory of three milliO" 9
square miles; on it there is a populatiOa
of thirty-eight thousand Indians ; the individual Indian, then in an average treaty,
cedes to the Government forty square
miles of country ; this forty square mileh
of country at present supplies him with
his food, his clothing and his house, the
smaller fur-bearing animals on it give hili
the means of acquiring what he needs o0
European manufacture. The moment he
concludes a treaty for lands desirable. for
agricultural or railroad purposes, but t¶o
courses are open to him, either to renain
and starve, where once he revelled i1
plenty, or to totally change his habits and
adopt those of the incoming race, in wrest
ing from the soil a subsistence. The id
that he can do the latter on a payment Of
three dollars annnally is of course an af«
surdity, the glaring nature of which is
the more apparent, when we reflect that
when we have brought him within the
pale of civilization, we compel him to pal
several dollars annually to the State, O0
the tobacco he smokes, the tea that he
drinks, and the blankets and clothes that
he wears. The proposition is an absurd
ity ; we take from him his heritage, in the
Saskatchewan Valley - say forty squa
miles to each ; we compel him in our dut'ef
on imports to contribute several dollar
yearly towards the State, and we magnan
imously propose to pay him three dOlla
a year for life. Our laws declare him.O
minor and yet we drive as hard a bargain
with him as though he were a land-jobber'
and when other arguments have failed t"
make him accept the terms, we pla
give him to understand, in a spirit of ci
ized barbarity, that might is right,
that we will have his lands. Any qua
of conscience on our parts are apt to b
satisfied by platitudes about the niarchth
civililization and the domination Of the
Anglo-Saxon race, judiciously forgetting

T'e Indian8 of the [APRIL 16, 1885] CanadianN.- West.
that it is not so many hundreds of years ago
that our British ancestors bore about the
sane relation to their Roman invaders
that the Indian bears to us, and that we
think quite proper, nay, even heroic,
these Britons having opposed their naked
and tattoed breasts to the advance of the
Well-armed Romans.
. "You can trace a melancholy similarity
1n the reason which Indian orators give as
the cause of their wars and consequent
inisfortunes. With "Brant " and " Blackhawk," " Pontiac," "Logan," " Powatan,"
''Tecumseh," and the " Prophet," the
cause assigned is the same. It is the
same story of the encroachment of the
Whites; the failing of the game; the inadequate compensation.
" Tecumseh "
Characterizes his nation as " once a happy
race made miserable by the white people
always encroaching." "Black Hawk"
tells us that " he went to the Great Father
ýnd he gave us fair words and great prom'ses, but no satifaction; there were no deer in
the forest ; the opossum and the beaver had
Red, and our squaws and papooses
Starved : " and " Red Jacket," a Seneca
Chief, sums up the argument in one of his
great speeches, as follows: " Brothers,
listen to what I have to say: there was a
time when our forefathers owned this
land; their seats extended from the rising
t0 the setting sun ; the Great Spirit made
't for the use of the Indians, but an evil
day came upon us when the white man
Crossed the Great Waters ; he told us that
he was flying from wicked men, and
Wanted a small seat in our country ; in
eitY for them we granted their request
and gave them corn and meat while they
gave us poison in return ; at length their
nilrIbers increased, they wanted more
,and, they wanted our whole country, and
at last our eyes were opened."
r. 'The Indians treated with in 1871 are
Unaccustisatisfied with the treaty.
thmed in the interior to the use of money,
tey formed a very incorrect idea of the
value of the bank bills in which they were
Paid In the case of the first payment at
.0rt Francis, on Rainy Lake, they hured to the Hudson Bay Company's tradn establishment at that place to test the
"'alue of those strange papers. Soon they
%Und that three dollars only represented three pounds of Tobacco, or twoanda.half pounds of tea, or five yards of

591

print. Dissatisfaction was the result, and
an Indian Chief, in handing back the
three dollars he had received, said, " I do
not want it; it will take me three years to

buy a coat." They found they could
only procure with the money what they
could get for a single mink skin, and this
band have since refused to treat with the
Government.
" To me it seems, Sir, that there is only
one course open : we must civilize the
Indian by weaning him from the chase
to the cultivation of the soil. I know
that the Americans, after immense appropriations of money to that end, have come.
to the conclusion that this is impossible ;
but, Sir, I am proud to say that we have
a direct contradiction of their proposition
in the numerous settlements of Christian
Indians about our missions, where the
Indian nature has so far changed as to
make him in point ofindustry, of truthfulness, and of obedience to the laws, the
equal if not the superior of the average
white man.
"We are bound by the transfer to protect
the Indians of the North-West ; they are
consequently at this moment the wards of
the Government. While it will be the
easiest thing in the world by the adoption
of an unwise policy to sow the seeds of an
everlasting enmity, yet I hold that it is
equally possible by wise measures to retain
their friendship even while we are purchasing their lands; that, in fact, we can
economize him, if I may be allowed the
expression, while we are protecting him.
To do this, I hold that treaties must be
made with them on a more liberal basis
than those of 1871. Instead of a perpetual
annuity, I would suggest a much larger
sum annually, for a stipulated period, say
21 years; instead of a payment in money,
I would be in favor of giving him indispensible articles of European manufacture
or growth, and of stipulating that a very
large proportion devoted to each band on
a reservation, should be applied to the
purchase of agricultural implements and
oxen, and the payment of native farmers
competent to instruct them in cultivating
the soil; instead of the present reserve of
16o acres among a family of six, I would
suggest at least 16o acres to each individual, and stipulate that the reservation
should be situated near some well known
fishing ground, and be far removed as

Z92

The indians of the [SENATE] CanadianY.- West.

possible from centres of white population
.and much travelled hghways; and, lastly,
I would expressly stipulate that the most
ample provision be made for his education
in our language. If honorable Gentlemen
feel that to do this would entail too great
a tax on the finances of the country, I
would respectfully suggest that a reservation of one section out of each surveyed
township, as in the case of school lands,
would by its sale at a time when its value
had been enhanced by contiguous settlenient, provide a fund which would materially lessen the amount necessary to be
appropriated for the Indian Department.
" A change fromthe policy which dictated
the treaties of 1871 I hold to be actually
necessary. I would regret much to be
considered an alarmist, yet I declare from
my place in this House my conviction,
based on knowledge of the feelings of the
Indians, that no more treaties can be made
with them on those terms, and it is a
question whether, till the existing dissatisfaction of the bands already treated with
be dissipated, they will make a treaty at all.
"I have heard itrumoredwith averygreat
deal of satisfaction, that the Government
propose to manage the Indian affairs of
the North-West mainly in Manitoba, and
that instead of one Commissioner, there
will be a board of three, one of whom will
be the Governor of Manitoba and the
North-West Territories; if so, this is a
step in the right direction, and I would
earnestly suggest that this Board take
early steps to enquire into existing causes
of dissatisfaction among the Indians who
made the treaties of 1871.
" In conclusion, I would remark that the
Indian bas had few friends; history bas
done little else for him than record the
deeds which he bas done in anger and
when smarting under a sense of injustice.
Poetry and romance have combined to
throw a false glamour around his daily
life, and it is only when we can be
brought to consider that he is only now
what our ancestors were not so very long
ago; that he is swayed by the same impulses; governed by the same necessities
as ourselves ; that we are likely to accord
to him the justice which is his due. As
political economists, we are bound to endeavor to prevent his either becoming a
scourge or a pauper, and to make of him,
if we can, a grain or stock-producing, lawHON. MR. SCHULTZ.

abiding citizen of the State ; and should
we, Sir, by the adoption of a sound Indian
policy achieve such a result, I cannot but
feel that when Canada bas taken that
place among the nations which her extent, her resources, and her position Wil1
one day entitle her to, we can look back
with pride and pleasure to measures
which at least have accorded justice,
possibly even produced lasting benefit, tO
a race who upon this continent are now
fast passing into History."
In thanking hon. gentlemen for their
indulgence, and the bon. Dr. McInnes for
the kind manner in which he bas assisted
me, I am glad to be able to say that
the Government of that day did take into

consideration the views expressed by
members of the House of Commons and
Senate, as well as the valuable experience
and advice of devoted men of various
missionary bodies, and their desire to deal
fairly with the Indians was evinced by the
granting of an increased money payment,
large reservations, provision for farta and
school instructors, agricultural implemients
and cattle to the Indians, afterwards
treated with, and the alterations of the
conditions of the first treaties so as to
grant similar concessions.
In the following summer (1874), the
first of a serious of treaties was made wit
the Indians of the plains at the Qu'Appele
Lake, which form an epoch in indian
affairs, inasmuch as they then surrendered
a country, in which there were a few fish
ing lakes, no extensive forests in whlch
game could shelter and be protected front
too rapid extermination, and where the
buffalo, then in almost countless numbers,
furnished his food, his bouse, his clothing
and bedding, his bow-string, powder horn,
saddle and bridle, and the sale of whose
robes rendered easy the procuring of his
ammunition, his ornaments and his arms.
The preservation of the buffalo then dccame an important factor in the I
problem, and three years later their whole
sale destruction was a subject of discussio
in the House of Commons in 1877, frn
which I shall take the liberty of readin
the views of Hon. Donald A. Smlith and
myself upon the subject, as exPresse
upon that occasion:" Mr. Schultz moved for co les of all 0b
munications from the first Council oser
North West Territory in regard to the pre

The lndianm of the [APRIL 16, 1885] CanadianN.- Wet.
Vation of the buffalo ; all communications on
the same subject from Indian Commissioners
Or other Dominion Government officials, and
a11 Orders-in-Council or Acts passed bv the
present Government of the North West 'erritories having this object in view. He said
that lie had brought up the subject of the
Preservation of the buffalo last year, and on
that occasion had explained that, from various
causes. the destruction of the buffalo had been
Very great indeed, and was becoming greater
as the circle wherein they were to be found
was being gradually narrowed. About ten
ear ago be had seen buffalo east of Red
Iver, and now they were only to be found by
going several hundred miles to the west of
that stream. Crowded westward by the settlement of the country, and the hunting parties from the Red River settlement, they were
%Ow attacked on the north by the hunters
fOrn the new settlements on the Saskatchewan,
While from the south the hunters of the Missouri made their onslaught. Added to
these sources of diminution was the number
killed by the Cree and Blackfeet Indians who
'flhabited the buffalo country proper, and the
Wolves, together with the loss caused by
drowning, made up the quota, which was
estimated by the Rev. Father Lacombe, a perIectly reliable authority, to be a destruction
of about 80,000 in winter and 80,000 in sumer, akin a total of 160,000 killed yeariy.
nfortunate y, too, it was the female buffalo
hich was selected, if possible, her evenly
distributed protection from the cold making
the best robe, and ber flesh being the best for
Perlumican and dry meat purposes, and hence
it Was that late travellers reported meeting
droves of buffalo in which the proportion of
'0ws was only about one-sixth. Now, while
4t was a fact that the very existence of the plain
tribe of Indians depended upon this valuable
ItliMal it was obviously desirable that they
should'be preserved as long as possible. The
saie authority (Father Lacombe) whom he
*r. Schultz) had already quoted, estimated
th%at the present rate of destruction, in 8
Years the buffalo would be extinct, and was of
he opinion that, were a law enforced which
oUuId prevent the killing of these animais
rom first November to first Mav, and calves
ba seasons, in five years the increase would
8uch that the restriction might be remnoved.
everal years ago, in speaking of the condition
fthe Indians of the North-West, he (Mr.
"lItz) had pointed out the results likely to
loccasioned by the entire destruction of tne
lbffalo. The animal was invaluable to the
food, the
flesh
because
hrîans, house anditsclothing,was his the sale of
e his
while
0robe furnished hi with all that he needed
European manufacture.
Without this
80ef supply, the Indian would become a
"Per, and, by an easy transition, a marauder.
0avert these results it was obvious that the
must be protected, at least, till a time
oaI
thrived when the Indians who now inhabited
these huntine grounds could be weaned from
chase an taught to depend wholly or in
N1

598

part upon agriculture. From one of thé
Government sources of information he was
glad to see their attention directed towards this
matter, and hon. gentlemen would find in
page 34 of the Minister of the Interior's
report the following statement of Mr. Dickinson of that Department:" The subject which at present takes precedence of all others in connection with the
Indian question in the North-West Territories
is the preservation of the buffalo. The rapid
decrease in the numbers of the buffalo has
become a matter of alarm to the Indians, who
see that, unless stepi are speedily taken to
arrestit their future condition will be one of extremehardship. Thatthe buffalloare decreasing in number in a rapidly increasingratio is a
fact admitted on ail sides. A few years ago
they were found in plenty over all the country
extending from points eastward of Fort Ellice
to the Rocky Mountains, and from the north
branch of the Saskatchewan to the United
States boundary line. Hemmed in by the
American hunters, the Blackfeet, Bloods,
Preguns, and kindred tribes of Indians on the
south and west, and by the half-breeds, Salteaux and Crees on tbe north and east, the
area over which they then roam bas been
gradually encroached upon, and their numbers reduced. This summer they have come
further east than they have for many years,
and were found within a few miles of the
Touchwood Hills post, while south of the
Qu'Appelle they were reported to have been
seen not far from the boundaries of the province of Manitoba. But, while they were thus
plentiful in the south and east section of the
country I have above referred to, there were
few or none to be found in the west and north,
and the Blackfeet and other tribes in the east
quarters were said to be starving, and following the buffalo eastward. I am aware that
this question bas already received some consideration on the part of the Government,
and that representations have been made by
ptrties better informed than I claim to be, as
to the necessity of some action in regard to it.

For this reason 1 will not enter into the
matter as fully as I would otherwise have
done.
" While at the Qu'Appelle Lake the Cree
Chiefs, accompanied by their principal head
men, waited upon me, and represented that
they were becoming alarmed on account of
their means of subsistence failing, and begged
me to report what they said to the Government, and to convey their request that something should be done to prevent the entire
extermination of the buffalo. To show the
importance they attached to this question
I may remark that each Chief and his head
men separately made the same request. In
all my previous intercourse with the Indians I
have never seen this course adopted. In
discussing other matters, a spokesman is
generally chosen who speaks for ail, the
others merely signify their assent; butin this
case it was evident they considered something more was necessary, and adopted this

594

The Jndian of the [SENATE] Canadian J.-West.

method to express the gravity of their posi- the buffalo in the North-West. This was a
tion upon me. In my opinion the buffalo matter in which there might be reciprocitY
must be protected, or in a few years, not more with the United States. We should give theO
than ten at the furthest, the whole number of the same measure which they gave us. They
Indians in the North-West, who now rely did not permit any except American citizens
upon these animals for subsistence, will to o to their territories and trade and hunt,
require to be fed and maintaiued principally and even their own citizens were forced to get
at the expense of the Dominion Government. licenses. The slaughter and disappearance of
I can see no other alternative, as it is an im- the buffalo was owing iii a large measure to
possbility to teach them in a short time to the inducements held out to American traders
forsake their present mode of life and adopt A large number of the robes went to the other
that of civilized men. The subject is one side, and, while the Canadian trader lose
which demande and ehould receive the early profit so far as this was concerned, the buffalo
consideration of the Government, for the were also rapidly decreaein g, or rather, gradlpeace and consequent prosperity of the ally but surely being killed out. He hoped
North-West Territories depend in a great that the Government would be able to devise
measure upon it. Should the buffalo become some means to exclude to some extent the
exterminated, it is not to be expected that ingress of American traders and also, as fa,i
the starving Indians will refrain froin help- as possible, to give protection to the buffalo.
ing themselves to the supplies to be found in
t is now over 36o ears since the Spans
the stores of the Hudson s Bay Company and .
0
other traders ; coipelled by hunger, out- iards first saw a herd of buffalo low do
rages miglit be committed by them which the Mississippi valley, and they are siice
would result in an Indian war. These are known to have existed then in millions.
the viewe of every one who is well informed The advance of settlement and the build
regarding the state of the country, and while in of the Union Pacific Railwa have
a
be
R
.f
I admit that the Indians at present are peaceable, well disposed and have every confidence within our own time confined them
in the Government, I think there can be no tween the Missouri and the Saskatchewan'
and when Canada acquired the North-west
doubt that they are correct."
"It would be seen from this statement that in 1869, the larger part of those which reMr. Dickinsoncorroboratedihis(Mr.Schultz's) mained were to be found north of the
own assertion on several occasions that the
¡f
Where are they nOW?
Indians themiselves fully appreciated the boundary line.
a
danger to themselves, and would willingly My good friend Father Lacombe
submit to a protective measure, such as sug- right in his prediction, for last year vitgested by Father Lacombe. When the iatter nessed the extinction of the Americat
was brought uj in the House last session the Bison the Buffalo of the p
the anial
plains,
Premier stated that the Government had the
matter under consideration, but as yet they which tie Indians always spoke of 3
had heard of nothing being done. A new their best friend, the one that had yielded
Governient had been established in the for ages to their forefathers plenty and
and when civilization ad
North-West, and machinery for the enforce- roserit
ment of any preventive measure had been i popert
a
before
o
existence for some time, and lie (Mr. Schultz) brought to themselves necessities
coula not but believe that some one was to unknown, a valuable supplemnent to Go
blame for the neglect of'this important matter. ernment assistance. The extermination
Hundreds of thousands of dollars were being of the buffalo forms another epoch 1
spent for the maintenance of a Government Indian affairs, and brings us face to face
u
tf
h
and police force im the North-West. The .
treaties made were not likely to be satisfactorv with a most important phase of the hirto the Indians when the settlements of th'e dian question. What is to become of.
country pressed upon thei, and it was clearly under these changed circumstances, is a
the duty of the Government, who were by law question that demands speedy s
constituted the guardians of this little-under- What we are to do with him must be deatood and often-traduced race, to see that,
e a
while by the stipulations of their treaties they termined by us. Is he now to becOI 9
or a pauper, or shall we nake Owere allowed to hunt over the land which, scourge
often with many misgivinigs and under pressure hin a law-abiding, grain and cattle Pr,
of necessity they had sold, this gaine, the best ducing citizen of the state ? In the sodl
gift, in their opinion, that the Great Spirit tion of these grave questions ra God
that
had civen, should be preserved to them and ti
for t'leir use against the present wholesale bring wisdom to our councils, an
spirit of tolerance among our people
destruction and inevitable extermination."
" The Hon. Donald A. Smith (Selkirk) said towards them which should follow the relie was happy to be able to concur entirely fiection that they' are as yet but ha
hunger i
with ilie hon. imemuber for Lisgar (Mr.Schultz)
ta
It was very necessary that soie steps should savages who only now, when
them sorely, are beginning
be taken to prevent the entire destruction of pressing
HON, MR. SCHULTZ.

The Indian8 oj the [APRIL 16, 1885] Canadian N.- Wet.

595

understand the value of the birthright of many years. The problem is certainly
which they yielded to us so easily and so one of the most difficult that the people
of this country have to deal with, and I
cheaply.
agree with my hon. friend in the wish he
expresses that this Government, or any
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
very heartily and sincerely congratulate future government who may have to deal
muy hon. friend who has made this motion, with the Indians, may deal with them in
on his ability to go through the fatiguing fairness and with that spirit of honesty
task which he has set himself, so com- which for so many years has characterized
pletely and satisfactorily to the House I the dealings of the Hudson Bay Company
arn sure, as well as to himself. Nothing with them, and has given to this country a
but the strong force of will which my hon. heritage of great value and importance,
friend is characterized by could have en- and secured from them full confidence in
abled him to accomplish as well as he has the promises and good faith of the Governdone the duty which he thought it neces- ment.
sary to perform to-day. I agree with him
It has been the earnest and anxious
as to the responsibility of the Government; desire, I am sure, of every Government in
I agree with him as to the difficulty of Canada since the acquisition of the territhe task which is before the Government tory, so to deal with the Indians as to
and before the people of this country, in retain their confidence, and to endeavor
dealing with the Indian race in the North as far as possible to ameliorate their conWest. So far as the Government have dition, and to meet the very trying circumbeen enabled to deal with them up to stances in which the destruction of the
this moment, we have endeavored to meet buffalo has placed them. There is no
the circumstances which have been occa. objection to the address, and I hope it
Sioned by the destruction of the buffalo. may be the means of assisting my hon.
The calamity which has befallen the friend in the task which he has set for
Indian race in the loss of the buffalo is of himself, a task which, if his health is
Course overwhelming ; it has rendered the spared to him, he is likely to accomplish
task of dealing with the Indians more and thereby render very great service to
difficult. So far as the Government have the country.
been able to give them farm instructors,
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I do not
and cattle and implements, and opportunities to become agriculturists or herdsmen, feel that any member of this House could
Very great and strenuous efforts have been add anything to the clear and lucid stateMnade, as my hon. friend knows, both by the ment of the hon. gentleman from WinniMackenzie government and their predeces- peg, and never was a statement upon so
sors, and the present administration has grave a subject made at a more opportune
sice followed it up, of late years at great ex- moment to Parliament. I should be
Pense. I do not think there is any disposition sorry to add one word to destroy the
On the part of the people of Canada to effect of the admirable statement which
grudge what is necessary to deal fairly with the hon. member has made, and I only
the Indiars or to meet the difficulties which rise to express the hope that the speech
have been occasioned by the destruction which the hon. gentleman has now delivOf the buffalo; and in endeavoring to feed ered will make an impression upon the
them, while it is necessary to feed them, members of the Government of this
hon. gentlemen will agree with us that we country. It is the duty of the Governshould not in so dealing with them reduce ment of the day to make the solution of
them to the condition of paupers-that we this problem of the management of the
should endeavor, while we prevent them Indian tribes a matter of the gravest confrom suffering from starvation, to distri- sideration. There is no question on
bute the rations that is given to them in which the future of the country.depends
sUch a way as to induce them to labor for so much as the wisdom with which our
existence as herdsmen or tillers of the soiL. Government act, and if they will devote a
I mWust admit that it is a difficult task, the large portion of that time which they are
accoprnlishment of which we can only now employing to devise means to keep
look for in a modified degree at the end themselves in power and wasting the pub-

596

Preservationof Peace, LSENATE] Public Work8, Bill.

lic moneys as they are doing year after
year upon unworthy objects-if they will
devote more time to study how they can
possibly bring the Indians to look to
us with entire faith and confidence
then they will be giving prospects of future
peace to that North-West Territory. Everyone knows that there is no hope of the
progress of that country so long as there
is a feeling of dissatisfaction amongst the
Indians. It is all very well for men to say
that we can deal with the Indians as Mr.
Gladstone would do with the disaffected
portions of Ireland, by sending a police
force to suppress disturbances. The cases
.are not parallel. As the hon. gentleman
says in his lucid statement, we have destroyed the hunting grounds of the poor
Indians, and we know that they are instinctively so constituted that we cannot
rapidly make them cultivators of the soil.
There is no subject at this moment which
ought to engross more the study and consideration of our rulers, and I join my
prayer with that of the hon. gentleman
who has done his duty so nobly to-day in
calling the earnest attention of those
Ministers here to the subject, and I hope
the Government will give it their best attention, for the future of the country
depends very much on their following the
excellent advice of the hon. member from
Winnipeg.

HURON AND ONTARIO SHIP
CANAL CO'S. BILL.
PLACED ON THE ORDERS.

HON. MR. GOWAN-I beg to move
a similar resolution, in the case of another
Bill. I move that the Bill brought UP
from the House of Commons on Tuesday
the 14 th instant, intituled " An Act respecting the Huron & Ontario Ship Canal
Company," be placed on the orders of the
day for second reading to-morrow.
The motion was agreed to,
PRESERVATION OF PEACE,
PUBLIC WORKS, BILL.
SECOND READING.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
the second reading of Bill (O) " An Act
further to amend ' An Act for the better
Preservation of Peace in the vicinity of
Public Works,' and the Acts in amendment thereof." He said-This is a Bill
to remedy certain defects in the original
Act conceining the preservation of the
peace in the vicinity of public works,
which have arisen during the administration of the Act on several works, repre
sentations concerning which have been
made by the stipendiary magistrates and
The motion was agreed to.
others concerned in administering the
Act, partly to us here and partly to the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY Government of Ontario. These changes
EMPLOYES RELIEF ASSOare not serious, and I can explain thern
better when the Bill is before a conmitCIATION BILL.
tee of the whole than I can now, and I
think with greater convenience to the
PLACED ON THE ORDERS.
House. I therefore move without further
HON. MR. SCOTT-A Bill came up explanation that the Bill be now read the
from the House of Commons yesterday second time.
which was laid on the table. The hon.
HON. MR. VIDAL-I really expected
gentleman who was to have taken charge
of it was absent at the time. He has that the senior member from Halifax, who
asked me to have it placed on the orders. has such a very great regard for the rights
I therefore move that the Bill brought up and privileges and interests of working
from the House of Commons on Tuesday men, laborers, etc., would have risel 11
the 14 th instant, intituled " An Act to in- his place and protested against this terrible
corporate the Canadian Pacific Railway encroachment on their rights as freemTenEmployes Relief Association," be placed
HON. MR. ALMON-Does the h0non the orders of the day for the second
gentlemen think it is right to attack the
reading.
senior member from Halifax when he 15
The motion was agreed to.
absent from the Chamber ?
HeM. MR. ALEXANDER.

Legislation [APRIL 16, 1885] in the Senate.
HoN. MR. VIDAL-The junior member I mean. Surely my hon. friend has
looked at this Bill and sees that in its
Provisions there will be no possibility for
those laborers who are engaged on our
Public works to get the beer and wine
which he thinks so essential for their wellbeing. If I had proposed such a measure
I should have found him with all the
vehemence and eloquence he is so capable
of manifesting contending for the rights of
these people that he believes are being
encroached on. However, he has not
done so, and I have only to express my
very great satisfaction that this Bill has
been introduced. I have looked at its
Provisions and I see that its object is to
give greater effect to that Act ; that the
penalties for the infraction of the law are
itlcreased, and the facilities for convicting
Offenders against the Act are made greater.
I rejoice that this Bill has been introduced,
Particularly at this moment, because the
very principles which led to its introduction
and the very arguments which the Minister
of Justice has now used in support of it,
are the very principles and arguments
Which render it expedient for us to favorably treat and pass into law the Bill of
Which I have to-day had the honor of
mloving that the second reading take place
Ona
Monday.

which requires the wife to bear witness
against her husband, which was likewise
spoken of by the lawyers yesterday as
being wrong in principle-that that Act
with all its imperfections is not sufficient
to put down intemperance, but a little Bill
like this which has been brought before
us to-day is needed to make it operative.
I let the hon. member from Sarnia enjoy
ail the benefit he has gained by his attack
on the senior member for Halifax.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time. ~
CENTRAL PRISON, ONTARIO,

BILL.

SECOND READING.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved

the second reading of Bill (P) "An Act
to amend the Act respecting the Central
Prison for the Province of Ontario." He
said: This is a Bill introduced at the
instance of Mr. Mowat, the Attorney
General of Ontario, to provide for the
transfer of boys from the Central Prison
either to the common gaols of the country
or to the Reformatory. Some difficulty
has arisen there for the want of this
power, which they desire to have removed.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill

HON. MR. ALMON-I am very glad was read the second time.
to hear the admission my hon. friend
from Sarnia has made that the Canada LEGISLATION IN THE SENATE.

Temperance Act is inoperative and re91ires further legislation in order to put it
il force. I thought the Canada Temperance Act was to be a panacea; that when it
was once passed the different counties
wOuld adopt it, and now the hon. member
comes and tells us that a little simple Bill,
Of which the hon. Minister of Justice has
nloved the second reading, stating that
there shall be no drinking within a cerdistance of public works, is required to
Make the law operative ; and that the
Temuperance Act, with 133 sections and
hundreds of sub-sections, is not enoughthat that Act which, despite the opinion
Of all the lawyers against it, compels a
tnan to be put on the rack to tell whether
he has ever been guilty of selling liquor,
a Principle which was pronounced yesterday in the case of another Bill to be unConstitutional and unEnglish-that a Bill

DEBATE POSTPONED.

The order of the day having been
called for resuming the debate on Hon. Mr.
Plumb's motion, viz.:
" That he will call attention to the desirability of encouraging the initiation of Private
Bills in this House, with a view to the more

equal division of the labors of the two
branches in the earlier period of the session,
and that hewill alsoenquire ofthe Government
if it be not deemed advisable to originate in
this House as many measures as the law and
usage of Parliament will permit in order that
this House may more adequately fill its place
in the Constitution."-(Hon. Mr. Dickey.)
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL said-I
would ask my hon. friend to postpone this;
until to-morrow, so as to enable us toi
reach the Bills which are on the orders of
the day.

598

Third [SENATEJ Reading8.

HON. Mr. DICKEY-I feel I am placed
in an awkward position with regard to
this motion, because, really there is no
time to go far into the discussion to-day,
and I should be sorry to block the business in any way. The suggestion having
been made to postpone the debate, I yield,
on the understanding that this motion
shall be made the first order of the day
to-morrow. I move that the order of the
day be discharged accordingly.
The motion was agreed to.
ONTARIO PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY'S BILL
SECOND READING.
HON. MR. PLUMB moved the second
reading of Bill (72) "An Act respecting
the Ontario Pacific Railway Company."

the Dominion, from time to time, to meet
the cost of improvements in the respective
localities. Hitherto that has been done
at the instance of the Government only;
but it seemed to us that that might be
attended with some danger and we should
require before any advances are made to
have the sanction of the legislature of
the province so that we might be dealing with the legislature as well as with the
Government, and this Bill is to add to the
existing law these words: " Provided
always, that no such advance shall be
made to any province unless it shall have
been previously sanctioned by an Act of
the legislature of that province."
HON. MR. SCOTT-Does it not do
more than that?
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL-No.

HON. MR. SCOTT-The Act which it
professes to amend extends only to the
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
Province of British Columbia.
was read the second time.

HoN. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-MY
hon. friend is quite right in suggesting that
that might he the case, but if he will look
SECOND READING.
at the Bill he will find that although it is
found in an Act concerning British ColurnHON MR. SUTHERLAND moved the bia, yet that particular clause is one which
second reading of Bill (62) "An Act to affects all the provinces.
amend the Act to incorporate the Bank of
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
Winnipeg." He said: There is nothing
extraordinary in this Bill. It contains two was read the second time.
sections-one to reduce the capital stock,
and the other to extend the time fixed for
THIRD READINGS.
obtaining a certificate from the treasury
board. I may also add that the bank has
The following Bills passed through
nbt yet been organized.
committee of the whole and were read
the third time and passed.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time.
Bill (io) " An Act to amend the law
respecting Bridges, Booms and other works
ADVANCES TO THE PROVINCES constructed over or in Navigable Waters
under the authority of Provincial Acts.
BILL.
(Sir Alex. Campbell).
BANK OF WINNIPEG BILL.

SECOND READING.

Bill (102) " An Act to amend the Acts
repecting the Department of the Secretarl
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
of State." (Sir Alex. Campbell).
the second reading of Bill (7), "An Act
respecting certain Advances to the ProvThe Senate adjourned at six o'clock.
inces." He said: The different provinces
of the Dominion are in the habit of receiving advances from the Government of

The &tate of the [APRIL 17, 1885] Bank of Upper Canada. 599
THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Fiday, April 17th, 1885.

of the bank, since its failure; alsothe balance
now due by the bank to the country, with
power to send for persons, papers and records,
the said committee to consist of Messieurs:

The Speaker took the Chair at three On that motion being made, all parties
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
CANADA CO-OPERATIVE SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION BILL.
THIRD READING.

HON. MR. LACOSTE, from the Com-

inittee on Standing Orders and Private

Pills, reported Bill (81) " An Act respectIng the Canada Co-operative Supply AsSociation," without amendment.
HoN. MR. RYAN moved the
reading of the Bill.

third

The motion was agreed to and the Bill
Was read the third time and passed.

THE ESTATE OF THE BANK OF
UPPER CANADA.
MOTION.

ALEXANDER movedThat the memorandum respecting the
Estate of the Bank of Upper Canada, be referred to a Committee of this House, for the
PIrpose of enquiring into and reporting upon
4he same, with power to send for persons,
Papers and records, the said committee to
11ON. MR.

Colsist of Messieurs:

le said-In moving for this committee I
desire to say that it is for an investigation
for the recovery of a large amount of
PUblic money.
IiON. MR. DICKEY-I rise to a point
Of order. The hon. member is about to
'ove a resolution that certain papers shall
be referred to a committee. I make a
Point of order that that matter has already
been considered and has been disposed of
by the House. I will call the attention of
the House to an entry on the journals on
the 24th February last. That a committee be appointed to enquire
atoand report, from time to time, to the
thuse, the value of the remaining assets of
the Bank of Upper Canada still uncollected,

wIth

Full explanations
were heard at length.
were given to the House, as far as they
possibly could be, and after debate the
House resolved by a majority of 49 to i
to negative that motion. The hon. member then finding that he was on the wrong
track, tried another motion and moved
that an humble address be presented to His
Excellency asking for the same information ; that is to say, he moved the resolution
at that time, so long ago as March, and
finding that he had made a mistake, or that
the information sought for in that address
had been furnished years ago, and further,
that a memorandum from the Finance
Department was laid on the table of the
House giving the hon. member and the
public the information asked for-he then
gave notice that he would move this
It is
resolution which is now before us.
my duty to submit to the House that
under these circumstances the hon. member is precluded from taking up the subject
again this session.
The rule upon that
subject is laid down to protect Parliament
from being constantly called upon to con.
sider matters over and over again and to
prevent them from possibly coming to
contradictory decisions on the same subject.
In Bourinot's Parliamentary Procedure the
rule is laid down on the authority of a
decision in this House five years ago on a
motion by the same gentleman, the hon.
member from Woodstock. It is as follows :
" When a question bas once been sufficiently
considered, the House will not agree to its
renewal. In 1880, a Senator rose and gave the
usual notice of proposed resolution, but objection was at once taken on the ground that the
matter had already been disposed of otherwise.
The Senate finally resolved that the notice
should not be received by the Clerk, inasmuch
as the subject matter thereof had already
been considered during the present session and
referred to the Committee on Contingent

Accounts."

And in the foot-note Mr. Bourinot, the
celebrated author, refers to the case that
was cited that induced the House to decide in that way .
" Sen. J. (1880), 201-2; Hans., pp. 370-5.
See somewhat analogous English case (cited
by Mr. Dickey in Debate), 7th June 1858,
particulars of the settlement with debtors when Lord Kingston gave notice of certain

600

The Etate of the [SENATE] Bank of Upper Canada.

questions. The Lords resolved that the questions had been sufficiently answered and would
not permit the renewal of the subject."
The rule is stated still more particularly
on page 339 of the same work, in which,
after speaking of the inconvenience of reconsidering a question which has been
once considered and decided, he states
the Parliamentary rule, which is as old as
Parliament itself:
"lIt is, however, an ancient rule of Parliament that no question or motion can regula ]
be oflered if it is substantiallv the saine with
one on which the judgment of the House has
already been expressed during the current
session."
Then he goes on to say that
" Unless such a rule were in existence, the
time of the House would be constantly frittered away in the discussion of motions of the
sanie nature, and the most contradictory decisions would be sometimes arrived at in the
course of the same session."

Now, so far as that goes, it is perfectly

clear ; but the rule is still more stringent
when the question has been negatived.
And that position is stated on page 340 :
" But when a question has once been negafived, it is not allowable to propose it agaîn,

even if the formni and words of the motion are

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I wish to
speak to the question of order. Upon a
former occasion I paid the hon. gentleman
fron Amherst a great compliment in saying that he was a very distinguished
member of this House, a model legislator,
but I am afraid, from his lamentable ignorance of Parliamentary procedureHON. GENTLEMEN-Order, order.
THE SPEAKER-The hon. gentlemal
must confine himself to the question of
order. The question raised by the hon.
member from Amherst is a very serious
question of order for the consideration of
the House, and the hon. member froml
Woodstock has a perfect right to dispute
the position taken by the hon. gentleman.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Then 1
will confine myself to the question Of
order. I will call the attention of the
Speaker to the famous Post Office case il
the British House of Commons in 1845.
That case is very well known to all mem-,
bers of experience, and no one should
presume to raise a question of order on
the flo.or of this House who is not posted
in Parliamentary history, which the hon.
member from Amherst does not appear tO
be. In the British House of Commons'
the famous Post Office case came up If
1845, on a motion made that a select
committee be appointed to inquire into
the mode in which letters had been detained, opened and resealed at the gele'
ral, or at any provincial post office, as aISO
into the circumstances. That is the first
motion made in the House of CommonseO
at page 42 of the journals. Then at page
54 another motion appears on the very
same question:
" The order of the day being read that

different from those of the previous motion."
That, taken in connection with the rule,
will be a guide to the House whether substantially the same motion to appoint a
committee to consider the whole question
of the assets of the Bank of Upper Canada
and a great many particulars which are
not in this motion at all-is sufficient objection to the motion that a memorandum
with regard to these assets shall be referred
to a committee of the House and the
whole question re-opened. I think it
cannot be sufficiently deprecated that the
tîne of the House should be taken up,
and I am sorry to be compelled in the
discharge of duty to take the objection,
but I raise the point of order, and cail Select Committee be appointed to inquire into
upon the Speaker to decide whether this the mode in which letters had been detained'
opened and re-sealed &c."
motion should be put.
Then we come to page 185.

A rnotiOn

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Upon a was made and the question being put:
"That this House has learned with re
former occasionthat, with a view to the prevention of a
cal movement in Englandand more especal
HON. GENTLEMEN-Order, order. in the Papal States, letters addressed to
foreigner should hrve been opened."
THE SPEAKER- If the hon. gentleHere we have three different; motiOns
man intends to speak to the question of in the House of Commons on the sarne
order raised, he has a perfect right to do subject. Then I come to page 199 ; a1
So.
amendmtnt was proposed to be made to
HoN. MR. DICKEY.

The Estate oj tMe [APRIL 17, 1885] Bank of Upper Canada. 60b
" The English journals are full of examples.
of the successfui evasion of the rule which
the House permitted. In all such cases the
character of the motion was changed sufficito cause to be laid before this House a copy of ently to enable the member interested to bring
it before the House. All such motions, howan1Y warrant or warrants &c."
ever, must be very carefully considered, in
A fourth motion made in the House of order to guard against a palpable violation of
Of Commons on the same subject in one a wise and wholesome rule."

the question by leaving out all after the
Word " that " and inserting the following :
"An humble Address be presented to Her
Majesty that she would be graciously pleased

session. The hon. gentleman, I suppose,
is ignorant of all that procedure. I then
corne to page 214, where I find another
'notion on the sanie subject-five distinctive motions on the same subject in order
to elicit an important truth. " A motion
Was made, and the question being put
that leave be granted to bring in a Bill to
Secure the inviolability of letters &c."
Will the hon. gentleman presume to say
that I am to be debarred from addressing
the House when I am trying to unearth
Most unworthy acts-

I think in this case there is a considerable
variance between the resolution of which
the hon. member from Woodstock has
given notice, and the resolution which he
moved on the 23rd of February.

The

latter was :-

" That a committee be appointed to inquire into and report from time to time to the
House the value of the remaining assets of
the Bank of Upper Canada still uncollected,
with particulars of the settlement with debtors
of the bank since its failure ; also, the balance
now due by the bank to the country, etc.
Now, there is not a word about that in
LION. GENTLEMAN-Order, order! the notice of to-day, which is to refer a
memorandum which was laid upon the
HoN. MR. ALEXANDER-I refrain table since the 23rd of February to a

frorn saying what was the object, but I committee of this House, for the purpose
subniit these precedents to the Speaker of inquiring into and reporting upon the
same. I hold that it must strike any
for his consideration.
member that these resolutions are totally
I understand that this memorHON. MR. POWER-I feel that I am different.
at liberty to say something on the ques- andum did refer to the settlement made
tion of order, the more so because I do with the Bank of Upper Canada, but still
11ot propose to vote for the motion of the I think there is a very important differhon. member from Woodstock, if the ence between the two resolutions, and
question of order is decided in his favor. that under the authority quoted from Mr.
As I stated on a former occasion, I think Bourinot, which I have just read, and
We should be careful not to establish a under the original authority of the cases in
bad precedent, because the particular the House of Commons, which the hon.
case coming before us may be one which member from Woodstock has cited, we
aS not much merit. I take Bourinot's would be doing wrong in excluding this
Work and I continue immediately after the resolution, on the question of order. I
Passage read on page 34o by the hon. may mention that in a note at page 340
r1enber from Amherst. Bourinot quotes of Bourinot, the author says :May, in this way:" The most nemorable instances of numerB
8 lSir Erskine May says on this point, which ous motions on a cognate question occurred in
ue involved in much difficulty: The only the session of 1845, in reference to the openeans by which a negative vote can be ing of letters at the post office, under warrants
1oked is by proposing another question, from the Secretary of State; 100 E. Com. J.
i'lar in its general purport to that which 42, 54, 185, 199, 214."
adbee n rejected, but with sufficient variance
constitute a new question ; and the House Those are the passages which were read
Wuld determine whether it were substantially by the hon. member from Woodstock.
e same question or not."
Now, as I have already said, I propose to
I think my hon. friend has done just vote against this resolution, if the question
at He has put a notice here of a reso- of order should be decided in favor of the
tion which varies sufficiently from the hon. member from Woodstock, but I
resolution dealt with on the 23rd of Feb- think it would be an unwise thing to do
1y to constitute a new question. Then anything here which would restrict or
I'Ourinot goes oninterfere with the rights and liberties of

602

The Etate of the [SENATE] Bank of Upper Canada.

the members of this House, and for that amounts to that) should be allowed to be
reason I hope that the House will not brought up again in any form whatever.
I appeal to the hon. gentleman to state if
rule this resolution out of ôrder.
his object and purpose is not the samne
HON. MR. HOWLAN - The two precisely as in the first resolution.
motions are analogous, inasmuch as they
HON. MR. ALEXANDER.-It is.
seek the same result.
HON. MR. POWER-The hon gentleman cannot tell what result is sought.

HON. GENTLEMEN.-Hear, hear !

HON. MR. ALEXANDER.-It is, tO
HON. MR. HOWLAN-1 must assume unearth wrong-doing.
I wish to know

whether we are to be guided by Mr.
Bourinot's interpretation of the procedure
of Parliament, or to go back to May?
Generally, in this House, we assume Mr.
Bourinot to be an authority, and now the
283" It is a rule in both Houses, not to permit hon. gentleman calls upon the House tO
any question or Bill to be offered, which is be guided by May, who was of course a
substantially the same as one on which their high authority in former days.
judgment has already been expressed, in the
current session."
THE SPEAKER-Both of these works
Then he goes on to say again at page are good authority. The point of order
285raised by the hon. member from Amherst
- A mere alteration of the words of a question without any substantial change in its is an important one, and I regret that
object will not be sufficient to evade this I had not some intimation that it was
coming before the House, in order that I
rule."
That is the case exactly that we have might have had an opportunity to look
into the authorities and be prepared tO
here. Then he continuesgive an opinion upon it. I do not think it
" This is necessary, in order to avoid con- would be either fair tothehon. member fro
tradictory decisions, 0t prevent surprises, and
to afford proper opportunities for determining Woodstock or to the House, on such an imlthe several questions, as they arise. If the portant subject, to give a hasty opinion, after
same question could be proposed again and so many authorities have been cited which
again, a session would have no end, or only I have had no opportunity of examining.
one question could be determined; and it On the general principles stated by the
woul be resolved first in the affirmative, and
then in the negative, according to the acci- hon. member from Amherst, I am quite i
accord with him- a question once decideô
dents to which all voting is liable."
by either House of Parliament cannot
HON. MR. PLUMB.-That is the very again be brought before that House durinlg
case here.
the same session of Parliament. I an,
however,somewhat taken aback by'the precHON. MR. GOWAN.-I think the hon. dents cited by the hon. member fromWood'
member from Woodstock will be candid stock. If these precedents bear the constrlcenough to state that the object he had in tionplaced on them by that hon. gentlemnO,
view in moving the first resolution is the they certainly go far to militate against the
same object which he has now in view in dicta both of May and Bourinot. If these
moving this. It is obvious on the face of authorities refer to the same acts, then
it that it is less than the first resolution, they are in contradiction to these authorfand the greater includes the less. I do ties ; but these different motions in the
not feel myself competent to enter upon House of Commons in England may have
the mere abstract question of order, but had reference to different acts in the pOsd
it does seem to me a strange thing that in office, and not to the same act. I should
any deliberative body a matter that has like to have an opportunity to look more
been pronounced upon by that body in fully into the question, and at the net
such an emphatic way as to be pronoun- meeting of the House I will be prepared
ced frivolous and vexatious, (because it to rule on the point of order.
that it is what the hon. gentleman states
in his notice. I must take the notices as
I find them, and draw the meaning from.
them. I refer the House to May, page

HON. MR. POWER.

Legi8lation [APRIL 17, 1885] in the Snate.

603

HON. MR. POWER-The hon. gentle- which have come to my knowledge. The
ruan from Woodstock had better get his matter seems to be at the present time in
tnotion postponed until Monday next.
a delightful state of haziness.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The whole gist
'f this argument is as to whetherHON. MR. ALEXANDER-Order;
there is no question before the House.

LEGISLATION IN THE SENATE.
DEBATE CONTINUED.

The order of the day having been called
for, resuming the adjourned debate on the
THE SPEAKER-There is no question
before the House ; the question stands Hon. Mr. Plumb's motion, viz:" That he will call attention to the desira'Intil Monday.
bility of encouraging the initiation of private
bills in this House, with a view to the more
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentle- equal division of the labors of the two branches
'lan stated he intended to accomplish the in the earlier period of the session, and that
he wilI also inquire of the Government if it be
Uarne object by the two motions.
not deemed advisable to originate in this
the law and
THE SPEAKER-He qualified that, Houseofas many measures as in order that
usage Parliament will permit
however.
this House may more adequately fill its place
in the constitution."
HALIFAX VOLUNTEERS.
HON. MR. DICKEY said: I think it
AN EXPLANATION.
must be admitted that the object aimed
at in this discussion is one of a legitimate
hoN. MR. POWER-Before the orders character, if it can be attained.
We are
'f the day are called, I wish to make an told that so long ago as the second year of
explanation. I made a statement with Confederation, a committee was appointed
teference to the Halifax Volunteer Bat- to consider this matter, but nothing came
taion and the manner in which they had of it, showing the inherent difficulty of
een treated between Point Levis and dealing with the question. We all well
9ttawa. I think it only fair to say that know that in the nature of things this
slice making that statement and since the Senate is not to any large extent an origitlegram was read by the hon. Minister of nating body, any more than the House of
Julstice from the assistant manager of the Lords. That it was not intended to be so
Grand Trunk Railway, I have received is quite clear from the opinions which have
Ornimunication of another telegram from been quoted fron the two Fathers of ConM1r:Wainwright, in which he stated that the federation at the very inception of that
ainl had been delayed for two hours at great change in our constitution. At the
R.chTond, for the purpose of enabling the same time I think I am justified in saying
Oops to get food, and that he was under the that this body has originated as large a
1rpression that they had a meal there. I proportion of measures as the House of
d in the Montreal Star of April i5th Lords, and that the number originated
le. following paragraph which seems to here will favorably compare with those of
dicate that there was some foundation that body. We have had an instance of
ourthe statement made by Mr. Wainthat given by my hon. friend from Niagara
Inight. The paragraph is as follows:as a matter of complaint that this House
4 The Halifax Battalion of 380 men, en had not had its due proportion, when he
te for the North-West, dined at the Grand stated that out of the whole number of
the
fanklunch was said to on very 13th instant. private bills brought into the Parliament
ir Pestaurant here be
satisfactory
a Partaken of with evident relish. They in 1882, only one-ninth originated in this
a fine-looking body of offieers and men. House. Now, that does not seem to me
elare num r of citizens assembled under all the circumstances connected with
arrtilY cheered the troops on their depar- the explanations that have been given, as
te'-UThe men reciprocated enth usiasticalliy.'' to such bills more naturally originating in
I think it only right to make known to the House below, to be an insignificant
he House these additional statements proportion. Quite the contrary. I think

604A

Legislation [SE NATE] in tMe Sente.

the House will agree with me that teen that contain my hon. friend's able
there are some subjects which could speech, the whole of his address is devoted
very conveniently be disposed of in not to this question but to another which
the early part of the session-for in- I cannot certainly contend is entirely
stance, subjects such as the one now foreign to it, but which at all events is not
under discussion. This was a matter that embraced in the notice upon which this
was initiated some two months ago, yet it debate has arisen. Whatever our opinions
is now sandwiched in between other im- may be of the propriety or good taste of
portant business of the House, and we are my hon. friend branching off into that
only possibly beginning the consideration discussion, I think we will all admit we
of it. That is a question which might have at least this compensation-that we
have been, I think, considered in the have had a most interesting speech fro0m
month of February. My hon. friend has the hon. member-interesting certainlY in
delayed it from time to time awaiting a historical sense, and also full of inforimastatistics, but those statistics, unfortunately, tion, because my hon. friend is generallY
have never come. Then there is another armed upon all questions that he under'
subject which, I think, might have been takes to discuss in this House, and he 15
legitimately considered early in the session, enabled not only to give us a great deal
and that is the debate which still drags its of information, but he is enabled to state
slow length along, on the rival budget his views clearly and forcibly. At the
speech of my hon. friend from Victoria, same time I hope that my hon. friend Will
which, by a peculiar coincidence, was not deem it discourteous on my part it 1
delivered on the same day and the same confess I failed to appreciate the advanhour as that of the Finance Minister in tages of such a discussion. It has been
another place. That, it appears to me, is said that my hon. friend has been drive0
a subject that might have been dealt with to this for the purpose of meeting the
long ago, and should not now be blocking attacks upon the Senate. The ofny
the business of the House. I am disap- attack which has been made in Parliamient
pointed but not surprised certainly, that was ten years ago, in which a discussiOt'
my hon. friend who has started this dis- arose and was participated in by two ho"•
cussion has failed to suggest a remedy. members, who viewed the question fr0o
The only practical remedy, to my mind, two entirely different stand-points, and SO
consists in this : that we should show to far as I know we have not since heard
the public that we do our business in this anything of it in Parliament, and in ParhaHouse thoroughly. In that way, and in ment alone can we expect to hear of it, i
that way alone, I think we may look to it is to be a live question. SurelY n'
attracting a greater share of the public hon. friend will not expect this jous
0
1
business to the Senate.
Has it ever seriously to take notice of country pic-O
occurred to my hon. friend who has speeches, where orators of the day, failing
started this motion that there is some to get a subject to amuse and tickle the
compensating advantage, at all events, in ears of the groundlings, branch off into
the increased leisure which this House tirade, it may be at all events into badinhas, as giving to us a better opportunity of age, about members of this House. I thit'
examining bills more carefully than it would be quite undignified in us to
possibly they are examined in another answer, if we were called upon to answefi
place ? Perhaps, after all, that is the true such things. I should think the 1lou
secret of the numerous amendments in the would prefer to give them no answer. A
Senate to bills coming from the other the same time as a matter of taste
House, and which are accepted when they no fault with my hon. friend, as he is sure"y
go down to that branch of the legislature. in his right to discuss the subject. .
This I shall perhaps be able to show these views, hon. gentlemen, I cei
more clearly further on ; I merely mention should not have taken any part in thî it
it now to show that there is some little cussion were it not for the extreme P
a
compensation for the increased leisure that has been assumed by my hon. frie 1l
of which my hon. friend who introduced from Ottawa. I shall take an entired
this motion complains.
Except some different line from the position occuP
two and a half pages, I think, of the six- by the two hon. members that have
HON. MR. DICKEY.

Legi8lation [APRIL 17, 1885] in the Senate.
Cussed this question. On the one hand
I shall not attempt to institute invidious
Comparisons between the members of the
two branches of the Legislature, and on
the other hand I do not propose to behittle or attempt to degrade the character
of the House of which we are all members.
The public know perfectly well who we
are and what we are. They know all
about our ages and occupation and they
Will judge us not by our occupation or the
Color of our hair, but they will judge us
by our acts. "By their fruits ye shall
know them." By our acts we shall be
judged, and in that way alone can we exPect to raise ourselves in the estimation of
the country. In that connection I hope
1may be excused for presenting shortly
e0me facts connected with the manner in
Which the Senate has discharged its duty
to the country. I shall not attempt any
glorification of the Senate, because I think
that one fact is quite equal to a dozen
arguments on that subject. Before
"oticing this matter further I think the
Ilouse may expect me to notice the agitation which has been got up by outside
Constitution-mongers on this question.
This attack upon the constitution of the
Country is rather a serious one. Confedtation was discussed for some two or
three years before it was accomplished,
and then it was matured by the united
eisdom of the best minds of both parties.
It has been upon its trial only for the
short period of 17 years, and yet now at a
time when we are just within the agehen the young girl is in the middle of
ber teens, we propose to tear up the
fIoundation of the Confederation, and with
regard to one constituent branch of Par4Ment to abolish it and to raise something else in its stead. Now there is
nothing at the present moment that I
can more appropriately compare that to
than the conduct suchas we have often seen
'Of the small boy in the nursery where he
*as his box of blocks. He raises a house ;
he walks round and admires it, and says
1 Can do better than that. He touches
e of the corner blocks, and down the
eoodly fabric comes, and he proceeds to
rear another in its stead. I think that the
nlduct of some hon. members-I would
n'ot say hon. members because I am speak14g of outside people, but the conduct of

605

England, and the people of Canada, and
the people of America, will be considered
equally childish in regard to a matter of
this kind, and they will wonder whether
we are yet fit for self-government. We
should appear as fickle as the people of
some other countries who are in the constant habit of changing their constitution.
It is not necessary to go on with that
subject, because I think we ought to hear
something better, something more serious
before we undertake to discuss this question seriously ourselves. I come now to
the position taken by the hon. member
from Ottawa, and I would like to ask him
here in his place, if in this position he has
taken, when he has given the sanction of
his name to this outside agitation, if he
has spoken for the gentlemen with whom
he usually acts in this House ? If he has
not so spoken, I have the very best assurance, from the open and manly course
taken by the senior member for Halifax
the other night, when he had not a word
of commendation or agreement to offer to
the remarks of his leader, but gave his
own views and gave them out manfully, to
show that it was essential to the usefulness
of this House, as an independent branch
of Parliament, that it should be a nominative body.
HON. MR. POWER-I do not think I
did that ; I think I decined to discuss
that question.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I spoke on that
occasion, as hon. gentlemen know, without
any meditation. I got up and answered
the hon. gentleman from Niagara, who, I
thought, was rather drawing an opinion
fron me on that point. I spoke for myself alone, and for nobody else in or out
of the Senate.

HON. MR. POWER-I simply declined
to express an opinion on that point.
HON. MR. DICKEY-I certainly was

not prepared for a contradiction of the
official report. I do not wish to be understood as stating that the hon. member
undertook to combat the arguments of the
hon. member from Ottawa, but I think I
shall be able to show, and if I am not I
am not worthy to stand here, that the hon.
%or1epersons, I think, to the people of member is entirely mistaken. His words

Legislation [SENATE] in Me &nate.

606

were these, and they are very strong
words. He says, after going into the
question-" My contention is that such a
house as ours should be a revising body,
and I submit as a revising body a nominative house has a good many advantages."
That is the language the hon. gentleman
is reported to have used.
HON.

MR. POWER-I still say that.

HoN. MR.

DICKEY-I would not

intentionally misrepresent the hon. gentleman, and I certainly do not now, and I did
not intend to go out of my way merely to
pay him a compliment; but I shall take a
different course in future with regard to
some other arguments of the hon. gentleman, because I was disposed to give him a
little credit for them, and I shall contrast
them with the position taken by the hon.
member from Ottawa. The hon. member
from Ottawa stated distinctly that it was
utterly impossible for this House to continue as it is, and that the constitution
will have to be altered at no distant date.
I hope I am not misrepresenting anybody
now. The hon. member took this high
ground, and for what reason ? He gave
as an excuse that the hon. member from
Niagara-he said " I assume," and my
hon. friend is great at assumptions-he
says, " I assume that my hon. friend from
Niagara admits that this House is not appreciated by the people, and has comparatively failed." I undertake to say, as far
as my memory goes, that there is nothing
in the speech of the hon. member from
Niagara to justify that. What he said about
this House not being appreciated was solely in reference to promoters of private
bills not having them introduced here, not
that the character of the Senate had got
so low that it was not appreciated by the
public who had created it only some 17
years ago; he was simply referring to the
fact which was explained by the hon.
member from Halifax when he said, and
said truly, that this House is essentially a
revising body. So that there was not
even that excuse. But besides this the
hon. member gave only another reason,
and it is my duty to invite the attention of
the House to it, and there again I shall
quote his words. He stated, " not on this
continent, or in South America, is there
another nominative body like this," in the
HoN. MR. DICKEY.

face of the fact that the hon. member
knows well or ought to know, that we have
at the present moment three nominative
bodies as second chambers within the
Dominion of Canada. We have one in
the province of Quebec, one in the
province of New Brunswick, and one iP
Nova Scotia; and we had at the time of
Confederation nominative second chambers
in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, and
in the great province of Canada, in which
the late Mr. Brown tells us that the
elective system which they had tried for
ten years had proved to be a failure, and
the people of Quebec were told too, and
told truly-because I was a member of
the original conference which initiated
this constitution-that Quebec neve
would have entered into that Confederation had it not been that the nominatiVe
Senate was secured to protect the interestsof Quebec and the Maritime Provinces.
HON. MR.

CHAPAIS-Heai ! hear!

HON. MR. DICKEY-That is a his
torical truth ; it is therefore strange that
the hon. member, with a certain degree Of
recklessness of assertion, ventures to tell
the House that there is no such thing a
a nominative second chamber on this cOn'
tinent.
HON. MR. SCOTT-Of course I spOke
of outside of Canada.
HON. MR. DICKEY-Why does the
hon. gentleman go to South American
republics or North American republics,
and expect to find a body noininated
by the Crown, where there is ne
e
Crown? Why, it is an absurdity!
do not go over to the American Republic
for examples. If we do, we know verl
well that there is a body appointed in t
United States of America with very mahb
larger powers than we have, and mac
more independent of the people than WC
are-that august body, the United State
Senate. It has treaty-making powers
it has powers over nominations and Ovet
other things which give it a greater amlloull"
of influence than we have, but at ail even.
we do not go there, but across the AtlantC
to our own home-land, for examplesan
there we find a body-a model on which
we were appointed and constituted,-th

Legislation [APRIL 17, 1885] in the &nate.
House of Lords, and I do say that an
ex-minister and a member of the Privy
Council assumes a serious responsibility
when he undertakes to endorse such a
revolutionary change in the constitution of
this countrv as the hon. member from
Ottawa has'done. I say that, not in the
way of finding fault with him, because he
bas a perfect right to his opinions, and he
has a right to tell this Chamber, for the
first time since he came here, that this
Senate ought not to exist as it does now.
We heard a great many things during the
five years my hon. friend was a member
of the Government. We heard a great
Mrany complaints about what? That this
Ilouse did not follow the lead of the
House of Commons ; and what did we
hear the other night from the hon. member
from Halifax, who has forced me now to
tell it ? His complaint is, that the only
danger of this body is, that it will degenerate into a registering body of the House
Of Commons. There are the two positions
taken by those hon. members, and I will
let them settle it between them, and reconcile these opposite views as they best can.
I should not deem that sufficient, because
I can also refer the hon. member for an
answer to the same eminent man whose
Opinions have been quoted here in debate.
I am referring to the man who was his
leader at the time, but I will refer him
to him as a man of immense political
experience at the time, to see what his
Opinion was-he was forced to come to
the conclusion, after ten years' experience,
that this body, which the hon. member
8
peaks of loosely as coming from the
People, in what way I do not knowWas found to be a failure in the great
Old province of Canada. The Right Hon.
gentlemen who sat beside him in all that
cOntest explains in the same way that he
Was a strong supporter of the elective
Principle as applied to the Legislative
Council of old Canada, but that he found
after the same years of experience that he
Was forced to come to the same conclu.
slon as the Hon. George Brown was,
that it ought to be supplanted by a nomInative body, and it was so supplanted. I
refer the hon. gentlemen to that for an
answer and in regard to it I cannot, in
justice to my own feelings, abstain from
Paying a passing tribute to our late deParted friend and compeer, Mr. Brown.

607

The late Hon. George Brown was a man of
high aims, of great intellectual power and
political experience. Whatever his faults
or his failings may have been, arising from
an impulsiveness of nature and some
degree of impetuosity of character, which
led him to do and write strong things, I
feel bound to say, that when, by the ruthless hand of the assassin, he was struck
down, his death was an irreparable loss to
his friends, his party and his country. It
is to such a man as he was, with his matured experience, that I presume, I hope
without offence, to direct my hon. friend
to compare his opinions and his ideas,
and to think seriously of it before he
commits himself to an agitation the result
of which perhaps none of us can forecast.
I have already spoken of the position
taken by the hon. member from Halifax,
but I am always desirous of doing him,
justice. I think there is in a qualified
sense a certain degree of truth in the contention which he has made, and at aIL
events in the warning that he has given in
guarding this House against the danger of
becoming a mere registering body. This
is no new idea of mine, because I have
constantly spoken of it where it became
necessary to do so ; but I would go
further and cordially subscribe to
the hon. member's idea about the
necessity of the members of this House
showing a little more independence.
I have no objection to that in the least.
I scarcely like to speak of myself, but I
think I can point to some cases before I
sit down in which I have expressed independent opinions heretofore and acted
upon them. Now, there are some illustrations upon this point which it is right
I should advert to. The first of these
was given by my hon. friend the member
for Niagara, who was thoughtful to take
the labor and research to look up the precedents of these celebrated five Bills which
were rejected under the Mackenzie Administration. Now, I will speak of the
Nova Scotia County Court Bill first, as my
name was connected with it and the
names of other members to whom I shall
presently allude. That Nova Scotia
County Court Bill was for the purpose of
enabling the Government to give salaries
to the County Court Judges, and the gentlemen who opposed the Bill did so on the
ground that at the very time we were dis-

408

Legi8lation [SEN ATE] in the Senate.

cussing the measure there was a Bill
before the Legislature of Nova Scotia
which proposed to abolish the County
Courts altogether, and as the provinces
have the power to create the courts, and
the Dominion only have the pleasure of
paying the bills, we thought it was right
that while that decision was pending we
should not pass the Act to grant salaries.
That was the simple contention. That
Bill subsequently failed in the Local Legislature ; and the Bill was again introduced
in the Dominion Parliament the following
year, and passed without any opposition
whatever in the Senate. I say that in
justice to myself, but more in justice to a
gentleman whose mouth is now closed and
who cannot speak for himself-I allude to
the hon. member who is in the chair, who
took a conspicuous part in the debate
upon the subject. The Tuckersmith Bill
and the Prince Edward Island Bill were
interfered with in the interests and for the
protection of the people, to prevent the
electors from being swamped. The Tuckersmith Bill was a gerrymandering measure to bring the electors in one riding of
Huron into contact with people they did
not care to be connected with. That we
were right in the course we took on that
occasion is perfectly demonstrated by the
result. The Bill was never introduced
again, and the riding stands there to-day
as it did when we protected the people
from being shunted into some other place.

that they have now. We rejected that
Bill, and we were right in doing so, as the
result has proved. It has never been
brought forward again, even in the other
House of Parliament. Then we come tO
the celebrated and notorious Esquinalt
& Nanaimo Railway Bill. It is tiresone
to reiterate those things, but I may say
we turned out to be right when we rejected that Bill.
HON. MR. SCOTT-We subsequentlY
passed it.

HON. MR. DICKEY-Two wrongs do
not make a right. It is the complaint
made against this House that we are dealing with now. I am going to draw another moral from that which perhaps MY
hon. friend will not like quite as well. I
have never had occasion to refer to it before. The Esquimalt & Nanaimo Railway Bill was defeated, and a great outcry
was proposed to be made, but it suddenlY
vanished. Why ? In three months afterwards despatches from the late Government were sent home, and they are there
now on record, giving the same reason5
for not carrying out that arrangement of
the Carnarvon terms that we had given
for rejecting that Bill. They are, I repeat, on record in our Blue Books. I
have got through the five measures that
my hon. friend called attention to. With
the permission of the House I will add
another one-that is the Common CarHON. MR. SCOTT-They were shun- riers Bill, which was attempted to be
ted afterwards over the whole province.
forced through this House and to which I
took exception on constitutional grounds.
HON. MR. DICKEY-It took a long
HoN. MR. SCOTT-There was no
time to do it. The next case to which I
will refer is the Bill to change the fiscal attempt to force it.
year. Now, that was an extraordinary
measure. The gentlemen who came into
HON. MR. DICKEY-I have got a
office in 1873 had become so overwhelmed memorandum of it at all events. This
with business that they really could not Bill was brought forward, it was objected
get their reports ready in time, and they to as ultra vires and was rejected, and it
came to Parliament with a Bill which has never been heard of since. With the
they got through the House of Commons, exception of the County Court Bill, whid'
and asked us to establish the old fiscal we opposed on grounds that comiended
year, which had its ending then as it has themselves not only to the majority of the
now on the 3oth June, and ante-date it to House but to the good feeling of every
the 3oth March ; that is to say, that they one who listens to me, and which we su
should have nine months grace at all sequently passed the moment the objection
events to get up their departmental re- vanished-with that exception, not one .
ports and to tell the couutry how the these Bills has ever been brought up again
finances stood, instead of the six months in Parliament. The reason I mention this
HON. MR. DICKEY.

Legislation [APRIL 17, 1885] in the Senate.
Common Carriers Bill is this-I have a
mnemorandum furnished to me that in the
Year 1876 this Common Carriers Bill was
rejected, but on that occasion six members
of the then Opposition and present Conservative party voted with the Government
on that question, and I will tell the hon.
gentleman further that on the vote that
was taken on the Esquimalt & Nanaimo
Railway Bill, eight members of the same
complexion voted in favor of the GovernIment, or they could never have got it to
such a narrow point as they did. I mention this in justice to my colleagues, those
'Who have acted with me through many a
long battle, to show that when it comes to
deciding upon Acts of Parliament we take
an independent course, and we use our
best judgment. Those gentleman thought
they were doing right at the time. They
have altered their judgment since, but they
thought they were doing right in supportIng the Government on the Esquimalt &
Xanaimo Railway Bill.
We thought
differently and fought it out and succeeded,
With the aid of two or three gentlemen
Who were supporters of the Government,
gentlemen whom we always respected, and
we respected most highly the opinions
Of one of those hon. members who
is no longer amongst us. I mention
this to show that notwithstanding all this
complaint about registering the votes of
the House of Commons, whenever it has
corne to the point of deciding questions

like this the House has always taken a
fair and independent course. I do not
1
r ean to say that on certain party questions
they have not their opinions, and stick to
thern. There is no objection to that ;
but I will show by the record that even in
the time of the late administration when
they had no favors to expect, that viewing
the matter from their own-stand-point eight
lTenbers opposed to the administration of
the day thought proper to differ from us
alid to vote with the Government, to try
to assist them in carrying an important
'neasure, while on the Common Carriers
till, six Opposition members supported
the Government. I shall not confine
nlYself to that, because I wish to show
Presently that the Senate has treated the
Present Government in the same manner.
1
Iwish now to give some practical informatiO which I have taken the trouble to
'collate in order to show not so much to

O1

609

this House as to the country,-although
much of it relates to a period anterior to
the entry of several gentlemen here into
this Parliament,-to show the manner in
which we discharged our duties, because
after all that is the great point. It is not
so much what other people say of us but
what we do to the best of our judgment
that it is important to remember. I found
it necessary when there was some slur
cast on this Senate in 1875, when the late
Government was in power, on the very
last day of the session, when the Supply
Bill was going through, to answer a charge
that the Senate was neglecting its duty. I
took the trouble to look at what had been
done, and I found in that session in the
Railway Committee we passed twenty-six
Bills that we amended. Those Bills had
come from the House of Commons, and
in every instance but two, as far as I
recollect,those amendments were accepted.
We discharged our duty in 1875 under
trying circumstances.
HON. MR.

SCOTT-Hear, hear!

HON. MR. DICKEY-I am glad that
my hon. friend says " hear, hear," because
he is disposed to be fair and give credit
where credit is due. I will take him to a
period where he may not be disposed to
agree with me, because this was under the
Reform Administration.
The 26 Bills
that I spoke of were Bills which were
brought before the Railway Committee
independently of Bills that were amended
by the Banking Committee and the Standing Orders Committee. I have taken
occasion to look at the private bills in the
session of 1883, and I find that there were
altogether 30 Bills passed with amendments, of which 20 were private and 1o
were public bills, and I find that with one
exception out of those 20 private bills
every amendment that was made was accepted by the House of Commons.

I

find that in the year 1884 there was a
larger number of Bills, unfortunately, as
we all found out. Last year the private
bills referred to the Railway Committee
aloneamounted to 26, which wereamended,
and the other committees amended 12.
We amended altogether 38 Bills, and in
all these cases the amendments were accepted. Now I corne to public bills, and I
find that in the year 1883 out of the public

610

Legislation [SENATE] in the Senate.

bills that came to us from another place
we amended nine, and nearly the whole of
these were Government bills. Two-thirds
of them certainly were Government bills.
I do no mean to say that they were
amended adversely, in that sense at all ;
I mean to say they were amended mostly
with the consent of the Government, but
they were amended by the action of the
Senate. That is my contention, and
similarly in the year 1884 there were 13
public measures amended in which our
amendments were accepted. Now I think
this is not a bad record, and it shows
that the Senate as a body-I am speaking
of the Senate as a body-acted under
both Governments in pretty much the
same way-that they looked at each question upon its merits, and that they
amended bills or opposed them or rejected
them just as they thought they ought to
do. Now I think it is due to the body of
which I have been a member from its
véry inception to state that after a long
experience and occasionally differing, as
I have been obliged to do from hon.
members with whom I usually agree, and
differing possibly still more, but I hope
not very much, from members of the other
side, I do not hesitate to say that as a
rule in the proceedings of this House, I
have always observed a disposition to discuss every question upon its merits. I
think I have given the very best proof of
that in the statistics I have furnished here
to-day. I may be told all that is very
well, but the public may ask what have
you done with regard to the present Governrment ? Well, you need not go further
back than the present session. We have
ventilated the Government bills, riddled
them pretty much whenever they have
corne up, and endeavored to make them
what we thought they should be. That
was the course we pursued in the Lands
Titles Act. It will be in the memory of
the House what a struggle we had last
year to secure some amendments in the
Territories Act in the interest of the homesteader in the North-West. Where did
that struggle originate ? From gentlemen
who support the Government; and they
succeeded, I will not say in extorting from
the Governrment those amendments, but
they succeeded in getting a part of what
they asked for through the forbearance,
tact and wisdom of gentlemen who know
HON.

MR. DICKEY.

when to yield. It was done by personls
who usually support the Government. .
go a step further back, if the House will
allow me, to call attention to something
in which I took a very deep interest myself
-the Factories Bill. It was brought in as
a Government measure. I took exception
to it at once on constitutional groundsthat it was a subject with which this Parliament could not deal-that it was
one with which the local legislatures
alone had power to deal.
I took
that ground, and the Minister of Justice
did me the justice to look into the ques'
tion, and I said that if they could take
cognizance of such subjects there was no
protection under the British North
America Act at all to the provinces, and
that the only way they could bring it
under the jurisdiction of this Parliament
was to make it a criminal Act, and I remember I stated that I did not see how
they could make a criminal offence out of
the absence of a clock or a convenience
in a factory. The next year there was a
Factories Act brought in, but that is the
last we heard of it. That Bill was originated in the Senate ; it was stopped in the
Senate, by the action of the Senate, and it
was a Government measure. There may
have been a little soreness in consequence
of our action at the time, but I think it
will be admitted that we were right, because if that Bill had been passed it woUld
have raised innumerable difficulties in the
courts.
HON. MR. ALLAN-There was al'
amendment to the Militia Bill last year
too.
HON. MR. DICKEY-Yes; I regret tO
allude to those bills so much, and especally the one last referred to, because rII
own name was mixed up with it. Before
I conclude, I should like to express n'y
cordial acquiescence in the position which
my hon. friend from Niagara took with 'egard to exclusively party appointments t

the Senate. I have a very strong OPif'
It is not an opinion of
upon that point.

yesterday, but one which has been grOg
ing on me for several years, and I haveha
hesitation, since the proper ti me he
arrived and my hon. friend is raising the
question, in giving expression to it no
One of my great objections to it is that 't

Legislation [APRIL 17, 1885] in the Senate.

611

is a breach of the fundamental pact of a man we are all delighted to see, an exConfederation. When the union was governor, and he has very properly sugformed the members of the Senate were gested that such appointments are most
I have in my mind's eye
taken from the legislative councils of the desirable.
different provinces, and amongst the rest at the present moment another ex-govmy own, and from the existing legislative ernor in Nova Scotia, a man who was
councillors of old Canada, and the rule for some years a member of the Governwas strictly observed, so far as I know, ment of Canada, who has shown 13 years
that both parties should be repre- of service as a lieutenant-governor, and
sented in this chamber.
I belong who has done the State most excellent
to a province where there was cer- service in the North-West, in trying times,
tainly one-third or more of the number as is well known. That gentleman has
that were called up by the Queen who been nearly two years out in the cold, and
were opposed to the Government of the yet he may not for a long time get a
day. My hon. friend who is opposite me chance to be appointed to a body like this,
knows that perfectly well, and it was the which he would eminently adorn. The
same with regard to New Brunswick, and ex-governors stand in a peculiar position.
the same with regard to the province of Certainly if they are fit to be lieutenantOntario. Of course it may be said, "but governors they are fit to be members of
that was at the inception of Confederation; the Senate, and there is a peculiar reason
that was to make things move smoothly at for their being called to the Senate.
the beginning until we got the machine in When the lieutenant-governor steps down
our hands, and then we could operate it from his high position, it is not likely that
to put in our own friends." I say this, if he would consent to take a minor appointit was a good thing then it certainly should ment. The very best place for him, and
be a good thing at all times, and I wish to the place where the public would get the
press that view upon both of these hon. benefit of his long training in holding the
members-the leader of the Government balance between parties, would be in this
and the leader of the Opposition in this chamber. I emphasize this more particuHouse. I do not expect much sympathy larly because I confess I should like to see
from either of them in a contention of that a more judicial character given to the
kind, and perhaps they may think it a little Senate. I should like to see a class of
forward in me to make a suggestion, be- men here, who having administered the
cause it means that these gentlemen affairs of conflicting parties, would come
would perhaps be deprived of a certain here with a proper balance of mind to
portion of their patronage among their look at everything on the merits, and in
friends, but I only speak of this in the order that we should have an expression
public interest, and I do so as a matter of of the public, in order that this body
public duty. The course they have taken should be a representative body of both
altogether is a mistake. While I say that, sides, I am prepared to go as far as the
I must acknowledge distinctly the very hon. member from Niagara, and to say
great improvements that have been made that it would be decidedly advantageous
in the recent appointments, and I may if this Government, a strong government,
add that that is so far satisfactory ; but that has held power now for a good many
under such a rule as I have indicated, years-and I hope they may continue to
which has been the practice as has been enjoy it and justify it by their actions for
acknowledged of both parties, many men many years to come-that such a governof high culture, of independent means, ment should have it in their power to apand political experience, can never have point even some of their own political opthe chance of getting within the walls of ponents. In other words, that they should
this Senate. No person can reasonably take the best men of the country, irresobject to a gentleman coming here who pective of party politics. I dare say I w1ll
has been made the people's choice as a be told it is all very well in theory, but it
representative. Of course not, but there cannot be done in practice. I will say to
are many men that are certainly equally my hon. friends on the Treasury Benches
Well fitted. My hon. friend from Niagara that when the Premier of England desires
has referred to one gentleman who is here, to call a man conspicuous in letters

,612

,Hamilton,&c. [SENATE] Ry. Co's Bil.

to the House of Lords, he does not
ask him what his politics are. When
he appoints anyone to the Bench with the
exception of the Lord High Chancellor,
does he ask his politics ? No, and in that
respect the same course has been well
followed by the right hon. gentleman who
administers the affairs of this country,
because in several cases he has appointed
men irrespective of their party politics to
the Bench. I should like to see the same
principle carried out and applied to the
Senate of Canada.
AN HON. GENTLEMAN-And in the
case of knighthoods.
HON. MR. DICKEY-The English
Prime Minister would consider himself
insulted if a man should go to him and
say, "I should like to be made a knight, or
this or that because I belong to your
party." There is no such thing heard of.
An honor conferred is an honor indeed,
and it is an honor conferred irrespective
of party politics. Now, hon. gentlemen, I
have stated, with all respect to the Government, the views that I entertain upon that
subject, and I can only say that if the
Government would appoint the best men
irrespective of politics, we should then
have a body that would look at questions
irrespective of party.
The right hon.
gentleman in that way would elevate the
character of this, the highest deliberative
assembly in the land, and make it truly the
Upper House of the Parliament of the
Dominion.
HON. MR. McCLELAN moved the
adjournment of the debate.

The motion was agreed to.
ALBERTA & ATHABASCA RAILWAY COMPANY'S BILL.
SECOND

READING.

HON. MR. VIDAL moved the second
reading of Bill (73) "An Act to incorporate the Alberta & Athabasca Railway
Company." He said : This is simply a
Bill for the incorporation of a company for
the construction of a railway from some
point on the Bow River, or the Canadian

HON. MR. DICKEY.

Pacific Railway, at or between Calgary
and Crowfoot creek, northerly to a point
on the Athabasca river, crossing the North
Saskatchewan near to the town plot of
Edmonton. It is just the ordinary bill of
incorporation for a railway, and contains
no unusual privileges, and of course it will
be referred for the careful consideration of
the Committee on Railways.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time.
THE SIXTH REPORT OF THE
PRINTING COMMITTEE.
REPORT AGREED TO.

HON. MR. READ moved the adoption
of the sixth Report of the Joint Committee on the Printing of Parliament. He
said: There is a recommendation in the
report for a small increase to a member of
the staff, which has been concurred in by
the House of Commons.
The motion was agreed to and the
report was adopted.
HAMILTON, GUELPH & BUFFALO
RAILWAY CO'S BILL.
SECOND READING.

HON. MR. PLUMB moved the second
reading of Bill (77), "An Act to incorporate the Hamilton, Guelph & Buffalo
Railway Co." He said: This is a Bill
to incorporate a company to construct a
railway from the city of Hamilton, to connect with the railway of the Ontario and
Quebec Railway Company at some point
thereon, at or near Schaw Station thereon,
or between Schaw and the town of Galt,
with power to extend the same across the
said Ontario and Quebec Railway to some
point withm the city of Guelph, and in a
south-easterly direction from the city O
Hamilton to some point on the Niagara
River at or near Fort Erie, or betwe.n
Fort Erie and the town of Clifton. It 's
said to be an important undertaking for
the benefit of the city of Hamilton and
the locality connected with it. 1 kni"o
nearly all of the gentlemen who are nanied
here as incorporators, and I may say that
they are amongst the first people in the

Ruron & Ont. Skip [APIRIL 17,1885] Canal Co'8 Bill.

613

city of Hamilton. I have perfect confi- faith in his undertaking. He has made a
dence that it is a bonafide undertaking.
sort of hobby of this scheme. The object
of this Bill is simply to extend the time
The motion was agreed to and the Bill for completing the undertaking.
was read the second time.
HON. MR. PLUMB-For how long?
C.P.R. EMPLOYES' ASSOCIATION
BILL.
HON. MR. GOWAN-For ten years.
SECOND

READING.

HoN. MR. SCOTT moved the second
reading of Bill (75) " An Act to incorporate the Canadian Pacific Railway Employes' Relief Association." He said:
This is a Bill asked for by the employes
of the Canadian Pacific Railway Co., who
desire to establish an association for the
purpose of providing for the superannuation of the employes of the company,
and also for a provident fund to extend
relief in cases of sickness, injury, old age,
accident or death.

HON. MR. PLUMB-How long has it
been going on now ?

HON. MR. GOWAN -This Bill has
already passed through the House of
Commons, where it was received with
considerable favor, and where that House
took the rather unusual course, I think,
of remitting the fees. It cannot serve
any bad purpose to extend the existence
of the charter, and it should be retained
on the statute book for the reasons I have
given, as well for the reason that its promoter is urging it mainly in the interests
of the public at large ; and now, in his
The motion was agreed to and the Bill decliningý years it would almost kill him I
was read the second time.
think if this charter was wiped out of
existence.
THE HURON & ONTARIO SHIP
CANAL COMPANY'S BILL.
HON. MR. POWER-It is not customary to oppose a private Bill at the second
SECOND READING.
reading, but I rise for the purpose of asking my hon. friend who introduced this
HON. MR. GOWAN moved the 2nd measure whether it is proposed by the
reading of Bill (69), "An Act respecting promoters to ask the Government for a
the Huron & Ontario Ship Canal Com- subsidy for this work, because if so I shall
pany." He said : Some thirty years oppose it.
ago a gentleman named Capreol, a man
of very bold and original conceptions,
HON. MR. GOWAN-In reply to my
conceived the idea that a ship canal hon. friend I am happy to be informed by
could be built connecting the waters of Col. Tyrwhitt who is now in the NorthLake Ontario with Lake Huron. After West with his troops, and who had charge
sorne time-I think it was in 186o, of this measure in the Commons, that they
after having some preliminary surveys do not expect to receive any subsidy from
Made-he succeeded in obtaining, under the Government, and I certainly would
sanction of very prominent men of the not approve of any such application.
Country, a Bill for the incorporation of
a company for that purpose, and several
HON. MR. PLUMB-Does the hon.
Men occupying very high positions were gentleman propose to take any stock in
narned as directors-amongst them my the company ?
hon. friend from Midland. Mr. Capreol
has been working at his scheme ever
HON. MR. GOWAN-I cannot say
since, and has succeeded in obtaining that I have any great faith in the project
from various corporations in the country myself, but many distinguished men have.
considerable sums of money which he has The hon. gentleman may laugh at the
e-pended in making surveys and explora- undertaking, and perhaps sneer at it; but
trOns, and notwithstanding the progress of I can tell him that men fewer in number
railway enterprise, he still retains perfect than those who have favored this measure,

614

Huron & Ont. Ship [SE NATE] Canal Co'e Bill.

have accomplished wonders. I ask him
to look at Prince Edward Island with its
population of iro,ooo, and see the railway
they have built simply because they are
an educated, enterprising and energetic
people ! Let him look at their school
system, which even Upper Canada with its
boasted school system cannot equal today ! Let him look at the men that that
province bas turned out, and my hon.
friend will sce that men of energy and
determination will accomplish many a
project that to others may seem impracticable. I may say that I have not much
faith in this scheme, but I know men who
are familiar with the subject who have
faith in it, and they simply ask that this
charter, which has existed for so many
years, should be extended for ten years
more, and I do not see why there should
be any objection to it.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I have no doubt
that industry, energy and intelligence will
accomplish a great many things, but I do
not believe it can accomplish what is aimed
at by this company, where there is 150
feet of a cutting, and no water to supply it
when it is cut; and where it has been
condemned by every engineer and every
practical man who bas examined into it.
Mr. Capreol has been advocating this
scheme for 40 years, and has never been
able to induce any capitalists to take hold
of it. I have no objection to the renewal
of the charter, but it is only trifling with
the House to ask to have it extended, as
there is no possibility that the canal will
ever be built. If it were built it could
not be operated, and when after 30 years
nobody has offered to subscribe any money
for it, I think it is the best evidence of its
impracticability. I have no objection to
the Bill going through the second reading,
but I do not see that it has the slightest
connection with railways of Prince Edward
Island, or the school system of that
province.

the Huron and Ontario Ship
Company.

Canal

THE SPEAKER-I think the hon.
member from Woodstock alluded to the
action of the member from Niagara in
connection with a Bill which he had a
right to speak to.

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-The House
will permit me to make one or two observations in regard to this measure. We
have had one or two members of this
House, especially the hon. gentleman from
Niagara, endeavoring to turn this project
entirely to ridicule, though that hon.
gentleman bas been the member of this
Flouse who bas introduced one or two
railway bills, which will be found in the
future to be fraught with iniquity.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I call the hon,
gentleman to order. He cannot reflect
on the conduct of any member of this
louse, in bringing in legislation. He says
I have brought in bills that are fraught
with iniquity.
THE SPEAKER-I desire to say, with
regard to the remarks that have just now
fallen from the hon. member from Woodstock, that it is quite within the range of
debate that he should refer to measures
introduced by the hon. member fromu
Niagara, but I think it is exceedingly improper to use the offensive language that
he has applied to them.

HoN. MR. ALEXANDER-Coming
from the Peninsula, as I do, and knowing
how that Peninsula is covered by a network of railways, the multiplicity of which
has been the means of leading a large
number of our county, township and town
municipalities intoendlessembarrassments,
and finding members of Parliament nOW
introducing measures to multiply those
railways, and thus tend to increase the
indebtedness and embarrassments of those
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I wish to municipalities, I cannot understand hoW
make one remark with regard to the con- any hon. gentleman, who really and trulY
duct of the hon. member from Niagara.
studies the common interests of the
country, can be a party to such legislation.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I call the hon.
gentleman to order. My conduct is not
HON. MR. FLINT-I was very well
a matter of discussion upon the second acquainted with Mr. Capreol for over 35
reading of a bill to extend the charter of years. I know that this scheme has beetl
HON.

MR. GOWAN.

Advances to the [APRIL 17, 1885] Provinces Bill.
a constant theme with him. He is like my
hon. friend here a little on the crank side.
HON. MR. POWER-I rise to a question of order. The hon. gentleman could
say nothing more offensive to a member
of this House than what he has said.
HoN. MR. FLINT-I withdraw the
I know that this canal proexpression.
ject has been before Parliament for many
years ; I know that there were committees
on it while I was in the House myself,
and I know that a great deal has been
said about it, and though I have never
been over the ground, from the knowledge that I have obtained from gentlemen
Who are well acquainted with it, I conSider that it is an impracticable scheme.
As my hon. friend from Niagara says, it is
about 15c feet of a cutting, and when that
cutting is made there is no water to go
through it, and the only way you can make
a canal there is by drawing vessels up to
the summit level with steam engines and
then sliding them down on the other side.

615

In the Committee, on the 2nd clause,
HON. MR. POWER--I would like to
ask the Minister of Justice what his reason
is for adding the proviso to this Bill,
" That no such advance shall be made to
any Province unless it shall have been
previously sanctioned by an Act of the
Legislature of that Province ?" As I
understand the Bill, it applies to other
Provinces than British Columbia.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Yes,
it applies to all the Provinces.
HON. MR. POWER-It may lead to
very serious inconvenience. I should say,
if the Government of a province should
happen to need money it would be a verv
awkward thing that they should be obliged
to get the sanction of the Legislature

before asking for the advance, because
they might not need the money when the
Legislature was sitting but might need it
afterwards. The Government are responsible to the Legislature, and if they act
improperly in getting an advance from the
Dominion, they will have to answer to
The motion was agreed to and the Bill their Legislature. It seems to me to be a
Was read the second time.
somewhat unreasonable provision.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I think it is
a very reasonable and safe provision for
both governments. The local Government
THIRD READING.
should not get money from the Dominion
Treasury without first having the authority
The House resolved itself into a Com- of the Legislature to ask for it, and it
Mittee of the Whole on Bill (P), "An Act seems to me it is simply advanced out of
to amend an Act respecting ' The Central what comes to each of the provinces each
rison for the Province of Ontario.'
year-it is simply a payment in advance.

CENTRAL PRISON, ONTARIO, BILL.

HON. MR. PELLETIER, from the
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.-It is
Committee, reported the Bill without confined to advances.
anendment.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It is conThe Bill was then read the third time fined to advances on what each province
and passed.
gets annually.
ADVANCES

TO THE PROVINCES
HON. MR. POWER-I think my hon.
friend is mistaken.
BILL.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
think my hon. friend from Halifax will be
The House resolved itself into a Com- satisfied with the explanation that the
ITittee of the Whole on Bill (7), "An Act measure deals only with the advances, not
respecting certain Advances to the Pro- with anythng to which the province is
VinCes.»
entitled, but deals with advances which
THIRD READING.

616

Canada [SENATE] Temperance Act.

they request as a favor. Then it is
thought it would be far better for the province itself as well as for the Dominion,
that the request for the advance should
come from the Legislature as well as from
the Provincial Government. Instances
have occurred within the last two or three
years in which it was desirable that this
provision should be made. I can suggest
a case which will illustrate this completely.
Supposing a Government in a province are
on the point of being defeated, and that
they come here when they know that they
are about to be defeated, and ask for an
advance ; it might be that they might
exhaust those funds which ought not to be
dealt with by them, but which ought to
remain at the disposal of the incoming
government. That would be a very awkward state of things, and one which might
entail serious injury on the province which
was for the moment represented by the
moribund government that obtained the
advance of the subsidy. Supposing the
Government of the province, and the
Government here, were in political sympathy, and just upon the approaching
death of the local Government they sent
a deputation here to ask for an advance of
$5o,ooo or $6o,ooo on their subsidy, and
the Government here being in political
sympathy with them, say "yes, we will
advance it to you." The local Government get the money, they go back and
expend it, and are obliged to go out of
office ; the new Government, when they
come into office, find that they are surrounded with difficulty at the outset by
the fact that their resources have been
dissipated, and the object of this proviso
is to meet a case of that kind.
HON. MR. POWER-I would have no
difficulty in voting for the measure if it
were a Bill for the purpose mentioned by
the hon. gentleman-to prevent a moribund Government from anticipating a
subsidy which was payable further on. It
is clear that the Bill refers not to a subsidy
but to a capital amount which is at the
credit of the province at Ottawa.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is
the same thing.
HON. MR. POWER-I beg the Minister's pardon, it is not the same. I have
HON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL.

not much objection to the measure ; only
if it happens to be directed at any particular province which has been sinningHON. SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,.

it is not.
HON. MR. POWER-If it is merely
directed aganst the province of Nova,
Scotia, I should object to it.
HON. MR KAULBACH-I think it is
a wise provision to guard the interests of
the provinces.

The clause was adopted.
HON. MR. ODELL,frorm the committee,
reported the Bill without amendment and
it was then read the third time and passed.

The Senate then adjourned at 5:30 P-in

THE SENATE.
O/tawa, Monday, April 20th, 1885.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
CANADA TEMPERANCE ACT.
A PETITION

PRESENTED.

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I beg tO

present a petition signed by over five
thousand electors of Prince Edward
Island, praying for legislation to give each
province power to vote for the adopti0l
of a prohilitory liquor law. I rnay say
that the first signature attached to this
petition is that of the Bishop of Charlottetown, Bishop McIntyre ; the second iS
the signature of the Lientenant-Goverlor,
and then follow many members of the
Local Government and the Local Parliament, and the remainder is made up Of
voters from different parts of the Island.
The correspondence I have had connected with this petition-the largest I think
presented to this House for several years
past-explains that a still larger nuInber
of names could have been attached to it

Cianada [APRIL 20, 1885] Temperance Act.

617

had more time been permitted, the whole advocates of the Act, of benelicial effects of a,
moral nature having been realized, the quanprovince not having been canvassed.
tities of ardent spirits sent into counties where
the Act is in force, and consumed therein,
The petition was received.
have been greatly increased, but your
memoralists are not themselves in possession
PETITION READ.
of sufficient official information to enable
them to vouch for the correctness of this
HON. MR. ALMON-Owing to my statement. They are of the opinion however
iInperfect sight towards evening, when I that proper and effective steps should be
Presented the petition from John Tobin taken to have an exhaustive enquiry made
by the Government, in order that if it be
and other liquor dealers of Halifax, pray- found that the serious injuries to business
ing for the appointment of a commission interests of which they complain are not
to inquire into the operation of the Canada counterbalanced by some corresponding publie benefit, a remedy may be applied.
Temperance Act, I was not able to read
Your memoralists pray:
It properly. I move that it be now read
at length at the table, and entered in the
That a commission be appointed to make
Mninutes of the proceedings of the Senate. full and exhaustive inquiries as to the actual
working of the Act; that it be an instruction
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It has to this commission to examine the books of
view
been read this moment, but not at length. wholesale and other dealers, with akinids to
ascertaining what quantities and
of
liquors they have sol d to residents of counties
HON. MR. ALMON-I wish to have it in which the Act is in force, before and since
read at length and entered on the its passage, an i also the quantities and kinds
sold during the saine period to residents of
rainutes.
counties wiere the Act is not in force, and
to examine such dealers and any and ail
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is persons who may be able to give information
Very unusual to enter a petition upon the as to the working of the Act, it being prominutes, and it cannot possibly have any vided that none of the evidence taker. before
effect. I hope my hon. friend will not the commission shall be used against any
witness or at any trial for infractions of the
Press that part of his motion. The peti- Act; said commission should have power to
tion can be read at length, but I do not take evidence on oath and should be inknow of any case in which a petition has structed to proceed without delay and to rebeen entered at length on[the minutes of port the result of its inquiries as early as
possible.
Proceedings.
(b.) Until the report of this commission is
submitted, your memorialists believe that the

HON. MR. ALMON-Then I move Act should be suspended, and that within a
reasonable time after the report is made and
that it be read at length at the table.
the evidence is published, a vote should be
The motion was agreed to, and the taken on the Act in all counties and cities
Petition was read at length by the Assisc- where it bas been either passed or rejected, in
order that the electors shall have an opporalIt Clerk, as follows :
tunity of pronouincing upon it after being put
The undersigned wholesale wine and spirit in possession of relia le information.
Ierchants, dealers and agents, beae respet- (c.) That when the Act is in future passed,
fully to memoralize your honorabe body as or wherever it is sustained after the vote asked
followvs:
for in paragraph (b) is taken, ail who suffer
. 1. The institutions with which your memor- loss in the value of property or goods, all who
alists are connected have large interests in had rented property, the rental of which bas
prOperty situated in counties in which the Can- been flxed on the supposition that the bouse
4 Temperance Act, commonly known as the should be licensed, or who in any way suffer
gScott Act," bas been passed. Banks actual loss owing to the passage of the Act,
bld promissory notes and other commercial shall be compensated for such lose by the
Paper, against persons whose ability to pay Government, and by the county or city in
18 greatly dimiuished, and in some instances which the Act is passed.
entirely destroyed, by the passage of the
(d.) That the loss referred to in the precedbct, and the consequent stop page of their ing paragraph shall as far as possible be
sinless ; Loan Companies have advanced determined by a competent court or tribunal
%neys on hotel property, and the value of before the Act is voted upon in order that the
their securities has been seriously reduced by electors may fully understand the effect of the
measure.
e passage of the Act.
2. Your memoralists are informed that so
(e.) That a reasonable time should be given
far from the expectations entertained. by the those engaged in the liquor trade to dispose of

618

The E8tate of the [SENATE] Bank of Upper Canada.

their stocks and change their business without serious loss.
Your memorialists would respectfully pray
that the foregoing representations and requests
may have the early and earnest consideration
of Parliament, and that they may be given
legislative efiect as early as possible.

once made, and carried in the affirmative.
be questioned
or negative, cannot
again, but must stand as a judgment of

the House." This rule has never been
abrogated or changed in any way, and all

the authorities say, " that no question or
motion can regularly be offered, if it is
THE ESTATE OF THE BANK OF substantially the same with one on which
UPPER CANADA.
the judgment of the House has already
been expressed during the current session."
THE SPEAKER'S RULING.
(Bourinot, p. 339-)

TheSenator from Woodstock, while not

THE SPEAKER said: Before calling denying that the two motions just read are

the motions on the paper, I desire to give
my decision on the question of order
raised by the hon. member from Amherst, on Friday, last in relation to the
motion of the hon. member from Woodstock, which motion is as follows:" That the memorandum respecting the
Estate of the Bank of Upper Canada, be referred to a Committee of this House for the
purpose of enquiring into, and reporting upon
the same, with power to send for persons,
papers and records, the said Committee to
consist of Messieurs: "

substantially the same, contends that in

The question of order raised by the
hon. Senator from Amherst is, that the
subject of the said motion has already
been considered and disposed of by the
Senate on a similar motion of the Senator
from Woodstock, on the 24th of February
last, and that it cannot therefore be again
entertained by the House during the
present session. The motion of the 2 4 th
February is in these words:" That a committee be appointed to enquire
into and report, from time to time, to the
House, the value of the remaining assets of
the bank of Upper Canada still uncollected,
with particulars of the settlement with debtors
of the bank, since its failure ; also the balance
now due by the bank to the country, with
power to send for persons, papers and records,
the said committee to consist of Messieurs."

into all these precedents, and find they
do not sustain the position of the

conformity with the practice of the Imiperial House of Commons, they may both
be considered by this House. The hon.
Senator quoted from the journals of the

English House of Commons for the year
1845, several entries in the said journals,

when, as he contended, the same question

was brought several times before that
House. These precedents all refer to the
celebrated " Post Office Case" of that
year, and are to be found at pages 42-54185-199 and 214. I have carefully looked
Senator from Woodstock, or militate,
in the slightest degree, against the rule tO

which I have just referred.

The quota-

tions from pages 42 and 54 merely show
that a motion relating to certain alleged
irregularities in the Post Office was made
on one day, adjourned to the following
day, and then by leave of the House withdrawn, no decision being arrived at by
the House respecting it. At page 18 5, I

find that a motion of censure was moved
against the Government in regard to the
said irregularities, which passed in the
negative. This was the first occasion on
which the House considered the subject,
and disposed of it by a division, in the

This motion the Senate negatived by a shape of a vote of want of confidence.
vote of 49 to I, the motion having been On the 4 th of April following, page

put to the House without a seconder.
In the first place, with reference to the
rule contended for by the Senator from
Amherst, that when a question has been
once considered and disposed of, the
House will not agree to its renewal in the
same session, I think that the authorities
cited by that hon. member clearly uphold
his contention. The old rule of Parliament, the obvious wisdom of which I need
not comment on, is "that a question being

199'

on motion that the Speaker do now leave
the Chair, an amendment was moved for
an Address to the Queen asking that certain warrants sent to the PostmasterGeneral by the Secretary of State shOuld
be laid on the table of the House, on
which a division wasrecorded in favor of the
main motion. But these two last motions
were, I think, essentially different in char

acter. One was a direct vote of censure
on the Government; the other simTply

York Station [APRIL 20, 1885] P. _E. L Railway.
asked for the production of papers-they
Were certainly not substantially the same.
1 now come to the last case cited by'the
hon.member. On the 8th of April fol1
oWing, a motion was made " that leave be
given to bring in a bill to secure the inliolability of letters passing through the
]ost Office," but this citation can have no
bearing whatever on the point I am now
dealing with, unless it can be shown that
another Bill relating to the same subject
had also been considered in the same ses51on, or that the principle involved in it
had in some other way been considered
and disposed of, which, of course, was not
the case.
The rule being, therefore, clear in supPort of the contention of the hon. Senator
fron Amherst, that no question can be
again considered in the same session after
having been once disposed of, I have, in
the second place, to inquire, is the motion
Of the hon. Senator from Woodstock, now
efore the House, substantially the same
as the one made by him on the 24th of
rebruary last ? In doing so, I pass over
for the present the hon. member's own
admissions on this point, and ask what
Were the aim and scope of his first motion ?
Clearly, to obtain a committee of this
liOuse to investigate and report on the

affairs of the Bank of Upper Canada.
Aid is not the present motion substantially a similar motion, with a similar
scoPe and purpose? I certainly think it
1s- I consider this construction of the
Character and object of the two motions
too self-evident to require to be supported
by any of the numerous authorities on
construction I could quote for that purPose. The investigation asked for on the
2
4th of February, after full debate and
¶On1sideration by the House, was refused
In a manner rare in parliamentary proCeedings. The decision on that occasion
So unanimous and emphatic, that it is
hd to look upon the present motion in
7 other light than as a contempt-I
trust an unintentional contempt-of the
PreviOus judgment of the Senate.
h'But the Senator from Woodstockas has
to
tlr'self left the House in no doubt
e purpose he has in view in the motion
owOn our minutes. Not only does he
t deny, but admits that his two motions
relate to the same subject, and that the

619

the first. If anything, however, were required to be added to these admissions, it
is amply supplied in the fact that all the
authorities quoted by the Senator from
Woodstock were cited to establish his
right to bring a subject, which the Senate
had already considered and disposed of,
again before the House in the same
session; the character of his argument, as
well as his direct admissions, conceding the
substantial sameness of his two motions.
My opinion is, that the objections of
the hon. Senator from Amherst were well
taken, and that the motion of the hon.
Senator from Woodstock is not in order.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER.-I bow to
the decision of the Chair, and I only
claim permission to observe, that I will
take occasion, which I have a perfect
right to do, as a member of Parliament, of laying before the public
through the press of the country, the
remarks which I had intended to have
addressed to this hon. House on this
subject.
HON. MR. BOTSFORD.--It affords
me great pleasure to record my satisfaction at the decision of His Honor the
Speaker. I was very much pleased with
the clear and able manner in which he
gave his opinion, and I must say, that
after a very long experience in Parliamentary life, I think His Honor the Speaker
could have arrived at no other conclusion.

YORK STATION, PRINCE EDWARD
ISLAND RAILWAY.
MOTION.

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE movedThat an humble address be presented to
His Excellency the Governor General, praying that His Excellency will cause to be laid
before this Bouse copies of all memoriale,
letters or telegrams, addressed to the Railway
Department, respecting the establishment of
the York Station on the Prince Edward Island
Railway, and the answers thereto; also copies
of any memorials, letters or telegrams, which
may have been received by that Department
having reference to the abolition of the said
station, and the replies, if any, made thereto.
He said :-I perhaps ought to offer
some apology to the House for troubling
ject of the last was also the object of them upon a matter which refers to the

Yor'k Station [SE NATE] P. E. 1. Railway.

620

affairs of part of my province, having re- province would have asked the Dominion
cently called attention to the same to relieve theni of the charge of it. They
question ; but having been, I think, would certainly have retained it for theml'
rather misunderstood on the former occa- selves. They did not do so, and it hassion, I shall endeavor to make the case a not proved a profitable undertaking; and
little clearer to-day. We have not long it seems to me to be a strange thing that
since been reminded as to what is the one particular locality of the province
duty of Senators as regards the interests of should be punished because the road haS
their provinces, and we are told why the not proved remunerative, while other porsmaller provinces are as fully represented tions of the province have their stations'
in this Chamber as the larger members of continued in full operation. Now, let me
the Confederation ; and I therefore appeal explain to the House how that station
to the hon. gentlemen in this House to came to be established. It was not one
give me their support on this occasion. I of the original stations on the line. It
stand here to-day to represent the inter- was established, as far as my memory
ests of certain persons in my province, serves me, in 1878; at that time a general
who, I believe, have been aggrieved, and election was about to take place, and tWO
I ask the assistance of other members of gentlemen connected with the party were
the Senate in obtaining for them redress. candidates for the House of Commons•
It will be necessary for me to offer a few I think the inhabitants of that district
remarks upon the construction of the appealed to them to procure for thera
Prince Edward Island Railway, because it a station in their midst, and those
differs so very much from any other rail- gentlemen very properly engaged to use
way in Canada, it having no through what influence they possessed with the
traffic. It had long been the object of Government, in order to induce the Dethe local Legislature to build wharves partment to establish a station there. 1
at every available place in order to carry am not blaming those gentlemen for
the traffic of the country seaward at doing it. I think they were doing perthe least possible expense for haulage. fectly right. The settlement had a cler
This policy had been pursued for years right to a station there, and when they
but it was found in the long run to be claimed that privilege they did what was
both exceedingly expensive and unequal within their right, and I say that the
to the necessities of the case; conse- Department was only doing justice il'
quently, nearly twenty years ago now, the establishing a station there, because it eo
attention of the public was directed to the evidently needed ; but the reasons tht
possibility of building a railway in our have been alleged since then for abolish
country. With that project my hon. friend ing the station are certainly insufficie1'
from Alberton has always been identified, If it be a reason sufficient that that par
if not as the originator, at all events as one ticular station has not been a remuneraof the pronoters. That railway project tive one to the Dominion, certainlY, Or
was ultimately agreed to by the Legislature, the same line of argument, many other
and the road was contracted for and com- stations in different parts of the province
menced, in order to be used by the people should be closed on the same groUfnl 5
of Prince Edward Island as a highway is and the anxiety of the public I think tur"
used. It was not a railway for through upon this point-that what has happened
traffic. It could not be, in the nature of at York Station may happen at the oth
things, as no through traffic could come stations on the Island, at the caprice O
there ; and the intention of its originators arbitrary will of the Department. I staD
was, that it should serve as a highway on here to-day to protest against such a
which to carry the produce of the people, thing, and I say it is an unheard-of ee
and in that view it must be worked and cise of the arbitrary power of the DeP
operated in a manner somewhat different ment to shut up a station upon a fine s
to other railways. When that province Government road. I took some p
became united to Canada it never was the other day to impress some factset
urged that the railway was not and never the mind of the leader of the Governni1ta
was likely to be a paying concern. If it and I have no reason to complain
had been so, it was not likely that the his is not a candid mind, or that he dOe
HON. MR.

HAYTHORNE.

York Station [APRIL 20, 1885] P. E. 1. Railway
not treat all questions I may put to him
'ith all proper respect, but I tear that his
rnind has been too open to representations
Of the Department, which are not always
correct; he took occasion here to ask
What the distance was from that station to
Charlottetown, and I said I thought it
Was about ten miles, meaning by the
railway ; but the hon. gentleman has
corne down since with a statement furlished by the Department, in which he
says that the reason why the York Station
had been unremunerative was that it was
'Pnly five miles by the highway, whereas
Itwas ten miles by the railway. That staternent I knew at once was not correct, be'Cause Iwas familiar with the place. Of course
that was no argument to advance to the
llouse, but perhaps this topographical map
Which I now submit for the consideration
of the Minister of Justice may be of some
Use.
By the scale 1 find that the road is
*at least seven miles by the highway to
Charlottetown, and the difference between
that and the railway is only three miles.
lion. gentlemen may see from that map
that the vicinity of the station is densely
settled. I doubt if there is any part of
'Ontario where the population is more
dense per square mile than in the neighborhood of York Station, and not only is
the country in the immediate vicinity of
the station a thickly settled one, but northWard the settlement extends to the sea
'hore, and round the shore itself are
thriving fisheries. When I have seen
fishermen toiling in with heavy loads by
1
e highway I appealed to them and asked
lVhy they did not go by the railway ?
'l'heir reply was that the trains did not
Pass at hours that were of any convenience
to the people ; that in fact the trains were
!n' to suit the railway and not to suit the
nfhabitants. Now I have made my point,
Which is this, that the statement brought
own the other day by the hon. Minister
Justice relative to the distance from
York Station to Charlottetown is inaccu1te. If he will apply the scale to the
'ap which I have handed himn he will find
t
hat the road from the station to Marshnd P 0. is 2 miles, and from Marshland
O to Charlottetown is 5 miles. What
Want to place before the hon. gentleman,
l Order that he may enforce it upon the

.621

same as it was when York Station was established some five or six years ago at the
instance of gentlemen who were then
members of Parliament.
If it is an improper place for a station
now, it must have been equally so then.
I wish further to call the hon. gentleman's
attention-because I know that he is a
man of just mind and would not willingly
be a party to any injustice to persons in
the remote locality from which I comeand it is this, that the establishment of a
station adds materially to the value of
property surrounding it, and that the deposition, if I may use the term, of a station diminishes that value. Now, I say
that no Department can be permitted-I
cannot permit them, at all events, as long
as I hold a seat in this House and have a
voice to protest against it-at their arbitrary will to erect and depose stations in
that way. I make this appeal, as coming
from a small province, and I need scarcely
remind the House that my case may be
theirs any day. Certainly it is the duty of
any Senator to protest against any infringment on the rights and privileges of
his constituents. I do hope that the Minister of Justice will make such representations to his colleagues as will induce them
to re-open this station.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLThere is no objection to the Address. I
am not aware of the papers existing, but
whatever papers do exist will be brought
down. If the facts which I stated before
were correctly stated, it strikes me that
my hon. friend is somewhat unreasonable.
Why should a station be kept up on this
railway if, after three or four years experience, there is no business to warrant it ?
Why should the country be put to the expense of maintaining a station at $400 or
$5oo expense a year-because there would
be a station-master, a porter and expenses
of that kind-if after sufficient experience
it is found not to be paying ? I do not
mean to say that the step should be taken
rashly or hurriedly, but if, after some
years' experience, it is found that there is
no business to warrant the Department
in maintaining the station, why should
the staff be kept up? Would not
the Government be exposing itself
alttention of his colleagues, is this-that to just animadversions of extravagance ?
hatever the distance is now, it is just the Finding there was no - business to

622

Temperance Act, &ec., [SE NATE] Amendment Bill.

warrant it, the station, as a booking station, was closed, but people can get on
and off the trains there, and ship and
receive freight there, and the only thing
which has been suggested that is not done
and which could be done to put the people of that neighborhood in the same position as the people on other parts of the
line, is that they should be allowed an opportunity to buy return tickets. I have
drawn the attention of the Department to
that subject, and it seems that something
can be done to accomplish that object
without re-opening the station as a booking station, and facilities will be afforded
for purchasing return tickets. With regard
to the distance, I was informed that it
was five miles by the common road; that
was the information I received from the
officers of the Department. However,
the hon. gentleman says it is seven miles.
Nevertheless, farmers will not drive to
the station, unload and ship their freight
by train to Charlottetown, and employ
teams there to carry their freight to the
market. It seems to me that they would
prefer going the seven miles in their
waggons and driving to the market and
selling their produce there. That is what
I think is reasonable. I do not desire to
pronounce in any dogmatic way on the
subject, but I can assure my hon. friend
that whatever can be done reasonably will
be done, and I will take care that the
subject is properly represented to the Department.
The motion was agreed to.
DRY DOCKS CONSTRUCTION
BILL.

HON. MR. BELLEROSE, from the

Committee, reported the Bill without
amendment.
The Bill was then read the third time
and passed.
TEMPERANCE ACT AND LIQUOe
LICENSE ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
SECOND READING POSTPONED.

HON. MR. VIDAL moved the second
reading of Bill (92) "An Act to further
amend the Canada Temperance Act, 1878'
>e
and the Liquor License Act, 1883."
said : The Bill to which I now invite
your attention is a very.simple one.

HON. MR. DICKEY-I should like tO
call attention to the fact that the Bill has
not been printed or distributed.
HON. MR. VIDAL-It certainlY 1S
printed, and it has been on my desk fo'
several days.
HON. MR. DICKEY-I have not bece
able to get a printed copy, and there are
several gentlemen in the same position--'
it has just now been put into my hanld'
It relates to an important matter which *
likely to create discussion, and I hope
hon. friend, under the circumstances,
allow it to stand for at least two or three
days, so that we will have an opportunity
of considering the measure carefully. P9
fortunately we have the prospect of havI
plenty of time before us to consider and
discuss the question.

THIRD READING.

The House resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole on Bill (1o8), " An
Act to amend the Act 45 Vic., cap. 17, to
encourage the construction of dry docks."
In the Committee, on the 1st clause,
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-This
is a Bill simply to introduce the words
" City of Halifax" into the Act. As it is
now, it is only an ordinary corporation,
which can take the first place in the conatruction of a dock, and obtain Government aid, and it is proposed that the
words "City of Halifax" shall be added.
HON.

SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL

HON. MR. VIDAL-I have every diS'
position to meet the wishes of the hO"•
member from Amherst, but I do .ot
understand why such a length of t1ll
should be necessary. It is a very s
Bill, and there is not a single irnportan
clause in it ; it does not require dt'y
minutes consideration. I feel it nY UtB
not to take it up now, since the requ
has been made to postpone the seco
reading, but I do not think the postpo
ment need be longer than till to-Inof
I am perfectly satisfied that my hon. fril
can be quite master of the Bill Intle'
minutes. Would it suit the hon. geOtîe

Legislation [APRIL 20, 1S85] in tMe &nate.

623a

HoN. MR. POWER-I presume the
Minister, in view of the course taken in
the case of another Bill recently, will have
HON. MR. DICKEY-I have placed no objection to striking the word "commly views before my hon. friend, and I do pellable " out of that 5th clause.

man to postpone the second reading until

to-morrow ?

not wish to interfere with him unnecesHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I do
sarily, but I should like to have the second
not care whether it is left out or not.
reading postponed until Wednesday.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I

think that
HON. MR. VIDAL-I yield. I move
word should be omitted.
that the order of the day be now discharged, and that the second reading of
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
the Bill be fixed for Wednesday next.
move
HON. MR. FLINT-I have been quite

that the word "compellable"
struck out of the 5th clause. That
make the legislation consistent, at
events.
The motion was agreed to, and
clause as amended was adopted.

be
will
all

surprised to learn that a number of Senators have not seen the Bill. I received it
the
on Friday, and supposed that it was distributed to everyone. This morning I
learned that quite a number of Senators
HON. MR.
had not seen it, and therefore I think it is mittee, reportedODELL, from the Comthe Bill with
just as well that the second reading be which were concurred in. amendments,
postponed for a couple of days.
The Bill was then read the third time
and passed.
HON. MR. ALMON-As this is the
only time on which I am able to agree LEGISLATION
IN THE SENATE.
with the hon. member from Sarnia, I wish
to say that I have had the Bill in my posTHE DEBATE CONTINUED.
session for two or three days, and I think
it might as well be taken up and discussed
The order of the day having been called.
to-day.
for, resuming debate on the Hon. Mr.
The motion was agreed to, and the Plumb's motion, viz:" That he will call attention to the desirasecond reading of the Bill was fixed for
bility of encouraging the initiation of Private
Wednesday next.
Bills in this House, witti a view to the more
equal division of the labors of the two bran :hes
PRESERVATION OF THE PEACE, in the earlier period of the session, and that
he will also enquire of the Government if it
PUBLIC WORKS, BILL
be not deemed advisable to originate in this
House as many measures as the law and usage
of Parliament will permit in order that this
THIRD READING.
House imay more adequately fill its place in.
The House resolved itself into a Com- the Constitution."
raittee of the Whole on Bill (0) " An Act
HON.
further to amend an Act for the Better rose the MR. McCLELAN said: When I
other day to make
Preservation of the Peace in the vicinity observations on the subject one or two
which has
Of Public Works, and the Acts in amend- occupied the
attention of this Chamber on
tnent thereof."
the motion of the hon. member from
Niagara, I did not
In the Committee, on the 5th clause, extended remarks, norintend I to make any
shall do so to-day.
Which was as follows:I have listened to three or four very exOn the trial of any proceeding, matter or cellent speeches that have been made
question under this Act, or under the Acts upon this, to us, all-important question.
fereby amended, the person opposing or de- The first address,
that by the hon. gentlefeadin , and the wife or husband of such peren, shall be competent and compellable to man from Niagara, was a speech with
give evidence.
much of which every one in this Chamber

62A4

Legi8Iation [SENATE] in the Senate.

will be in full accord. The hon. gentleman ventured, amongst uther things, to
describe the particularly high qualifications
which gentlemen of all classes who occupy
seats in this Chamber possess for legislative work. He enumerated the numbers
of us who were engaged in the different
avocations of life ; he mentioned a number who had served long periods in other
legislatures, and perhaps in provincial
cabinets. He referred to many whose
conduct had been frequently endorsed by
the votes of the people, and he might
have gone on to say that those who were
not so endorsed, and who came in free
from any party entanglement, or such
entanglements as are frequently connected with political elections, and though
not perhaps so experienced in political
contests, might be supposed to take a
calmer, more independent or non-partisan
view of public questions, and therefore it
was not altogether without advantage that
gentlemen were selected to fill this important position who had not previously
occupied any important political trust, or
had not, on any occasion, been endorsed
by the popular vote. But while the hon.
gentleman spoke in our praisewhile he was congratulatory in speak
ing of the different members of
this honorable body, and in that way
I am sure not including himself,
it would only be proper that other gentlemen should endeavor to respond and congratulate this Chamber on the accession
to it of one who is eminent, besides his
other qualities, for that kind of ability
certainly which enables him to express
himself so fluently upon every and upon
any occasion, as the hon. gentleman from
Niagara. However, mutual admiration is
very much like self-praise, and is not always the best recommendation. The
press, on both sides of politics, have frequently given the Senate rather a bad
name, and some years ago reference was
made, as has been alluded to by my hon.
friend from Amherst, in the other branch
of the Legislature, to the position of this
body; but latterly we have had no expression there derogatory to the Senate.
As the hon. gentleman from Amherst has
said, it has never been considered to be
the most dignified way to treat newspaper
articles, or those references which are
more or less of a casual nature, with any
HON. MR. McCLELAN.

great degree of consideration, and therefore this hon. body had generally been
disposed to allow such things to pass with
silence. However, the motion of the
hon. member from Niagara, and the able
speech which followed it, must have taken
a great many hon. gentlemen by surprise,
coming as it did from one who entertained
so high an opinion of this hon. body in
which he is placed-as one would ro
suppose that, Brutus like, he would inflict
anything like a stab on the character and
standing of this hon. body. He has stated,
in substance, in the speech which followed
his motion, that this body has not cone
up to the expectations of the country, that
in sonie respects it is lacking in its discharge of its senatorial function in a
remarkable degree.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I think the hon.
gentleman is mistaken as to what I
said.

HoN. MR. McCLELAN-I took it as
a practical admission on the part of the
hon. gentleman, that this House does nOt
fill the position which, in the opinion of
the hon. gentleman from Niagara, it ought
to hold. Therefore he has opened the
whole question, and naturally and necessarily almost, from the lengthened remarks
which followed this proposition, it becomnes
a matter of duty with other gentlemen,
who hold other opinions and tendencies,
that they should follow and make some
observations as to the conclusion he caie
to in discussing this question. The hon.
gentleman from Niagara did not confine
himself to the main substance of his
motion; he brought forward, and allowed
himself to treat generally of the origin and
intentions of Upper Chambers, and hoW
far this particular body had gone towards
occupying the position that it should
hold. Some of the references made would
scarcely, in my humble judgment, bear
out the conclusion which that hon. gentleman, and perhaps the hon. gentleman whO
spoke recently upon it, came to. 'he
hon. member from Niagara, in discussing
the resolution, quoted from a speech delivered by the Right Hon. Sir John MaC
donald, I think at the inauguratiol Or
previous to the inauguration of Confederation, upon this question, and among other
things, he reported him as saying that:

Legi8lation [APRIL 20, 1885] in the Senate.
"No Ministry can in future do what they
have done in Canada before-they cannot,with
the view of carrying any measure or strengthening the party, attempt to overrule the independent opinion of the Upper House, by
filling' it with a number of its partizans and
political supporters."
Again he quotes" There would be no use of an Upper House
if it did not exercise, when it thougit proper,
the right of oposing or amending or postponing the legislation of the Lower House. It
Would be of no value whatever were it a mere
Chamber for registering the decrees of the
Lower House. It must be an independent
House having a free action of its own, for it is
only valuable as being a regulating body,
calmly considering the legislation initiated by
the popular brancfh and preventing any hasty
er ill-considered legislation which may come
from that body, but it will never set itself in
opposition against the deliberate and.underStood wishes of the people. Even the House of
Lords which,as an hereditary body, is far more
independent than one appointed for life can
be, whenever it ascertains what is the calm,
deliberate will of the people of England, it
ields, and never in modern times las there
been, in fact or act, an attempt to overrule
the decision of that House by the appointment
of new peers, excepting perhaps once in the
reign of Queen Anne. It is true that in 1832
Such an increase was threatened in consequence of the reiterated refusal of the House
of Peers to pass the Reform Bill.

625

from Amherst seemed to look at them in

the remarks which they made the other
day. In discussing the proceedings of the
Senate with a view of showing the independence which characterizes this hon.
body, they referred to some four or five
measures which had been rejected by the

Senate as an evidence, as I understood
them, that the action of this hon. House
was not partizan, and that the majorities

in those cases were not actuated by any
partizan motives, and I do not, of course,
presume to say positively that they were.
One of the bills-I think the first one to
which allusion was made-was a Bill
which came from the House of Commons
during the time of the Mackenzie administration, which provided for the readjustment of the South Huron constituency,

and credit was taken by the hon. gentleman for the defeat of that measure; that
it was a proper thing, showing independence of character, as the measure had not
been petitioned for. I do not suppose that
any hon. gentleman will contend that there
is much argument in the latter observation, for a great many measures of a similar
character, and perhaps of greater importance, have frequently passed through both
chambers without any petition being
directly presented from the people; but
" To the Upper House is to be confided the the Bill to reconstruct the constituency of

Protection of sectional interests; therefore is
It that three great commissions are there
equally represented, for the purpose of defendIng such interests against the combination of
tnajorities in the Assembly."
The hon. member from Niagara, after

quoting this speech and another one by
the late lamented Hon. George Brown on
the same question, proceeded to argue
that none of those conditions which up to
that time had existed, and which led to
this change, they were sure could ever
take place with regard to the Senate, and
that the Senate would maintain strictly
that independence

of character

which

should characterize a nominative Upper
Chamber. In the few remarks I propose
toj make I do not intend to take issue

South Huron, as near as I can remember,
was merely the restoration to a state of
things very similar to that which previously existed.

The real evil, if there were an evil, had
been committed before that by the previous Legislature. That particular riding
had been changed in it formation and
changed in its characteristics, and this Bill

came before the House of Commons with
a view of readjusting or restoring the condition of things, or as nearly as possible
the condition of things that previous to
that time had existed. That is my memory of the affair, but I am unable to turn
to the debates although I think it will be
borne out by the facts on investigation.
It was not an introduction of a plan to re-

·rnaterially with the arguments which have
been made use of, or to express any par- adjust the constituency de novo; it was
'ticular opinion of my own ; but there merely a restoration to the original state
Were some references to certain bills and of things in that riding. That being the
certain proceedings in this Chamber which, case, it appears to me it was a reasonable
Perhaps, some hon. gentlemen might view proposition to submit to this
Chamber,
differently from the way the hon. gentle- and ordinarily the country might expect
rna' from Niagara and the hon. gentleman that Parliament, having taken in hand to
PI

626

Legislation [SENATE] in the Senate.

correct the evil, that this Chamber would
have concurred in that Bill. I am not
complaining of the action of the Senate.
Of course hon. gentlemen will see things
differently in all those cases, but it is a
little remarkable that that particular event
should be quoted as having a bearing on,
or being an illustration of, those virtues
which this honorable and august body is
supposed to be possessed of. A few years
later a Bill, not to gerrymander one constituency, orrather an attempt to restore one
to its original position, but a Bill which really
affected the bounds and condition of 55
or 6o constituencies in the province of
Ontario, many of which were thereby very
much more mutilated than this one to
which a reference has been madeHON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSON
-It was a general re-adjustient of the
constituencies.
HoN. MR. McCLELAN-It
general gerrymander.

was a

HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONIt was to provide for four additional
members.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-Yes, the one
was a very small affair, and the other was
a very large one-it was straining at a gnat
and swallowing a camel. If petitions are
to be considered as necessary to show
that the people asked for such legislation,
where were the petitions respecting that
measure ? Measures of that kind are often
introduced, too, at a period when members become wearied of their public duties
after months of debate, and when they do
not feel like spending their energies in
useless efforts to defeat them, and at the
close of the session they are inevitably
passed without very much consideration
and without very much discussion. I at
that time remember turning to the debate
which took place upon that South Huron
Bill, and reading the denunciatory addresses of some hon. gentlemen opposite
on that occasion. I did not then remind
them of their inconsistency, for I do not
speak very often ; but looking at these
same hon. gentlemen recording their votes
on that occasion for a measure which was
one hundred fold more aggravated in the
direction against which they argued on the
HON. MR. McCLELAN.

South Huron measure, one could not fail
to feel astonished. I scarcely expected
that it would in this debate be brought
forward as an instance of the magnanimity
and non-partizan feeling which should
actuate, and of course does actuate, this
honorable body in dealing with matters of
public importance. I will now refer to a
Bill which hon. members will remember
distinctly-the Esquimalt and Nanaimo
Railway Bill. That measure must be remembered by almost every nember of this
Senate, but perhaps some hon. gentlemen
who have come in recently may not
be aware of the fact that that Bill or a
like measure which provided for the construction of the railway on Vancouver
Island, had been the subject of an Orderin-Council by the Conservative Ministry
somewhere about the year 1871 or 1872.
That question had been taken up by the
Conservative party and by the Conservative Government and an Order-in-Council
was passed which provided for the railway and the disposition of the land. It
was probably just previous to their going
out of office. Subsequently we know in
the history of the country the province of
British Columbia, complaining of delay,
and possibly only too willing, some of
them, to cause embarrassment to the
Government of the day, petitioned the
home authorities-at all events they
made considerable complaints-that the
terms, the insane or almost insane termls,
that were made with that province when
it was brought into the union, of constructing the Pacific Railway within ten
years, &c., were not being carried out
according to their expectations. The result was the submission of the affair to
the home authorities. The MackenzIe
Government were subjected to the award
of Lord Carnarvon, which involves the
construction of that very road, and to the
astonishment of the country, and the
astonishment of the representatives from1
British Columbia, who constituted a portion of the eight members that my honfriend from Amherst referred to the
other day as voting for that measure along
with the members of the Government-say to the astonishment of those gentlemen in this House, and the six hon. gen
tlemen who represented that important
province in the House of Commnons, the
very same individuals, the very sarne

Legislation [APRIL 20, 1885] in the Senate.
party-the Conservative party in this
country, supported by the Conservative
nembers of the Senate-rejected that Bill,
emanating as it did then from the Government of the day.
HoN. MR. KAULBACH-Was not my
hon. friend one of the number who voted
with the majority on that occasion.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I can inform
the hon. gentleman that I did vote with
the majority on that occasion. It may
appear strange to the hon. gentleman but
I have not surrendered my right of private
judgnent. I have always made it a point,
although certainly having some antecedent
political tendencies on great questions, to
speak and vote according to my convictions, and I did not believe that the
interests of the country required the expenditure of that large amount of money
in that province ; and therefore, although
I was in accordance with the Government
at the time, I did not feel that I was bound
on that occasion to support every measure
that might be presented for my judgment;
and therefore on that occasion I happened
to vote with the majority. I did not
expect I would be in the majority at the
time. I am not complaining of it. I
think upon that occasion the vote of the
najority was a very proper one, and I was
very glad indeed on that occasion to find
that I was in the majority. But pursuing
the history of this Esquimalt and Nanaimo
project, at a later period, when the Conservative Government was in power, we
find that the opinion of this Chamber
suddenly changed again, and on that
occasion I might inform my hon. friend
from Lunenburg I was not in the majority.
I was in the minority then, because I think
of the whole three efforts to construct a
railway in that country, considering that
we were spending $Ioo,ooo,ooo or so to
build a railway across the continent-I
think of all the measures that were introduced or suggested the last is the worst ;
because I believe if there is any great
Object in rushing on this road to unite the
two oceans, we ought at least to have in
"iew the occupation and advantage of
those very large coal fields of which we
have heard so much ; but in connection
With the last scheme the country wakes up
to the discovery that those vast fields of coal

627

are alienated, and not only alienated, but put
in the hands of and under the control of a
foreign syndicate. Of course I am only
speaking of the history of this affair ; I arn
not impugning the motives of hon. gentlemen, or speaking of the impropriety of
their having changed their minds, or their
votes which, to human understanding and
unexplained, seem, however, to be very
inconsistent votes. Yet, when hon. gentlemen adduce these instances to prove the
very high motives, the non-partizan feeling,
the disinterested action which has characterized the legislation in this Senate, it is
natural that one should look at these matters in rather a different light fron that in
which the other hon. gentlemen seem to
view them. Now, taking the other point
in reference to the speech of the Premier
before Confederation, that the Senate
would be found particularly useful in pro.
tecting the interests of the smaller provinces, and on that account the smaller
provinces should have, and did have, a
larger representation proportionately. I
am not aware that that object, which is
certainly a worthy one, and for which the
provinces should be extremely thankful,
has been as well attained as the country
might reasonably expect. Take, for instance, some of those questions that seem
to be materially calculated to affect the
maritime interests. We all know about
the Fishery Award. Those of us corning
from the Maritime Provinces-New
Brunswick, Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island-know that the fishermen of
those coasts had strong claims for consideration. With respect to that award,
therefore, it was natural that the representative men coming from those particular
provinces should assert their rights and
claim their proportion of the award. That
could not be so successfully urged in the
House of Commons as it could be in this
Chamber for the very reason that Sir John
Macdonald properly stated, that when
circumstances arose of that character the
bond which should be found to exist
when any interest of a maritime nature
would likely be touched, that this Senate
would come in and protect the interests of
those provinces. I am not aware that the
gentlemen of this Chamber, even on that
momentous occasion, were prepared to
sink their little disputes and unite for the
protection of the fishermen and for what

628

Legislation [SEN'ATE] in the Senate.

they claim to be their rights in that matter. of that contention-that it was a subject
That was an occasion on which one would that this Senate should particularly take
naturally think such a union would take care of, and it would be derelict in its
place, but itdid not take place. Ithinkthere duties if it failed to resist the House of
is some recognition of the justice of that Commons in inflicting such a terrible blow
claim made by the Government in granting on the Maritime Provinces. I remember
bounties to the fishermen, but it is rather also the hon. gentleman who fills the high
a miserable way of doleing out a pittance position of Minister of the Interior taking
as a matter of charity and not as a matter the very same position-not only the same
of right. The fishermen are as independ- position, but stating further that it was the
ent a class of people as there are to be introduction of a system of taxation and
found in this country, and there is no protection which would be most fatal to
propriety in treating them with less con- the future interests of any country.
sideration than other classes are treated ;
and therefore if they have a right to a porHON. MR. POWER-Hear, hear.
tion of the award they should claim it as a
right and not have a portion given to them
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I rernember
in a way that is contrary to every principle well the amendment and some of the
of political economy. Then, again, treat- speeches then made. The members from
ing of these questions which are well cal- the Lower Provinces I think very generculated to cement the members of this ally-I have their names here-on that
Chamber who come from the Maritimes occasion supported the interest for which
Provinces, there was the question of taxa- they were particularly delegated, and
tion. Taxation, as far as New Brunswick under the circumstances for which this
was concerned, we were told was to be Chamber was particularly formed, and
.imited to so much per capita. It was strenuously resisted the introduction of
never to exceed a certain rate per cent. the protective system. Then again the
that was fully discussed in New Bruns- hon. member from Amherst remembers very
wick. In Nova Scotia, they were brought well, although it was not in the written
into the union without an election, and constitution, that it was thoroughly undertherefore their circumstances might be a stood and agreed upon by the delegates
little different on that point ; but the who framed this constitution, that the
bearing of it is all the same. When this work of constructing the Baie Verte
pledge was made by the leading public Canal should be undertaken. This pledge
men who were in favor of the union, and has not been carried ont. Perhaps all the
it came to be shamelessly violated, that gentlemen from Nova Scotia might not be
was an occasion on which one would disposed individually to favor it, but that
suppose that the Senators from the Mari- is one of the things which at all events at
time Provinces would rally for the support the time of the union it was thought
of their common interests. This was not would be a boon to which we in the
done to any great extent. I do remember Maritime Provinces were entitled. The
about the year 1870 when the Bill passed work has never been carried out, yet we
to impose a grievous burden upon the have had no united expression of senticountry by a duty on coal, flour, corn meal, ment on the failure to redeem that pledge.
rice and salt, we did find in that early Now, a good deal has been said by the
stage of our political history that the hon. member from Niagara, and I think
members from the Maritime Provinces other hon. gentlemen, too, with reference
united and did everything they could to to preserving the dignity of the Senate.
prevent it from receiving the endorsation That seems to be a very important thing
of this Chamber. I remember the argu -in the minds of hon. gentlemen. There
ment of the Minister of Justice who intro -are some matters which may be considered
duced the measure, that the Senate was trifling, but inasmuch as I am on my feet,
exceeding its powers, exceeding its rightful I may as well make some reference tO
limit in interfering with the tariff at all, them, since I may not have another OPand I remember the eloquent speech of portunity of doing so. In the early part
the hon. gentleman who so ably presides of the session we came up here feeling,
as Speaker of the House to-day in favor some of us at all events, that the country
HON. MR. McCLELAN.

Legi8lation [APRIL 20, 1885] in the Senate.
was not as flourishing as the Speech from
the Throne would indicate-that the condition of the farming community was not
as satisfactory as that Speech would lead
us to believe ; and in answer to the
Speech I felt that a good deal ought to be
said in the way of comment, because the
country expected it, in the debate on the
Address. The hon. gentleman from
Ottawa, who is generally recognized as
the leader of the Opposition in this
Chamber, if it is necessary at all to have
parties here, which is doubtful-at all
events, as the leader of those who
entertain Liberal sentiments in this House.
-very properly commented on that subject,
He made a long, and as I thought, a very
able exposition of his views upon it of a
critical character. My hon. friend from
Marshfield ( Mr. Haythorne ) I think
followed him, and the hon. member from
Delanaudiere (Mr. Bellerose) made what
I think was a very good point indeed, in
which he explained that while he was
gratified to see an ex-governor appointed
to a seat in this House, he was not pleased
with the manner in which that appointment had been reached, by placing a
relative of the hon. gentleman here, during
his incumbency of the position of Lieut.Governor, to preserve the seat for him.
Very naturally I expected an answer to
these criticisms, but no reply came from
the Government. If the intention was to
reduce the Senate to a mere political
machine-for the Hon. Minister of Justice
would not do anything discourteous intentionally-he could not have taken a
better course. Here was a Chamber with
some 6o or 65 on one side, and there
were a few gentlemen on the other side
who exercised the privilege, according to
old and long-established usage, of criticizing properly and respectfully the terms in
which that Address was couched, and I
did think that it was a rather anomolous
proceeding, that after those speeches were
Made, no answer came from the hon.
gentleman who is the leader of the GovernMent in this House on that occasion; that
was a circumstance which, to say the least
of it, was of a very unusual character.
Then there was another circumstance
Which I think was not calculated to raise
the dignity of this august body very much,
or to strengthen our independence of
views, or our usefulness individually, in

629

this House, which is this: that after the
Government of the day, strong though
they are, selected from the members of
this hon. Chamber the committees, which
it is proper and usual for them to do, a
member of this Government should
go on a committee and dictate who
should be chairman, taking away from the
members of that committee all freedom or
right to select theirchairman, and further to
say who shall constitutethe sub-committees,
where such are required ; it is a proceeding which to my mind is very unnecessary.
There may be precedents somewhere
found for it, but I very greatly doubt it.
I think the Government of this country,
supported as they are by enormous majorities in both Houses, could well afford to
give to the hon. gentlemen composing
committees that privilege-could well
afford to trust their judgment and give
them freedom of action at all events in
nominating and electing their own chairman to preside over their deliberations.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Is not that the
practice in the House of Commons ?
HON. MR. McCLELAN-I am not
speaking of the House of Commons.

HON.

MR.

PLUMB-That is the

popular branch.
HON. MR. McCLELAN-There is
another matter which is not so important,
and perhaps I should not have referred to
it, which was discussed with closed doors
-I mean interfering with the press, and
with the speeches of members. I know
it was stated that the action was prompted
by leading members of this House. I
have never inquired who were the leading
members of this House, because I have
always felt that if I stood alone here expressing my opinions in a proper way, I
should be protected by rule and by usage,
as other members of this body. I dissent
from the opinion that any number should
concert together with a view of taking any
particular action that was not authorized
by the body in open session or authorized
hy some usage. Having said these things
in reply rather to the observations that
emanated from hon. gentlemen who support the resolution of the hon. member
from Niagara, I do not wish to say any-

630

Me
Logislation [SENATE] int &nate.

Senate a pretext for questioning its usefulness. Towards the end of the session
the accumulated work of the House of
Commons is often rushed on the Senate,
and is apparently performed in a hurry,
without due consideration, and it has been
said in consequence that Senators are subservient to the Government of the day.
However, when you consider that Senators
have ample time to read and follow the
debates of the House of Commons on
every question, and that all bills and
motions initiated in the House of Commons are at once placed in the hands of
members of this House, you readily
understand that the accusation might fall
to the ground. However, the consequence
of the present system has been that outsiders, and even members of the other
House, have suggested different plans to
reform the Senate, which may be summed
up as follows:
i. Election by the Local Legislatures.
2. Senators to have seats in the Flouse
of Commons, with the right to discuss but
not to vote.
3. Election by the people.
4. Abolition of Senate, pure and simple.
The two first plans may be dismissed
without discussion, as no arguments of any
consequence have been offered in their
support, and I propose to deal with the
two last only.
In questions of government, theories
do not amount to much; experience
should be our guide. Constitutions that
look well on paper, plans of government
the most elaborate, admirable in their
philosophical conception, do not stand a
year ; they break down when tested and
HON. MR. ROBITAILLE-The mo- put in force. I could point out a country
tion before us commends itself to the where a dozen constitutions have been
earnest consideration of this hon. House ; used up within sixty years, and where the
and the learned mover deserves great people are still restless and unsatisfied.
credit at the hands of not only the Senate, So, experience must be our guide, and if
but of the public at large, which will we look at other countries, our seniors in
benefit by the change if his suggestions social and political life, we find that our
are carried out. The facilities to initiate present system is not very defective after
bills in the Senate in the early part of the all. Thus the legislative power is exercised
session would prevent the accumulation of by two chambers in England, France, The
work, and give more time for the discus- United States, Austria, Belgium, Denniark,
sion of important measures towards the Spain, Hungary, Italy, Norway, Nether
end of the session. The present mode of lands, Portugal, Roumania, Sweden,
performing the legislative duties by intro- Switzerland, Turkey, Baden, Bavaria,
ducing almost all measures in the Com- Prussia, Saxony, Wurtemburg and severa
mons, has furnished the enemies of the German cities.

thing further. I trus that the discussion
that has grown out of this motion and
the inquiry itself, if there be an
evil existing, if the country is complaining,
if there is obstruction and if the wishes
of the people are not sufficiently satisfiedif there is foundation for the criticisms of
the press, if it is true as the great organ
of the Government of the day has stated
that our business is only to register the
acts of the House of Commons, or if any
of the other statements that we read are
correct, I do hope that the inquiry made
by the hon. member from Niagara, and
the discussions that have grown out of
that inquiry, will eventuate in being useful
and productive of some good. I rather
dissent from the observation made by my
hon. friend from Ottawa as to the stability
of this institution, that no change can be
made affecting present members. I think
that circumstances might arise here, as
they might have arisen if the House of
Lords had not given way to that outburst
of popular opinion led by the Premier
there, and agreed to a certain compromise;
circumstances such as have been intimated by hon. gentlemen in this discussion, in which the popular voice would
have *tobe listened to; even so far as the
constitution of a nominative body is concerned, if that nominated body comes to
the position, which I hope this may never
reach, of unduly interfering with the rights
of the people-of slavishly following the
dictates of one party. and totally disregarding that independent action which
alone can ensure its permanency under
the constitution,--there is no security
against demands for some radical change.

HON. MR. McCLELAN.

legislation [APRIL 20, 1885] in the Senate.
The Senate, or Upper House, is elected
by the people in the following countries :
France, The United States, Belgium,
Denmark (except 12 members), Spain
(one-half only), Norway, Netherlands,
Roumania, Sweden, Switzerland.
It is evident that the countries just referred to have found it necessary to control the Lower House, which is constantly renewed, by a permanent body
representing the traditions of the country
and far removed from passing and sometimes dangerous influences. A second
chamber is the outcome of the wisdom of
centuries, and a political as well as a governmental necessity, a protection both for
the Crown and the people. Its safeguaard
and usefulness are found in its independence. Take the House of Lords for example. It has stood for 8oo years a bulwark of English liberties; resisting the
encroachments of the Crown on the one
hand, and of demagogues on the other ;
and standing up against a venal Parliament notoriously packed by a corrupt
.government with placemen and pensioners
of the Crown. Its constitutional attitude
lately on the Franchise Bill has given a
fresh proof of its usefulness in bringing to
terms a government hurried into hasty
reforms by radical pressure.
No electoral body could ever have fulfilled the
functions which have been performed by
the House of Lords, and no body of any
kind can ever be found to adequately
take its place if it should be swept away.
Without wishing to institute a compariSon between this honorable House, and
the Lords in England, who can boast of
Much from ancestors and glory in so many
great men, I might be permitted to say
that the system of filling vacancies in the
Senate here is superior to that existing with
regard to the House of Lords. That
'noble institution has to take nature's
Choice and chances as the eldest sons are
Called to replace their fathers. But here
the selection is made by the Government

631

Commons and to the people. Thus the
appointment depends upon the people
who approve or condemn at the hustings.
But being appointed for life, the Senate is
more independent and better able to resist
undue pressure and to protect minorities.
The popular influence is more keenly felt
in the Senate than in the Lower House;
minorities have more chances to be represented here than in the popular Chamber.
Take, for instance, a case in point : the
case to which we owe the presence in this
House of our young colleague who has
just joined us, Mr. Poirier ; the Acadians
whom he represents here have only one
member in the other House, and yet they
number over io8,ooo scattered in the different counties of the Maritime Provinces.
Why is it that they are comparatively
more largely represented in this House ?
Because the French minorities in the different sections of the Maritime Provinces
said: Here we are, 1o8,ooo; we claim
to be represented in the Senate ; we have
influence, we have a voice in elections,
and if you do not listen to our claim it will
operate against you. Is this not a case of
popular influence in the Senate and of
protection to minorities ? Could not a
similar case be made out of the Irish
Catholics in Ontario and other provinces ?
Could we not trace the cause of the presence of some of our most esteemed and
worthy colleagues in the Senate to the
popular influence of the Irish element and
to the desire of the Government to be
agreeable to them and to do justice to an
important minority ? Suppose now that
this House were elective, have you the
same chance that the Irish and Acadian
minorities would be represented here ? I
believe not.
In France, since monarchial institutions
have been overthrown, the importance of
a second chamber has also been recognized
even by the present radical element ; by
people fifty years ahead of the most ultra
liberal of this country. Their Senate is

frOni amongst the best men of the country elective and composed of 300 meml'ers ;

and on their own responsibility, well
knowing that if the selection is not a wise
une, theywill beseverelycriticized by public
Opinion. Thus the people are truly repre3ented in the Senate, the nomination being
rade by the direct representatives of the
People, the Ministers of the Crown who
-are directly responsible to the House of

of these 75 are elected for life by the
members of the Senate themselves, and
the other 225 are elected, so to say, by the
people for nine years-the elections for
renewal of one-third taking place every
three years.
The 75 members elected by the Senate
are in the same position towards the gov-

632

Legidation [SENATE] in tMe Senate.

erning power and the people of France,
as this Senate is towards the Crown and
the people of this country. On a division they are equivalent to i5o-that is
one-half of the whole body-and can thus
counterbalance the other half of the
Senate which is supposed to be elected by
the people. But, hon. gentlemen, the
225 members supposed to be elected by
the people are not elected directly by the
people, but are selected by an electorate
composed ofi. The members of Parliament, the
general councillors, councillors of division
of the department or colony.
2. Delegates elected by the municipal
councillors of the department or colony';
and are thus in the same position towards
the governing power and the people of
France as the members of this Senate are
towards the people and the Crown in
this country.
This electorate is not responsible to
the Government nor to the people, and
its duties end with the election.
It
naturally follows that the Government
may exercise their corrupt influence over
electorates to bring about the nomination
of their favorites and yet shield themselves
from responsibility behind these delegates, whilst in this country the advisers of
the Crown are responsible to the people
who can seek redress by various constitutional means.
Before Confederation, the Legislative
Council of Canada was at first nominated
by the representative of the Crown in
Council, but after years of agitation by the
Liberal party the elective systen was
adopted. A short trial proved the system
impracticable-and the British North
Arnerica Act adopted by both political
parties, consecrated the present mode of
nominating the Senate.
Therefore one can safely say that the
Senate of this country, being selected by
the responsible representatives of the
people, is the offspring of the people, the
true and independent representative of the
people-as well as the zealous guardian of
the true interests of the Crown. And one
may safely say of this Senate a good share
of what has been said of the House of
Lords on the occasion of Lord Tennyson's
appointment to that noble body :" The measure of any politician may be
taken directly from his attitude towards
HON.

MR. ROBITAILLE.

the House of Lords; the most august, the
most peculiar, the most beneficial, the
most irreplaceable of the elements of the
English constitution. Any fool can make
a constitution à la Siéyès ou à la Wallon ;
any greater fool than he can destroy either.
But not the wisest man on earth could
replace when it was once destroyed the
Great Council of the nation, far more
representative than any elected Chamber,
far more intelligent than any device of
philosophers, to check the representative
principle which the practical wisdom of
nearly a millenium has accomplished in
the House of Lords."
HON. MR. ALMON-I had not intended to address the House on this
subject, because, although I consider it
instructive, yet I do not think it is calculated to advance the business of the
session, and when we reflect that it is
nearly three months since we left our
homes, and that it is likely we will have
to remain here some weeks longer, I think
we will be disposed to agree that the less
we have of these fruitless discussions the
better. The reason I rise now to make a
few remarks is that my view of the composition of the Senate is different frol
that of the majority of this body with
whom I have the honor generally to act.
I think that the members ot the Senate
should not be appointed by the Government of the day, but should be elected by
the legislatures of the several provinces.
HON. MR.

KAULBACH-No ! no !

HON. MR. ALMON-I am aware that

a majority of my friends entertain a different opinion. The present Government
have a large majority in the other HIouse,
and, judging from the results of recent
elections, they are likely to have a majoritY
in the next Parliament. Hon. gentlemen
need not imagine that in their magnanimity they will appoint members of the
Opposition to the Senate; they will do
nothing of the kind. They could not
appoint their opponents with any hope O
meeting with the approval of their frields,
and the consequence will be that a fei
years hence, since we are all nearing the
grave, with the exception of the senior
member for Halifax, there will be 1
Opposition left here. I am sure that

Legislation [APRIL 20, 1885] in Me Senate.
even if he were the only one left the
Opposition would still be heard, but at
the same time, although he can talk a
good deal on every question, he can only
vote once on any of them ! I think,
therefore, that the Senate should be con
stituted in this way: when a vacancy
takes place-for instance, if the junior
mTember for Halifax should die of old
age, I think the Nova Scotia Government
should appoint his successor, and so in
the case of vacancies occurring in the
representation of other provinces. Those
are my opinions, heterodox as they may
appear to be to my friends in this
louse.
HON. MR. POWER-I wish to ask the
hon. gentleman from Golf Division (Mr.
Robitaille) who bas favored us with a very
admirable effort, for a little further information as to the failure of the elective system.
I understood him to say that at the time
of Confederation the people here had
corne to the conclusion that the elective
System was a failure and that they should
go back to the nominative system. The
impression on my mind from conversations
With members of this House was quite the
reverse ; I understood that the gentlemen
elected by large divisions were men who
Imade excellent members of this body. I
should like to ask the hon. gentleman to
explain a little more in detail how the
System failed.
HON. MR. ROBITAILLE-I will explain. I understood that it was impractiCable. I do not say that the gentlemen
Who were elected were unworthy of being
Members of the Upper House, but the
sYsteni proved impracticable, and you will
find the reason why it was impracticable
Set forth in the speech which was quoted
here by the mover of the motion-the
speech of the late Hon. George Brown.
It was he who particularly pointed out the
Most striking reasons why the elective
8
Ystem should be abandoned, not that we
did not at first get proper men, but that
It was next to impossible to get first-class
Men to undertake such an arduous task
as to run an election in large divisions
sUch as there were at that tine, and for
mIany other reasons which were given and
Which have been read here in the course
Of this debate.

633

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-The hon.
member from Niagara took in hand what
appeared to be, to him at least, a very
congenial subject : at all events, he treated
it with great ability. It was one which
could not fail to attract the interest of
I cannot avoid
every member here.
thinking that members must have felt
strangely annoyed because at the commencement of the session, they had so
little to do. They came from their homes
fresh, strong and ready for work ; they sat
here for weeks and weeks, and still they hac
nothing before them. This is not a new
cause of complaint; it is something which
has prevailed every session for years. At
last, having really nothing before them,
hon. gentlemen were glad to avail themselves of proposals for more or less lengthy
I, myself, have always
adjournments.
objected to these adjournments, because
they seem to indicate a laxity of discipline
somewhere. If matters had been properly
arranged, work could have been found for
members of the Senate which would have
brought about debates, useful to the
country and interesting to themselves.
The hon. member from Niagara addressed
himself to the question as to how this
state of things could be remedied-how
the promoters of bills could be induced toinaugurate them in the Senate instead of
the House of Commons. Now, it seems
to me that that difficulty might be explained
without a very long discussion. It seems
to me that there are various reasons why
many promoters prefer to introduce their
measures in the House of Commons. In
the first place, there is, often times, considerable expense attending the introduc
tion of a private bill. Sometimes such a
measure is likely to be strongly opposed,
and the consequence is, perhaps, that
counsel have to be retained and kept here
in the Capital for several weeks at great
expense; perhaps witnesses have to be
brought and examined in support of the
bill before parliamentary committees.
Under these circumstances, of course, the
promoters feel that if they can get their
measures safely through the House of
Commons there is not much difficulty to
be feared in securing their passage through
the Senate. I may call the attention of
hon. members to incidents which have
occurred here on one or two occasions
which fairly illustrate the argument I have

€»34A

Legislation LSENATE] in Me &nate.

advanced. One was the Sub-marine TeleOn that occasion there
graphs Bill.
-were present here in Ottawa some of the
most distinguished men connected with
telegraphic operations. They were here
for weeks, and being here, gave their testimony and experience before a committee
of the Senate, as they had done before a
committee of the House of Commons.
Again, we had before us, some two or
three years ago, a measure relative to the
distribution of the property of certain
Presbyterian Churches, and on that occasion a large expense was incurred. That
Bill also was introduced in the House of
Commons, and was carried through the
Senate committee, certainly not without
debate, but I can easily understand, and
almost every hon. gentleman here will
understand, that the promoters of those
Bills felt that their principal difficulty was
to get their bills through the other Chamber, and that if they succeeded in that,
there was very little probability of a failure in the Senate.
Notwithstanding
these difficulties, there are no doubt many
private bills which do not give rise to
much opposition, and though the hon.
member for Amherst has dilated not a
little on the amendments we, too, have
made in some of the bills sent to us from
the House of Commons, and tells us that
those amendments had been almost universally adopted in the other Chamber,
yet, as a rule, we know that there is generally very little change made in private
bills which come before us. It seems to
me the best way to induce the promoters
of those bills to initiate them in the Senate
is by arrangement between the party
leaders. I think if it were made a point
that that sort of influence would be exercised by the party leaders-and it is perfectly legitimate-with their supporters
to initiate their bills in this House early
in the session, it would be a great
improvement, and would be a practical
way of bringing about the desired change.
The hon. gentleman from Niagara, although he made a very good address, did
not devote very much of his time to
matters strictly connected with the motion
he had made. He diverged very easily
into general questions connected with the
utility of the Senate, with the occupations
of its members, with their ages, and with
the powers and privileges of senates generHON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

ally. I noticed a general similarity in
the tenor of his speech, and that of the
speech which followed from the hon. gentleman from Amherst. It seemed to me
that they were like-minded in their addresses upon this great question. Another
point which struck me very forcibly was,
that they both attach no little importance
to the proposal that it is desirable that
members from the Opposition, under existing circumstances, should in some way
or other find their way into the Senate.
I do not know that they go the length of
expecting their leaders to appoint them
here, although their language would bear
that interpretation ; but they must know
perfectly well that such a plan is practiIn the first place,
cally impossible.
supposing that some leading men amongst
the Opposition would accept a nomination
such as those hon. gentlemen suggest,
without in any degree abandoning their
independence, could they, after accepting
appointment from the leader of a party
to which they had been opposed all their
lives, enter this Chamber and vote against
party measures on every occasion just as
they would have done if they had occupied a seat in the House of Commons ?
That is a stretch of the imagination which
I can hardly take in myself. Passing over
that objection, supposing that we could
induce leading men in the Opposition tO
accept a seat in this body under such conditions, how would it be with the gentlemen who are generally supporters of the
party themselves ? I should like very
much indeed to see an experinient
I should like tO
of the kind tried.
hear the remonstrances that would be
made by expectant gentlemen who
are conscious of having rendered great
and useful, and long-continued services tO
their party, and have looked forward ultimately, as a reward, to occupying a seat
in this House-I should like to see how
those gentlemen would feel to see me'bers of the Opposition preferred before
themselves ! Certainly if the Governmfent
thought themselves too strong, and that
really something was to be gained by reducing the parties more nearly to a level,
perhaps it would not be a bad way to do
it, and they might have a right to clairn
something for their liberality and impar
tiality ; but I do not think they yould
gain much support from their partY, if

Legislation [APiRIL 20, 1885] in the Senate.
that was one of their recognized principles
Of action. I set that completely aside,
however, as impracticable, and refer to
some of the quotations which my hon.
friend made from sone speeches of Sir
John Macdonald's and of the late Hon.
George Brown. It seems to me that the
Plea on which a nominative Senate was
advocated by those gentlemen was this :
T'hat by nomination only could a Senate
be assembled here that would bear any
Sort of resemblance to the House of
Lords. I cannot see the strength of that
Plea myself. The House of Lords is a
body not to be paralleled in any other
COuntry outside of England. Perhaps
exception might be made in the case of
s0ne of the old European dynasties. . I
Will not pretend to say whether it can or
Cannot ; but this is certain, that the House
Of Lords has in former times occupied a
o110st
distinguished position in the English
POlitical world. It was in former times,
When there was scarcely a middle class
o0rth mentioning, the protector of the
rights of the people ; it stood between the
Crown and the people of England. The
People, at that time, were the neighbors,
the retainers, and the dependents of the
Peerage and of the aristocracy. That led
-0 a state of things which gave the House
of Lords, for many centuries, a most imPortant position in England, although
that importance gradually diminished by
the rising up of new

municipal

in-

terests, and the increase of wealth
aUd population in the country, and
Rteater facilities for making a living.
here was originally little beyond agriCltural pursuits in that country. Manush tures subsequently sprang into existence,
IP owning sprang up, and with it the
tÞoPulation assumed a diflerent character
bo what they had been a few centuries
efore. Nevertheless, the House of Lords
as, even to the present day, retained very
t uch of that old feeling of respect which
't earned for itself centuries ago, when it
sed to stand between the Crown and the
Peoplea for the protection of the latter. In
sech
position as this we could hardly
ecpect the Senate to stand; we are hoping
change the expression) we did hope
",ce that it would, but we have perhaps
teased to entertain that hope with very
great vigor now, though the Senate did
Oce and again stand in the gap to resist

635

legislation which would evidently be in-

jurious-which, at all events, whether
injurious or not, was hasty or hastily considered.
This House has, on some
occasions, interposed and has resisted such
legislation, but too often such occasions
were not taken advantage of. My hon.
friend from Amherst told us precisely on
how many occasions the Senate had stood
in the gap between the legislation of the
other House and its completion. I am
not going to refer to all those instances
which he gave, but one I will refer to,
because I happen to know something myself of it, and to have played a not unimportant part in it.
It was on the
occasion when a Franchise Bill came up
from the House of Commons, and that
Bill interfered unjustly with the franchise
of the people of Prince Edward Island.
A colleague of mine, who has since occupied the position of Lieut.-Governor of
Prince Edward Island, but who at that
time occupied a seat in the Senate, saw
that the franchise of a very large number
of the people of Prince Edward Island
was in jeopardy. I did not confer with
him previously, but I saw the justice
of his remarks, and I gave him my
support.
What did this House do ?
Leading members observed that " the
representatives of both parties from Prince
Edward Island agreed in opposing this
Bill as being contrary to the interests of
the people of their province ; surely therefore the Senate ought to amend the measure, and refer it back to the place it came
from." Hon. gentlemen did so; the
amendments proposed by Mr. Haviland
and supported by myself, were accepted,
and the Bill was sent back"to the Commons.
There was no hindrance, no loss of time,
the amendments were concurred in by the
Commons, and the Bill became law that
year, and in that simple act of this branch
of the Legislature, the franchise of the
people of Prince Edward Island was preserved. Do hon. gentlemen suppose
that the people of my province have forgotten that circumstance ? On the contrary, it is still fresh in their memories,
and I seldom appear on a platform there
that the people do not refer to that fact,
and express their satisfaction at the attitude that I assumed on that occasion as a
member of the Opposition. But I say
that the principal merit of it, if merit

636

Legislation [SENATE] in the Senate.

there was, is due to my hon. friend the may be called upon to do this session, i1present Lieut.-Governor of Prince Edward dicate very clearly what we ought to have
Island; it was he who initiated the done when we had the Bill before us had
That was an important it received more deliberate consideration
amendment
matter for that small section of the Do- at that time, it is possible that the large adminion, but there have been occasions vances made in Parliament last year to the
since I have had a seat in this House, company would not have been asked for,
when far more important interests were at and that such further demands as will1n
stake, and when it was far more essential ail probability be made this year, would
that the Senate should have interfered to have been rendered unnecessary. I WIl
secure delay before the whole Dominion now direct my remarks to the constitution
was identified with some vast expenditure of the Senate. I think many untenable
of men, money and material-such an oc- positions have been assumed. One .1
casion, for example, as was afforded by the that an elective Senate would necessarilY
passage of the Bill for the construction of be the counterpart of the House of Con"
the Canadian Pacific Railway. If I allude mons. There are difficulties connected
briefly to some of the circumstances which with the election which are only partiallY
surrounded that measure at the time, I understood, and that assertion which ha5
think those circumstances and subsequent been so generally and so boldly made that
events warrant me in so doing. What an elective Senate would be merely a
were those circumstances ? We had had reflex of the House of Commons, seeis
two bills on two previous sessions, and to me to be without foundationthey were of totally different character Perhaps it might be so if the Senate was
to that which ultimately became elected by the same constituencies as the
law. They involved grants of money House of Commons; but that need 1o1t
and land.
One of them had been necessarily be the case. I think myself
passed only a short time before. at the present juncture, when there seens
The House was prorogued, and members to be a disposition to alter, whether for
had gone to their homes only a few the better or for the worse, the franchise
weeks when a new scheme was announced. of the Dominion, if such a measure wereproThis scheme was carried into effect, and ceeded with it would be a very approprithe Legislature was called together ate occasion to consider, in conjuiction
late in the year at an unusual period-I with it, the constitution of the Senate o
think in the month of December-and the Canada. It seems to me that if the
Bill was submitted to Parliament to con- franchise is to be altered it might be
firm that arrangement and carried ; I altered in the way of extension rather
think that was an occasion when this than contraction, and that the prinriple
House might very properly have said that which has prevailed in the province fro0'
this measure was very imperfectly known which I corne, for so many years, a pri'
to the population of the Dominion, and ciple nearly akin to universal suffrage
the Senate should have interposed its might be adopted generally through C1n
privileges to arrest for a time the pro- ada profitably-if indeed the Domniniot
gress of that measure. It might have assumes the responsibility, which I do fot
been arrested for a single session, until at ail feel disposed to advise it to do,0 f
opportunity for its discussion in the press legislating upon the franchise'of the peoe
and on the platform throughout the Dom- pie in the several provinces. I think it
inion, had taken place and until the would be rather hasty and injudiciousr
people had been afforded an opportunity interfere with the rights which have here'
of becoming acquainted with it. Had tofore been exercised by the different
that been done, and had the people ap- provinces on that point, but if it is detef
proved of it, it might have been gone on mined to do so, in my opinion it
Wr tie
with by the Government with the support be better to extend the franchise fo ahd
of the whole community at their back at a members of the House of Commons,
slightly later period. I think that the along with that to take into consideratio
events that have since transpired amply the constitution of the Senate. NOgW, if
sustain the argument I have made use of, franchise nearly akin to universal suffrge
and what we did last session, and what we prevailed, certainly property holders Of
HON. MR.

HAYTHORNE.

Leqislation [APRIL 20, 1885] in the Senate.
some them, might be disposed to take
alarm; they might say, " my servant is as
good a man under the constitution as I
arn," and they might feel some discomfort about that ; but if property was represented in the Senate ; if the Senate was
elected by a constituency possessed of a
considerable sum. in money, or land, or
value of say five or six hundred dollars
Worth of property, property would then be
represented in this Chamber, and this
body might, I think, be expected to beCome a really independent body, indePendent of the Government, and indePendent of any other house except itself,
and in that case we might fairly expect that if hasty legislation occurred
il the other branch of the legislature,
Or if a large and unnecessary exPenditure was about to be incurred, or if
sorne measure affecting the rights of the
People was about to pass, a Senate elected
by such a'constituency as I have described
Would stand in the gap and resist such
legislation as that, and resist it with great
Propriety and with good effect. I do not
think myself that Canada has much to
learn in the way of benefit from the exPerience of other countries with regard to
second chambers; that I believe is the
expression that is generally adopted, "a
second chamber." Perhaps it is not
altogether appropriate, but still it is one
that everybody understands, and I do
tot think we have very much to learn
from other countries in that regard. The
11
hon. gentleman spoke just now of France
With regard to her experience of second
Chambers. I for one would not be disPosed to accept French experience in
Satters of legislation. With all respect to
that gallant and in some respects unfortunate nation, they have not been very successful in their efforts at constitutional
goVernment. I recollect one of their
statesmen, who I think formed pait of the
Provisional government after the fall of the
1ast empire, spoke of those revolutions of
theirs as so many cataracts that swept
away everything before them, and then he
Proceeded to enumerate them. I will not
detain the House now with the enumeratiols of the different governments or
dynasties that have ruled France during
the last fifty or sixty years; but I think
they numbered ten or a dozen, if not
ruore, up to the fall of the Emperor
Xapoleon III.

637

HON. MR. TRUDEL -Twenty-one
different constitutions.
HON.

MR.

HAYTHORNE-

That

brings us down to the present time. I am
speaking of the period at the last empire.
I myself greatly prefer, if a change is to be
made in the constitution of this body, that
it should be a change in the direction of
election by the people. To refer the
election of Senators to the local legislatures
would in my opinion be injudicious for
various reasons. Sometime in the local
legislatures you find a preponderating
majority which lasts for years, and during
all that period you will find Senators of the
same type and the same political parties
would be nominated; and under any circumstances I think that election by the
local Legislature would mean neither more
nor less than this : it would mean nomination by the local premier. Of course he
must obtain the support of his party, but
it is pretty well understood when a party
is forming who would be the propable
Senator. Now, I do notéthink that is what
we want ; we want something springing
from the people themselves, and if
the Senate were ever publicly elected
by such a constituency as I have
described, we might reasonably expect ail
the benefits which we have expected in
vain from a nominative Senate. I have
thought it almost indispensable to express
my opinions with great clearness and precision on this point, which I hope I have
done, as so much has been said upon it.
I do not at all depreciate this body; it is
not the capacity, the experience, or the
ability of its niembers, that I criticize ;
but it is the method of appointing them ;
and after a long tenure of office by a gentleman such as the present Premier, we
find necessarily that this body is composed
largely of his friends and supporters. We
cannot look forward to the permanency of
such an arrangement. It has existed for
a long time, but it is to be presumed that
some day or other a change will take
place. If that is the case, how is the incoming Government, supposing it professes the Liberal principles which our
party holds-how is it to carry on the
public business in this body? At the
present time we number, I think, at the
outside, some 15, and in the ordinary way
a Liberal Government would have to be

638

Legi8lation [SENATE] in the Senate.

in power some ten or fifteen years, probably, perhaps more, before, in the ordinary
course of things, the balance would be restored.
HoN. MR. ALMON-Liberal Governments do not live more than 5 years.
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Liberals
may have learned wisdom in Opposition,
and we hope for better things next time
we come into office ; and that their tenure
of office may be somewhat longer. I
notice this peculiarity : that the hon. gentleman from Niagara and the hon. gentleman from Amherst both take a similar
view on that point. They want to have
this House renovated in some way. They
must feel that those fifteen gentlemen who
form the Opposition are altogether insufficient to meet the occasion ; that they
are foes unworthy of their steel, and the
hon. gentlemen opposite want something
more formidable than the hon. gentleman
from Prince Edward Island and those with
whom he acts as opponents, and that is
perhaps the reason they suggested the introduction here of some of the members
of the Opposition. I am aware that some
of my remarks have been somewhat disconnected, but the particular point was
made that some parties in Canada and
writers in the press and others have suggested that the Upper House is not wanted
at all. I do not agree with them on that
point. 1 think it is very essential, and
what I have said incidentally on other
parts of the question, must, I think, convince hon. gentlemen that I do not agree
with those whowould abolishtheSenate. I
think an Upper House is very much
needed as a check on hasty legislation ;
but I have here before me the opinion of
a very competent authority about the expediency of second chambers. This is the
opinion of Lord Chancellor Selborne, and
it was given so recently as last November.
Hon. gentlemen know very well that on
November 9th the Lord Mayor of London
gathers an Assembly in Guildhall of
the magnates of the realm, and very many
distinguished strangers also. The Lord
Chancellor was present at that Lord
Mayor's banquet, and he was called upon to
return thanks for the toast " The House of
Lords"-just at that time a great responsibility was overhanging the House of
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE.

Lords. The Bill for the reform and ex'
tension of the franchise was passing
through the House of Commons, and the
question was what would the Lords do
with it ? Would they repeat their old
conduct of 1831-32, at the epoch of the
first Reform Bill ? Would they bring the
country within measurable distance of a
revolution rather than waive any part Of
their privileges or imperil their dignity by
agreeing to such a Bill, and if they did,
what was to be the consequence ? These
were questions in everybody's mouth in
England at the time, and consequentlY
the words which fell from the mouth 0
the Chief Justice were words of inpo'
ance and were watched for with anxiety
by the people. What he said was ths,
and his remarks bear more particularlY on
the necessity of the Second Chamber:
From the bottom of my heart I desire to
see maintained the just authority and th
true honor of that Assembly (The Lords).ha
have read history in vain, if it is true thor
either public liberty, or private rightsd by
good govern ent, will ever be proloted by
the iincontrolled dominion and absolute
power of a single legislative assembly; and i
is because I think so, my Lord Mayor, that
do most earnestly hope, and trust, and ra
that that great and august Assembly wiI 0"
h tremember the true conditions of its POwer
animake a wise, foreseeing and tem rat
and rational use of those powers,

n

Wi

remember that they must be exercised in ha
mony with, and not in opposition to, al the
other powers of the Constitution.-4O
Mai, Nov. 12th, 1884.
These were the words of Lord Selborne,
so recently as last November. It is hardly
necessary for me to say that I quite agrc
with so high an authority, that a second
chamber is necessary; the only question
is how are we to constitute it ? I do lot
think that all the glorification which the
hon. gentleman from Niagara has indulged
in with reference to the House of Lordst
and the necessity for establishing in Cto
ada a Senate bearing a strict analogY to
that House are borne out by recent evenac'
In quoting the opinions of Sir John MaC
donald and the Hon. George Brown
that question, reference has been made tO
the conduct of the House of Lords on
several occasions. One occasion referdo
to was in the reign of Queen Anne.
hic
not recollect the exact circunstance
Id
occurred on that occasion, but I scauo
not attach much importance to it, becatse

The Troubleo in [APRIL 20, 1885] the North-Wet.

639

it was before the constitutional period in passed its second reading by a majority
English history. Some members of this of nine. The peers of that day were not
louse have sat for years in the same going to give up their privileges and their
council with the late Hon. Joseph Howe, opposition to the Bill quite so easily as
and they must recollect how strongly that that. They came to the conclusion, though
gentleman felt on points connected with the Bill had passed its second reading, to
constitutional history. I had read many fight the Bill in committee, and so amend
of that gentleman's speeches and written it and emasculate it there that it would be
essays before I was acquainted with the worthless to the people ; but their intrigue
writer personally, and I know that Mr. was discovered, and it was made clear to
Howe established the period of the birth them that if they persevered in that
of the modern English constitution, and of course the power which had been delegamodern English liberty at the passage of ted to the Government to create peers,
the Reform Bill in 1832. It is to the con- would be used. We can easily under.
duct of the House of Lords at that time stand that a peer of Lord Grey's age and
and since that I shall refer.
experience would not deliberately, if he
Now, observe their conduct at the could avoid it, destroy the prestige of that
period of the passing of the first Reform ancient and hon. House.
Bill ! That Bill was brought before ParIt being now 6 o'clock I move the adliament no less than three times in two journment of the debate.
years. On the first occasion it was carried
The motion was agreed to.
in the Commons by a majority of one
But in Committee a hostile amendment INDUSTRIES AND MANUFACwas carried against the Government-that
TURES OF THE DOMINION.
however did not decide the fate of the Bill
-- for the Government was beaten a few
DEBATE ADJOURNED.
days later on another question and resigned.
Jnsuccessful attempts to form a new adThe order of the day having
ministration followed ; then again Lords called, for resuming the debate onbeen
Grey and Brougham resumed office-Par- Hon. Mr. Macdonald's motion, viz:- the
liament was dissolved-and a vast majority
" That he will call attention to the Report
in favor of Reform was returned. For the
the Government
second time the Reform Bill was intro- of the Commission issued bythe effect of the
last year to enquire into
duced and carried by overwhelming Tariff of 1879, on the Industries and Manufacrnajorities. It was then sent up to the tures of the Country, and wiIl ask the Governlouse of Lords, and there it met with ment whether the Report will be furnished to
Opposition, and met with its fate ; the members of the Senate and a certain number
second reading was rejected by a majority to the country."
f 41. What was the position of the
Government of the day on that occasion ? HON. MR. McCLELAN moved that the
order of the day be discharged, and that
They had two alternatives before them. the debate be adjourned until to-morrow.
They could resign and call upon the King
to form a new Government, or they could
The motion was agreed to, and the
call upon the King to give them authority order of the day was discharged.
to make peers-they did the latter. Lords
Grey and Brougham went to King William THE TROUBLES IN THE NORTHa'd obtained from him the power to create
WEST.
Peers ; but the crisis of the Bill had not
Yet arrived. Parliament had been again
ENQUIRY.
Prorogued to re-assemble in December,
1831 ; for the third time the Reform Bill HON. MR. WARK-Before the House
Was carried, and again sent up tothe Lords; adjourns I would like to ask the Minister
this time the second reading passed by a of Justice if there is any later news from
Inajority of nine, probably through the in- the North-West?
fuence of the dreaded creation of peers.
1ut hon. gentlemen will not suppose that
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
the Bill was out of jeopardy when it I think not. There was a satisfactory

C.P.R. ]iÄnployes [SENATE]

640

ielegram from General Middleton this
morning, to say that he was at Clarke's
Crossing ; that the forces were gradually
coming up to him, and I dare say that
the House saw by the telegrams in the
press that three Indian scouts had been
captured; that two of them had been
detained, and one of them was released.
General Middleton expresses himself as
being very much pleased with the conduct of the troops, and he hopes during
the course of this week to be able to give
some account of Riel, if he is to be found
in the country.

Relief Am'n Bill.
BANK OF WINNIPEG.
THIRD READING.

HON. MR. ALLAN, from the Select
Committee on Banking and Commerce,
reported Bill (62), "An Act to amend the
Act to incorporate the Bank of Winnipeg," with certain amendments. He said:
The object of the Act was two-fold; in
the first place, to reduce the amount of
the capital stock that is to be subscribed
before entitling them to a certificate fromn
the Treasury Board, and, in the second
place, to extend the time for obtaining the
The Senate adjourned at[6 p.m.
certificate from the Treasury Board.
When the Bill was introduced in the
Commons, the time for obtaining that
certificate had not expired, and the bank
THE SENATE.
charter itself was still in existence; but
on the i 9th April, the time expired for
Ottawa, Zuesday, April 21st, 1885.
obtaining the certificate, and the charter
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three therefore became void. It was necessary
to introduce an amendment here to proo'clock.
vide that the charter should not be forfeited by reason of the certificate not
Prayers and routine proceedings.
having been obtained before the 1 9th
CENTRAL BANK OF NEW BRUNS- inst. These are the only amendments
made by the committee.
WICK.
HON. MR. GIRARD-As the amendments are an improvement to the Bill, I
HON. MR. ALLAN, from the Commit- move that they be concurred in.
tee on Banking and Commerce, reported
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Bill (40), "An Act further relating to the
Central Bank of New Brunswick," with was then read the third time, as amended,
certain amendments. He said: I might and passed.
explain for the information of the House,
that the paragraph omitted from the pre- C. P. R. EMPLOYES RELIEF AS'
amble was struck out because when the
SOCIATION BILL.
Bill was first introduced in the House of
Commons there were two other clauses in
THIRD READING.
it to which that part of the preamble
related. Those two clauses were struck
HON. MR. READ, from the Comlit
out before the Bill came up to this House,
but this part in the preamble, which has tee on Standing Orders and Private Bills,
nothing to do with the rest of the clauses reported Bill (75), "An Act to incorporof the Bill, was left, and the committee ate the Canadian Pacific Railway Efl'
desired that it should be struck out, so ployes Relief Association," without
that the Bill might be reported substan- amendment.
tially without amendment.
HON. MR. SCOTT moved the third
HON. MR. ODELL moved concurrence reading of the Bill.
in the amendment.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
The motion was agreed to, and the Bili
was read the third time and passed.
was read the third time and passed.
THIRD READING.

HON.

SIR

ALEX. CAMPBELL

Life Saving Service [APRIL 21, 1885] on Sable l8land.

64A1

LIFE SAVING SERVICE ON SABLE appears to me that there is something
very defective in the life-saving appliances
ISLAND.
on the island. Of the crew on the boat
that went out to them, only two were
INQUIRY.
seafaring men The others were men who
HoN. MR. ALMON rose to inquire had been engaged in other occupations
from the leader of the Government in and unfit for the service, and two of them
this House, whether any improvement has were sea-sick. There was great deficiency
been made in the Life Saving Service on in the boat and likewise m the trained
Sable Island, since the loss of life which crew. These facts were corroborated by
ensued from the wreck of the ship the hon. member from Charlottetown (Mr.
" Britannia," on the north-east bar of that Carvell) who said that at the time the ship
"State of Virginia" was wrecked in 1879, he
Island, on September 3rd, 1883 ?
had gone to the island, and that in the
He said : At the risk of being a little endeavor to get the crew and passengers
tedious, I will relate some of the circum- to shore from the wreck, a distance of only
stancesconnected with the wreck of the ship between a quarter and half a mile from
" Britannia," which I alluded to last year. the island, nine lives were lost. Persons
:The " Britannia " struck on the north-east who witnessed the scerne and had no in-bar of Sable Island, on the night of the terest in misrepresenting the facts, thought
3rd of September. She was seen by the that the lives of these persons might have
look-out party at daylight that morning. been saved if there had been proper apAs the sun rises at a quarter past five at pliances. Since the loss of the"Britannia,."
that time of the year, daylight would be another vessel has been wrecked there
about 4:30 a.m. At half-past one in the with the loss of three lives. A vessel from
afternoon a boat under sail came within St. Pierre was wrecked on the island during
half a mile, or a quarter of a mile, of the a heavy snow storm; and all but one of
wreck-so near that the two parties, those the crew perished. I do not think any
on the ship and those on the boat, waved fault can be found in that case with the
their hats to each other. Seeing that there life service. What is wanted at Sable
were breakers between the boat and Island, and very much wanted, is a cable
the wreck, the boat turned back, and connecting it with the mainland. In the
no help came to them the next case of the late wreck of a steamer there,
day. I was informed, that at the time, 3oo men were landed on the island, none
there was a gale blowing and that was of whom understood the English language,
the reason why the vessel could not and the whole force on the island conbe approached, but that was not the case, sisted of only thirty men. These strangers
because Capt. Cooke, of the barque were inclined to be riotous, and if they
"Recovery,"who passed within a quarter of had remained they would have taken
a mile of the wreck, said that there was a possession of the stores and done serious
very light sea running at the time and he damage. The vessel from Halifax took
had no doubt that the whole of the off the majority of them the next day, but
wrecked persons could have been saved if they had not been removed there would
by lifeboats. That was corroborated by probably have been riots on the island
the hon. member from Lunenburg, who and loss of life, and all this would have
Was informed by fishermen that there was been caused for want of having proper
110 wind to speak of. The captain, with communication with the island. I had
his wife and four children and the crew, the honor, when representing Halifax in
left the wreck on the night of the 5th, on a the other House, to speak to Lord
raft, to make the island, as the vessel was Dufferin on the subject of establishing
I
breaking up. They drifted until they communication with the island.
came opposite the island, but out of the told him that it was to the interest of the
seventeen who were on board thirteen British government to give the Dominion a
were lost, and the others were picked up cable free of expense on condition of their
by a boat from the island ; not, as stated laying it. He told me he thought it was a
in the report, by a boat sent to save very reasonable proposition and if I would
them, but by a boat from the island. It put it in writing he would see about it.
Q I

64A2

Life Saving Service (SENATE] on Sable Iland.

Unfortunately, or fortunately, a breakup of the House occurred at the timehowever, it lost the cable, at all events, for
the time being. The only quarter from
which the harbor of Halifax is liable to be
visited by a storm is the south-east. Now,
Sable Island is the most southerly and
easterly point of Canada, and if there
were cable communication between the
island and the mainland the authorities at
Halifax could be notified of approaching
stormsandcouldputupsignalsand thus save
life and property. Sable Island is very little
more than half a mile wide in places, and
if there were proper appliances there, the
boats could be easily transferred from one
side of the island to the other, so as to look
after wrecks which might occur on either
side of the island. There was formerly a
cradle on which boats were put to carry
them across; but that was out of order
and was used for a haycart at the time
the "Britannia" was lost. When I made
some remarks on this subject last year, I
was ably supported by the hon. member
from Charlottetown (Mr. Carvell) and by
the hon.member from Lunenburg'(Mr. Kaulbach),the senior member from Halifax,who
all spoke of my ideas as if they could corroborate them from personal knowledge or
I think his
from what they had heard.
honor, the leader of the present Government, will remember that when he was
in Halifax last summer, he made
an ineffectual attempt to visit Sable
Island. I hope other ministers will
follow his example and visit various parts
of the country during the recess, and
become acquainted with the localities and
The Minister of Justice
the people.
deserved very great credit for the attempt,
ineffectual though it was, that he made to
reach Sable Island. I was surprised to
learn that the result of my remarks
here last year on this subject was
to make a great many enemies for
The Conme, and do me no good.
servative papers from Halifax, thinking
it was an attack on the Minister of
Marine and Fisheries, took no notice of
the subject, and the Liberal papers thought
no good could come out of Nazareth, and
so they did likewise ; but I am not making
an attack on the Minister of Marine and
Fisheries. All the life-service of the
country, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, is
under his administration, and he cannot
HON. MR. ALMON.

be familiar with every detail. The head
of the Department is not supposed to ble
acquainted with all these things ; his Deputy is not a seafaring man, and at his time
of life it is not reasonable to suppose that he
would undertake to familiarize himself with
all the details of such an extensive subject ;
but some practical man ought to go down
there to look after these things. Sable
Island ought to be under the supervision
of the pilot commissioners of Halifax.
HON. MR. POWER-No.
HON. MR. ALMON-I think so; it is
supposed by a geographical fiction to be
part of Halifax County, and I see no anom-i
aly in making the:Halifax pilot commissiotl
ers also the commissioners of Sable Island.
In olden times, the commissioners of Sable
Island were men who had nautical experience, and sometimes were old captainS.
The service was managed for a small surnf
of money then quite Las well as it is at
present.

HON. MR. POWER-Better.
HON. MR. ALMON-I said I got nO
thanks for the course I took last sessionI
but I should have remarked that I got
letters from sea captains thanking me for
what I had done, and one of them took
me by the hand and thanked me heartilY
for having brought to light a matter Of
such importance to all seafaring men.
With these few remarks, I beg to make the
inquiry of which I have given notice.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-This is not
a motion, therefore I have some delicacY
in rising to speak upon it ; but evidentlY
there should be a cable between the
mainland and Sable Island, and I think
that England and the United States are
equally interested with Canada in establishing that communication. I hope the
Government will be able to tell us that
something is to be done in that directiol
It is quite evident that in the loss of the
steamers " Virginia " and " Britanmia, ,if
there had been reasonable efficiencY in
the life-saving apparatus so many live
need not have been lost. In the wrecl
that occurred last summer, lives were not
lost, although there were complaints after'
wards from the shipwrecked people of the

Life Saving &rvice S[APRIL 21, 1885] on Sahle 1sland.

6A3

barbarity of the conduct of the people on very intelligent man, and from the interest

the island.
HON. MR. ALMON-There were lives
lost in the wreck of the " Amsterdam."

The life-boat did not come to the steamer,
although it had been Feen from the island
for some time. The people from the
wreck were obliged to attempt to land in
their own boats, and not being surf boats
some of them were swamped and lives
were lost.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I was not
aware that lives were lost, but those who
got ashore complained that there seemed
to be a want of discipline, and that they
were treated with barbarity by the persons
living on the island. It is evident from
what was brought out in the former discussion here, that the efficiency of the
service on the island is not such as it
ought to be. Every man in that service
ought to be a thorough seaman, ready to
go out in all kinds ot weather, in proper
boats. I do not know how many (there
are on the island.

which I felt in the island from the remarks made by the hon. gentleman op.
posite (Mr. Almon) last session, I took
occasion on my return to represent what
I had heard, and what I believed, as far
as I could form an opinion, were the
changes that should be made on the
island, and I am glad to inform my hon.
friend that some steps have been taken in
the direction which he has advocated,
and so far as they go they will have a
wholesome tendency to increase the
efficiency of the service on the island. I
will read for the House a memorandum
that I have received from the Department
of Marine and Fisheries:-

A new superintendent, a young, active
and efficient boatman, was appointed in December last, and new rules and regulations
framed for the guidance of the staff. The
whole extent of shore is patrolled daily to
ascertain if wrecks have occurred, and in
this connection it is proposed to erect a telephone connecting the different stations with
the main station. Tenders have been invited
and a contract entered into for the supply of
poles for this purpose.
Two lifeboat crews have been organized, one
at the main station, and one at the east end
station, and the crews are
and prasHON. MR. ALMON-Thirty, I think. tice at least once a week. mustered lifeboat of
A new

HON. MR. KAULBACH-That ought
to be sufficient, with proper boats. It is
evident there is an impression abroad
that if there was a reasonably sufficient
service, so many lives would not be lost
on Sable Island. There is perhaps no
county in the province of Nova Scotia
more interested in this matter than Lunenburg, as a great many of our fishermen
fish in that direction, and I hope the
Government will make some effort to
render the life saving service there more
efficient.

the latest and most approved description, will
shortly be completed and sent to the island.
Instructions have also been given that the
men shall be drilled in the use of the rocket
apparatus now on the island, so as to be of
service in case of wreck.*
In addition to that, negotiations have
been going on which have not yet arrived
at any conclusion, for connecting the
mainland and the island by cable. Whether that will be accomplished or not I do
not know, but in the meantime the steps
I have mentioned have been taken, which
are in the direction the hon. gentleman

has indicated, and which will increase the
ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
was very sorry not to have been able to
reach Sable Island, when I visited Halifax
last summer. The ship " Newfield " was
going out with supplies, and a man connected with the staff on the island, and
we made an effort to get to the island,
but the wind did not serve and we were
unable to land. From the intercourse I
have had with the master of the vessel, and
With this man who had been on the
island four or five years, and who was a
HON.

SIR

efficiency of the service. It was very
unfortunate that I was unable to reach

island, so far as the wreck of the vessel
is concerned-which occurred the day we
tried to land there. Had we arrived at

the island and landed our stores and men,
the ship "Newfield " would not have been
able to go back, and though it could not
have prevented the disaster, it might have
been the means of saving life. I am quite
sure that the Department is alive to the
necessity there is for improvement, and

A
6A

The Trouddea in [SEN ATE] Me North- West.

the room there is for improvement, in the acter, and I think that what is asked for is
sufficiently explained by the wording of
life-saving service of Sable Island.
the notice, so that I will abstain from givHON. MR. ALMON.-I am very much ing any of the reasons which have induced
pleased at the information which the hon. me to ask for the address. I will only regentleman has just given to the House. quest the Government that they will be
Can my hon. friend tell me why this was pleased to have these documents brought
not mentioned in the report of the Min- down to the House as soon as possible.
ister of Marine and Fisheries ? Was it I understand that most of the documents
that the officers preferred to hide their have already been prepared.
light under a bushel, or that they did not
like to acknowledge that they had hitherto
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONbeen in fault ?
There is no objection whatever to the address, and I shall do whatever I can to
HON. SIR ALEX CAMPBELL-I
have the papers brought down as speedily
can hardly accuse the officer who manages as possible, in compliance with the request
this Department with seeking to hide his of my hon. friend. The second portion
light under a bushel.
of the address I fear will take considerable
time to prepare. If it will be acceptable
HON. MR. ALMON.-There was not a to my hon. friend, the first part may be
word about this in the report of the Min- brought down as soon as it is ready, and
ister of Marine and Fisheries, which was the second as soon as it is ready.
laid before the House this session.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-While all
HoN. SIR ALEX . CAMPBELL-I
parties unite to suppress the unfortunate
will inquire and find out.
and much-to-be-deplored outbreak in the
North-West, it is quite necessary and quite
TROUBLES IN THE NORTH-WEST. proper that such papers should be called
for as have just been moved for by the
MOTION.
hon. gentleman from DeSalaberry. It Is
quite necessary, and quite proper, that
HoN. MR. TRUDEL moved:
Parliament should demand at the earliest
Thatan humble Address be presented to His possible moment full information respectExcellency the Governor-General, praying ing the grievances of those who have been
that His Excellency will cause to be laid beled to take up arms and whose act of
fore this House:
1. Copies of all correspondence or memor- sedition has unfortunately led to bloodials respecting the claims of the nalf-breeds shed. Events now transpiring show that
of the District of Saskatchewan and the causes the Government, I fear, have not dealt
of the troubles generally since 1874, and es- with those claims of the half-breeds as
pecially all reports, letters and telegrans
addressed to Lieutenant- Governor Dewdney, they ought to have done. If they had
or communicated to him, and by hin com- done so we should not have had the out
municated to the Government of Canada, or break which we now deplore.
to any of the members thereof, concerning
the agitation which has taken place at Duck
Lake, and the claims of the Western halfHON. MR. POWER-Hear, hear!
breeds, frotn et August, 1884,to 6th February,
1885, inclusive, and also alil mnemorials, teleHON. MR. ALEXANDER-We have
grams and letters received from Louis Riel
during the same perind.
heard the anecdote of the Indian who
2. A return showing, at least approximately, sometime ago returned from a visit tO
the number, nationality, rank, and jurisd iction Ottawa, who, when he was cross-examined
of all and every the employes of the Govern- by his tribe as to whether he had received
ment in the North-West, whether commissioned or not commissioned, the date of their any satisfaction, replied in a very despol
appointments, the amount of their respective dent tone, he did not know, but " Old
salaries, and the religious persuasion to which To-morrow" said he would consider it.
they belong.
This is almost the key to this troubleHe said : The motion of which I have this very anecdote of the poor Indian
given notice is one of a very delicate char- Chief.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

The Troubles in [APRIL 21, 1885] the North- Wet.

645

HON. SIR. ALEX CAMPBELL-It members in this House, however poor
those members may beis quite a new one.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-This anecdote is probably the key and solution of rise to a question of order. I think these
the difficulties which unfortunately now references to a past debate and the whole
scope of the hon. gentleman's remarks are
surround us.
not apropos of this debate, which is an
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is address for papers and correspondence
respecting the troubles in the North-West.
quite a new one.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-Then I
fancy that when delegates come from our
North-West to represent to the Department
of the Interior, any alleged grievances,
perhaps they have not found that patient
and willing ear and sympathizing spirit
which those in the position of half-breeds
and of poor Indians might expect to look
for. I hope that the head of that Department is not in the habit of replying to such
delegates in the language which he often
uses in this Chamber to independent
members of this House, when they are
endeavoring to discharge their public duty.
He sometimes condescends to characterize
their humble appeals for justice in this
House as " stilted nonsense."
HON. SIR DAVID MACPHERSONI have never applied it to the remarks of
any member of this House, except to those
of the hon. gentleman who now has the
floor, and I am inclined to believe that
those words characterize the hon. gentleman's remarks correctly.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I remember that when the late lamented Mr. Vankoughnet was the leader of this House we
had no such scenes as have taken place in
this Chamber during the last four years.
Then we had everything conducted in a
manner that induced every one to discharge his duty honestly and courteously.
There were no efforts then made to prevent humble representatives of the people
from expressing the views of the people.
There were no efforts made to prevent
Motions being brought before this House,
and there was no such language used in
those days to any humble member of this
Hlouse who endeavoured to do his duty,
and who will fearlessly act on behalf of
the people as long as he lives. That
mrembers of the Government should apply
Such epithets to the remarks of humble

THE SPEAKER-A good deal of
liberty is allowed to hon. gentlemen in
discussing questions on motions of this
kind, and I am not prepared to say that
the member for Woodstock has gone
beyond the limit of legitimate debate.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It is not in
good taste.

HON. MR. TRUDEL-As the mover
of this resolution, I have no doubt that the
hon. gentleman from Woodstock, in his
patriotism and desire that justice should
be rendered to every part of the Dominion,
has joined with me to ask for the necessary
papers. It is his intention, of course, and
I am very thankful for his assistance, but
in the meantime I would respectfully
suggest to hirm that in such délicate matters
as are alluded to in this motion it would
be a matter for regret if any political or
party feeling should be mixed up with it,
and I am afraid that if grievances which
my hon. friend may have against some
members of the Administration are alluded
to, that some party feeling might be introduced into a question which should only
be approached in the most careful and
impartial manner. Of course, they are
sacred and very important rights we have
to deal with. First, it is our duty to see
that the authority of the country is maintained and respected, and in the meantime
that the rights of the subject should be
respected, too; and the motion which I
have made is to have brought before the
House all necessary documents to allow
hon. gentlemen to pronounce on this very
important question. My hon. friend from
Woodstock will, I think, appreciate my
motive when I ask him, as a friend of the
cause which I have alluded to, not to insist
upon his remarks. He will have many
occasions to do it, and I hope that he will
not insist upon them now.

6A6

The Troubles in [SENATE] the North-West.

HoN. MR. POWER-I am glad to see
HON. MR. PLUMB-" Save me from
my friends."
that the Minister has no objection to bringing down the correspondence, with the adHON. MR. A LEXANDER-As a dition suggested by the member from Otclose observer of the manner in which the tawa ; and I think the Minister of the Inaffairs of our North-West have been ad- terior manifested good judgment in suggestministered for some time, I cannot say ing to the member from DeSalaberry that he
that I feel very sanguine that we may not should separate the second portion of his
have continued trouble in that region. The notice and postpone it for the present. I
powerful force of noble and excellent think for other reasons than those given
young men under the command of so by the Minister of Justice, as well as those
able a general as General Middleton, that the Minister gave, that the impression
must at once suppress any act of sedition, conveyed to one's mind by finding those
and I do not suppose there will be any two returns coupled together, would be
more bloodshed ; but the mere suppres- that the feeling in the mind of the hon.
sion of this outbreak by our patriotic gentleman that moved the resolution was
young soldier-citizens will not remove the that there was some connection between
-discontent, and I caution the Government the two, and if the Half-breeds had made
against continuing such appointments as trouble in the North-West, it was because
they have made in the past, of mere they did not think they had received their
bankrupt politicians to administer the share of the offices distributed there.
affairs of the North-West ; instead of Among the many causes suggested for the
mere demoralized politicians, they should outbreak we have not yet heard that
select reliable, responsible and upright assigned. Of course the hon. gentleman
men who have not been degraded by a from DeSalaberry has better means of
past political career. No effort of Gen- knowing than I have, and it nay have
eral Middleton's will remove discontent had something to do with the outbreak.
thus aroused. I remember how repre- I think, however, it is better that that imentations were made some time ago from pression should not be sent abroad. As a
Regina and Calgary with respect to re- supporter of the Government,the hon. genpresentation,'and those were always disre- tleman from DeSalaberry exercised a wise
garded by the Minister of the Interior. discretion in not speaking to his motion.
When we look at the position of the I do not know whether the same reasons
North-West, at the scattered and solitary should actuate members who do not supsettlements in the North-West, and how port the Government. I am happy to see
difficult it is to prevent acts of sedition that the hon. leader of the third party in this
when a few settlers at any time become dis- House has certainly put himself on record
affected, it behooves the Government to in a very decided and unmistakable way.
be guided by proper moral sentiment, As a member of the regular Opposition, I
instead of studying how they may keep wish to say that in this matter I stand
themselves in power and keep the Oppo- alongside of the hon. member from
sition from the Treasury Benches. If Woodstock.
The hon. inember from
they continue to appoint men who have DeSalaberry said that this was a very
been demoralized, and because they have delicate matter, and that it would not do
done unworthy acts for the Government to discuss it freely for fear we might give
for the sake of office-I say we may it something like a party aspect. No
expect to suffer from a continuation of doubt it is a delicate matter; but I do nOt
the troubles now existing.
think that that is the right way to deal
with delicate matters when they are Of
HON. MR. SCOTT-I would like to such importance as this-to pass them
see added to the motion, "copies of ail over without saying anything about theml.
correspondence, motions and resolutions I think the proper way to deal with such
of the North-West Council bearing on matters is to deal boldly with them-to
this matter."
grasp the nettle boldly, and then it ceases
to sting. I did rather hope, when I sa'
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I the notice given by the hon. gentlemlan,
have no objection to the amendment.
that we were going to have a full and free
•

he Troubes in [APRLL 21, 1885] the North-Weet.

64A7

and independent discussion of the whole but as a general thing it has not been the
rnatter.
practice to move for papers without saying
anything about what the papers are exHON. MR. ALEXANDER - Hear, pected to show.
hear !
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
HON. MR. POWER-I do not see certainly would be a better practice to wait
what harm it could do. I presume that until they are brought down.
all the members of the House are of one
mind on certain points. Every hon. genHON. ML POWER-This is almost
tleman feels that this insurrection has to the first time that I have known a motion
be suppressed, and suppressed as speedily to be made by a member without speaking
as possible. I presume that every hon. on the subject. I think the hon. member
gentleman feels that at least the ringleaders, from DeSalaberry, when he made this
the men who have incited others to rise motion, should have given his reasons for
with arms in their hands, and who have asking for the papers. As the hon. gentleled to the bloodshed that has taken place, man did not do so-although unfortunately
should be severely punished.
We all I have not devoted much thought to the
agree about that, but after that has been subject-I propose to supplement his
done-I presume it will be done in a very motion with some remarks which he might
short time-something more and some- have made.
thing much more important remains to be
done. There has been undoubtedly a
HoN. MR. PLUMB-You are a clairvery serious discontent in all that Northvoyant-you know what he intended to
Vest Territory for some years. That discontent has at length developed into the have said.
acute form of this insurrection. It is the
HON. MR. POWER-It does not reduty of Parliament-I think it is one of
the things which are peculiarly the duty quire any extraordinary acuteness of vision
of Parliament-to consider what are the to be able to judge with a certain amount
causes which led to the dissatisfaction of accuracy as to the causes which have
which culminated in this outbreak, and to ied to the difficulties in the North-West.
suggest to the Ministry remedies to apply, We know the people who have caused this
so as to prevent anything of the sort oc- outbreak; we know what the papers of the
curring in the future. That seems to me hon. gentleman opposite, as well as those
to be the proper business of Parliament. which support the party to which I belong,
I think it is unworthy of an English-speak- have said on the subject, and we hear every
ing Parliament, or in fact of the Parlia- day statements of the causes which have
Ment of any free country, to say that you led to the trouble. Now, I am not going
rnust speak with bated breath of things to pursue the subject to any length, besuch as these. Wait until Parliament has cause I thought that would have been done
risen-wait until next year, after the Gov- by other hon. gentlemen, and I had not
ernment have perhaps made further mis- made any preparation to deal with the
takes-and then speak of things which matter; but I shall take the liberty of
have passed by and are'no longerlive issues. stating very briefly why I think we should
have this correspondence, and the additional papers suggested by the hon. memHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLWould it not be well for the hon. gentle. ber from Ottawa, brought down.
tran to wait until he sees what the GovHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
ernment has done-to wait until he sees
Government has just promised to bring it
the papers before he condemns them?
down.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-We know
'What has been done.
HON. MR. POWER-The Government
often promise to bring down papers which
HON. MR. POWER-I quite under- do not come for a considerable time, and
stand how the Minis'er feels on that point, I venture to say that the papers already in

648

The Troublee in [SENATE] Me North- West.

the possession of the public and the facts
as we know them, make this clear, that
this is just a case of that neglect of duty
which I took the liberty of speaking about
in the early part of this session, on the
part of members of the Government, more
particularly in this case of the hon.
Premier, because he is the man who has
had most to do with the North-West
country from the beginning; he was the
Minister of the Interior from 1878 to
1883 ; he still continues to control Indian
affairs. During the time when these
troubles in the North-West were culminating that right hon. gentleman was at home
in the old country getting a slight change
in the alphabetical addition to his name,
when he should have been attending to
affairs in the North-West.
HON. SiR ALEX.
That is very unworthy.

ÇAMPBELL-

HoN. MR. POWER-Then there is
another fact to which I will call attention ;
returns have been laid on the table of the
House of Commons which show, as it had
become clear before, that one of the things
which in a great measure occupied the
attention of the Government, and especially the Ministers who have to deal with
the North-West-the Premier and the
Minister of the Interior-during a great
part of the past few years, has been dealing with applications from Tory members
of the House of Comnions and other persons, looking for lands, for timber limits,
for mining rights and property, and privileges of that sort in the North-West, and
while they were adjusting the claims of
these persons they had not time to attend
to the claims of men who have been
settled in that country for twenty years or
more. I am not saying anything now as
to the Minister of Justice, except that he
has to share with his colleagues to a certain
extent in the responsibility, but I cannot
help feeling that if the Government were to
pay a little more attention to the proper
administration of the affairs of the country
and a little less attention to measures
intended solely to keep themselves in
power, it would be better for the country,
and possibly ultimately better for the
Ministers themselves, both as regards their
tenure of office and their standing in the
country.
HON.

MR. POWER.

HON. MR. KAULBACH - I regret
very much the remarks which have fallen
from my hon. friend from Halifax. With
regard to the discontent in the NorthWest, we must know that there has been
discontent across the border for many
years, and that we will have trouble in this
country as long as there are Indians in our
territories. But my hon. friend seems inclined to judge the case before he hears
the evidence.
HON. MR. POWER-We have evid-

ence.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-It seems to
me that it is not fair to our patriotic citizens who are going to the North-West to
assert the tederal authority, to foment
strife and make people in that country
believe that there are grievances. Our
first duty should be to put down the
rebellion, and then, if there is any fault on
the part of the Government, let us have
the evidence and judge them upon it. I
think the hon. member from DeSalaberry
showed good taste in moving for these
papers without making any remarks. He
knows that it is not in the interest of the
public to have a discussion on the subject
without having more light to guide us, and
my hon. friend from Halifax should know
that his remarks to-day are calculated tO
fan the flame of discontent and lead misguided people in the North-West to
believe that they have real grievances when
we have no evidence to show that they
have any of a substantial character.

HON. MR. POWER-The Goverment
have admitted, by issuing a commission,
which should have been issued years ago,
that there are grievances.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-We knoW
what the discontent in the North-West has
been ; we know how it has been fomented
and by whom. My hon. friend fron
Halifax is one of the last persons who
should endeavor at this time to make such
an address to the House as he has donet
and even introducing into it a sneer at the
well-deserved honor which has been conferred on Sir John Macdonald for his diStinguished services to the country. The
contemptible way in which he has spoken
of it-

Bils Introduced. [APRIL 21, 1885] Bill8 Introduced.
HON. MR. POWER-I rise to a question of order. The hon. gentleman has
no right to use the word "contemptible "
to any member of this House. It might
be applicable perhaps in some quarters.
THE SPEAKER-I have no doubt the
hon. member from Lunenburg will be
ready to withdraw the word.

HON. MR. KAULBACH-I have no
objection to withdrawing it, but I wish to
say that the remarks of the hon. gentleman
were intended to throw contempt on the
honor which the Premier has received from
Her Majesty, and which he has so well
mnerited. I am surprised at my hon. friend
endeavoring to foment trouble and prevent
an amicable settlement with the Indians
in the North-West. Every loyal subject
should be desirous of having these unfortunate difficulties settled as quickly as
possible, and any attempt to embarrass the
Government or censure them for their
course in the North-West at this particular
time, tends to prevent a speedy términation of the trouble. What is stated here
will go to the country, and will soon reach
the North-West, and will lead the disaffected Indians and half-breeds to believe
that they have real grievances, and have
the sympathy of some members of this
body in the course which they have taken.
It is quite obvious that the hon. member
from Woodstock is not influenced in his
conduct here by a desire to promote the
irterests of the country, but is simply
animated by a feeling of hostility towards
some leading members of the Senate. He
mTanifests it every time he addresses the
House, and'shows that his main object is
to attack certain members of this body.
I am sure the Hous.e must feel that such
a course is not in the interests of legislation
or of the public, and I am sure if the hon.
Member could realize the light in which
bis conduct is viewd, he would desist from
the course he has of late been pursuing.
lie ought to know that he has no sympathy
in this body when he enters upon these
tirades of abuse.

64A90

of having caused these troubles, there will
be many members of this House ready to
join him in condemning their conduct ;
but this is not the proper time to enter
upon a discussion of the subject. I believe he has made a mistake in criticizing
the course pursued by the hon. member
from DeSalaberry, who has shown much
more prudence than the hon. member
from Halifax has himself displayed. To
discuss the subject now is simply to prejudice it, when we know that it ought to
be decided without prejudice or party
feeling. The hon. gentleman has himself
given evidence that this is not the proper
time to discuss the question, because he
has no information on which to base an
opinion. He has stated that he hoped
that those who were at the head of the
rebellion, and the rebels themselves, would
be punished. I am not sure, if he is a
good Christian, that he has a right to say
that. Suppose it should be proved by
public documents that the Government
have been guilty in this matter; though
they may have the power, they certainly
would not have the right, to punish those
who, though rebellious, might possibly not
have taken up arms until they were forced
to do so by the negligence of those in authority. I remember, in 1837, when 12
men were hanged in Old Canada, that the
best men in Canada, and the foremost
lawyers in the country, were of the opinion
that the execution of those men was
nothing short of a crime. In a question
of such importance as this, I think we
should wait until we can get at the bottom
of the whole thing, and when we have all
the evidence before us we can then judge
whether the Government have been right
or wrong. Under the circumstances, I,
for one, admire the position which has
been taken on this subject by the hon.
member from DeSalaberry.
The motion was agreed to.
BILLS INTRODUCED.

Bill (Q), " An Act further to amend the
consolidated Railway Act of 1879." (Sir
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I regret Alex. Campbell.)
that the hon. member from Halifax has
tho'ught fit to take such a course on this
Bill (70), " An Act to incorporate the
question. He may be sure that in due Rush Lake and Saskatchewan Railway
timne, if the Government are found guilty and Navigation Company." (Mr. Girard.)

1650

Legilation [SENATE] in the &nate.

Bill (55), " An Act for granting certain its capacity for improving and promoting
powers to the Dominion Grange Mutual the advancement of (the people, would be
Fire Insurance Association." (Mr. Plumb.) obviated in committee. That was the
danger to which it was exposed at that
Bill (74), "An Act respecting the Mani- time, and of course there was a danger
toba and North-Western Railway Company also that the people of Great Britain, whO
of Canada." (Mr. Girard.)
had expressed such strong opinions with
regard to Reform, and awaited the passage
Bill (91), " An Act to incorporate the of their Bill with so much patience and
Winnipeg and Prince Albert Railway good conduct, should cease, perhaps, if
Company." (Mr. Girard.)
their Bill was rudely thrown out in the
Upper House, to be patient any longer
LEGISLATION IN THE SENATE. and be guilty of acts which would cause
loss of life and property. That happilY
was not the case. Means were found tO
THE DEBATE CONCLUDED.
intimate to the Peers that the royal preroThe order of the day having been called gative would be made use of. It is quite
for resuming the debate on-the hon. Mr. true that that extreme was not reached.
It did not become necessary on that occaPlumb's motion, viz:
sion, nor has it become necessary on any
" That he will call'attention to the desira- occasion since, to exercise the royal prerobility of encouraging the initiation of Private gative with a view to pass a measure
Bills in this House, with a view to the more
equal division oî the labors of the two branches through the .House of Lords on
in the earlier period of the session, and that which the House of Commons had more
he will also inquire of the Government if it be than once voted affirmatively ; but it is
not deemed advisable to originate in this I think worthy the attention of any conHouse as nany measures as the law and
usage of Parliament will permit in order that stitutional body, such as this House is, tO
this House may more adequately fill its place notice these land marks, as it were, in
our constitution. I said yesterday, inciin the Constitution."
dentally, that the birth of constitutional
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE said- government had taken place on the occaWhen the hour of recess arrived yesterday sion of the passage of the Reform Bill,
I was describing the events which occur- and I would remind hon. gentlemen whO
red at the period of the passing of the were acquainted with the late lionfirst Reform Bill in 1832, especially in the Joseph Howe, of his well known opinions
House of Lords, my object being to show on that point, that previous to that
the inappropriateness of adoptmng that period responsible government was not
distinguished body as a type of the Senate thoroughly understood, and the limit of
of Canada. I have shown that a second the prerogative of the Crown was scarcelY
Reform Bill, that is to say, the Reform understood. I will just read to the
Bill which was introduced the second House a few lines from a letter by Iertime in the House of Commons, after a bert Taylor, the King's Private SecretarY,
general election, had been thrown out on to the Opposition Peers in the House Of
the second reading in the House of Lords Lords, when the Reform Bill of 1832 Was
by a majority of 41; that prorigation had still in committee. Apprehensions had'
taken place; that the House of Commons been felt for the safety of the measure,
had re-assembled and passed the Bill the and the circular-letter which I am about
third time, and sent it up to the House of to read is what one of the historians of the
Lords; that, on that occasion, the House times says decided the matter. It is the
of Peers had read the Bill the second final appeal to the Lords. The last prac"
time by a majority of 9, and I was on the tical acknowledgment of their free wi
point of showing the danger in which that was in the form of the following circular'
Bill was placed by the subsequent con- letter fromduct of the House of Lords-that a
ST. JAMES' PALACE, May 17, 1832.
disposition was displayed there to emas- My dear Lord-I am honored with U
culate that Bill in committee ; that the Majesty's command, to acquaint your bord'.
whole strength and power of the Bill, and ship, that all difficulties to the arrange

Legislation [APRIL 21, 1885] in the &nate.

rents in progress will be obviated by a
declaration in the House to-night from a
Sufficient number of Peers ; that in consequence of the present state of affairs, they
have come to the resolution of dropping their
further opposition to the Reform Bill, so
that it may pass without delay, and as nearly
as possible in its present shape.
I bave the honor to be, &c.,
HERBERT TAYLOR.
The effect of this circular was that the
Peers who were most opposed to the Bill
absented themselves and allowed it to pass
Without further opposition. It is, perhaps,
Pardonable in me to refer to a few of the
events which were occurring in the country
at that time, because they give great sigIlificance to the action of the House of
Lords on that occasion-the action of the
1
louse, let hon. gentlemen remember,
Which has been recommended, in the
quotations of the hon, gentleman who
Introduced this motion, as one to be imitated in the Senate of Canada. So far
had the resolution to oppose the popular
Vote for reform by force gone that, history
tells us, a celebrated cavalry regiment had
remained booted and spurred day and
nlight in their barracks ready to put down
any disturbance that might arise. They
had gone so far as, on the Sabbath day, to
rough grind their sabres, a thing which
had not occurred since the battle of
Waterloo. Hon. gentlemen cannot fail
to observe that when matters had reached
such a pitch as that, it was not a safe thing
for the House of Lords to run the risk
Which would have occurred if the services
Of that troop of cavalry had been called

651

was recommended to the notice of
the Convention in Canada as one which
should be imitated in the formation of the
Senate of Canada. I cannot agree with
that myself. It seems to me to be an
error pregnant with mischief. Fortunately, on the recent occasion to which I
have alluded, the Peers took a wiser
course, taught perhaps by experience.
They, or their leaders, conferred with the
Government of the day, and very wisely,
I think, prevented anything like a collision
between the two Houses, or between the
Upper House and the people, and the
consequence is that possibly there may be
a long life before the House of Lords, and
if they act upon the suggestions of their
noble leader, whose speech I read from
yesterday, perhaps that life may be a long
and a useful one. I hope it may be ; and
I hope it will not be supposed, from any
criticisms I have offered on that body,
that I have intended in the slightest degree
to reflect upon them as individuals. It
would be a most improper thing to do, for
obvious reasons. They are men of great
influence and ability; they comprise the
ablest lawyers and the bravest soldiers and
sailors of the Empire, and to attempt any
reflection on them as individuals would be
simply absurd, besides being entirely out
of place ; but one may safely take the
other line of saying that as a branch of the
constitution it is rather out of date at the
present time. It is a creation of a former
age, when, as I said yesterday, it had been
notoriously of great use in the unformed
days of our constitution. Neither, in any
into requisition. That period has passed suggestion that this Senate has not fulfilled
away. Fifty-two years have elapsed since all the anticipations of those who were its
then ; yet, I do not doubt, some hon. promoters and formers, do I intend that
gentlemen who have arrived at the same anything I have said should be construed
Period of life as myself, have still a keen to reflect on the capacity and ability of any
recollection of what occurred then. Has hon. gentlemen who hold now, or have
the House of Lords changed in that time ? held, seats in this House. It is against
tut little, I think. It was in the same the nominative principle that I conidentical position not many months ago to tend, and that, I say, is responsible
What it was in 1832, standing still in for all the shortcomings of this body.
strOng antagonism to the wishes of the It is responsible for the want
of
People and the action of the House of balance 'which it has displayed of late
.Coimons, expressed by a very large ma- years. The strength of this body has been
Jority, and to ;the well-known wishes of all on one side, and it is impossible to
the people expressed through the length view with indifference what must be the
and breadth of the land. And yet we result should a change of government
fild the House of Lords, in 1884, taking occur, while this balance remains pretty
Pretty nearly the same stand as they took nearly as it is at present. It is for that
an 1832-yet this is the body which reason that many individuals throughout

652

Legi8lation [SEN ATE] in the Senate.

the country, the press, members of Parlia- deprecate. They see the incongruity of
ment, and numerous others, have con- retaining an overwhelming majority in this
templated this question of what alteration House, and suggestions have been made
should possibly be made in this body to which I touched on yesterday, and which
restore the balance which alone would are evidently impracticable; they are not
make legislation possible here in the event within the bounds of practical politics at,
of a change of government. It is with a all. It is not likely that any distinguished
view to that question that the idea of an Liberal would accept an appointment from
elective Senate has been mooted pretty the Government leader, whatever he might
generally. I think that remarks on this do with his own leader. I think he would
point may very properly corne from me, maintain his character and consistency
because, looking over the quotation made before the public, and decline the nomi'
by my hon. friend who introduced the nation by the Government leader; but
question, I find that the then colonies of the very fact that hon. gentlemen have
Prince Edward Island and Ontario were referred to such a possibility shows their
the only two of the provinces which met feeling on the point, shows that they feel
at the Conference at Quebec who were in in their heart of hearts the incongruity of
favor of an elective Upper House. Our their position here-of their ovrewhelmnlllg
province of Prince Edward Island had majority which prevents the Oppositin1
changed the constitution of its elective side of the House being able to place 0
House a few years before, and latterly and the floor more than fonrteen or fifteen
still it has an elective Legislative Council. men. Thehon.gentleman,inthecourseofhis
Therefore, I think I may very fairly, as speech, enlarged very much on the want
being connected with the island, and hav- of general confidence which has been
ing held a seat in the same Legislative displayed in this Senate. One of the
Council, undertake a discussion of the symptoms, the one which gave rise to the
elective principle, and I may say this: I motion, was that promoters of private
do not think any objection has been urged bills did not introduce them in thi5
against the elective principle which may House; and, generally, the misconcep
be seriously considered, except the difi- tion which exists as to the duties and
culty of carrying it out on the ground of capacities of the Senate and its members'
the vast extent of the constituencies which I think, if you come to inquire into it, yOu
would have to be canvassed by those who will find that the remedies are not what
sought seats here. That is a difficulty, no the hon. gentleman suggested, but they
doubt, but I believe ways and means are simple and obvious. This HOusc
might be found of overcoming that diffi- has not obtained the confidence of proculty. But otherwise, I cannot see that moters of private bills, and it does nOt
any serious difficulty attends the adoption enjoy such a measure of the confidence of
of the elective principle. The hon. gen- the general public as we all wish, sirmPly
tleman from Niagara quoted some lines because it is a nominative body. The
which I will be pardoned, perhaps, for remedy for that difficulty is, from a nolil'
reading again. He was speaking of what native body to make it an elective bodY,
and then an immediate difference will bc
had occurred at the Convention :
constitution of found in the estimation in which it is beld
" We resolved then that the
the Upper House 8hould be in accordance by the country at large. I think if the
with the British system as nearly as circum- Senate were elected by a constituency
stances would allow. The ouly mode of
adopting the system in the Upper House is by possessing a considerable amount f Pro'
conferring the power of appointment on the perty that it would at once gain the public
Crown, as English peers are appointed, and confidence, and a body returned under
that that appointment should be for life."
conecewan a wouldrene one hi'h
hc
those circumstances od be
't
Now, we have carried out that system would be perfectly independent
for a great number of years, and the would be independent of governments,
result has been that we have a majority of woul e nent
ofoverfd alwaeyS
Government supporters of nearly four to both present and prospective, an -wthe
one, and that, I think, is a state of things ready to do its duty, always possessing
which hon. gentlemen themselves even public confidence, a body which wouî
HON. MR.

HAYTHORNE.

Legilation [APRIL 21, 1885] in the Senate.
likewise worthily obtain the universal respect and confidence of the whole Dorninion. This, I think, is what we require
to do, and having heard this subject frequently discussed, and having expressed
Views in private similar to those which I
have here expressed in public, I felt it incumbent upon me not to shrink from
expressing them as plainly as any language
at my command would admit. The hon.
gentleman from Niagara stated that he
would treat the question with the utmost
candor, and I cannot deny that he did soperhaps with too much candor in some
respects, and I have done the same. I
have not shrunk from expressing opinions
which may not be palatable to some hon.
gentlemen, but which, I think, if carried
into effect would result in meeting the
difficulty to which the hon gentleman from
Niagara has referred.
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-When
the hon. gentleman from Niagara gave
notice of this motion, I did not imagine
that he was going into the constitutional
question to the extent he afterwards did in
a subsequent part of his speech, nor did I
suppose that the debate should take the
range in that direction which it has done.
I do not venture to criticize the course of
the hon. gentleman from Niagara in the
least, but I propose very much to confine
mayself to the scope of the motion as I
have understood it, and to the discussion
.Of the efforts which can be made to inIncrease its usefulness, and perhaps the
statistics in reference to the business that
the House had performed in previous
Years-a comparison with the business
transacted in the House of CommonsWould be useful, and it was that humble
Contribution to the debate which I con
templated submitting to hon. members.
I spoke to the Law Clérk of the Senate,
tnd made for me a memorandum showhe
Ing in detail the business which had been
done in the Senate, and in the House of
Commons, and it was to enable me to get
that memorandum that I asked my hon.
friend from Niagara, on two or three occa%ions,to postpone this motion. The table
which is made for me is a lengthy one,
ýnd goes into greater detail than perhaps

653

pose and will show to the House in a few
moments what the relative state of business in the two Houses has been since
Confederation.

4 12
8
6
11
2 7
3 9

98
56
44
84
41
58

22
20
20
6
5
16

76
4
36
9
24 ....
28
3
36
1
42
3

5
6

60
40
55
27
46
42
89
60
48

9
5
1
1
7
9
13
21
19

il

51
35
54
26
39
33
26
89
29
37

190 811 135 845 186

1867-68........
1869 ..........
1870 ..........
1871 .....
..
1872 ..........
1873-18t......
187-2nd ......
1874 ..........
1875 ..........
1876 ..........
1877 ..........
1878 ..........
1879....
1880....
1880-81 ........
1882 ..........
1888 ..........
1884 ..........

659

il
8
12
Il
3
4
9

7 48

6
8
5
6
2
8
5
6
4
74 804 1 14

This shows in tabulated form, and furnishes a very easy way of ascertaining the
exact state of things with reference to the
business of the two Houses, from Confederation downwards. Now, that the business of this House has not been so great
as hon. members would like, is a fact
beyond contradiction, and the object
which my hon. friend from Niagara had in
view was to draw attention to that fact and
to seek if possible some remedy for it.
That is not a new effort. It is one which
has been made again and again since Confederation, at different times, by different
members of this ,House, and amongst
others by myself.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Hear, hear !

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-In
the session of 1868, I drew attention tothe
subject, and a committee was appointed.
The hon. gentlemen from Niagara refers
to the fact and refers to the report of the
committee. I will venture to trouble the
House with a few passages from it to show
't Would be an object to the House to that the views which are now held by hon.
isten to. I have therefore made a short gentlemen were put forward on that
'Ynopsis of it which will answer every pur- occasion, and we endeavored then, as far

654A

4Lgilation [SENATE] in tw &nate.

as we could, to suggest some remedy. The
report is in these words :" The Committee are of opinion that the
forms and practice of the Senate are well calculated to prevent delay in the passing of Bills,
or in the transaction of other business; but
Bills will, according to the present practice,
be sent up by the other House of Parliament,
at so late a period of the Session, at to render
it impossible to give them that full consideration which the public interests require. This
complaint has been constantly made in the
House of Lords and in the Upper Branches of
the several Colonial Legislatures, and bas
formed the subject of repeated discussions,
but no sufficient remedy has been suggested.
" The committee have had under their
notice the modes of remedying the evil in
question suggested by the committee of the
House of Lords, in a report of the 7th May,
1861. These modes were either that some
portion of the legislation which originatedin
the House of Conimens should commence in
the House of Lords, or that some alteration
should be made in the forms and proceedings
of the Commons which would enable it to
devote more time and attention to legislative

measures during the early part of the session.

" The Committee would observe that independently of financial measures, which begin
as of course in the House of Commons, the

-representative character of that House, and
the system of res ponsible government, ren-

dered expedient that some other classes of
important bills should be firet discussed
there; the committee are, nevertheless, of
opinion that it would be quite possible to
originate a much larger number of bills in
the Senate than has hitherto been the
practice in the legislative councils of
any of the provinces of the Dominion. It
appears to the committee ;that it must rest
chiefly with the Government of the day to
accomplish this; the business of Parliament
will hereafter, the committee believe, be
principally in connection with public measures, and in the hands of the Government,
and it will depend upon ministers themselves
in which Bouse of Parliament many of these
measures shall originate. The committee
think that the public intereet in the more
thorough consideration of legislative measures, as well as in the dispatch of business,
would be much served by a persistent effort
on the part of the Government of the day to
originate in the Senate as many measures as
the law and usage of Parliament will permit.
" The Committee would further remark
that the constitution, in establishing an Upper Bouse of Parliament, composed of life
inembers, contemplates on the part of that
Branch a supervision, undisturbed by temporary political currents, and partisan warfare
of the legislation of the day. It is impossible,
the Committee believe, that the Senate shall
kdequately fill ite place in the constitution,
and discharge those functione upon which its
usefulness to the oountry so much depends,
HoN. Six ALEX. CAMPBELL

unless ample security is given for the discus
sion in that House of all measures submittei
for its consideration. In the absence of any
other remedy, it might become necessary to
secure thie, even by the extreme measure Of
declining to consider bills, with certain ee
ceptions, brought up from the CommOns
within a fixed period of the end of a session,
but the Committee trust that other remedies
may be found. The forms and proceedings of
the Senate, the Committee think, are well ad'
a pted for the dispatch of public business,
wh ether any change could advantageously be
made in this connection in those of the House
of Commons muet be left to the wiedoin Of
that Bouse to decide."
That was the report which I prepared
in 1868, and it stated the case as well a
I was able to state it, and referred to the
efforts made in the House of Lords
to bring about a different state Of
things in England. In 1872, Mr. Wark
whose presence we are happy still tO
have amongst us, suggested to the GOI
erniment whether some system might not
be devised by which more business might
be originated in the House. To this sug'
gestion I replied' That committees had been appointed in
the Bouse of Lords, where the saine difficuly
was felt, but no action 'had been taken tO
remove it. The most important measures, O
necessity, originated in the other branch'
During this session, however, one ver uin
rtant measure, the Bill respecting ïublid
Lands was before the Bouse, and would b
taken up next week. Bille respecting in""r
gration societies, and on other subjects, wo*I
come up for consideration. So far as the
members of the Government and the gOus
were concerned, they had every disposition to
initiate as many measures as practicable i"

that Branch."
It came up again in 1874, when a select
committee was moved for at the instance
of my hon. friend opposite, the memibe'
from Ottawa, seconded by the*hon. Mr.
Bureau:" That a Select Committee of seven men"
1

bers be appointed, namely: The hon. Mes

sieurs Aikins, Botsford, Bureau, DickeYý
Dickson, Miller, and the mover, to consie
whether an facilities can be given for,
diepatch of business in Parliament, espec11
in regard to the relations of the two uoi

who are to confer with an equal numberthf

members of the Bouse of Common, for the
purpose aforesaid, as desired by that 1o'
in their message received on Tueeday st.

I am not aware-perhaps my hon.
friend from Ottawa will remenber..-th
the committee reported. I have not been
able to find their report, and I do not re

Legilation [APRIL 21, 1885] in Me Senate.
member it, but attention was called to the
matter, and there was, then a joint committee of the two Houses on the subject.
I have looked at the report of the debate
upon that motion of my hon. friend
opposite, in order to see what had become
of the report of the committee or whether
they had reported or not, but there is
nothing said about it. The motion having
been made by Mr. Scott, my hon. friend
beside me, Mr. Botsford, said that" If the Commons had adopted the same
standing order adopted by the Commons in
Eng land it would have facilitated the business
Of Parliament. He said that body had relaxed

in several very important particulars the rules

with regard to bills, which might not only be
initiated in this House, but also dispensing
with penalties, as tolle or fines to a certain
extent, which carried out any particular machinery which did not impose a burden upon
the people."
My hon. friend knows that that has since
been done. The report continues :" It struck him that if that principle were
adopted by the Commous here, and if they
assed the standing orders adopted in Engan and relaxed the strict rules which had
governed them with regard to bills issuing
from the Senate as respects tolle, fines and
penalties, many bills might be introduced here
not now presentable. He took for granted
that the reason for the Commons appointnent
of a Committee on this subject was to give the
8enate a better opportunity of considering.the
Important measures passed during the session.
Many coining up at an advanced period could
lot receive the deliberate consideration they
were entitled to. He would approve of the
appointment of a committee to meet that of

the Commons and ascertain their object. If
they could thus accomplish the object of the

nIotion,

they would expedite the business of

Parliament and not defer the discussion of
vital measures in the Senate until the last
hour of the session."
The debate was continued by Mr.
Dickey, Mr. Wilmot and Mr. Letellier St.
Just. In i88i, Mr. Speaker made the
following allusion to the course of busi-

tless :" Last year I felt it my duty to enter a very
earnest protest against the manner in which
legislation had come up from the other branch
Of Parliament, at the close of the session. I
think it is only fair, under the altered circum*tances this year, to compliment the GovernIlnent on the decided improvement which has
taken place in that respect during the present
ession of Parliament. We have had very
unaportant measures initiated here, and had
full timae to discuss them. We have not, on
anY one single day, up to the close of the

655,

session, been behind with our work, a very
unusual thing, and one which, perhaps, has

never occurred before, since Confederation.

We have been able to keep up with it and
give it al] the time that we thought itdeserved.
I muet say, I think the Government is not
in a position to be animadverted upon this
session for the manner in which they pre.
sented measures to this House, and I only
hope that the good departure they have made
this year will be followed up in subsequent
sessions, and that we will be able to congratulate them in the same way at the close of
future sessions."
That was the speech made by the hon.
the Speaker, in consequence of some
criticisms which had fallen from some
member of the Flouse, with reference to
the manner in which the public business
had been conducted during that session.
It so happened that year that, in consequence of the earnest exertions made by
myself, the bulk of the Government business originated here.
In 1883, these

measures were introduced in the Senate :
Acts respecting the Civil Service, Superannuation of Officials, the Judiciary, Penitentiaries, Naturalization, and Booms and
other Public Works. During this session
there have been introduced in this House
the Bill respecting Titles to Lands in the
North-West, and, although not yet in the
shape of a bill, the Consolidated Statutes.
I think, therefore, that a very fair effort
has been made, as far as the forms of

Parlianient will permit, to distribute, if
possible, more evenly than has been the
case, the work before Parliament. As the
House well knows, it is almost impossible
to do that thoroughly, under our present
system. Of necessity, the greater part of
the important measures of the Government, are introduced in the other branch
of Parliament, for two or three reasons.
In the first place, the financial measures
and measures concerning trade, of necessity, originate there.
Then the fate of
governments is decided there, and every

effort made in parliamentary life, having
for its object the defeat or upholding of

government, necessarily

falls

to that

House. Then, of necessity the majority
of the ministers hold their seats in that

House, and each minister very naturally and
properly, and perhaps usefully, desires to
introduce measures affecting his own
Department himself; it follows, therefore,
that the greater life, animation and business fall to that House, and that must be

e656

Legi8lation [SENATE] in the Senate.

the case so long as we enjoy responsible
government-we cannot have it in any
other way. I think there go many blessings and advantages with that, and we
ought to be willing, I think, to submit to
the disadvantages, and, as members of
this House, to the inconvenience and unpleasantness of being here very often with
ibut little work to occupy our time, and
finding, very often, too, that the debates in
which we take part are not attended with
the effect that similar debates and
resolutions following them would be
if those debates and resolutions occurred
in the House of Commons. These evils
are incident to the system which we enjoy,
and I think we ought to submit to them
cheerfully. I have said this much with re-ference to the past business of the House,
-and to the almost impossibility of increasing more than has been done the extent
and amount of business which comes to
-this branch of Parliament. The only
remedy which, I think, has not been
tried is the one which was suggested by
my hon. friend from Prince Edward
Island, and was mentioned by him as
what might be done by a compact between
the leaders of both Houses. That has
been tried in another way in the House
of Lords and in the House of Commons
in England. There they have appointed
a joint committee, certain officials,
the Deputy Speaker of the Commons and
the Chairman of Committees of the House
of Lords. All private bills are submitted
to these two officers before Parliament assembles, and they decide which
:should go to the House of Commons and
which to the House of Lords. That is
done under a practice much more strict
than we have, and which perhaps we
could not imitate, a practice which makes
it necessary for those who apply for private
bills to have them in the Private Bills
Office so many days before Parliament
meets, and makes that an absolute rule
from which there is no departure.
Under the rule which requires that
:all bills shall be in the Private
Bills Office ten days before Parliament
meets, these officers have an absolute table showing the number of bills
to come before Parliament, and what they
are about, and therefore they can sit down
and divide those bills between the two
Houses; but we cannot do that. We
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL

know here, from one cause or another,
chiefly because of its being convenient to the
public, that we allow private bills to be introduced at almost any time. The course
has been constantly to fix a day beyond
which bills cannot be introduced, and
then to enlarge that from time to tirne
until towards the end of the session. Suppose we were to adopt the plan proposed by
the hon. member fron Prince Edward
Island, we should haveto dg away with that
convenience, if it is a convenience, to the
public, and adopt a strict rule that no bill
should be introduced in either House
which has not been placed in the Private
Bills Office at least ten days before the
session. It might be a very good rule and
one which, with some practice, might be
attended with great convenience to the
Parliament and to the public, but
for some time, at all events, we shoUild
be pressed very closely not to insist
upon it. Taking all things into consideration, the system of responsible
government, the fact that a large majoritY
of the members of the government nt'U
be in the other House, the power of that
House over the fate of governments, the
necessity of financial and trade measures
and important things of that kind originating there, I do not think that anything
more can be done in the direction Of
bringing business to this House further
than that which I took occasion tormention
in the report of 1868, which was that it
must rest with the Government to do
this. We have seen that what Wa
prophesied in that report has come true,
that more legislation has been initiated
by the Government, and if the Government will, from time to time, endeavor tO
originate more bills in this House thanl
they have done, I think that is the
only remedy unless there be one found
in the change of practice suggeste
by the hon. member from Prince Edward
Island. That this Government has done
more than its predecessors in that way, or
that they have done more or less than
have done, I do not attempt to argue.
believe they did their best, and I an quite
sure that we have done our best. I knowo
myself, so far as I could use influence Of

persuasion, or endeavor in aly weY t
bring Government measures to this H{ouse,
it has been my constant effort to do so,
In some cases I have succeeded, in manr

Legislation [APRIL 21, 1885] in the &nate.

657

I have failed, but it has never been for want as any new light or influence-that we, the
elected members, brought into the House.
of attention or desire.
With reference to the constitutional Then there was this difficulty which arose,
question which the hon. gentleman from and which was a very serious one too ; by
Niagara, and others, have discussed at making the Upper House elective you
great length, I do not feel, as a member of give its members a temptation to resist the
the Government, that I am at liberty to Lower House, because they also represent
pass an opinion. I can state what the the public. What is the difference between
difficulties are in the way of the sug- a member elected, as the hon. member
gestions which have been made, but I do from Quinté was years ago, and a member
not desire, and I think it would not be elected to the Lower House by a smaller
proper for me, to express any opinion of constituency ? Or the difference between
my own. The hon. member from Prince the position of a member of the House of
Edward Island says he thinks that there Commons and that of my hon. friend from
is no difficulty in the way of an elective York, who represented a constituency
chamber, except the large size of constitu- which sends two or three representatives
encies ! Now, I think there are other to the Lower House, or my own position?
and serious difficulties in the way It is very difficult to see any difference, and
of an elective Senate besides the one I remember in those days that, occupying
of the extent of the constituencies. the position of leader of the Upper House,
The great difficulty, I think, far beyond I had the greatest difficulty in contending
that, is how to work responsible govern- against the pressure made by some memment. Supposing you have two elec- bers of the House, not so much, if I
tive chambers, how are you to work remember right, in their speeches as in
responsible government ?. To which of the corridors of the House, to undertake
these two chambers is the Government the initiacion of money measures in the
to be responsible ? They cannot be Legislative Council.
I remember one
responsible to both, because the two hon. gentleman, a great friend of the hon.
Chambers might be in antagonism, and member from Sarnia, the late Malcom
the Government could not serve two Cameron, who insisted for several days
masters. I do not see how you are to get with me that we had the same rights as the
over that difficulty ; and there was this Lower House and that we ought to
further difficulty which we felt. I beg to exercise those rights, and I believe that
state to the Flouse that I have been a very great difficulties would have arisen
member of an elective as well as of a after a time in the Government of
nominative body, so that I am in a posi- old Canada, on account of the elective
tion to form some opinion as to the rela- character of the Legislative Council,
tive advantages and disadvantages of the You have these objections to an elective
two systems. I do not remember when Senate, that you cannot carry it on conthe Legislative Council of Canada sistently with responsible governmentl
was made elective, that the increased because the Government cannot be resprestige came in the way that the hon. ponsible to two masters; you would have
gentleman from Prince Edward Island large constituencies, and the members
supposes : I think it did get more attention returned to the Upper House by those
from the country because there were more constituencies could not be prevented
members, and because they were elected, from asserting to themselves the same
and their elections created considerable rights, duties and privileges that members
interest. My hon. friend from Quinté will of the Lower House exercise. These are
recollect that these elections occupied a much greater difficulties in the way of
great deal of the attention of the public ; elective legislative councils than the difi
and the House, in consequence of that, culty arising from the size of the constitu.
-acquired a certain amount of additional ency simply. The former difficulties are
prestige in the country undoubtedly; but constitutional and inseparably connected
I remember that we all deferred very much with responsible government ; and if that
to those who were life members at the system is productive of good to the
time we entered the Council and that we country, as I believe it to be, I do not
felt their assistance was quite as valuable think there is any way of working it if you
R i

668

Legislation [SENATE] in the Senate.

make the Upper House elective. Then
comes the other suggestion, that its members might be chosen by the several local
Of course that would be
legislatures.
possible, but it would be attended by the
same difficulty, though perhaps not in
the same degree, because these gentlemen,
not coming from the people, might not
assert themselves so strongly on financial
questions. They might be more willing to
subside to the position which we, as
membeis of this House, occupy at the
present moment. It seems to me that
we have to choose between two systems :
if we retain the British system of responsible government we must adhere to a
nominative Senate, if we prefer the elective system we should be willing to do
away with responsible government and
adopt the American system, the two
houses occupying a position analogous to
that occupied by the House of Representatives and the Senate at Washington.
But, hon. gentlemen, at this early period
in the history of Confederation, merely a
spot in the whole time which I hope will
elapse before the confederated Dominion
shall make any constitutional change, it
seenis to me, and I submit it to the House
with great deference, that the time has not
arrived when we should look for, or argue
for changes ; that we should be willing to
enjoy the benefits and advantages that we
have and make the most of them and
endeavor to find remedies for anything
that is wrong in the business between the
two houses by other means ; that we should
patiently endure the evils which the
system has possibly brought upon us and
do the best we can with it and wait a
much longer period in the history of the
country than 17 years before we cast about
for changes which may land us in a most
uncertain position.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I do not
rise to make a speech on this question. I
suppose the hon. Minister of Justice has
closed the debate ; but while I approve of
the greater part of his speech, and while
iny opinions are in the same direction, I
cannot let the subject pass without taking
exception to one of his arguments. He
states that because the greater part of the
ministry are in the other House, and
members of the Government are generally
desirous of presenting their measures be-

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

fore Parliament themselves, therefore it isý
impossible to introduce more government
measures here. That, no doubt, is perfectly right, and it is one of the reasons
why more measures cannot be inaugurated
in the Senate. I believe that as many
measures as can be inaugurated in the
Senate under existing circumstances are
brought forward here, and even more
than this House ought to expect. I
consider the Senate is a court of revision, a
branch of Parliament where the legislation
initiated in the other House has to be revised, and looking at things in that light I
consider that most of the bills ought to
originate in that House, and that the
Senate ought to have little to do with the
legislation in the beginning of the session.
To my mind the Government is wrong in
not having more members of the Cabinet
in the Senate. According to the constitution, perhaps not the letter, but certainly
the spirit of the constitution, there ought
to be more Ministers in the Senate than
we have. Of the 14 Ministers in the
Cabinet there are i in the other House,
and only 3 here. In 'England, it is well
known, that sometimes more than half the
Ministers are in the Upper House. Then
there is another argument for it. The
whole of the original confederation was
divided into three groups, and when
representation by population was accorded
to the other House, it was determined
that in the Senate the three groups should
be equally represented-that is, that each
group should have 24 members here, so
that the three might be equally important
and influential in the Senate. It is evidently contrary to the spirit of that arrangement to have in the Senate all the
members of the Cabinet from one province ; because it is quite clear that the
province which furnishes the most Ministers in the House will have the greatest
influence-greater influence than any province that has no representative on the
Treasury Benches, and the influence will
be all the greater if all the Ministers are
from the one province, as is the case here.
Therefore, to my mind this state of things
is contrary to the spirit of the constitution,
and should not be invoked as an argument
in favor of the stand which the hon. Minister has taken, and which I take myself
I could not maintain my position by any
such argument, and I have only risen tO

Legi8lation [APRIL 21, 1885] in the Senate.
take exception to that porti3n of the hon.
gentleman's speech, feeling that this is a
proper time to ask the Government to do
justice to the other provinces not now represented on the Treasury Benches in this
House.
HON. MR. PLUMB-At the end of
this very long debate, I do not intend to
occupy the time of the House but for a
few minutes, but as mover of the resolution, I may be permitted to make a few
remarks. I shall not review in detail the
arguments that have been adduced by
gentlemen who have spoken upon the
resolution. One thing I may say, that I
feel exceedingly grateful to all of them for
the very kind manner in which they have
spoken of the motion in connection with
myself as the mover. I regret that my
hon. friend from Ottawa, in addressing the
House upon my motion, spoke of my
speech as having gone very much beyond
the specific terms of the motion, and having
taken the House by surprise. I was very
careful in branching off from the resolution
to say that I asked permission of the
House to diverge somewhat from the subject which was indicated by the notice as
I had placed it upon the paper. That
privilege I think was accorded me, and
certainly what I said grew logically, although not directly, out of the motion I
proposed. My hon. friend from Ottawa
was pleased to say that we had no necessity here to pay any attention to speeches
made at picnics and junketings, or to newspaper articles in regard to the constitution
of this body. I can only say that if the
hon. gentleman reads the newspapers from
Ontario, he will find that a very serious
attack on the Senate as at present constituted has been made, is now making, and
will, I have no doubt, for-n a part of the
policy of the party to which the hon. gentleman belongs; and I think under those
circumstances it is hardly fair for him to
say that such attacks are unworthy of the
notice of this House, or that we should
allow them to pass without attempting to
vindicate ourselves in the direction which
I attempted humbly to do in the speech
which the House was good enough to
permit me to make. I am quite certain
that the long silence with which the Senate
has submitted to attack, has given the
public the idea that such censure has

659

been deserved. As far as the initiation
of legislation in this House is concerned
I did not expect to make any suggestion
which would force business into the Senate.
I am quite well aware, as my hon. friend
the Minister of Justice has pointed out,
that in order to encourage the introduction
of private bills here, it would be necessary
to influence members who have charge of
those measures with the idea that they
would facilitate their passage by sending
them here in the first instance. There are
three or four weeks in the early part of the
session during which we are very little
employed, and in which we even take a
long recess, because we have not business
before us. We should persuade members of
the other House that it would be to their
interest to introduce their measures here,
and I know of no other way of inducing
them to do so except to bring it to their
notice, and to bring it in some such form
as I have suggested in the motion before
the House. My hon. friend has shown
that although after the Senate was first
constituted a very suitable proportion of
public bills was brought into this House,
the legislation has fallen off from year to
year until some sessions very few bills out
of those submitted to Parliament have
been initiated in this Chamber.
At
present the legislation is somewhat larger,
because we are favored by having the
representatives of two very important
Departments in this House, both of which
must add to the legislation of the Senate
but, as my hon. friend has said, the Ministers in the other House will undoubtedly
prefer always to inaugurate legislation for
themselves in their particular Departments.
He has also well said that we are cut
off very largely because we cannot and do
not initiate bills here connected with the
fiscal policy of the country. My hon.
friend the member from Albert was very
kind in referring to me in opening his
speech. He and other gentlemen who
have spoken on the other side said that in
my resolution I admitted that this House
is a failure ; that it was inadequate to its
position. I said no such a thing. I did
not mean to be understood in that way.
What I said was that I hoped there would
be some means found to make the House
fill its place more adequately. I do
not say that it now fills it inadequately,
and it is a very forced construction to put

660

Legislation [SEN ATE] in Me Senate.

upon my language, to say that I did. I
had hoped that in a discussion like this
something might come out which would
be of advantage in influencing work for
us. I did not venture to suggest anything, but I hoped that some proposition
would be made by which the position of
the House would be benefited, and
although my hon. friend from Albert
speaks of it as a mutual admiration society affair, I make no excuse for having
attempted to draw the attention of the
public, and of the House itself, to the
constitution of our body, which, I must
confess, on investigation greatly surprised
me. I did not expect to find that this
House comprises in its members, gentlemen representing so fully the professions,
the commerce, the agriculture and the
general business of the country ; representing, I venture to say, in a larger
degree-if I may be permitted to make
the comparison-than the other branch of
the legislature which is an elective body.
And I argued from that, that as far as the
representation of the country was concerned, a nominative body had been
found to hold within itself the elements
of the representation of the interests of
the people in a degree that could scarcely
be found in an ordinary elective body.
That was not certainly an admission that
this House did not adequately fill its
position, nor was it intended as such.
The hon. gentleman from Amherst was
pleased to convey an impression which I
am sure he did not intend to convey, as to
the cause of the delays in bringing forward my resolution. I am not responsible for those delays. He said that this
motion ought to have been disposed of in
February, and it would therefore seem that
I ought to have moved the resolution
sooner than I did. The postponements
have been made from time to time at the
request of my hon. friend the Leader of
the Senate, who was waiting for the statistics
which he has now presented. In speaking of the position of the Senate, in rela.
tion to the other Honse, I stated that
during the five years the Senate had stood
inopposition to theGovernment of the day,
it had only thrown out a certain number
of bills, and I will refer to one of those
bills the hon. member for Albert defended.
I do not know whether he voted for
it or whether he did not ; I think he said,
HON. MR. PLUMB.

however, that he voted with the minority.
That Bill was a measure to change the
representation of a certain constituency in
1874, after the general distribution of the
constituencies had been made in 1873.
I think my hon. friend did not go quite
far enough when he attempted to explain
that matter. He said that the township of
Tuckersmith which was to be tacked on
to the constituency of South Huron at a
time when there was no distribution, had
been taken from it, and had thrown the
constituency out of proportion, and this
was a measure to restore it to its former
position. My hon. friend should have
explained that an election had already
been held under that Distribution Bill,
and he might have explained that the
gentleman who was elected was unseated
for gross bribery ; that he expected to
come back for re-election ; and this was
an endeavor to strengthen his position.
That was why the Tuckersmith Bill was
introduced, and I think it was a gross
violation of the constitution, a gross violation of propriety, and it ought never to
have been permitted, and the Senate
threw it out.
HON. MR. SCOTT-My hon. friend
must be mistaken : Mr. Cameron was the
gentleman who had charge of the Bill in
the other House.

HON. MR. PLUMB-Certainly, it is
Mr. Cameron to whom I refer. Mr.
Cameron was in the House, but proceed
ings were taken against him.
HON. MR. SCOTT-The hon. gentleman made the statement that Mr. Cameron had been unseated, and that this
Bill had been brought in to so reconstruct
the constituency that he could be elected.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentleman must be aware that at the time the
House was sitting, proceedings had been
taken against the gentleman representing
South Huron; and the hon. gentleman
mu st be aware that it was intended tO
inake that constituency an easy one, because the gentleman who advocated that
Bill knew very well that he would be unseated, and that he could never be reelected for the same constituency.

Legislation [APRIL 21, 1885] in Me Senate.
ION. MR. SCOTT-Subsequent proceedings show that that is not the fact,
because Mr. Cameron has had a seat ever
since for that riding, although the Goveriment tried to gerrymander him out of
it.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The hon. gentleman is not familiar with the facts. Mr.
Cameron was unseated in 1874. He was
not re-nominated; he went south for his
health and was absent some time. Mr.
Greenway was elected for the riding as an
independent member. Mr. Cameron did
not come back into that constituency at
the time the hon. gentleman suggested at
aIL

HON. MR. SCOTT-Does the hon.
gentleman from Niagara pretend to say
that Mr. Cameron was not in the Commons when that Bill passed the Lower
House ?
HON. MR.

PLUMB-I did notintend

to say that.
HON. MR. SCOTT-The hon. gentle|
man said that the Bill was passed for the
purpose of re-electing Mr. Cameron.

HON. MR. PLUMB-I say there was
an election petition pending against him
when the Bill was attempted to be passed,
for the purpose of making his re-election
easy. He was unseated under that petition and when he found that the Bill did
not pass he did not stand for re-election,
but went south for the benefit of his
health. My hon. friend the member for
Queens, and I think every hon. gentleman who has spoken on that side, has
rejected the idea that it would be possible
or even desirable for the Government to
appoint any one who is not of the same
politics as the Government of the day, to
a seat in this House. He tells us that
none of his friends would accept such an
appointment. He finds fault with the
partizan character of the Senate, and I
make the humble suggestion that it would
be desirable that some leading gentlemen
on the other side of politics should be
called to seats in this House. I am
aware of the difficulty under which the
hon. gentlemen complain, but I am met
with no cordial response ; on the contrary,

661

I think no hon. gentleman who has
spoken on that side has received that
proposition except with scorn, or with
objection. I can only say that I made
the proposition in good faith and in all
kindness. If the Senate as a nominative
body is more largely represented on one
side than on the other, it is be.
cause the people have chosen for a
great many years to keep in power
the Conservative party. When the other
party came in, they nominated their own
friends, and my hon. friend opposite is an
instance of it. The only way that the
present state of things could be changed
if my suggestion is unacceptable, would be
for the hon. gentleman and his friends to
change the tactics that for years have kept
them in the minority, and which are very
likely to keep them in the minority for
years to come.
HON. MR.

POWER-Hear, hear.

HON. MR PLUMB-Hon gentlemen
can take that kind of advice as they please
in order to redeem the position of the
Senate as a nominative body, according
to their wishes, although I do not think it
is likely to be very soon changed in that
respect, and the attacks upon it ought to
be repelled. Hon. gentlemen will have
their chance when they get on the treasury
benches. Evidently they do not desire
that we should add te their numbers. I
certainly would be willing, should that
time come, to go over to the opposite side
and cheerfully submit to fate, and I suppose the hon. gentlemen opposite are looking forward to the loaves and fishes, but I
can assure the hon. gentleman from Halifax that it will be a long time before he
partakes of his proportion of them. I was
very glad to find that my hon. friend from
Ottawa came out squarely and strongly
with his proposition, that the Senate had
failed to fulfil its duty, and that he was
quite in accord with those gentlemen who
it is stated, were attacking this body.
HON. MR. SCOTT-The hon. gentleman makes an entire misstatement there.
He puts words in my mouth that I never
used. He says I stated that I was entire.
ly in accord with gentlemen who attack
this body. I said nothing of the kind.
My views were hastily drawn from me by

Legi8lation [SE NATE] in the &nate.
the wide range the hon. gentleman took
in his speech. I spoke without premeditation, but I am quite prepared for anything that will place the Senate in the position it ought to occupy. 1 take no stock
in the attacks that are made on the Senate ; and I stated that my views were my
own, that I did not share the outside
views in any sense, and therefore the hon.
gentleman ought not to put words in my
mouth that I never used.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I apologize to
the hon. gentleman if I misunderstood
him. I certainly understood him to say
that he was forced by the position I was
taking to express those views. If I have
done the hon. gentleman an injustice, I
regret it ; he knows very well that I would
not think of doing him an injustice in anything I might say. I have done what I
considered my duty, and I have attained
my object in the motion which I have
made. I supposed in doing so I was
conferring some benefit upon the body to
which I am proud to belong. I therefore
leave the matter in its present shape. I
am glad that it has brought out a discussion, but if I have in any way offended the
hon. gentleman who sits opposite me I
have certainly done it unintentionally.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The

hon. gentleman from Prince Edward
Island, in the course of his remarks, asked
how the business of the country is to be
carried on in this House supposing the Reform party should come into power, with
the Senate, constituted as it now is ? The
question arose in 1874, under the Government of Mr. Mackenzie. Then, as now,
there was a large majority in this House
who were Conservatives, yet the Government were able to carry on their business
here. The hon. gentleman from Ottawa,
with great ability, and no doubt under
many difficulties, and with a great deal of
opposition occasionally, and many efforts
made to direct public attention to-I do
not mean at all to express an opinion, but
to what were considered the misdeeds and
shortcomings of the Government, was able
to carry on the business of the Government in this House. The measures of
the Mackenzie Government passed the
Senate with few exceptions, and those
exceptions were justified on our side,
Hon. MR. SCOTT.

though it was held on the other side
that we were wrong. Although much
opposition was offered, the Government
were able to carry on their business.
No doubt there were towards the latter
part of their career many instances in
which the Government was attacked on
the motions of my hon. friend the Minister
of the Interior, with motions for committees on steel rails, the Fort Frances
lock, the Pacific Railway and other things,
and no doubt these were not illustrations
of forbearance.
Nevertheless, if hon.
gentlemen will turn their minds back
anterior to that time, and apart from these
side attacks, I think they will admit that
there was forbearance on our part, for we
might at any time have checked the public
measures of the Government, if we had
seen fit to do so, and I know that whatever feeling may have been aroused in the
minds of members of the Liberal party by
the motions I refer to, there was an earnest
desire on the part of the then Opposition
to receive fairly, and consider on their
merits, all measures that came into this
House, and so it will be done again should
a change of government take place. I
believe, although there may be many
difficulties in the way of a Reform Government carrying on business in this House,
that the forbearance shown by the Conservative members in the past would be
extended to all measures introduced into
this House by a Reform Government, and
through vacancies caused by death, and
by appointments of their own, they would,
in the course of a few years, restore the
equilibrium between the parties in this
House; indeed had the Reform party
succeeded in the contest of 1878, they
would ere now have been able to have had
a majority in the Senate, by the appointments which have fallen to us.
HoN. Mr. READ-It is quite evident
that the measures which were rejected by
the Senate when the Reform Governmlent
were in power, were measures that the
country would not accept, because the
Government, although they had the opportunity at all times to introduce them agamf,
never did introduce them the second
time.
HON. MR. PLUMB-Referring to the
remarks of the hon. gentlemen fronI

Bapti8ns, Marriages, [APRIL 22, 1S85] and Burials.

663

Ottawa, in his previous speech, to which denounced as being capable of all sorts of
iniquity ; now he is referred to by the same
I referred a moment ago, they were
gentlemen as a high-minded and honor" The hon. gentleman, strange to say, has
not discovered what struck me as a weak able man.
point in bis speech, that the Senate as at
INDUSTRIES
present constituted is, practically, a failure. MANUFACTURING
It must be evident to anybody who takes an
OF THE DOMINION.
interest in the future of this country, that it
is utterly impossible for the Senate to conDEBATE POSTPONED.
tinue as it is. Its constitution must be altered,
and at no distant day."
The order of the day having been called,
HON. MR. SCOTT-That was not the for resuming debate on the Hon. Mr.
point. The point was, the hon. gentleman Macdonald's motion, viz.:
.charged me with having shared in the outThat lie will call attention to the report of
side attacks of the newspapers on the the commission issued by the Government
Senate. Isaid thatIdid nothingofthe kind. last year to enquire into the effect of the
The leader of the House is rather forcing Tariffof 1879, on the industries and manufactures of the country, and will ask the Governme into making an observation or two on ment whether the report will be furnished to
the claim which he makes for the then Members of the Senate and a certain number
Opposition of having shown a great deal of to the country ?
forbearance in not throwing obstructions
HON. MR. McCLELAN moved that
in the way of the Government in carrying
on the business of the country.
I made the order of the day be discharged, and
no reference to this in my speech, but I that the debate be adjourned until towould now say that the chief embarrass- morrow.
ment a Reform Government finds on
The motion was agreed to.
coming into a House constituted as this
is, that it is used for the purpose of guerThe Senate adjourned at 6 p.m.
Committees are
rilla warfare on them.
formed on which the Opposition have the
majority, calling attention to the policy of
the Government and criticizing that policy,
THE SENATE.
and I say that a committee which is hos
tile to the Government, and makes a reOtlawa, Wednesday, A>ril 22nd, 1885.
port to this body, and it goes to the public
as the report of the Senate, has a great
THE SPEAKER took the Chair at 3
effect on the country. There is the weak
o'clock.
spot. There is where an Opposition having control of the House is able to stab
Prayers and routine proceedings.
the Government. I do not call attention
to instances, but my hon. friend knows
BILLS INTRODUCED.
them very well, and I protested against
that view of the question. I protested in
Bill (R), "An Act to make further
this Senate on two occasions when the
provision respecting Pawnbrokers." (Mr.
Opposition were getting up a court of
Gowan.)
inquisition against the Government, that
Bill (S), " An Act to further amend the
the Government should have a majority
on the Committee, but we were voted Act respecting Offences against the Perdown by the Opposition. This is really son." (Mr. Gowan.)

where the Senate damaged the Reform
BAPTISMS, MARRIAGES AND
Government, and no doubt rendered very
BURIALS.
great assistance in the propagation of views
hostile to the Government, and destroying
RETURN.
if they could the reputation of a gentleman they now laud to the skies as the
very personification of integrity and honTHE SPEAKER presented to the
tsty-the then premier. He was then House the return of baptisms, marriages

The Cox [SEN ATE] Divorce Bill.

664A

and burials in the district of Joliette, for respecting a message from the Clerk of
the Senate, telegraphed to the respondent
the year 1884.
HON.

MR. DEBOUCHERVILLE-

By what law or regulation are those returns made here ?
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLThat is a law of the old province of
Canada which requires those returns to be
made to Parliament,{and it has been followed ever since.
HON. MR. DEBOUCHERVILLEThose returns are made only from one
province of the Dominion, and I cannot
see any use in the practice being followed.

TRADE BETWEEN CANADA AND
FRANCE.
INQUIRY.

HON. MR. PELLETIER inquired" When will the Service between Canada
and Havre be inaugurated, according to contract between the Government and the Halifax Steam Navigation Company? "

He said : At the request of several
parties who take great interest in the contemplated trade between Canada and
France, I have put this notice on the

paper.
ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
have not the exact information. The
contract has not yet been executed, but it
is expected that the service will begin this
spring, though I am not able to say that
with any degree of accuracy. I believe
the service will be commenced this spring.
HON.

SIR

THE COX DIVORCE B1LL.
SECOND READING.

HON. MR. READ-I beg to present
to the House the usual certificate of the
Clerk of the Senate, as to notice respecting the Bill for the relief of George Bran.
ford Cox, and also a declaration of the

service of notice on the respondent Emily

and the reply to that telegram.
The papers were laid upon the table.

HON. MR. READ moved that proof
upon oath at the Bar of the House of the
service of the Bill, and notice of the
second reading, upon the respondent, in
the matter of the Bill for the relief of
George Branford Cox, be dispensed
with, and that proof of such service by
declaration of the Sheriff of Los Angelos
county, of California, before a judge of the
Superior Court for the said county, be received as sufficient compliance with the
rule of the House with regard to such service.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
seems to me that the House might safely
accept this service as sufficient. It seems
quite clear that the wife has received notice of the intention of the petitioner tO
apply for a Bill of Divorce, and it seems
also quite clear, by telegran, at all events,.
and by the acknowledgement of the agent
there of the receipt of the telegram, that
she has received notice also of the adjournment, and I apprehend it is established beyond all question that she knew
of the intention of her husband and might
have been here if she desired to defend
her position.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-I do not
rise to raise any objection to the Bill, but
the 76th rule provides that a copy of the
notice and the Bill shall be duly served
upon the party from whom the divorce is
sought, and proof on oath of such service
adduced at the Bar of the Senate before
proceeding to the second reading, " o
sufficient proof adduced of the impossibility of complying with this regulation."'
have no doubt that the papers received
are sufficient to show that they wereserved upon the respondent, but there
should be some proof of the impossibilitY
of complying with the rule requiring that
the proof be produced before the Bar of
the House.
The motion was agreed to on a divisiOl

Cox, by George E. Gard, Sheriff of Los
THE SPEAKER announced that the
Angelos, state of California, at Los Angelos; also declaration of Hilaire St. Jacques, petitioner was at the Bar of the H{ouse.
of the city of Ottawa, telegraph operator, ready to be examined.
THE SPEAKER.

Temperance Act, &c., [APRIL 22, 1SS5] Anendment Bill.

665

think it necessary to make in order to explain the provisions of the Bil, and to
show that this legisiation is needed, and
ought to receive the sanction of this hon.
House. The Bil has a very simple objeet in view-to remedy certain defects
which have revealed themselves in the Act
to which I have alluded, and also to give
effect to the evident intention of the law
now on our statute book, which has to a
The motion was agreed to on a division, certain extent been rendered inoperative
by the legal decisions which have been
HON. MR. READ moved that the BilH given. These then are simply the objects
for the relief ot George Branford Cox be of the Bill.
now read the second time.
Now, it is a very common thing to
to and the Bil speak figuratively of the provisions of a
The motion was agreed
act of parliament, by which it is kept in
was read the second time.
operation, as machinery. I think it is a
HON.very
proper and useful figure, and I purHoN.MR.
EAD ovedthatthe illpose for a few moments to use it ; and in
be referred to a select committee com- extending it to this Bil now before us, I
posed of Hon. Messieurs Gowan, Nelson, would say that it adds nothing to the
McInnes, (B.C.), McKindsey, Sutherland, machinery of the former Act, that no new
Carvell, Clemow and Turner, and the or additional power is asked for keeping
mover, to report thereon with all conven- it moving, that it may be simply regarded
ient speed, with power to send for papers as the applying a few drops of ou where
and records and examine witnesses on friction has manifested itself and made it
oath, and that all persons summoned to difiicult, almost impossible, to work the
appear befoie the Senate in this matter law But while it is thus very simpleappear before the committee, and that the and the illustration which I have used I
said committee have leave to employ a think is appropriateas showing the trifiing
short-hand reporter.
character of the amendments I ar asking
The motion was agreed to on a division. the House to make in the Act-the effect
of neglecting to apply that oil to the maND LQUO chinery would be m-ost serious, just as
TEMPEANCEACT
TEMPERANCEthatnegect
in a complicated machine
would lead not only to its being made
LICENSE ACT AMENDMENT
BnLL
useless, but very probably to its destruction; so I contend that the refusal of
SECOND READING.
Parliament to grant this necessary relief,
this single drop of oi for the machinery of
HON. MR. VIDAL moved the second the Canada Temperance Act, would
reading of Bill (92), "An Act further to result in doing a vast deal of miscbief and
amend The Canada Temperance Act causing much confusion. But, while I
1878, and The Liquor License Act, 883." think that this view of the Bill justifies my
lie said: I do not propose, in moving for observation that it was one containing
the second reading of this Bils, to make any very few provisions, the whole scope of
remarks upon what is famiaiarly caoled which might be comprehended in a few
minutes study of it, I admit that it is one
terperance and prohibitory legislatioo,
îlov is it my desire to offer any opinion as which in its effects is exceedingly importo the constitutionality or expediency, tant, and we ought not to lose sight of the
the objects or effects of the Canada Tem- consequences of the course we may take
Why do I
Perance Act Of 1878; these matters in my with refrence to this Bi.
iudgment being toreign to the Bill now think so? I think so because the attenbefore us, and not in any way necessarily tion of the country is directed to this
COnnected with it. I propose to confine matter, because the people are arive to
M1Y remarks to such observations as I may the importance of the subject.
HON. MR. READ moved that the examination of the said petitioner in this
matter, as well generally, or as to any collusion or connivance between the parties
to obtain a separation, be for the present
dispensed with, but that it be an instruction to any Select Committee to whom the
said Bill may be referred, to make such
examination.

666

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.
KAULBACH-No.

attention, and which was really the origin
of the petitions which have been presented
HoN. MR. VIDAL-- What do the to this House, has itself never appeared
numerous petitions which have been pre- here, and why ?
It is not generallY
sented in this House this session, mean? known, but I attribute it very much to the
Up to Friday last, 755 of them had been energetic action of my hon. friend fromn
presented, not precisely asking for this Belleville (Mr. Flint), who, immediately on
Bill now before you, (1 will explain to its appearance, analyzed it very carefullY
you why that was not specially asked for, and sent forth his analysis throughout the
and how these petitions originated) but country, and it was such a severe cutting
simply asking that we will not do anything up of the petition-it made it so ridiculous
to lessen the prohibitory character of the -it pointed out its fallacies so effectually,
Temperance Act, or make it more difficult that the council of the body which had
of adoption or enforcement. In Decem- issued it and urged its being signed,
ber last, a petition was got up by the assumed authority towithdraw italtogether.
parties adverse to the Temperance Act of Our petitions, however, had been sent far
1878, who were feeling the pinching effect and wide throughout the country, and
of it, although they say where it has been although we knew this petition had been
adopted it has been comparatively useless. withdrawn, we did not think it necessary
They got up a petition which came under to send word to our friends to withdraw
the notice of myself and other temperance their petitions ; but we thought it as well
workers. It was printed and sent over to let them go on and give expression tO
the country for signatures, in order to be the wishes of the people on the subject.
presented to Parliament. That petition I may be pardoned if I speak for a moment
asked-after setting forth some not very of the petition which was presented by the
accurate statements-that a majority of hon. member from Charlottetown' (Mr.
three-fifths of the voters be required to Haythorne) a day or two ago. It is one,
adopt the Act in any county or munici- I think, of very great importance, and onle
pality in which it is to take effect. Im- to which the attention of the House maY
mediately on that becoming known to very well be given and given carefully. I
myself and other workers in the tem- think even the hon. member from Halifax
perance cause, we thought it desirable, if (Mr. Almon) will not venture to belittle
Parliament was to be petitioned for this that petition. It is signed by the BishoP
object, which we considered unjust and of Charlottetown, by the Lieutenantcalculated to hinder the adoption of the Governor of the province of Prince
Act, that our views should be heard, too ; Edward Island and by upwards of 5,000
and, in consequence, we have these numer- of the inhabitants of that province;
ous pétitions which have been presented and what does that petition ask for ?
here this session. I know it is the habit It is not the ordinary petition that
of some hon. members to belittle those has been presented here this session, but
petitions. We hear remarks that many of an independent one expressing the vieWs
the signatures are written with the same of a large number of the people of Prince
pen, and that no importance ought to be Edward Island. That petition sets forth
attached to these, but I appeal to the that in that province the three counties
good sense and judgment of the House, into which it is divided, and the city of
even supposing that there was to a very Charlottetown, have adopted the Canada
limited extent some action of that kind Temperance Act of 1878 ; that they find
(which, however, I do not admit), I think it there are difficulties in the way of the encannotbe shown to prevail toanynoticeable forcement of that Act, and that these diffiextent, is it not evidence that throughout culties are largely increased by the fact
the length and breadth of our Dominion that they have no control over the mann
there are people well satisfied with this facture and importation of spiritUons
Act, and though it is sometimes very ill liquors. The right to manufacture and
spoken of, is still one which is considered import them still exists, while the right tO
by many ptople as an Act calculated to sell has been taken away. They, therefore
promote the best interests of the country. petition, not for this Bill in particular, V
Now, that petition which first attracted our that Parliament should give the Prince
HON. MR.

Temperance Act, &c., [APRIL 22, 1S85] Amendment Bill.
Edward Island Legislature the power of
Passing a law themselves to prohibit the
mfanufacture and importation of these intoxicating liquors in the province ; or, if
Parliament feels it beyond its power, or
Iconsiders it imprudent to grant that, then
they join in the petition which has been
the closing prayer of all the petitions presented here by the friends of the Act this
session-that an Act prohibiting the manUfacture, importation and sale be passed
for the whole Dominion. I contend that
We have therefore very strongly on our
Side the province of Prince Edward Island
expressing its approval of the Act which
has been in force there for several years,
and asking that it be made more efficient
by further legislation.
We are often met, when seeking to
obtain amendments to this Canada TemPerance Act of 1878, by not so much an
argument as a statement intended to
throw a slight upon it, "oh, you are all
the time seeking amendments to that
Temperance Act. Every session we are
troubled with bills amending that Act."
Now, what are the actual facts of the
case? It is well that those who make
these complaints and charges against us
should understand clearly and distinctly
the facts about those amendments, and
about the deficiencies and inaccuracies of
this celebrated Act. There have been
two amendments to that Act, and only
two passed since 1878. The first was in
the following year 1879. The greater
Part of it has nothing to do with the Canada Temperance Act, because it referred
to the repealing of by-laws passed under
the old Temperance Act of 1864,and it was
Miostlytaken upwithclauses relatingtothat.
The only clause that really related to the
Working of the new Canada Temperance
Act is one providing for the province of
hanitoba, in which the Canada Temperance Act could not be brought into force,
because the province was not divided into
counties as contemplated in its pro1isions. The amendment was simply to
Provide that in the province of Manitoba
the Act should be adopted in the electoral
districts. Was that a very great or unnlecessary amendment ? I am sure every
on. gentleman in the House will assent

667

long after the Act was passed that there
were a great many counties in the Maritime Provinces in which no licenses were
issued. Many of them had been enjoying the benefits of almost total prohibition of this traffic for twenty years. When
the Canada Temperance Act was adopted it
appeared that the time for bringing it into
force depended on the expiry of existing
licenses. The intention of the law was of
course to protect the temporary vested
interests of the holders in the licenses given, that there should be no
undue interterence with those rights
for which they had paid, and it was to
secure this object that these terms were
inserted in the Act, never contemplating
that it would be said that the Act should
not be brought in force where there were
no licenses to expire. However, judicial
difficulties arose with reference to it, and
the second amendment was enacted simply
to say that where adopted in counties in
which there are no licenses existing, the
Act should be brought into force after the
expiry of a certain time. Now, these are
the only two amendments to that Act
since 1878. It is said that this Act " with
133 sections and hundreds of sub-sections"
is very defective. Now, what is the fact ?
There are 124 sections and some sub-

sections, but very few of those relate to
the prohibitory part of it, the most of them
being in connection with regulations for
the voting ; but be this as it may, it has
nothing to do with the Bill before us. I
think it is the highest compliment that
could be paid to those who drafted that
Act, that with its 124 sections embracing
a subject which was entirely new on our
statute book, that it has stood the test of
all these years of experience, and was
only required to be amended in those two
trifling ways. It reflects the highest credit
on the framer of that statute. You will
scarcely find any other act on the statute
book of equal length and importance,
that has not required a great many amendments. I think we can, therefore, dismiss
that objection to the Bill.
Another reason why we should give
careful attention to this matter and be
very sure of the action we take with reference to it, is the view that is entertained
tO Iny view that it was a very small but a of it in the country generally ; and in
very necessary one. What was the 2nd order to bring this before you, I have
ernendment ? It was ascertained not taken the trouble to examine very

668

Temperance Act, &c.,

SENATE] Amendment Bill.

thoroughly, and to make careful estimates
HON. MR. VIDAL-No, I have not
and calculations respecting the votes been able to ascertain that, and I do not
given for and against the adoption of this think my hon. friend can either, for he
Act, in the counties and cities where it has will find, even in the Parliamentary returtl
been submitted. I intend to give the which I have examined carefully, that
House a few figures which I have col- there are too many cases where the total
lated, because I think they are exceed- vote is omitted, to enable any one to make
ingly valuable and important, and that an estimate. I am going to make a remark
they should impress this House with a on that point presently, because I am quite
sense of the immense importance of well aware that it has been made a ground
this permissive prohibition in the estima- of objection. I give the average of the
tion of a large majority of the people majorities cast for the adoption of the Act
of this Dominion. Since 1878 it will be and against it, as it may be interesting
remembered, that at first, in consequence though perhaps not very important. The
of the uncertainty which prevailed as to average majority for it was 761, and the
whether or not the law was constitutional, average majority against it 356, less than
it remained almost in abeyance for a long one-half in the votings which have taken
time, especially in Ontario, where we were place. In the 177 contests for seats in the
afraid of adopting it until the question of House of Commons, which took place at
its being within the jurisdiction of this the last general election, there were only
Parliament was settled. Since that time, four members who secured a majority ethere have been 73 elections held under ceeding 1,ooo votes; in the Temperance
this Act. I use the word "Act" for con- Act contests, of which there were only 73,
venience ; I should technically say "Peti- there were majorities of over 1,ooo securtion to the Governor-General," but it is a ed in 24 places. Now, surely this is
roundabout way of expressing it. The plainly indicative of the importance which
Act was adopted in 61 of the 73 munici- people attach to this valuable measure,
palities, and was lost in 12. That is 83Y2 such large majorities being given ; and O
per cent. of victories and 161Y per cent. of these large majorities there were three
defeats. Now, I think that these should which exceeded 2,000 in each caser
be considered very impressive figures, majorities such as never have been given
when we see the large proportion of the for any Parliamentary candidate or for
municipalities adoptinl the Act, to those any other measure. These are facts which
which have refused it. It may be also of ought to impress our minds deeplY &
interest to notice the voting about it. The exhibiting to us the true sentiments of the
total of all votes polled is 210,919. I majority of the people with reference to
may, however, here remark that while I this Act.
have got from the Secretary of State an
official statement of all the elections and
HON. MR. ODELL-What proportion
pollings up to February of this year, that do these votes bear to the population of
the returns from the counties which have these districts ?
recently voted on the Act have not yet
been received at his office, and for these I
HON. MR. VIDAL-That is the qUe
have been dependent on the figures given tion that the hon. meniber from Halif-"
in the newspapers, which, however, I take has already asked, and which it is difficult
to be so nearly correct that they cannot toanswer. I havegivenagood dealo f tunle
be materially changed. The votes for the toit and have not obtained the inforiation·
adoption of the Act numbered 128,693,
and the votes against it 82,226, leaving a
HON. MR. SCOTT-The electoral disclear majority of those voting upon the tricts and the counties do not alwaY corquestion, in favor of the adoption of the respond.
Act, of 46,467.
nost
HON. MR. PLUMB-They do in
HON. MR. ALMON-Can the hon. cases ; they do in Wellington.
gentleman tell us what number of voters
there were on the lists in those counHON. Mr. VIDAL-No, there is t
ties ?
city of Guelph, and in the county O
HON. MR.

VIDAL

Temperance Act, &c., [APRIL 22, 1885] Amendrent Bill.
Brant there is the city of Brantford, and
in Elgin the city of St. Thomas. It is
txceedingly difficult, and in some cases
impossible, to ascertain the exact figures,
but I have, as it happens, taken a little
trouble to try to throw light on this subject. To do this I have selected the six
counties giving the largest majorities in
favor of the Act, for the very purpose of
showing the difference between the temPerance vote and the political vote in those
counties. Surely that is fair.
HON. MR. PLUMB-The full vote?
The registered vote of the county ?
HON. MR. VIDAL-No, the actual
Vote ; I will give you what I have extracted trom the returns at any rate. In
the county of Huron, at the last general
election, 9,290 votes were polled; at the
election on the Temperance Act, 10,369,
Showing that however great the exciteMent may have been, and it is generally
great at our Parliamentary elections, the
interest taken in the Temperance Act was
greater still.

669

9,913 ; and the majorities were in the

former 499, and in the latter

2,187.

HON. MR. HOWLAN-What was the
majority in the election in the city of
Charlottetown ?

HON. MR. VIDAL-It is included in
Queen's County. We can tell the temperance vote separately, but we cannot tell
the political vote separately, because both
are in the one return to the House.
HON. MR. HOWLAN-What was the
majority in the temperance vote ?
HON. MR. VIDAL-The second vote
in Charlottetown was 755 for, and 715
against the Act. In the county of Kent,
Ontario, the vote polled at the general
election was 4,814, and at the Temperance
Act election 6,343; the majorities were
in the former 202, and in the latter 2,303.
In the county of Lambton, from which I
have the honor to come, the political vote
was 6,266, and the vote on the Temperance Act 6,014 ; the majorities were in the

HON. MR. PLUMB-What was the former 5o6, and in the latter 2,922. It
has been reported to be 3,ooo, but the
iajority ?
official return is not sent in, and the best
HON. MR. VIDAL-In the political return I have been able to get puts it at
Those are the results in the six
election it was 686; and the majority for 2,922.
the Temperance Act was 1,655. I hope counties giving the largest majorities for
that will be satisfactory. In the county the Temperance Act, and you will observe
Of Elgin the total vote polled was not so that while in three of them the electors
large at the election for the Temperance voting are fewer in number than in the
Act as at the general election. Including political contests, in the other three there
the city of St. Thomas, in the general were fewer votes cast in the general
election of 1882, the vote was 7,738 ; in election. I was interested particularly in
the Temperance Act contest the vote was the county of Cumberland, Nova Scotia,
6,301, so there was a considerable differ- in order to give my hon. friend from that
ence in the number of voters who came county (Mr. Dickie) a little information
Out. But look at the majorities; while in about the views of the people there on
the political election the majorities this subject. At the last general election
amounted to 920, in the Temperance Act the people in that county returned their
COntest they were 1,874 - more than member by acclamation and I was obliged
double the number. In the County of to go back to the time when the last
Prince Edward, at the general elec- election was held there. On that occasion
tion, there were 4,513 votes recorded; the majority for the successful candidates
n the Temperance Act election, 4,004. was 562, while of the 1822 votes cast in
''he majorities were in the last general the Temperance Act election, 156o were
election 401, and in the Temperance Act in support of the Act, giving the majority
tlection 1,874-more than four times the as 1,298. I think that these figures indibUrnber. In Durham and Northumber- cate very distinctly and emphatically the
land the vote for the general election was feeling of the country as manifested in
3,771, and for the temperance election different directions and clearly show it to

670

Temperance Act, &c., [SEN ATE] Amendnent Bill.

be constantly and decidedly in favor of the'
Temperance Act.
I will now give another proof which I
think is a most important one, as to the
value which is attached to this Act by the
electors who have once adopted it; this
value is sometimes questioned, but that it
is recognised by those best able to judge
will be seen by the votes which have been
taken when the Act was submitted the
second time. There are eight municipalities in which there have been two elections
under the Act; in six of these the second
election was brought on by those opposed
to the Act, with the design of repealing it.
In two of them it was brought on by the
friends of the Act, where the former vote
had been adverse; in the six counties
and cities which had had the experience
of the working of the Act for three years
-and surely they are the best persons to
decide whether the Act is beneficial or not
in its operation-in all of these counties
they refused to revoke it, and the second
election re-affirmed and secured it to them,
while in the other two, where it had received an adverse majority at first, it
obtained a very mucn larger majority in
its favor in the second election, In Lambton, my own county, the majority at first
was about 100 against it; the vote in favor
of it at the second election was the largest
majority which has yet been given anywhere, 2,922. This I take to be a very
emphatic declaration that where the operation of the Act has been tested in Canada,
by people with the same thoughts, feelings,
desires and habits as ourselves, there has
been a clear decision in favor of the Act,
and for maintaining it. Tt may be interesting
to notice the difference in the aggregate
vote at the two elections. I summed up
the majorities that were in favor of the
Act in the first voting, and deductng the
majorities which were against it, got a total
majority of 3,858. At the second election
the total majority which was given for the
Act was 6,031, showing, I think, very
plainly the growing sentiment in favor of
the Act both where it had been tried, and
where formerly it had failed. It may be
well perhaps that I should state before the
House the present actual position of the
Act with respect to the counties and
cities which have adopted it, because the
number of elections held, and the way I
have given the figures, does not give a
HON. MR. VIDAL.

sufficiently distinct idea of the places
which have now adopted the Act; in manY
of these it is not in actual operation, as a
great many licenses have yet to expire. It
had been adopted in Nova Scotia by 1counties out of 18 counties and i city ; I
New Brunswick by 9 counties and i citY
out of 14 couuties and 3 cities; in Prince
Edward Island by 3 counties and i city
the entire province,-in Quebec, by 5
counties out of 56 counties and 4 cities ;
in Ontario by 24 counties and 2 cities Out
out of 45 counties and 1o cities ; and '
Manitoba by 2 counties out of 5 counties
and i city. It will be noticed that I have
not mentioned British Columbia ; it is for
this reason, that there has been no possi'

bility of submitting the Act in that proV'
ince, there being no division into cou'
ties there ; one of the defects in the
original Act, which it proposed to remedy
by the Bill now before us. I have there
fore had to leave British Columbia out of
the question altogether. I might also observe that in my reference to Manitoba n'y
calculation was based upon the division
the province at the time when those votes
were taken. There was, I believe, a divi
sion of the province into counties made
last year, but I have not been able to ascertain those divisions or to find out what
counties are represented within the limits
which had previously adopted the Act.
This would show that 55 counties and 4
cities have adopted the Act, out of 14
counties and 20 cities, or about 36 / Per
cent. of the whole of the Dominion.
Canada, exclusive of British Colunbia.
Now I think, although there is probably .?o
particular importance to be attached to it,
I might as well state, what has been f
some little interest to me-the politi
party aspect of this movement. It uhe
to be frequently charged against the
adherents of the Conservative party t1iM
they were very much against tempera he
legislation ; that the Liberal party wasd the
party advocating and promoting it, an
party under whose auspicies the cOUn
might expect to obtain such legislatioln
looking into the case-and the difference
was much larger a few months ago, befof
the Temperance Act elections in Elgin and
Lambton took place-I find that thdt 9
counties and cities which have adopte.
Act are represented by 42 Conservaat-ve

and by 38 Liberals, in the House of GO'

Te mperance Act, &c., [APRIL 22, 1885] Amendment Bill.

671

by the hon. gentleman for Amherst (Mr.
Dickey) exhibiting the character, the functions, and judicious acts of this Senate,
and placing us in a right position before
the people, would be utterly lost ; their
impression on the country would vanish
like a cloud, and the people would say,
why should the Senate reject a Bill like
that ? What reason would be given ? Is
there any constitutional reason which can be
adduced to explain why such action should
be taken ? The rejection of this Bill or the
adding to it objectionable clauses, would
do more to lower this House in the estimation of the public than all the abuse
that has been heaped upon it, and upon
its actions by the press and by individuals
opposed to its existence, for years past.
Such at least is ny judgment on this.
matter. I fear that I have taken more
time than I ought in making these remarks.
I will now refer briefly to the Bill itself,
and I hope to convince hon. gentleman
that what I am pleading for is the simple
thing that I claim it to be. The first
clause is a simple provision. The Act
which it amends requires that the petition
for the vote to be taken, when signed shall
be deposited for ten days in the office of
the Sheriff or of the Registrar of the
county. Difficulties have occurred where
there are more than one Registrar's Office
in a county. There is one case in particular in relation to which I have a very
decided grudge against the Government
for their action in connection with it. In
the county of Perth there are two Registry
Offices, and through want of care or
knowledge on the part of the persons in
charge of the petition, they deposited it in
one Registry Office only. When it came
here to be examined by the Government
officer, it was found that it had been so
deposited, and that, under the law, was
not sufficient. But hon. gentlemen, will
you believe it, that when the petitioners
asked that the document might be sent
back to them in order that it might be deposited in the Sheriff's Office, the request
was refused, and they could not, and did
action of this Chamber with reference to not, get their petition returned. Was that
this Bill ; and if it should be that this fair ? Was that just ? Or was it in acIlouse recorded an adverse decision upon cordance with the spirit of the Act ? Or
it What would be the effect ? Why the was it a thing that would reflect any credit
good effect of those excellent, argumenta- on anybody that had anything to do with
tive, and instructive speeches made by my it ? Even though it were legally right,
hon. friend at my right (Mr. Plumb) and which I think questionable, I regard it as

mons, and that the 1o which have rejected
the Act are represented by 12 members,
6 Conservatives and 6 Liberals, so that it
is perfectly clear there is no great point to
be made by either party against the other
as to the political character of this great
temperance movement. My desire has
always been to keep it not only separate
from, but above all party politics, for in
ny judgment there is no question more
important or more intimately connected
with the safety, the happiness and the
prosperity of this country, than the great
question, "What is to be done with this
liquor traffic, and the common use of intoxicating liquors ?"
I set these figures before you because I
think it is exceedingly important that this
House should be alive to the necessity
of acting very cautiously and wisely with
respect to this matter; that no hon.
gentleman should allow mere prejudice, or
personal feeling, or preconceived opinions,
to influence him to act in opposition to
such a decidedly and most widely expressed wish of the people for this legislation. I think, hon. gentlemen, that if this
House should take an adverse view of this
matter-if this House should reject this
Bill, or should add to it, by amendments,
anything by which its usefulness would be
impaired or destroyed-it would take a
responsibility upon itself which I shrink
from thinking of, setting itself in opposition not only to the very emphatic vote of
the House of Commons on this matter,
but setting itself in opposition to the most
clearly-expressed wish of the people whereever they have had an opportunity of showing it. In addition to the 59 which have
adopted the Act, there are 30 places where
the process is now going on, preparatory to
its being submitted to a vote. There are
Ilow lying in the office of the Secretary of
State, a number of petitions waiting only
for their examination and certificate of
cOrrectness, to authorize the immediate
ISsuing of the proclamation for the electiOns. Surely, it becomes us to take
serious thought as to what shall be the

672

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

a great stretch of red-tapeism not to have
complied with the reasonable demand of
the people that their petition might be returned to them. For fear of such an in.cident as that recurring, this Bill provides
in the first section that the depositing of
the Bill in any Registry Office in the
county shall be sufficient. It is perfectly
just and equitable that it should be so. It
is not a petition that people wish to go
and see. There are not a dozen people
in the county that will go and examine a
petition of that kind ; it is deposited in
the Registrar's Office that the lawyers, or
agents of those who are opposing the peti
tion, or promoting it, may have an opportunity of examining it, and the requirements of the law would be just as fully
met by the depositing of the petition in
any one of the offices as in two or more of
them. So much for the first section.
Can there possibly be any objection to
that amendment ? The second and third
clauses are similar to the clauses of the
Act of 1879-doing for British Columbia
what was done there for Manitoba. British Columbia has no counties, so there is
no possibility of complying with the Act
in that province ; it is likely that these
provisions will require to be somewhat
further amended in committee, as conference with the members from British
Columbia has led me to believe that some
alterations will be needed in order to extend to that province the privileges enjoyed under the Act by other provinces
of the Dominion. The next clause
is to amend section 96 of the Act,
by adding on a feature which is found in
other Bills, I believe, but even if it were
not, it is proper to have it there, that is,
that all courts, judges, justices of the
peace and magistrates, judicial and other
officers, shall take notice of such Orderin-Council in proceedings under the Act,
without its being specially pleaded or
referred to, and no evidence thereof shall
be required to be given in any prosecution under the Act. Section 5 amends
section 99 of the Act in two or three
places. I must admit that the mode of
making the alterations would be improved
by repealing the old sub-section and substituting the new one amended, rather
than by the way it is done here. It is
quite true that the alterations are very
simple, and that if a person has the
HON. MR. VIDAL.

original act beside him there is no difficulty in comprehending the meaning of
the clause, but without the assistance of
the other act these amendments are
particularly puzzling. It is a matter
which, when the Bill is in committee, that
perhaps the Minister of Justice and the
hon. member for Ottawa might decide as
to whether it would not be desirable to
change it and to repeal sub-section 4 of
the old Act, and substitute the whole of
the section with the alterations in it.
Sub-section No. 2, section 5 is one that
has been added in the other House, not
at the request or with the cordial concurrence of the friends of the Act, but they
have consented to it, and it comes up to
us. It extends the privilege of issuing
certificates to obtain liquor for medicinal
purposes to priests and ordained ministers in such places as there may be no
medical man residing.
HON. MR. PLUMB-That
Bourbeau's amendment ?

is Mr.

HON. MR. VIDAL--Yes.
Of course
in nearly all our towns and villages, medical men are to be found, but I do not
imagine that any evil is likely to result
from this privilege being given. I do not
think it would be likely to be used dishonestly or improperly.
HON. MR. PLUMB--You have not
quite as much confidence in the clergy as
you have in the doctors.
HON. MR. VIDAL-I am not speaking
of any confidence in persons at alL A
medical man, of course, understands what
he is doing in prescribing liquor for medicinal purposes. The clergymen have not
a knowledge of medicine as a rule, and
therefore on that point alone I would not
think it quite as expedient to extend the
privilege to them; but I do not think it
will do any harin, and therefore have no
objection to the clause.
MR. McINNES-Attach the
HON.
sane penalty to the clergyman as to the
doctor.

HON. MR. VIDAL-I think the saine
rule should hold in every case, that al
who get the same privileges should Coni

Tenperance Act, &c., [APRIL 22, 1885] Amendment Bill.
under the penalties. Section 6 amends
section ioo of the Act, and I think everybody will admit it is an amendment in the
Strike. out the words
right direction.
"not less than."
HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-It
is the only generous provision in the
-whole thing.

Hox. MR. VIDAL-It allows the
medical man to give his certificate, unlimited either as to smallness or largeness of
the quantity prescribed.
HoN. MR. PLUMB-Under the Act
he could not give a certificate for less
than a pint.

673

the 145th, that were inserted in thatAct for

the very purpose of enforcing the Temperance Act of 1878. It was thought in the
Maritime Provinces that that law was not
clear enough, and putting these clauses in
was intended to enable prosecutions
to be brought under that Act; but the
Supreme Court of New Brunswick has
decided that it has just the opposite effect,
and repeals the penal section of the Temperance Act of 1878. I may be met by
the statement that from what has taken
place in the other Chamber, it is most
likely that the Act of 1883 will be suspended for a time until a final decision is given as to its constitutionality. These three clauses which I have
mentioned have been accepted by the
Supreme Court judges as valid in their
decisions.
They consider those three
clauses constitutional and in force, and,
finding as we do, that they cause serious
difficulty in working the Canada Temperance Act of 1878, it is thought not only
desirable, but absolutely necessary, that
that section should be repealed, in order
that the Temperance Act may be maintained in full force and effect where it has
been adopted. The tenth section merely
authorizes the forms which are to be used,
given in the schedule of this Bill, and the
making of new ones in accordance with
the provisions of the Act, when necessary.
It contains, however, an objectionable
word or line, which I do not intend to
speak of at this moment, because when
the Bill is in committee will be the proper
time to refer to it, and suggest amendments.

Hox. MR. VIDAL-That provision
was, I believe, made to prevent tippling in
the drug store. Section 7 amends section
107 of the Act by inserting after the word
" prosecuted " in the second line thereof,
the words " and the penalties and punishPrornents therefor shall be enforced."
fessional men found that the Bill gave
authority to prosecute, but did not give
-authority to impose and enforce penalties.
Section 8 amends section i 19 of the Act,
correcting merely a clerical error of one
word : I intended in my earlier remarks
to have excepted section 9 from my stateient of the amendments-being merely
technical and clerical amendments, but
inadvertently omitted to do so. Section
9 provides that"9. Section one hundred and forty-five of
'The Liquor License Act 1883,' is hereby
repealed: Provided, that this Act shall not
apply to any prosecutions or proceedings
HON. MR. ODELL-You say in clause
heretofore conmmenced and now pending, and, 10 you give certain forms
in the schedule,
notwithstanding the repeal of the said section
the provisions of 'The Canada Temperance but in that clause you say new ones may
Act 1878,' relating to offences, penalties and be framed in accordance with the Tempepunishnents, and the procedure relating rance Act.
thereto, shall, as to prosecutions and proCeedings commnnenced after the passing of this
HoN. MR. VIDAL-Yes.
Act, be in full force."
This, I may say, is the most important

clause of the Bill. It is introduced for
the reason that in New Brunswick the
Supreme Court has given a decision that
this clause 145 of the Liquor License Act
of 1883 repeals the penal clauses of the
Temperance Act of 1878.
Now, there are three sections, the 14 5 th,
the one preceding and the one following
Si

HON. MR. ODELL-Now, who do you
propose shall prepare these forms ?
HON. MR. VIDAI-They are only to
be changed if the occasion making it
necessary should arise. I would suggest
that this kind of discussion will be far
more appropriate when the Bill is in committee, and we are going through its

674

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

clauses. I say, in general terms, that the
schedules attached to this Bill are taken
from laws now on the statute book, and
they are the production of legal mindsof people who know the necessity of having these forms given, and the provision
which has been alluded to that where no
forms are prescribed by the schedules
new ones shall be formed in accordance
with this Act, is a provision which you
will find in the Summary Convictions
Act and other acts. Such are the features of the Bill. I think hon. gentlemen
must admit that the amendments asked
for are amendments to which there can
be no possible objection. With a delegaion of members of both Houses I brought
the matter before the Premier, and talked
it over with him, and he frankly admitted
the correctness of my contention that
Parliament having given the people the
Act, and a large number of counties having adopted it in full reliance upon its
being workable, we had a perfect right
not only to ask, but to demand of Parliament, and that Parliament should accede
to the demand, that the measure should
be made perfect.
HON. MR, ALMON-The hon. gentleman is out of order. It appears to
me very much like going out of this
.House to ask other parties to dictate to
this House what it is to do.
THE SPEAKER-The hon. member
for Sarnia is seldom out of order.
HON. MR. ALMON-The exception
proves the rule.
HON. MR. DICKEY-It is the beginning this time.
HON. MR. VIDA L-It is really important to have such a high authority
admit, as he publicly before us all admitted, that this Act we are contending
for, we have a right to get, because Parliament is bound to make any law operative
which exists on the statute book. I trust
that hon. members will forgive me for
occupying the time of the House at such
length, but they will remember that from
the beginning of the session until now I
have not occupied half an hour of their
time or contributed a single page to the
Official Debates, with my remarks.
HON. MR. VIDAL.

HON. MR. ALMON-I do not agree
with what has fallen from the hon. member
from Sarnia, that nobody has a right to
move amendments to the Canada Tenperance Act, or to find any fault with any
of its clauses.
HON. MR. VIDAL-The hon. gentleman misrepresents me; I never said
anything like that.

HON. MR. ALMON-Then I do not
agree with those who think that nobody
has a right to find fault with the Canada
Temperance Act, unless it is those who
are supposed to be in favor of its provisions. I think if the bantling is behaving
wrongly we have just as much right to flog
it as the hon. member from Sarnia. I
shall proceed now to do so in my humble
way.
The hon. member from Sarnia did not,
as has often been done in the Senate, say
that those people who are opposed to the
Canada Temperance Act are either intemperate in their habits or not aware of the
evil which is entailed upon this countrY
by intemperance. With regard to our
personal conduct, I think it will compare
favorably with that of the parties on the
other side, and I think that we, especially
those of us who belong to the medical
profession, recognize the evil of intemperance. Those who have sons to bring UP
always endeavor to inculcate the virtue Of
temperance, and to fill them with a horror
of intemperance. I think our habits are
very much the same as those of our friends
on the other side. If an interviewer were
to attend any of the dinners given by the
hon. leader of this House and inquire
what are the habits of those who advocate
the Temperance Act, he would learn that
the only persons who do not empty their
glasses when filled are the hon. gentlemen
from Belleville and Sarnia. Therefore, I
may reasonably conclude that a measure
for total prohibition would be opposed by
every member of this House except these
two gentlemen. I am opposed to this
Act because I think it is a failure. That
it is a failure, is, I think, apparent to
everybody. I will give my own experience
of it. In coming up to Ottawa in 1873,
when I had the honor of being a member
of the House of Commons, we were a
long time on our journey. We stoppedat

Tenperance Act, dc., [APRIL 22, 1885] Amendment Bil.

675

Portland, and some of the passengers got up? I was reading last year a report
stepped out of the train to fill their whiskey of a speech made by the Rev. Mr. Breflasks which had been emptied. They thour, a clergyman in the county of Halsaw a person outside who was entirely un- ton. He said they had had great exertions
connected with the liquor traffic, appar- to carry the Act there, and that every man
ently, and asked him if he knew where that had capitulated Idid so at the point
whiskey could be obtained ? He said of the bayonet."
When a clergyman
yes, that there was not the slightest diffi- speaks of carrying anything by the bayculty about it, and he led them to a place onet he means of course a spiritual weapon,
where they procured it. He would not which is just as effective sometimes as a
take any remuneration either in money or camai one.
in whiskey for it ; he did it of his
own will. I had nothing to do with it,
HON. MR. DEVER-It is a two-edged
because in those days I drank nothing sword.
stronger than wine or ale. Our train
broke down at a small village about 40
HON. MR. ALMON-Yes.
A short
miles fron Bangor. I went out to see if time ago the hon. member from Sarnia
I could get a glass of porter. I went to a introduced a petition in this House to
shop which was pretty well filled and called prevent processions on Sunday with music
and
for a glass of porter, which I got and dranka. bands.
g
iis
there not a penalty for sellingn
I asked
HON. MR. VIDAL-No; you are
thist" The shopkeeper said, there is a
veryheavy penalty, but public opinion is rather reckless in that statement.
against it, acu there is not the least fear of
HON. MR. ALMON-Petitions were
any of those people who are in the shop
informing against me. If they did their presented of that character, and amongst
stay in this village would be very unpleas- them one from a fishing village near Haliant." Now, I may be making a confession fax. Now, I do not think there is a
of having violated the law, but it is my musical instrument there larger than a
duty to make it. About three years ago, Jew's harp; there are no roads, and the
I went to Yarmouth, a Scott Act county. only way there could be a procession,
Lt was in the autumn and I walked through would be by the boats along the coast. I
the town, went to a hotel and asked for a do not think there is a place in the
glass of whiskey. I was told, "this is a country where the Sabbath is more strictly
Scott Act county, and you cannot get a observed than there, where everyone goes
glass, but you can get a bottle." I got a to church on Sunday. Yet these people
botle of whiskey, and I found people in ere represented as petitioning for legisthe hotel very glad to take what I did not lation to prevent the desecration of the
want of it. I know that there is a great Sabbath by processions with bands of
anount of drunkenness in Pictou and music.
My objection to this Act, and one reaCochester, where the Scott Act has been
adopted; more than there is in Halifax son why it is inoperative is, as I said becounty, where the Act does not prevail; fore, that it is legislation for the rich and
yet people are not prosecuted for violating not for the poor. The man who can buy
the Act, because public opinion is against It. his ten gallons of liquor is allowed to do
Now, about the petitions, I admit there o and store it in his cellar. If he has a
have been a great many presented. I have long purse and a good cellar he can have
had the honor-I do not know whether liquor; if he is a poor man, he is not
they were sent to me as a joke-to present allowed to get it. In the Lower Iouse
a number myself, and must say in look- the friends of this Act rejected a clause
iSg over them I found that about one-third allowing veterinary surgeons to prescribe
of the names were written by the same spirituous liquors in the practice of their
hand. I am not an authority in that ne profession. I will mention a case where
butt showed them to a number of others, the big fly gets through the web and the
and they told me it was their opinion like- small fly gets caught in it. Say a horse
Wise. However, independent of that, there worth $400 is attacked by colic and the
Was a large number, but how are petitions owner sends for a veterinary surgeon, who

676

Temperance Act, &c., LSENATE] Amendnent Bill.

prescribes gin. He asks, "have you any
gin in the house ?" The owner replies,
" yes ; the Scott Act is in force here, but I
sent to the next county and got ten
gallons of liquor." He procures a bottle of it and pours some of it down the
horse's throat and in ten minutes the pain
ceases and the danger is over. Now,
take the case of a poor truck-man, who
owns a horse worth $50. The horse is
taken with colic in the same way, and the
veterinary surgeon says the animal can be
But where is
cured by the same means.
the poor man to get a bottle of gin ? He
says, " the temperance people have
adopted the Scott Act here, and I cannot
get the gin."
There is no means of
relieving the animal; the colic runs into
inflammation; the horse dies, and the man
loses his means of earning a livelihood;
he is reduced to poverty, and all through
the operation of the Canada Temperance
Act, in which we are warned to make no
amendment.
It is claimed to be a very perfect Act;
if my hon. friends will allow me I will read
some of its clauses. The 7 4th clause
provides that any person carrying a stick
to a polling place shall be liable to imprisonment for three months, It is as
follows :74. The returning officer or deputy returning officer may, during any day whereon any
poli is begun, holden or proceeded with, require any person within half a mile of the
polling station, to deliver to him aiy firearm, sword, staff, bludgeon or other offensive
weapon in the hands or personal possession
of such person, and any person refusing to
deliver such weapon shall be liable to a fine
not exceeding $100, and to imprisonnient not
exceedinc three months, in default of payment
ofsuch fine.
Those who, like my hon. friend opposite, the leader of the House, carry a staff
in walking, must hobble home without
one, or risk being sent to jail for a term
not exceeding three months. Now, suppose you wish to suborn a witness for perjury, what is the penalty ? You will find
by looking at section 114 that it is $50 :-

114. Any person who, on any prosecution
under any of the said Acts, tampers with the
witness, either before or after he is summoned
or appears as such witness on any trial or
proceeding under any such Act, or by the
offer of money, or by threats, or by any other
way, either directly or indirectly, induces or
attempts toinduce, any such person to absent
HON.

ÀMR.

ALMON.

themself, or to swear falsely, shall be liable
to a penalty of $50 for each offence.
For taking a walking stick to the polls
you may be imprisoned for three months,
but for suborning perjury the penalty is a
fine of $5o. Is this the Act in which no
amendment must be made, and for opposing which we are branded as being in
favor of drunkenness ? Now take the
112th section, which provides a severe
punishment for assisting those who violate
the Act. It is as follows :112. Any person who, having violated any
of the provisions of the Act, or of any Provincial Act which is now or may be from
time to time in force in any province respecting the issue of licenses for the sale of fermented or spirituous liquors, or of the Temperance Act of 1874, compromises, coipounds or settles, or offers or attempts tO
compromise, compound or settle the offence
with any person or persons with the view of
preventing any complaint being made in respect thereof, or if a complaint bas been made,
with the view of getting rid of such complaint,
or of stopping or having the saie dismissed
for want of prosecution or otherwise, shall be
guilty of an offence under this Act, and on
conviction thereof, shall be imprisoned at
hard labor in the coinmon gaol of the county
or district in wbichî the offence was committed, for any period not exceeding three
months.
Take the case of a poor widow residing
on a place left her by her husband, a house
and orchard. It is not at all an improbable case ; it is one which happens verY
often in Nova Scotia. She sells as many
of the apples as are saleable and the rest
she converts into cider, and, as she lives a
little way out of the village, she sells a
glass of cider to anyone calling for it. For
committing this enormous crime she IS
fined the first time $50, the second tile
$ioo, and the third time she is imprisoned
for three months. We will suppose that
the hon. gentleman from Sarnia is passing by her house as she is being taken
away in custody of an officer of the law ;
she points to her orphan children runnig
about in their ragged but clean clothes,
and appeals to him for God's sake to spare
her. Before my hon. friend was a tem'p
erance man, he had a heart to feel for the
woes of others, and I am sure he would
even now say, under the circumstances,
"let this poor woman off." They saY
that cider is an intoxicating drink, but I
should be sorry to have to drink enough
of it to produce the slightest symptom of

Temperance Act, &c.,

[APRIL 22, 1885] Amendnent Bill.

intoxication. Now, if the hon. member
were to assist a poor woman under such
circumstances, I would say that he had
done a praiseworthy act, but let us see
what punishment the Act provides for such
conduct ? You will find it in section 113,
which is as follows :113. Every person who is concerned in, or
is a party to the compromise, composition or
settlement mentioned in the next preceding
section, shall be guilty of an offence under
this Act, and on conviction thereof, shall be
imprisoned in the common gaol of the county
or district in which the offence was committed,
for any period not exceeding three calendar
months.
The penalty is three months imprisonment, and therefore the hon. member from
Sarnia, in the goodness of his heart, having
let this widow off, is imprisoned for three
months. If, instead of getting her off in
that way, he had suborned a witness to
swear that she had not sold the cider at
all, the extreme penalty for the offence
would be $50.

Is

that an Act which

should not be amended ? On that point,
at all events, I think the hon. member
from Sarnia will admit that it is not.
Now, there is another feature of this Act,
which the hon. member from Barrie and
all the other lawyers who spoke a few days
ago against the Bill permitting defendants
in criminal cases to give evidence on their
own behalf, will deprecate if they are consistent. That measure was hooted down
in this House. There is a clause in the
Scott Act which makes the wife of an
accused person a compellable witness
against her husband, and the husband a
compellable witness against the wife. The
section is the 123rd by which you see that
" the person opposing or defending, or the
wife or husband of such person opposing
or defending, shall be competent and
compellable to give evidence in such
matter or question." Is not that word
" question " very well put in that clause ?
What was the meaning of examining a person by " question " in olden times ? The
rack, the wheel, the boot. I give credit to
the hon. member who framed this Bill for
having put in that word, for certainly if
anything would put a person on the rack
it would be compelling the husband to
give evidence against the wife, or the wife
to give evidence against the husband. I
think the hon. judge and all those who
deprecated legislation which would allow

67T

a prisoner to give evidence in his own
case, will certainly prevent the wife being
compellable to give evidence against her
husband.
I had a conversation the other day with
one of the largest distillers in the country,
whose establishment pays $3,ooo,ooo in
excise duties every year. The whiskey
that he manufactures is kept in wood for
two years from the time it is distilled,
without being sold.
The first year it
loses 9 per cent, that is fusil oil and ether.
The next year it loses 3 per cent, and
after that the loss is very trifling. The
liquor, therefore, that you get from such
an establishment you may say is pure.
There are 2,ooo cattle fed on the grain

from this distillery, and exported yearly,
and the manure is given to the neighborhood, and what cannot be got rid of in
that way is thrown into the lake. In fact,
the proprietor is going to put down 40
acres of land under tobacco to consume
the manure that he cannot get rid of.
Suppose this country were to adopt a prohibitory liquor law, how long would we be
without illicit stills ? In Ireland an J Scotland we know that illicit distillation was
carried on for many years-I am not
certain that it is not carried on to this day.
There is a large army in Ireland employed
to suppress illicit stills. Can you do that
in Canada ? I do not think it ; there is
not a wood or hillside in the country that
would not have its illicit still, if prohibition were adopted.
One hon. member
explained to us how coal oil was smuggled
into Canada in barrels which were thrown
into the St. Lawrence and floated over
when the wind was favorable.
Would

not the same be done with whiskey ? In
that case there would be no fusil oil taken
out of it ; it would be put into the barrel
as it came from the still, fusil oil and all.

The result would be that the country
would lose a large amount of revenue,
without any compensating gain. If this
one distillery pays $3,ooo,ooo a year,
what is the aggregate excise duty collected? What are the sums derived from licenses in the different counties and towns ?
All that must be done away with. Likewise
the inns and hotels; the great part of the
profit in eating houses and inns is derived

from the liquor sold, and the price for
accommodation at those places would be
very much increased if the sale of liquor

678

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendmcnt BilW.

was prohibited. If we were able to put Dominion ? I have always given my hon.
down intemperance by that means I friend from Sarnia credit for a good deal
should likely approve of this Act, though of sense-combining with a good deal of
I am like my hon. friend from Belleville the wisdom of the serpent, a small dash of
He will
in thinking that a ten-gallon temperance the harmlessness of the dove.
act would not commend itself to me. acknowledge, I think, that what I have
Now, who are the persons who are author- said is correct-that the druggist should
ized to sell liquor under this Act which not sell liquor, and that prohibition would
nobody is to find fault with or to amend ? increase the use of opium. I am opposed
The druggists, and we know from the to intemperance, and what is the reason
returns from Halton what quantities they that it so prevails in the land ? The reason
If you were on your bed sick, is, that the temperance people have divertcan sell.
and a messenger were sent to have a pre- ed public attention fron the right way to
scription made up which was wanted put down intemperance and have led thern
immediately, he might find the druggist to suppose that it can be prevented by this
What
engaged in supplying liquor to applicants, chimera of a Temperance Act.
and have to wait until they were served. ought to be done is, to pass a good License
Bear in mind that the man who fills your Act, and not only to arrest the man who
prescription is the man who sells the is found drunk, but to punish the man who
liquor, and who, it is quite possible, may made him drunk. Take the police reports
be inclined to indulge in the article he and you will find every day that persons
sells. In some of those prescriptions the who have been found drunk are fined or
slightest error might be attended with imprisoned, but no fine is imposed on the
fatal results. Take for instance morphia, men who furnish them with the liquor.
strychnia and other drugs ; yet the drug- Suppose you were to give those persons
gist is the man who is deputed under this who sold the liquor, three months' inAct to sell liquor. I had not the making prisonnent, do you not think that they
of that law, but if the hon. member who would be deterred from selling liquor to
framed it and my hon friend from Sarnia, drunkards again? Could not the names
who knows how decidedly I am in favor of habitual drunkards be handed in tO
of temperance, had consulted me I should the authorities and furnished to licensed
have advised them not to place this traffic liquor sellers, so that there need be no
in the hands of the druggist. If my hon. mistake as to the character of the persons
friend was not so strongly in favor of the applying for liquor ? Would not that put
Temperance Act I think he would see down intemperance ? I would not conthat in this respect, at all events, it should fine it to the selling of liquor. If a person
be amended ; but of course this bantling is taken up for drunkeness, and it is
of his has no faults ; it has always a clean found that he was dining at the first
face and never a dirty nose. My hon. house in Ottawa, the person who turned
friends from British Columbia are united him out of his house in that conditioni
I do not favor
in opposing the introduction of the should be punished.
They do lowering the franchise, but I am in favor
Chinese into this country.
not think, as I do, that people of of giving the poor man equal rights with
every race should be free to enter the rich, and I say that the rich man in
and leave the country as they please. whose house any one is made drulk
One of their objections to the Chi- should be punished just as severely as the
nese is that their presence here tends to saloon keeper, who in earning his liveliincrease the consumption of opium. Will hood makes people drunk, or punished
The honmy hon. friend from Sarnia tell me that with even greater severity.
the effect of the Act will not be to increase member from Sarnia, though in favor of
the consumption of opium? Will he tell temperance, never advocates a measure Of
me that the use of opium, chloral-hydrate that kind. I may be dogmatic, but I an
and laudanum is not becoming more ex- convinced that such legislation would do
tensive, and that they will not be consumned more to put down intemperance than anY
in a much greater degree, if a Temperance sumptuary law or prohibitory legislatiol
Act should come in force all over the that has ever been suggested.
HON. MR. ALMON

Temperance Act, &c.,

[APIKTL 22, 1885] Amendment Bill.

HON. MR. GOWAN-I think that my
hon. friend from Sarnia has made out a
very clear case in favor of the measure
that is before us. He has shown in detail that the measure is not one for the introduction of any substantial variation in
the law as it exists, but merely to give
completeness to the Act that is upon the
statute book. Everyone who is familiar
with these matters knows the dfficulty of
expressing clearly and accurately in appropriate language, everything that is necessary to cover circumstances that may
arise, and by reason of that not always
being done, questions are every day occurring in the construction of the law, that
are due to the imperfect expression of
Parliament in framing the laws, or due to
the fact that certain circumstances and
conditions in different parts of the country
were not adequately considered, or were
not fully in the mind of the Legislature at
the time the Act was passed. Hon. gentlemen well know that it is the individual
litigant who pays for settling those questions, i is not the country at large. The
litigants have to pay for the settling of
those questions as they arise-questions
growmng out of an imperfect expression by
the Parliament of the country in the Acts
that they have passed. I shall guard myself in speaking on this subject. I do not
think that this is a question as to whether
the Scott Act is, or is not, based in
all particulars on just and sound
principles, or is framed with a proper regard to vested rights. I desire
to separate that entirely from this discussion, and I think the hon. gentleman from
Sarnia has, in his remarks, put forward the
same view. The object of this Bill is
simply to complete that which was left
incomplete by the Parliament of the
Dominion. I may say, with regard to the
Canada Temperance Act, which my hon.
friend from Ottawa introduced when he
was a member of the late Government,
that it is a marvellous thing that it has
stood the heavy strain which has been put
ipon it. Not merely conflicting interests
have opposed it, but it has been opposed
by a thoroughly organized opposition, and
Yet it has been found that only in those
few particulars is it required to be amended.
My legal friends will know that the Statute
Of Frauds, consisting of some twelve or
thirteen clauses, cost half a million pounds

679

sterling to settle the meaning of it. Every
single word, I was almost going to say
every single letter,in that celebrated statute
was subject to judicial construction, for
settling which the individual litigants had
to pay. Of course it affected very large
interests, and it touched the many contrivances of those who resorted to fraud to
carry their purposes ; but it had no organized opposition to meet as this measure,
the Scott Act, has had ; and I think it is a
marvellous thing that the statute has stood
so firmly against the numerous assaults that
have been made upon it. I think it reflects the highest credit on the care,
prudence, ability and skill of the hon.
gentleman from Ottawa, and I think it is
almost the only Act now on the statute
book, with the exception of some that Sir
John Macdonald introduced years ago,
which remain to this day, having stood
the severe test of practical operation.
The hon. gentleman from Sarnia has not
sought to make any substantial alteration
in the law. He asks what is very reasonable-that Parliament should give
effect to its own enactments, and that the
language that is imperfect in it shall be
made clear. There are persons claiming
that they have not infringed the law, and
various suggestions have brought almost
every part of this Act into dispute, and
those few points that are referred to are
all, so far as I am capable of forming a
judgment, which the Parliament did imperfectly when the Act was being passed.
i cannot say that I attribute any fault to
the draftsman who prepared the Act, nor
is there any fault to be attributed to Parliament for those errors. Some of them
involved local knowledge which my hon.
friend from Ottawa could not have had
when he brought in the measure. Even
now in the Bill introduced this session, my
hon. friend on my right has discovered that
there are slight verbal alterations required
to suit his province, so that local as well
as general knowledge is necessary in order
to trame a law of this kind. I have gone
over every single clause of this Bill, and I
can see in it no substantial alteration of
the law as it stands. To open a discussion
upon the general merits of the Scott Act,
I think would be out of place in considering
this Bill. There are differences of opinion
amongst those who are most earnest and
strictly temperate people, with respect to

680

Temperance Act, c., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

the Scott Act, but I think it is quite unnecessary to import a discussion of that
kind into the consideration of this Bill.
Doubtless all the arguments against the
Scott Act that could be urged have been
already submitted to Parliament, but in
the face of those arguments the Legislature was convinced that it was a wise and
proper measure, and it was allowed to become law. We have not now to deal with
it, as it is on the statute book, and we are
only asked-applying the very appropriate simile of my hon. friend from Sarnia-simply to grease the wheels, that
certain cogs, or certain bearings of the
machinery have been found out of gear,
and we are asked to set that right,
and I think it is the duty of Parliament to do so.
It is only just
that errors which have arisen from the
Act of Parliament should be set right by
Parliament itself without touching the
principle involved in this measure. I do
not wish to be at all misunderstood on the
views that I hold with regard to the Scott
Act ; this is not a question as to whether
the Scott Act is based only on sound and
just principles ; it is simply to correct errors
that have been discovered in the actual
working of the law. I will support the
measure that my hon. friend has introduced, although there may be some trifling
amendments necessary when it goes into
committee of the whole. With regard to
the forms which have been referred to I
think that that expression, or a somewhat
similar expression, " other forms may be
framed in accordance with the Temperance
Act," will be found in some other Acts of
Parliament. To my mind the forms are
most essential particulars to be elaborated
before the Act is administered. It is
almost impossible to frame forms that will
exactly suit the circumstances of every
case, and where there is a hostile opposition, the forms will be criticized with particular severity, and therefore it is necessary
to make a statutory form which by being on
the statute book is known to be good, and
will be held to be good and sufficient. A
general form for information was necessary, and forms for lawful sale in different
cases, forms of permit for manufacturing
native wines, etc, varying according to the
facts; a general form of summons of witnesses, a form of conviction for first offences, a form of conviction for second or
HON. MR.

ALMON.

subsequent offences, a form of warrant for
commitment-all are necessary forms.
They will save those who have the enforcement of the Act from possible
danger, and save the magistrate possibly
from trifling errors that he might make ;
save the officers who execute the processes
from having actions instituted against
them ; save the courts from loss of time,
and the parties the expense of having
questions that arise settled by a judicial
tribunal. Those forms have that object
in view ; they are in keeping with the
general provisions, and none of them enlarge substantially the scope of the Act.
I shall have great pleasure in voting for
my hon. friend's Bill.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I do not altogether share the view which my hon.
friend from Barrie has taken, or my hon.
friend from Sarnia has taken, with respect
to this measure. I highly respect the
zeal and sincerity which have characterized all the movements of my hon. friend
on my left (Mr. Vidal) and the candor he
has exhibited. I have had but one
opinion of the Scott Act from the time it
was passed. I opposed it then, and voted
against it in the House of Commons, but
since then I have ahways taken the position
that, the Bill having become law, any
clerical error or mistake in the Act should
be corrected. However, this is a different
matter altogether. The point in this Bill
is the 9 th section. That section goes
outside of the Scott Act to repeal an important clause of another Act, which has
been sanctioned by Parliament, but which
has not yet been put in force. An appeal
upon it has been taken to the Privy
Council. I understand that there is a
Bill now pending to suspend the operation
of that Act for the present, until the decision of the Privy Council on the appeal
could be obtained. I do not feel willing,
pending that legislation, to interfere with
that Act. It is not necessary that it
should be interfered with, because aithough it might clash with the Temperance
Act of 1878, if it were in force, it cannot
clash with it if it is not operative, or made
operative. As I understand, by the legislation which has been introduced in
another place, and which will undoubtedly
become law this session, the operation of
the questionable clauses of the Liquor

Temperance Act, &c., [AiPRII 22, 1885] Amendnent Bill.
License Act will be suspended. There
can be no objection on the part of the
gentlemen who support the Canada Temperance Act to the suspension of the
Liquor License Act, and of course there
can be no objection on the other side to
its suspension. Pending that legislation,
and pending the application of the Act of
1883, which we have formally adopted by
a large majority of Parliament, I think it
would be unwise to encumber the statute
book with amendments of this kind.
HON.

MR. DICKEY-Hear, hear?

HoN. MR. PLUMB-It is acknowledged by my hon. friend frorn Sarnia
that the amendments which he has
asked for are of no importance ; that they
are merely of a technical character, with
the exception of clause 9. That clause
was adopted in the other House before it
was announced there that there would be
a suspension of the Liquor License Act
of 1883. That fact having been announced, in my opinion changes the
entire character and position of this Bill
as presented to the House. It is no use
to urge that that Bill passed the other
House. Admitting that it did, it passed
it by a narrow majority.
HoN. MR. VIDAL-A majority of

92.

HON. MR. PLUMB-That was the
majority on a particular clause.
HON. MR. VIDAL-The hon. gentleman is mistaken. It was carried by a
vote of 1o9 to 17.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I am quite open
to correction, but whether it was or was
not is beside the question entirely. The
question is whether at the time that Bill
was passed, it was understood that the
vital section of that Bill, the section
acknowledged by my hon. friend as being
the vital section, the one section which it
is desired,-I will not say by indirectionto get into this Act, is the one to repeal
the 145th section of the License Act of
1883. That is the whole object of this
Bill. The rest of it is not material to the
working of the Canada Temperance Act.
That Act has been on the statute book for
seven years ; it was carefully framed, un-

681

doubtedly, but it has the peculiarity of all
sumptuary laws, such as the Scott Act is.
HON. MR.

VIDAL-Oh, oh!

HON. MR. PLUMB-It is a sumptuary
law. My hon. friend perhaps does not
like the term, but it has the peculiarity of
that law that you require an enormous
machinery to put it in operation. Even

the Act of 1883 occupies 55 pages of the

statute book, and I think the Scott Act is
not any less cumbrous, and even if it were
desirable that this legislation should be
passed, to bring a bill of this kind here
and have it before us for two or three
days, is it to be supposed that we who
are non-professional men can ascertain the effect of these amendments
by casually examining it and the Act together? It is quite unreasonable to expect it, yet it is that kind of vicious legislationwhich myhon. friendhas acknowledged
is asked by this Bill. There is another
point in connection with the repeal of the
145 th section of the Liquor License Act.
The whole of this Bill, except the 9 th
section, is legislation upon the Temperance
Act of 1878. I think it is vicious legislation to embrace the two Acts in the same
Bill. I am in the judgment of the
House in making that statement, and
no remarks of mine are made in any hostile sense to the gentlemen who I know
are sincere in their advocacy of this measure. I must claim equal earnestness and
equal sincerity in the position which
I propose to take. I have no personal
interests at stake in the measure, and I
have no commitments with respect to itno political commitments. I do not stand
in a position where I have to appeal to
any society, or to any constituency, as to
how I am expected to act with regard to
these matters. I have no necessity to vindicate myself by any extra zeal or enthusiasm, to procure legislation upon those
subjects. I do not myself lay as much
stress upon the action of the people in regard to this measure, as has been laid
upon it by my hon. friend. I think it is
somewhat beside the question, because
it is not the Scott Act that is now on trial
at all. This Bill merely asks for certain
amendments to the Scott Act; the Act
itself is not on trial, and therefore any
arguments pro and con in respect to the

682

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] A mendment Bill.

manner in which it has been received are
beside the question, and I will venture to
say that nothing can be more deceptive
than throwing into this House, or into the
other House, an enormous number of
petitions, some having a dozen signatures,
some 2o, some 30, all sent in (all that I
have received at all events) from a central
office in Toronto, where it is made the
business of an organized staff to procure
petitions. We know very well how easy it
is to obtain signatures to petitions ; we
know that very few people refuse to sign
them when asked to do so, and it is impossible to know that the people who do
sign them have anything to do with voting for the Scott Act, or with the carrying
of the Act, whether they are minors,
whether they are women, or whether they
are voters or not. Of course the sacred
right of petition is the last right I would
object to or propose to hamper. I understood my hon. friend from Sarnia to say
that there were 755 petitions, and we will
give them an average of 50 signatures each.
HON.

MR.

VIDAL-There was one

presented yesterday with 5,000 signatures.
HoN. MR. PLUMB-Admitting there
was one with 5,ooo signatures-say it was

5o,ooo, it is only the population of a
couple of counties.
My hon. friend
made a particular point of the results of
the votes upon the Act where it has
lately been submitted in this province.
Before I refer to that I may say that it
must be borne in mind that any Act of
this kind where it is applied to an isolalated portion of the community may be
put in force, when it would be impossible
to do it were it to cover the whole province. Every man knows perfectly well
that if he lives in a county where the Act
is in force, and is not in force in the adjoining county, it is perfectly easy for
him, as far as he individually is concerned, when he wants to violate the principle of the Act to go into the next
county and do it.
HON. MR. VIDAL-We are not discussing the Scott Act!
HON. MR. PLUMB-I am discussing
it exactly as you discussed it; I will
show you logically what I am coming at.

HON. MR. PLUMB.

I am endeavoring to show that it is no
test of the feeling of the community to
show what the vote is in an election
under the Scott Act, because it is not the
application of the principle as I would desire it to have it applied. That is what I
was trying to say and my hon. friend was
a little too quick when he interrupted me.
The subject is one that he is far more
familiar with than I am; he has an opportunity of airing his views on it wherever he goes, but I have no practice in
discussing temperance questions here or
elsewhere. It is not in my line; but I
will say this : I would to-day, if it were
possible, be willing t3 put the Act in
force over the whole country at once,
and then we would see how long it would
last. I have seen such legislation long
before the Act of 1878 was passed. A
temperance act was put in force by a
large majority in a state in which I was
resident, and the provisions of it were
somewhat similar to those of the Canada
Temperance Act. When it came to its
practical operation, it failed ; it was an
absolute dead letter, and never was enforced at all, because it was to be put in
operation all over the state at the same
moment, and it came to nothing. If the
hon. gentleman likes to refer to the statutes of the state of New York for the year
1855, he will find that Act, and will see
that many of its provisions are identical
with those of the Canada Temperance
Act. That act was passed that year by a
large majority in a Legislature that was
elected upon a temperance issue, pledged
to pass a Bill of that kind, and at the same
time a governor of the state was elected
on that issue by a very large majority.
In spite of the apparent majority, under a
system of manhood suffrage, in its favor,
the act never was enforced, and was
found to be, in a double sense, worse than
useless. The next election reversed the
popular vote by a majority of many thousands, and placed the celebrated Horatio
Seymour, an anti-prohibitionist, in the
gubernatorial chair. The Act of 1878
palters with the sincere prohibitionist
in a double sense ; it "keeps the word of
promise to the ear and breaks it to the
hope." It is not a temperance act in
its operation because it chequers the provinces over here and there, and there is
always a loop hole where the Act can be

Temperance Act, &c., [APRIL 22, 1885] Amendment Bill.
evaded. Now, with regard to the figures
which the hon. gentleman has given us ;
since they have been given I have made
a synopsis of the votes of the five counties
which he mentioned in the province of
Ontario, and I will tell him exactly how
the result appears from my point of
view:S

Huron ................

17.810 8,905 10,369 1,655 6,250

Elgin ................

11,863

5,831 6,801

1,874 4,057

Kent..................

6,422 8,211 6,343

2,893

818

Lanibton..............

8.615 4,307 6,011

2,922

1,385

Durham

and North-

unberland ..... ,....

17,191 8,595 9,918

2,187 6,408

HON. MR. FLINT-Why did not the
people come out and vote ?
HON. MR. PLUMB-My hon. friend
asks why the people did not come out and
vote? Well, I can tell my hon. friend
that this is an Act which the temperance
people have undertaken for themselves ;
they have undertaken to thrust it upon the
community as a sumptuary law, and it is
their business, in my judgnient, to show
that they are sustained by a majority of
the popular vote. The law never will
have its true moral force until they can
show that. We are governed by majorities.
It is urged that a majority of the registered
votes is not required for the election of
members of Parliament ; the law in that
respect is a part of the constitutional
rnachinery of the country; it has no
analogy with a special law made for the
purpose which my hon. friend and his
friends had in view who have framed the
Temperance Act. The two cases are not
analogous in the slightest degree, but I
will join the hon. gentleman if he chooses,
in adopting the principle of compulsory
voting. That is the only way in which we
can get the full vote out, and it has been
Suggested that some such provision as that
should be adopted in regard to Parliamnentary elections, and that the person
Who did not vote should lose his franchise.

683

Would the hon. gentleman dare in the
Scott Act to introduce a clause like that ?
I would like to test the sincerity of the
hon. gentleman and see whether he would
care to do that ! I know that he would
not think of doing any such a thing ; the
truth is that this Act has rested from the
beginning upon an insecure basis-that of
being passed and put in operation by a
minority vote, and 1 have so insisted from
the beginning, and I am perfectly and logically consistent when I now say that it was
a mistake on the part of the gentlemen
who advocated and proposed this measure
to adopt that principle. They would have
stood stronger with the community, they
would not have been obliged to resort to
the methods which they have resorted to
in order to strengthen their cause, if they
had been willing to say that, in submitting
the Act, they would leave it to the deciston of the majority of those who were entitled to vote, and unless they could secure
such a majority, the Act should not be
enforced. If the Act cannot command
the support of the majority on the voters'
list, I do not hesitate to say that it cannot
have that moral force which will sustain it
if it should ever become so universally
adopted that it will begin to pinch, and I
think my hon. friend will find that to be
the case. I merely intend to sav in conclusion that I do not wish, and I hope
that this House will not place itself in opposition to the expression of the decided
will of the people, but I claim that that
expression has not been given in this case.
My hon. friend from Sarnia attempted to
threaten the House, or rather what
he said sounded like a threat ; it was as
near as my amiable friend ever comes to
threatening. It is only on this subject
that he ever departs from that judicial
position which he assumes in addressing
this House. It is only when this, I will
not call it a hobby, but this preferential
idea of his comes uppermost, that he
indulges in the vehemence that he has
shown to-day. I am not afraid of the
consequences which he suggests; I am
not afraid to stand here and say that I shall
vote against that Bill, and I shall vote
against it for this reason: that I do not
think we ought to be asked to take out of
the McCarthy Act a section and repeal it
through this Act which is a section the
operation of which is to be suspended for

684

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

HON. MR. PLUMB-If the hon. gentlethe purpose, as I understand it, of otherwise correcting the Act of 1878 by man refers to me, I will tell him this : I
the Bill now under consideration elsewhere. have followed my hon friend, who was
Although there are points in this Bill certainly as discursive as I have been, and
which are objectionable, particularly in the I have merely answered his argument.
forms of the schedules which have been
adopted-which seem to attempt to get by HON. MR. POWER-I did not refer to
indirection what is not exoressed in the any speaker in particular; I referred to
Act itself-I shall not refer to them. the debate generally.
The time has not yet come when we can
properly be asked to legislate between the
HoN. MR. DICKEY-Hon. gentleclashing of those two systems. When the men will now see the inconvenience of the
time comes I want to be thoroughly in- mover laying down a wrong platform at
formed of the points which are to be con- the beginning. Others have a right to
sidered. Until that time comes I do not follow him. I shall take a very different
believe it is necessary or expedient to course from the one I intended to have
meddle. i desire to go through both taken, owing to the singular plan that the
Acts, and to examine them for my- hon. gentleman adopted at the opening of
self, and I want the opinion of those the debate.
who are more capable of judging of
it than I am, for I am not a lawyer, and
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I hope
when the appeal on the Act of 1883 is when hon. gentlemen come to address the
decided I shall be willing to legislate House they will be allowed the same
fairly, honestly, and candidly on the sub- privileges as those who have already
ject, without fear, favor or affection ; but spoken in this debate.
until that time comes I do not think we
The motion was agreed to.
ought to be called upon to patch up the
Act of 1878, which the hon. gentleman
The Senate adjourned at 5.45 p.m.
had time enough to rectify. They have
had time enough to correct it. It is not
our fault that the Act is defective and
it is not particularly defective. The whole
object of this Bill is to get the obnoxious section 145, of the Liquor License
THE SENATE.
Act out of the way, and I prefer not to
kill it by indirection, but I prefer to take Ottawa, Tursday, April 23rd, 1885.
the straightforward, frank and honest
course with regard to it. I say that this
The Speaker took the Chair at three
Bill should not pass as it stands, under o'clock.
the changed circumstances which make it
new legislation. That is the ground upon
Prayers and routine proceedings.
which I feel that the Bill ought to be rejected by the House.
THIRD READINGS.
HON. MR. DICKEY moved the adThe following Bills, reported from the
journment of the debate until to-morrow.
Committee on Railways, Telegraphs and
Harbors, without amendment, were read
The motion was agreed to.
the third time and passd :-

HON. MR. POWER-Before that motion is put I wish to say one word with
respect to the debate. I trust that tomorrow hon. gentlemen will confine themselves more to the Bill before the House,
and not undertake to discuss, pro and con,
the merits of temperance.
HoN. MR.

PLUMB.

Bill (72), "An Act respecting the Ontario Pacific Railway Company." (Mr.
Plumb.)
Bill (77), "An Act to incorporate the
Hamilton, Guelph and Buffalo RailwaY
Company." (Mr. Plumb.)

ConsolidatedRy Act [APRIL 23, 1885] Anendment Bill.

685

FREDERICTON AND ST. MARY'S clear that it was the width of the gauge
and not of the whole railway. We have
RAILWAY BRIDGE COMamended it to read " four feet eight and a
PANY'S BILL.
half inches gauge." The other amendmentis of the same character as the one
THIRD READING.
in the Bill which has just received its third
HON. MR. DICKEY, from the Com- reading. It prescribes the number and
mittee on Railways, Telegraphs and Har- value of the shares to be represented at
bors, reported Bill (50), "An Act to incor- any special or general meeting where
porate the Fredericton and St. Mary's bonds are to be issued. There is nothtng
Railway Bridge Company," with amend- of a special character in these amendments
ments. He said : I may explain that requiring the consideration of the House.
the 1 3 th clause, which is amended, is what
HON. MR. VIDAL moved that the
is usually known as the bond clause, and
as it materially affects the interests of the House do concur in the amendments.
shareholders, we thought we should make
The motion was agreed to, and the third
this amendment. The clause, as it stood,
neither required any notice to the share- reading of the Bill was fixed for to-morrow.
holders of the meeting which was to decide
HURON AND ONTARIO SHIP
on the issue of those bonds, nor did it
CANAL COMPANY'S BILL.
state that any shareholder should be present at any meeting of the kind. In order
THIRD READING.
that it might be made conformable to our
legislation, we inserted this amendment,
which we consider a material one, in the
HON. MR. DICKEY, from the Cominterests of the shareholders and of the mittee on Railways, Telegraphs and HarCompany itself. The other amendment bors, reported Bill (69), "An Act respectwas a verbal one, rendered necessary by ing the Huron and Ontario Ship Canal
the amendment which I have just ex- Company," with an amendment. He
plained. These are the only two amend- said: The amendment, like the Bill itments, and I see nothing to prevent the self, is a very short one, and perhaps will
be equally harmless. The amendment
passage of the Bill now.
itself does not meet my wishes, because I
HoN. MR. WARK moved 'concurrence thought it an advantage to have the longer
term in the Bill, inasmuch as we would
in the amendments.
never hear of it again, but thc committee
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill, thought it as well to allow this old gentleas amended, was read the third time and man five years, at all events, to go to work,
passed.
and that is the amendment.
ALBERTA AND ATHABASCA
RAILWAY COMPANY'S BILL.

HON. MR. PLUMB-No doubt the
canal will be built before the time expires.

THIRD READING.

HON. MR. GOWAN moved concurrence in the amendments.

HON. MR. DICKEY, from the ComThe motion was agreed to and the Bill
rnittee on Railways, Telegraphs and Harbors, reported Bill (73), " An Act to in- was read the third time and passed.

corporate the Alberta and Athbasca
Railway Company," with amendments. THE CONSOLIDATED RAILWAY
ACT AMENDMENT BILL
He said : There are two amendments to
this Bill. The first arises in the third
clause.

As it stood originally, it provided

SECOND READING.

that the railway should be four feet eight
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved
and a half inches in width. That was evidently not the object of the clause, and the 2nd reading of Bill (Q), "An Act
the promoters of the Bill made it quite further to amend the Consolidated Rail-

686

.Manitoba and N.- Western [SENATE] Railway Co's Bill.

way Act 1879." He said : This Bill is
to give the Railway Committee of the
Privy Council power to enforce any agreement which may be made between two
railway companies for the interchange of
traffic. It seems that difficulties have
arisen and work upon the railway has
been arrested by reason of the impossibility of enforcing this agreement, and the
plan proposed in the 1st clause of this
Bill is suggested as being the best plan to
be adopted.

Dominion Grange Mutual Fire Insurance
Association, showing that there is a desire
on the part of associated grange companies throughout the country to have
their powers extended to different parts of
the Dominion. The Grange Association,
as everyone knows, is an association of
farmers for practical and beneficial purposes. This company represents particularly the Grange Association. The directors are prominent members of the
Association ; its managers are engaged in
carrying on the affairs of the Association,
The motion was agreed to and the Bill and they ask this honorable House to exwas then read the second time.
tend the powers of the company, already
incorporated, to the different portions of
RUSH LAKE & SASKATCHEWAN the Dominion.
RAILWAY AND NAVIGATION
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-There
CO'S BILL.
is a clause of the Bill to which I would
SECONI) READING.

HON. MR. GIRARD moved the 2nd
reading of Bill (79), "An Act to incorpo-

rate the Rush Lake & Saskatchewan
Railway and Navigation Company." He
said : These persons are asking to be
incorporated as a company for the pur-

pose of constructing a railway from a

draw the attention of the gentleman,
which, perhaps, we ought not to enact.
It is that part of the clause which provides
that from and after the passing of this Act
the Association shall not issue any policy
of insurance for any term exceeding three
years. The Association have acquired the
right to issue these policies under the law
of Ontario, and I suppose, therefore, we
ought not to interfere with the powers
which they have acquired under that Act.
Perhaps, in the committee, my hon. friend
will limit the restriction to issuing policies
under this Act in some way so as not to
conflict with the powers given under .the
local Act.

point on the Canadian Pacific Railway at
or near Rush Lake northerly to the south
branch of the River Saskatchewan, and
also for navigation purposes. The name
of the corporation will be the " Rush Lake
& Saskatchewan Railway and Navigation
Company." I am sure the House will
consider, as I do, that we cannot do too
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
much to facilitate the construction of railways in that part of the country, and was read the second time.
without any more observations, as the importance of the Bill will be admitted, I MANITOBA NORTH - WESTERN
RAILWAY COMPANY'S BILL.
move that it be read the second time.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
SECOND READING.
was read the second time.
HON. MR. GIRARD moved the second
DOMINION
GRANGE MUTUAL reading of Bill (74), " An Act respecting
FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIAthe Manitoba and North-Western Railway
TION BILL.
Company of Canada." He said: This
company deserves some consideration
SECOND READING.
because of the amount of work which has
already been done ; 100 miles have been
HON. MR. PLUMB moved the second built by the company without much
reading of Bill (55), " An Act for granting capital, through one of the most important
certain powers to the Dominion Grange parts of the province of Manitoba. Havimg
Mutual Fire Insurance Association." He done so much under great difficulties theY
said : This is a Bill brought in by the have been forced to issue bonds before
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.

Temperance Act, &c., [APRIL 23, 1885] Anendnent Bill.
proceeding with their work, and they now
require to issue a further amount of bonds
to be in a position to meet their liabilities
and at the same time to go on with the
construction of their road. It seems to
me there can be no difficulty in permitting
the Bill to be read the second time.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Will
the hon. gentleman who presides at the
Railway Committee allow me to draw his
attention to this possible danger : that the
second mortgage bonds which the company have by their Bill desired should be
legalized, may interfere with the rights of
the first bondholders. It may be that it
is all right; but it is possible there may be
some existing difficulty about the second
bonds, and the first bondholders will require a strict statement of the rights of the
respective parties set forth in the Bill. I
think it is very desirable to have it clearly
established before the committee, that no
legal right may be interfered with, and
that the parties all acquiesce in some
strict way of stating their position.
HON. MR. GIRARD-If there is any
difficulty of the kind it can be discussed
in committee.

The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time.
THE CANADA TEMPERANCE ACT
AND LICENSE ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
DEBATE CoNTINUED.

The order of the day having been called
for resuming debate on the Hon. Mr.
Vidal's motion for the second reading
(Bill 92), Canada Temperance Act 1878,
and The Liquor License Act 1883, further
amendment BillHON. MR. DICKEY said: Before
addressing myself to the subject of this
Bil, I wish to acknowledge the readiness
with which my hon. friend who had charge
of it consented to the postponement of
the second reading. In response to his
courtesy, I may state that I have been enabled to examine the Bill, and I will now
give the House, as far as I can, the result
ofmy observation and study of the measure.

687

When my hon. friend rose yesterday in
order to move the second reading, he
stated that it was simply a Bill to make
a trifling amendment or two to some of the
clauses of the Act, and that it did not
require much examination, and I supposed
that my hon. friend was going to confine
himself to these immediate amendments,
whether few or many, and that we should
not have been invited to a discussion of
the general subject, which my hon. friend
stated at the time he did not intend to do
at all. But he immediately rushed into a
discussion-a very extensive discussion-of
the operation of the Act, and the manner
in which it was adopted in various places,
especially in the province of Ontario. But
my hon. friend did not confine himself to
his own province, because he passed over
to the most eastern province in the Dominion, and considered it with reference
to the question that was raised on a petition
presented here by my hon. friend from
Queens, for prohibition in Prince Edward
Island. Now, perhaps my hon. friend
tried to poke a little fun at the hon.
gentleman from Prince Edward Island
respecting that petition, because he
presented it as a matter of duty ; for
the hon. gentleman from Sarnia must
have known very well, because he must
have studied the decision of the Privy
Council, that any Bill which had a provincial object solely could not be originated in this House. It would be an
exceptional piece of legislation, applicable
to the province, and would not, like the
Canada Temperance Act, be applicable
to the whole Dominion, although adopted
only in different localities. Therefore, my
hon. friend must have known very well
that it was quite unnecessary to discuss
that petition, especially because it is
rather a tender subject with regard to
Prince Edward Island, an island within a
hundred miles, I believe, of two or three
foreign islands where it is not difficult to
get the article which is supposed to be
contraband under this Act-and without
duty either. But passing from that to the
amendments my hon. friend speaks of as
being only one or two, and very trifling,
they are really of very considerable importance. In the first place there are
nine clauses in the Bill, three of which are
entirely new, and not to be found in the
Scott Act ; nor are they to be found in

688

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

this Bill as it was originally introduced, so
that the matter has assumed a rather
larger aspect than my hon, friend intimated when he said that those amendments were very trifling, and it would not
take long to consider them. Then my
hon. friend spoke of a petition which he
said was supposed to be getting ready for
presentation to this House on the question of the operation of this Act-for an
amendment of it. The hon. gentleman
used very strong language with regard to
it, and stated that it was a most iniquitous
petition that was being circulated, and
that it was only stopped by the prompt
action of the friends of temperance. And
what, after all, was the object of that
petition, as stated by my hon. friend himself ? It was that amendments should
be made to the Act requiring the
assent of three-fifths of the electors
who voted. After all, I think he
can hardly suppose that is such a
monstrous demand, when he reflects that
under the Act which is proposed to be
amended by his own Bill, the Liquor
License Act, that is the proportion which
is recognized in that Act as the proper
vote for bringing the Act into operation.
My hon. friend refers to the number of
petitions that have been presented to the
House this session. I am not going into
a discussion of those petitions, but I
merely wish to call the attention of the
House to a fact, in justice to the petitioners, that the leading object of those petitions, as expressed on the face of them, is
to ask the House not to make any alterations in the Act at all.

am justified in stating to my hon. friend
that if he had kept to the object which the
petitioners had in view, we should never
have heard of this Bill. Now, with regard
to the general subject which my hon.
friend has gone into, of the adoption of
this Act in Ontario, I certainly do not
mean to interfere in that discussion between my hon. friend and the hon. gentleman from Niagara, who has so well
answered him on that point. I leave them
to settle that part of the question, but I
shall call my bon. friend's attention, as he
has invited us to do, and has made it part
of the discussion before us, to this very
question of the adoption of the petition in
different provinces as to the numbers. I
shall ask him, and he has laid very great
stress upon it as an argument in favor of
the Bill itself and in favor of the successful working of it, to consider what has
been the result in the three Maritime
Provinces where this Act has been made
the subject of discussion. If we take the
province of New Brunswick first, the
aggregate number of voters on the roll in
that province, in the counties where the
question of the adoption of this Act came
up, it was 32,226. Of these, only 7,678
voted for the adoption of the Act : that is
to say only i in 4ý4.
In the
That is all the proportion.
province of Prince Edward Island, out of
19,287 voters on the rolls, in the counties

and cities where this Act was presented
for adoption, the total number that voted
for it was only 4,982, or about one .in
four. In the province of Nova Scotia,
the proportion was a little larger and was
slightly less than one-third of the whole
HoN. MR. VIDAL-That would lessen number of voters in those counties, the
its prohibitory character or render it more figures being 42,ooo, andthe total number
difficult of adoption.
of voters for the petition being 13,000.
Under these circumstances it will be seen
HON. MR. DICKEY-Not to go tink- that there was an average of about one in
ering at it from year to year, but to leave four only of the voters that took part ini
the Act to its operation, and ask the the elections in the three provinces for
House not to adopt any amendments the adoption of the Act. In connectioni
which would embarrass the operation of with that I merely wish to call attention
the Act. That is a fair question for con- to an expression from an eminent man on,
I allude to
sideration. It is evident that the peti- the other side of the water.
tioners did not contemplate that the pro- the Hon. Mr. Goschen, a well-knolwn
moters of the Act were going to bring in Liberal of the most advanced type in the
a Bill here having nine amendments to British Cabinet, and who, while maintalnthe Act, to still more increase the diffi- ing an independent attitude, occupies a
culty of carrying it into effect. That evi- very high position in the Parliament of
dently was not their object, and I think I that country.
In a speech which he
HON. MR.

DICKEY.

Jemperance Act, &e., [APRIL 23, 1SS5] Anendment Bill.

'9

nade recently he said: "I am against the speaking now of what my hon. friend has
That dilated so much upon, and continuing my
majority coercing the minority."
sentiment was received with great cheers ; remarks upon that, he has spoken of the
but what would the Hon. Mr. Goschen sentiment of the people as exhibited by
have said if he had been transported to a these elections, I have given him some
country where the minority are permitted facts to consider. The question does not
to rule the majority as is the case in this come up whether it is a majority or anycountry ? The Hon. John Bright, who thing like an equality, but it is simply a
is well known as a tribune of the people, fraction- one-fourth of the whole body
has given utterance to the same idea, not controlling the other three-fourths. My
-exactly in the same terms, but in the same hon. friend has spoken of that, and he
sense. He has presented a view which I will allow me to observe there are some
do not wish to take up the time of the considerations connected with it which
House in repeating, because I take it for may explain, to a large extent, why it is in
granted it is familiar to everyone who has'most of these elections, as wiil be seen in
read the papers during the present session. the Maritime Provinces, so very few people
No higher authorities on that point could took part in them. They did fot take
be produced, I think, on a question of mucb interest in tbem; and the reasons
chis kind.
Thcse are not persons who for their lack of interest are very obvious.
They In the first place, this question of referring
are far removed from the people.
are eminently of the people ; they express a law to the people for adoption is entirelly
I am fot sure
the sentiments of the great body of the new in this country.
We all know that that it obtains in any country except tbe
people of England.
when a man like Bright or Goschen speaks, question of altering the constitution of the
he expresses the sentiments of the vast United States, but certainly in the great
massesofthepeopleandnotoftheprivileged country to which we go for examples we
class merely--sentiments which are sensible find nothing of the kind. At ail events, 1
in themselves, and would be invaluable if arnot arguing that point; I am mereiy
applied in this country. Goschen wentso speaking of the fact, the peope are not
far as to say that he repudiated the idea of accustomed to it. Wben they go to an
He election tbey understand that they go to
the majority ruling the minority.
qualified it by saying that he applied it to vote for some particular man, or sorne
Tben there is a
questions of a sumptuary law of this kind, question of tbat kind.
which prescribes to a man what he should very large sentiment, wbich is honorable
eat or drink. It was in that sense that to the country, pervading the great mass
the hon. member made that strong obser- of the people that those who are engaged
vation and took that strong attitude. in this extreme work of prohibition are
While I am on the subject I may as well actuated by good motives.
They are
remind the House, with regard to this raking an expenment, and they say :0
permissive Bill of which Mr. Goshen vas the people "let us bave a chance to try
speaking then, that it only proposed that this." It is an argument that is very diffithe local option should be carried by two- cuit to overcome in the minds of people
Vhy do they
thirds of the people, and if two-thirds of wbo do not care about it.
the voters were against the licenses being fot care? Because those who are not in
issued they could not be issued. That the habit of drinking care littie whether
'mas the utmost extent to whica the most tbis Act is enforced or not. It does not
n
dvanced agitators in the cause of prohibi- affect tem.e
tion-for I wil cali it by its right nate- know very well thatn tbey wiP have just as
%vould go.
Tbe rnost advanced have many facilities for getting liquor after the
So if my bon.
never gone any furtber than that. Tbey Act passes as before.
do1 not provide that a simple rnajority friend had allowed bis attention to he;hould control, but that it sbould be an called to the subject he would find that it
no
hiaswonder that, in the Maritime Pr)verwbelmiing voice of the p)eople that it
should at once carry weight and express vinces for instance, only one-fourt of
the general sentiments of tbe people and the people could be found to vote for
the saine time make it a law wbich an ct of this kind ; but it is strange at
vOuld be likely to be successful. WVe are! wcile it is only voted upon by a sile
F

n

o t

60,40

TemIperance Act, &c.,

[SENATE] Amndcclnent Bill.

portion of the people in that way that it Government ieturns of Switzeriand, in
should be made to affect the whole of the which this subject is gone into at length,
people. I call the attention of the House and the effect of it-I shah fot go into
to these statistics relating to the Maritime particulars, but I shah give the general
Provinces, and I now come to speak of resut-is that Canada stands at the head
what an hon. member has alluded to- of the list as consuring the srallest
the failure of the Act.
My hon. friend quantity of liquor in proportion to the
has not given us any statistics as to the number of people.
In that respect it
operation and effect of this Act, but I think stands very ruch ahead of such countries
it is pretty well known that it is a failure. as Norway, the United States, Great
I am only speaking of what I know, and Britain and Ireland, Austro-Hungary,
cornes within my own observation. But France, Russia, Sweden, the German Zolthere are gentlemen here who come from verein, Belgium, Switzerland, Netherlands
counties where this Act is in operation, and Dennark, and in rost parts the corand so far as I can learn the Act, as a parison is most favorable, I am thankful te
means of putting down drinking or the cry- saytoCanada. Thishasbeenpublishedand
ing evil of intemperanee, is a failure. adopted by the Manchester Examiner with
That is my experience as far as it a qualification which 1 will read, because
goes, and is it wonderful that it should I do not wish to convey any wrong inhave proved a failure ? Has it ever pression.
The Manchester Examiner,
occurred to my hon. friend or any amiable which is well known as a paper of estabenthusiast who interests himself in this lished reputation and rost reliable,
matter that to prohibit the use of an article especially in statistics, says
is1 one way of tempting men to use it.
What was the first prohibition that was hc savereiegium, Swithrlnd, aerland
l
thovetabe originte from any
ever given in history and scripture, and ca epartnent of the Swiss Governînent, we
what was the effect of it? Thou shaît flot should be inclined to doubt its accuracy."
taste of the fruit of the tree! Weaknow
I do not vouch for it one way or the
that prohibition was broken. 0f course other, but I give it as it is published, and
we know it was a heinous sin it is a sin r thinks at ail events in justice to our
that has descended to ourselves, but
ownlet
speak of it as belonging to human nature.
cofl r l that
petion
to
e
the
is the nature of
that when you say nt
pan
re
to hirn "'[hou shast not," he is ready
HON. erc ALEX. CAMPBELL Wie
with the words that are rising to his lipsrea
1 wi.B" Lt is, "II wia waiting upon tep ealy t intatitics, ayA" ils- zrln
s
toa
We know very well the stateent in the London Seatollthou shait flot."
odatriyanwhc
t.ih er
i
what the operation of these things is arnong
figures he has quoted.
e
men and we cannot blink the question.
We cannot escape the conclusion that ast
f
ICKE en--esb it is an
it has been ever a Hoa. naR.
it as in the ver>' first
h
since, and if you say, to a man "you shaill advanced do vouc paper,pfor one ofr the
oe
i and wy
nt
I Liberai
flot have that thing," he wvi1l try to get it. rnost resp)ectable p)ublications in Londoflat
is the forbidden fruit-always the Lt ives the sane figures that I have
w
e
uluoted, it adds
and
sweetest. The result is that peole really
get excited with these contests and are
d Froi this it pveyas that Belgiunà is fmr
actually led to make efforts to get liquor the greatest beer-drinker, while Great Brital?
in rcones iood
a
second; and that France s
and to drink more than they ever did
before. Now, what has been the olieration
ithe a
e
eri
it
ran
of this Act in other countries ? And 1as a good second. Sonie of the Teutonic races
and thers
ear among the rniost absteininous,
atenion of the Housetin justic to the aniongst the most self-indulgent, as regard
No enera aw of anth kind apper
ttenspirits.
people of Canada, to a publication which tosugestilûsei. Certainlynochieissupplie
has coae under y notice since the House Y the relative condition of education in tle
varous countries. In both Ger
h
n
o
te
t
wht se t o dierent on
I holoc
Switzerlandwhere the pophese edgcats lsam
ibest, the level of alcoleovn conu
c
ptiO lo
hand a suwhary made up frour officiat oy
veryh
HOHN.

MR.

DICKEA.

Temperiance Act. &c.,[APRIL 23, 1885] Amendment Bill.
Now, I have been a little in those countries, or some of them at all events, and I
must say that I think almost every traveller who has been in the habit of visiting
the continent, and especially France and
Switzerland, speaking more particularly of
France, must have observed the sobriety
of the people ; notwithstanding the enormous quantity of wine consumed, amounting in France, according to recent
statements, to more than any other
country in the world-it is very rare
indeed to see a man at all the worse of
liquor. These people drink their wine
just as the Englishman drinks his beer,
and instead of the tea that is drunk in this
country. It is an article of diet, and the
people being accustomed to take it-it is
not forbidden fruit to them-take it in
moderate quantities, and it does not produce intoxication.

691

bition legislation has been peculiarly rife
in that country, and the Maine Liquor
Law, as hon. gentlemen well know, was
passed long before. Now, we look at the
gradual manner in which drinking has increased there :In 1876 ......
1877
·
1878
1879

.
.·····

59,ooo,000
59,000,000
51,000,000
54,000,000

As soon as they got over the effects of
the late war they began to drink a little
more.
i 88o

*..........63,000,000

1881 ......
70,000,000
Now we are coming into the time when
all those prohibition laws were in full
swing.
1882
1883

......

73,000,000

· · · · · · 78,000,000
1884 ......
81,ooo,ooo
So much as regards strong-water spirits.
Now we will try the malt. The consumption of malt liquors has doubled in the
same period, as the following figures will
show. In the first year, 1875, the quan-

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-All I
wanted to bring out was that these tables
establish the fact that before the temperance people commenced their agitation
here the Canadians were the most tempertity consumed was 294,000,000 of gallons,
ate people in the world.

I emphasized
that, in introducing the statement. I felt
bound to do so because my own country
was spoken of as being the most temperate
country in the world. I am not going to
argue the question or raise any point
about it. I merely state the fact, as it is
well known, and the House can draw its
own inference from it. There is another
point connected with this, speaking of the
effect of this law. My hon. friends are
aware that several states of the neighboring union have adopted something very
like prohibitory legislation, and indeed
of a very stringent character. Now, it is
instructive at all events, when the object
is to lessen the consumption of spirits, to
know what the result has been in that
country for the last 30 years. I have the
table before me from which I shall only
quote figures for the last ten years. The
average consumption of liquor during the
last ten years was something like 65,907,HON. MR. DICKEY -

ooo gallons annually-I am speaking now

of the United States. This table begins
in1 the year 1875 and ends in the year
1884. Therefore it cuvers the period of

the last ten years, during which this prohi-

and in 1884 it had increased to 590,000,-

ooo, a little over double the quantity in
ten years.
This prohibitory legislation has been
spoken of as greatly benefiting the people,
and in some places it has had the effect of
preventing a man from drinking. I am
willing to hope that it may be so, but it
has always been contended that it has had
a very great effect in lessening the number
of insane people. This same excess of
indulgence in liquor has been pointed to
as the cause of the insanity, and they
say you go to the States and places
where they cannot get liquor, and we are
told it is a sealed book in Maine and
other places, that you cannot get any
liquor there, and that the people are
moral and healthy and at all events not
subject to insanity. Now, I have a few
statistics with regard to some of these
States and I have selected them because 1 think I have adopted the States
in which the Maine law or legislation of a
similar character is in force.
I have
taken the states of Maine, Vermont, New
Hampshire and Connecticut. The calculation is for a period of 30 years from
185o to 188o. First, I will give the pop-

692

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bil7.

ulation of each State, and it is very well came in force in the state of Iowa, and low
known that the population of New Eng- also the prohibitionists determined to prevent
has been almost at a standstill. TheIt tand
]and ben amsack
as
asThe goes on to state as resuits of the law, perhaps
increase, even going backa s a
should have allowed for ireased thirt for
years, is very small. Since 185o the in- appetizers, that under the old license systent
crease of population has been only about Des Moines, the capital, had 58 drinking
i i per cent. in Maine.
It is under six now
saloons, whiie
it has 225."
Vermont, in New Hampshire about nine
Thatis about the proportion, 1 think, you
and a-halfc while in Connecticut the pop- will find prevading the whole of this counulation has very considerably increased try wherever the Scott Act is in forceainid it is actually 67 per cent, more than
Daveport iad 132 places of Bacchus-worit was 30 years ago. That would f be got now it as a 150 known. When people
ship,
soerepermittedtosel and ibibe liquor lega f
considered a very great increase in this
country, but it is considerable in an old Burlington had 68 saloons; no, when the
perions are made illea1, it bas 128 places
and -half, whiein Connecticutn op- wifchito conduct thewh Liquor was sold
the
state of Maine the nusber of insane per- in Keokuk under the license syste over 29
sonsin 1f
850 was 561 ; in 188o it had bars. Under prohibition 65 are required.
increased to 1542, an increase of 981, or Ten cities have ail the conveniences of 878
wre
bars at
at the rate Of 175 er cent. In Vermont satisfiedpresent, liereand formierly theythat is
with 593. The Boston Pot,
in 1870, the number of insane was the exchange, goes on to say: lTo put it i
strangely enough within one of the num- other
unords,
the opportunities to obtan intoxber in Maine, namely 56 .
In 88o icating liquorand getrunk have increasid
there was fot quite so large an increase, nearlv 50 per cent. under the prohibitorf aw,
but tt ws
narlydoule-,015 anin-and in about seven ,nonths. The flcense
but ws doule-,oî, a 1~revenues of the cities, ainounting to $211,361
narl
crease Of 455 or at the rate of 82 per a year, have disappeared, and ratepayers are
cent. In New Hampshire, the numbers scratc1hing their heads and considering lîow
were relatively 3.78 and 1,056, an increase tiey
wvillt
ake
Itedeficiency. They iay
amouItspoke
neary revenues ofthe8cities in:ow, butter, or ilk
of 6787 the increase alone being of11,36 be obliged to lev
In Con- taxes i their ditress. Drunkennes i as
double the original number.
increased.
quite
there
nectcut tas igwassnotsolargeaan
butict
nearlys doue-o
and
n-0anf course it as nmcreased because, it
cent. in New Hampshre, the nu
es having been made illeal, there is no conm
ill see trol over it1 6
wncreased population, and you
how these figures tally together. The in-be b
li to v wino,
te oilk
doase the
numbere
n
on| oftxe liquor dispenses by men vho want to
ncc
th figorthe
at
of 267 per
n
make enougl out of eac cask o liquor to
whereas the
opulation itself only pay a possible fine, an the excesses of slv
increased at the rate of 67 per cent., rnking, where the irbioer generally takes
leaving the rlative increase of insane enoug to last hi foi a ay or two, account
persons for the population of 20 per for this change in the manners of the good
people of Iowa, and do not furnish a good
cent. Now, these are facts relating to argument for prohibition. Without commitcountries which are blest with the ting ourselves to the opinions expressed, we
laws. give for the benefit of all concerned, pro or
prohibitory
benefit
of these
If the House will allow me, I will con, in the Scott Aet agitation in Halifax, the
call their attention to an article from a followmg extract fron the saie journal:
paper which I know will commend itself
Some of the Iowa prohibitionists have conto the hon. father of this Act, as a first- fessed that their systein is a failure in that
rate authority from his point of view at all state,so far as the experiment has developed,
events, and it certainly is one of the most and one of the methodist clergymen, promîîiadflourishing papers in the province of Nova nent thatthe prohibitory movement, nowthan
mits in matters are verv nuch worse
Scotia-I allude to the Halifax Chronide. when the traffic was legalized. What else is
If the House will permit, I will read there for prohibition to stand upon if the one
theni an article which is endorsed by them, plea of effectiveness is taken fromi under it ?
and which is taken from an American it is certainly wrong in principle.
exchange.
In a recent issue of the
There is only one more extract that I
Chronicle I find the following :wish to read for the benefit of my hon.
"An American excliange relates low on friend who resented yesterday so strongly
the 4th of July last a prohîbitory liquor law the application of the term "sumptuarY
HON. MR. )ICKEY.

Temperance -et, &c., [APRIL 23, 1885] Amendmenf Bill.
law " to this Act.

693

I quote from the New refer it to the Supreme Court for such
an opinion, but it was strenuously reIt is found that sumptuary laws will not fused. The Government would not allow
suppress the evils ther propose to correct. the Bill to be looked at by the Supreme
No law can make people virtuous. No legal Court, and the consequence was, that that
enactment will reach an old drunkard. It Act passed. Then comes the muddle. I
niay punish, but will never reform him. No am speaking now not merely as regards
Maine law, especiallv in Maine, ever could or
ever will stop the sale of intoxicating liquors. this Act but also with regard to the other
Act, which is a twin in the heading of
Now, I think the argument, first from this Bill, and which this Bill proposes to
reason and second from experience, is amend, because this Bill is a hybrid affair.
overwhelming.
I shall not trouble the It deals with two Acts at the same time,
House with any more citations of that and it has adopted the Act which was
sort, because I think quite enough has passed two years ago-the Liquor License
been shown. I do not wish to press the Act-as a twin brother. I have always
matter. I think the House will wish to contended in my place in Parliament here
have all the information they can on the and I have never varied my opinion as to
subject, and I an quite sure my hon. that, that the sole jurisdiction over licenfriend who has charge of this Bill would ses or the retail of liquors under shop and
be glad to get any information which tavern licenses, rests in the provincial
would tend to moderate or modify the legislatures under our constitution.
The
extreme views he holds on this subject. first legislation which laid a ruthless hand
Before I leave the subject I ought to allude on that and struck down as far as it could
more particularly to our own country, and the powers of the provincial Legislatures,
to express with a deep feeling of regret, was the Act introduced by my hon. friend
the muddle into which our legislation on who is leader of the Opposition now, and
temperance has got during the last seven who was leader of the Government in this
years. We had first an Act miscalled the Chamber at that day. After several conCanada Temperance Act.
It ought to flicting decisions in the courts we got a
have been called, as the judges in England decision upon the constitutionality of that
did call it, the Canada Prohibition Act of Act. It was decided by the Privy Coun1878. That is the proper title of the law. cil -very carefully and cautiously decided
On that occasion I confess I opposed that - that the Act was not unconstitutional,
BilI, and I did so on the ground that it and that in the words of their judgmentwas directly interfering with the rights and
" Their Lordships
privileges of the different provinces, be- clusion that the Act having corne to the conin question does not fall
cause it proposed to take away and it did within any of the clauses assigned exclusively
take away, as far as it could, those rights. to the Provincial Legislatures, it becomes unVe do not know as yet how far they have necessary to discuss the further question,
been taken away, because we have not vhether its provisions aliso fall within any of
had an authoritative decision on that part the classes of subjects enumerated in section 91."
of the statute, but it proposes to take away
local power in every place where it is
They only gave an opinion that they
adopted. Jealously guarding, as I always were asked to give, whether the Act was
try to do, the interests of the Lower constitutional or not, and they gave it
Provinces, I strongly opposed that Bill, after the matter had been litigated over
but at the same time I urged on my hon. and over again. It has been the subject
friend who had charge of it, in common of contention all over the country and
with many of my friends, that the Bill conflicting decisions by judges. That has
should be sent to the Supreme Court for been the result of that legislation. What
an opinion as to its constitutionality and followed ? Then the Governrment of the
the power of this Parliament to pass it. Dominion brought in a Bill which is
We made that appeal then. We did it, as commonly known as the Liquor License
we thought, in the interests of good legis- Act of 1883, this decision on the Temperlation, and in the interests of the Act itself, ance Act having been given in the sumthat we should have some authoritative mer of 1882. If we are to have a license
opinion, and we had the power by law to law at all, and if this Parliament has the

York World:-

d)94A

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] A mendment Bill.

power to enact such legislation, I cer- we have also on our statute books an Act
tainly must admit that the Liquor License claiming that power for this Parliament;
Act of 1883 was an excellent law-that no tthat is the Liquor License Act. I hope
better law is perhaps on the statute book we are about to see the beginning of the
than that one, but at the same time I end, because we have got a reference to
have never altered my opinion that the the highest tribunal in the Empire to settle
parts of it which referred to the retail all those questions, and to let us know ex
trade and shop and tavern licenses were actly what we can legislate upon and what
not within our jurisdiction. Unfortu- not. My hon. friend turns to the amendnately, at the time the Act was passed I ments to this Bill, and says that the first
was unwell and unable to be in my place section is a very simple one; that it is
and when the amending Act came up in merely to correct a mistake. He passed
1884, I was not in my place, and had it over very lightly as of no consequence.
no opportunity of expressing any opinion It may or may not be important. I am
about it. But I am happy to find that not quite sure whether the section is
the next step that took place by the refer- necessary or not, but if it is it is certainly
ence to the Supreme Court, the opinion I an important one, because the Act, as he
have always had, and I think the maritime stated himself, and truly stated, required
members should support as far as they that in counties where there were two
can, has been confirmed by the decision registering offices, the notice or petition
of the highest court in the land, the Su- preliminary to the voting should be filed
preme Court of Canada. Now, that arose in both those registry offices in the county.
from the amending Act which was passed He says what objection can there be to the
in 1884, an Act amending the Liquor one registry office, as provided in the
License Act, and it provided that a case amending clause?
might be submitted to the Supreme
" It is of no consequence : people do
Court, and it went on to provide the not go there to look for the Petition."
case as to the power of the Parliament of My hon. friend must know that the very
Canada to pass such an Act was to be object of having the petition there-that
submitted, and then it stated that the the people can go and see it-is just the
judgment of the Supreme Court should same as the object the Legislature had in
be final, unless at the request of the Gov- creating two registry offices in a county :
ernor-General or of the Lieutenant- that is to say, that in a county which is so
Governor of any of the provinces it should large that people would have to travel
be considered desirable to submit it for fifty or sixty miles in order to go to the
the decision of the Privy Council. registry office, they should have the conThis amending legislation arose in venience of two registry offices, and thereconsequence of a decision which was fore the law said two registry offices. I
appealed from in Ontario, which stated know of counties in Nova Scotia that are
that the local parliaments had the exclus- 12o miles long.
ive power of regulating these licenses for
retail purposes. Now you see the muddle
HON. MR. POWER-And there is only
we have got into. We have the Act we one registry office there ?
are considering to-day-the Canada Temperance Act - which deals with both
HON. MiR. DICKEY --There are twO
the wholesale and retail liquor traffic ; we registry offices. I can speak for my Own1
have the decision that the Dominion Par- county at all events. In the county of
liament had power to pass that Act. How Cumberland where there was only one
far, on mature consideration, the whole registry office, 50 miles from the east end
subject being brought up as it is now to be and 70 from the west end, it was divided,
brought up before the Privy Council, so that each end has a registry office of its
their decision will be modified, and how own, and if a man wishes to see anything
far the judgment of the Privy Council about a title he can go to his own registry
will be pressed on the retail question, is office. The Temperance Act provided
yet to be settled. We have a decision in that the Petition should be fyled there in
the case of the Ontario Act that the Pro- order that people could examine it tO see
vincial Legislatures have the power, and whether there was one-fourth of the elecHON.

MR. DICKEY.

Temp6ance Ade, &e., [APRIL 23, 1SS5] Amenidment Bill.

69a5

I think it was a most wise contors on the face of the petition. That steps.
was the object, and yet we are told it was clusion to come to, and a very proper
nothing. What do people want to know ? proceeding on their part to suspend this
They night as well travel 70 or 8o miles Act, and yet we are legislating about it
to find out. The object of it is dec'ared to-day.
to be thatIf that had been known a few days ago,
" In any county or municipality where when this Bill was before the House of
there is more than one registry olice, it shall Commons, instead of a few hours ago, I
be sufficient to deposit tT1e notice referred to will undertake say that it is not probable
in section 6 of the Canada Temperance Act we should have seen this Bill here at all.
1878, in any one of such offices, and when- If this question is to go before the Court
ever, in aiv county or eiunicipality, a
iias been held under the said Act which la of Final Appeal, we had better wait and
pel
resulted in the adoption of the petition, and see what the result of that appeal is bethe Governor-in-Council lias, by Order-in- fore we get into any further entanglement
Council, declared the second part of the said on this legislation. I cannot sit down
Act to be force and to take effect in such i without alluding to part of the address of
. .
county or municipality, the said Act shall be
held and is hereby declared to be in full force the hon. gentleman from Sarma, m which
and effect therein, fron and after the passing he gave us serious warning, and accormof this Act, notwithstanding that such a no- panied it with something like a threattice has not been deposited in each registrar's as to what this House had to expect if we
ofEce."
did not endorse this Bill.
My hon.
Now, I suppose the House understand friend is perfectly sincere.
Everyone
the meaning of that. Two or three years gives him credit for that; but at the same
ago, under the existing law, the parties time with his very strong views on this
pronoting this petition did not comply question he ought to make a little allowwith that provision.
They only gave ance for others who hold equally strong
notice in one registry office, and it has views in another direction. I do not
been suggested, and I believe truly, that a wish to accuse my hon. friend of discourtdecision was given that the Act could not esy, but I think that, on second
The statement is true, thoughts, he will come to the conclusion
be put in force.
but whether the ruling is correct or not I that ir was scarcely necessary to lecture
I am not going to argue the House on what they ought or what
do not know.
the point. I merely answer the hon. they ought not to do, and threaten them
gentleman's position that this is a harm- at the same time if they do not do it. I
less section and does not amount to any- tell ny hon. friend, without the least
thing. It aniounts to a great deal, shade of feeling about it one way or the
because it is retroactive in its effect, and other-knowing him as we all do, as
declares that what the legislature said when eminently courteous to every member of
that Bill was adopted is no longer neces- this House-that the expression dropped
sary, and that after the petition is adopted fron him without consideration. There
the Act shall be in force. That is the is a question involved in this which deeply
effect of the clause. The other clauses as affects the interests of the Maritime
well as the schedules, relate to the pro- Provinces and Quebec under the consticeedings in selling by retail as well as by tution of our country. My hon friend
wholesale under both Acts. This section guarded himself, and very properly so,
that was spoken of yesterday, section 9, before he closed his remarks, when he
proposes to repeal section 145 of the said: "Is there a constitutional quesLiquor License Act of 1883. Now we tion in this matter ?" Of course if he
have got into a still greater muddle. supposed there was he would have added
Here is a proposal to repeal the section of if he had chosen to do so,-" If there is I
the Liquor License Act, when we have am willing to have it thrown out."
There is a constitutional question involwithin a few hours ascertained that the
operation of that Act is to be suspended, ved, because this is a Bill which proposes
because the Government, I suppose, have to amend both of those Acts in matters
-come to the conclusion that there rnay be relating to wholesale and also to retail
a doubt about it, and it is better to wait trade, in shop and tavern licences, and we
the result before they take any further have already got the decision of the high-

66

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

est court in this land upon that very point,
that this is a subject exclusively within the
jurisdiction of the different provinces and
their legislation. Under those circumstances should we not pause ? Should we
not take the course that the Government
have taken with regard to their own Bill:
and should we not ask this House to
pause before passing those nine amendments, and await the decision of the final
court of appeal upcn this question ? That
I confess is my view at all events. I have
made up my mind that as far as I am
concerned, after the manner in which this
legislation has gone on, and after the
muddle we have got into, if hon. gentleman will persist in forcing this Bill upon
us, at all events I shall have the privilege
of entering my protest against it, and putting on record the reasons why we think
that this Bill ought not to be considered
at present.
I shall therefore move,
seconded by the Hon. Mr. Botsford, that it
is inexpedient to legislate further as to the
Acts proposed to be amended by this Bill,
until an authorative decision has been
given by the Privy Council in England on
the appeal from the recent judgment of
the Supreme Court of Canada thereon,
and that the said Bill be not now read the
second time, but that the same be postponed for three months.
HoN. M1R. SCOTT-I certainly am
rather surprised at the novel position taken
by hon. friend who has just placed this
amendment before the House, that it is
inexpedient to legislate further as to Acts
proposed to be amended by this Bill until
an authoritative decision has been given
by the Privy Council in England, etc. I
was not aware that there was any constitutional question pending with regard to
this matter. I understood that the Privy
Council of England had already decided
on this Bill-that is the Canada Temperance Act-and had held it to be within
our province to pass such a measure, and
in harmony with that decision the Supreme
Court had decided that the Liquor License
Act that we passed in 1883 was outside of
the jurisdiction of this Parliament. One
was held to be just the converse of the
other. The Privy Council in England, in
the Russell case, held that while the subject matter of licenses belonged to the
Provincial Government, the power of
HoN.

MR.

DICKEY.

dealing with the liquor question in its
prohibitory character, either local or general, rested entirely with the Federal Parliament. That question has been settled.
and no new question can possibly arise :
the Privy Council has given its decision.
Before I go into answering a few of the
arguments brought forward by the hon.
gentleman behind me (Mr. Dickey), I will
just advert to one or two points in reference to this amendment, and the view
taken by the hon. gentleman who introduced this, and here I must confess I did
not understand the hon. gentleman
from Sarnia in any manner to dictate
to this House that it was in any
sense our duty to adopt those amendments. I did not understand that he
spoke in any such spirit, or that he expressed the belief that this House was not
perfectly free to deal with the subject in a
larger sense, although it might not be
considered proper or fair where the amendments were simply under consideration
that they might deal with the measure in
a larger sense. This measure has been
dealt with on a previous occasion by
attempting to interject into it such amendments as were calculated to kill the Act
itself. When I had the honor of submitting the Canada Temperance Act in 1878,
and when this House devoted between
three and four weeks to a careful consideration of it, I did not, nor did
any hon. gentleman, at that time, believe when we were dealing with the
subject, that we were going to draft
such a measure that in future, after
years of experience, it would not require
amendment. On the contrary, those who
are familiar with legislation know very
well that all measures come back year
after year for amendment and improvement, as experience teaches. We all
know the large number of amending bills
that we have under consideration ; take
the Railway Bill : we have that every few
years. We have had it consolidated, and
then no sooner had we consolidated it
than we went on to amend it. We have
before us now for consideration the consolidation of the laws of the past ten years,
and it is rather curious, lookiiig at any of
the important Bills that have passed during that time into law, to see how often
they have been amended ; and I venture
to say that although we will have those

Temperance Act, &c., [APRIL 23, 1885] Amendment Bill.

697

laws consolidated this session, we will ent probably from that which was originbegin to amend a number of them again ally intended to be conveyed, is frequently
next session. Every ten years we find given to it. I remember a circumstance
that it is absolutely necessary to consoli- that illustrates this perfectly. A gentledate our laws, because as time goes on we man, who is a distinguished jurist, a chief
gather such experience from the working justice of Ontario, had drafted an Act of
of the law, as forces us to the conclusion Parliament. Subsequentlythe Act came bethat the statutes require amendment in fore him for the interpretation of one of its
some particular manner. But hon. gentle- clauses, and after hearing the counsel he
men will recollect that we are now dealing said,"Gentlemen,when I drew that clause I
with the law on a subject for which we had in view a particular interpretation, and
had no previous model. The Dunkin I confess, now that it has been discussed
Act came nearest to it of any law cn our before me, that the language indicates a
statute book, but it was not framed on different construction from what I really inthat plan. That Act had been found to tended to place upon it." So, in the
be a positive failure in the province of interpretation of the statute, the language,
Canada, and in dealing with the Canada rather than the idea he had in view when
Temperance Act we had to make it apply drafting it, had to be adopted. All of us
to the seven provinces of the Dominion. know very well that in drawing up clauses
We had necessarily to call to our aid the we do not take every possible circummachinery we invoked in it-part of the stance into consideration, and they often
municipal machinery of those provinces. fail in many particulars. The amendThe very point that comes up in the ments required in this case are very few.
second section of this Bill proves that The amendments that the House is now
we are defective in our knowledge of called upon to consider I will go over
what the divisions in British Columbia seriatim, and I think the House will take
were called, because we named them the view that although they are an assistcounties, instead of electoral districts, ance in working the law, they are not of
believing that definition of an electoral such a character as to warrant any gentledistrict would suit the whole Dominion. man taking a decided stand against them.
I recollect distinctly myself, when that The first clause has reference to the office
definition was under consideration, that a in which the petition should be filed.
number of views were expressed as to Now, the hon. gentleman from Amherst
whether it would be the best definition to is not quite correct in stating that where
be adopted for the whole Dominion. there are two registry offices in a county
Some gentlemen thought that " electoral the law requires the petition to be dedivision " would be the best definition, posited in both. The law requires the
while others thought the word "county " petition to be fyled in the sheriff s office,
would suit the whole Dominion. I did or in the registry office for the county. It
not profess to be familiar with the divi- so happens that for registry purposes some
sions of the different provinces over the counties are devided into two registry ridDominion, nor did I know thejurisdiction ings : consequently where parties fyle a
of the sheriff or other officers of the dis- petition in the registry office for a riding,
tricts in British Columbia ; but we were it has been held not to be fyling in the
required to give those officers certain registry office, for the Act contemplated
functions, and we gathered in all the in- the fyling of the petition in the registry
formation we could at the time, and the office for the whole county. It is perfectgentlemen coming from the different pro- ly competent for the parties to fyle the
vinces made suggestions to myself from petition in the sheriff's office, and I believe
time to time as to what would best suit the jurisdiction of the sheriff extends over
the different parts of the Dominion, so the whole area of the counity : therefore
that it is not at all to be wondered at that the fyling in the sherifi's office is always
a Bill of this nature has had to come back sufficient. I myself, speaking from my
for amendment. I venture to say that no limited knowledge, as far as Ontario is
Act is made so perfect that when it comes concerned, do not consider it an importafterwards to be argued and discussed by ant point where there happen to be two
opposing counsel, an interpretation differ- registry offices that the petition shall be

698

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Anendment Bill.

selves of this Act, we ought at least to
permit the form of machinery required to
be inserted in the amended Act, which
would give them the opportunity of testing it. So long as the law is on the
statute book, it would be inconsistent for
the House to say that because a mistake
was made in describing the electorai
searliest divisions in British Columbia,
areas or
that they should be precluded from adoptin the e
Act. I do mot think that any
gentleman in this Chamber wouid say that
or reasonable proposition. We
VIDAIi-And steal it ifwas a fair long as we have an Act of Parought, so
HON. MNIR.
liament which professes to extend to the
they can.
whole Dominion, to ake its provisions
HOr. MR. SCOTT-And stea if they suit the peculiar names, at ail events the
cani, and as they did succeed in doing in one circumstances, of the country here those
case. So, it is not, in my judgment, in any papers have to be fyled. The next clause
degree essential that the first clause should provides that the officiai notice of the
be there at all; it is simply a convenience. issue of the proclamation sha be taken
1 do not know that it appfies to any by aIl judges and functionaries whose
specia case; I do not believe in making duty it is to deal with it, without having
retroactive legisiation. I believe there is to prove it. Hon. gentlemen wvîll at once
an existing case where it relieves a party reconize the fairness and reasonableness
here they fyied the petition in a registry of that This Act is not stealing into any
It goes there ater very
shich as only a registry office for community.
office
county but they have still the considerable discussion and agitation,
part of the al
right to fyle it at the sherif s office, where afer a very decided vote. It bas to be
they would not be at the trouble and ex- on a majority vote of those who go to the
pense of duplicating the petition. The poils. It has to stand over a considerabie
next clause is the one which defines the tie: it bas to be made the subject
word "county," as used in the Act itself. matter of a proclamation by the GovernorIn
hritish Columbia that definition in-Council; al this bas to be done to
county was not applicable. The only bring it into force at a time hen existing
way to arrive at thevotein British Columbia licenses sha cease. It seems to be a
would be by naming the division an elec- matter of very great notoriety in every
torah district. and the second clause pro- county where this Act is brought into
vides that in British Columbia this word force, and therefore surely we ought not
gcounty" shao be regarded as meaning to impose upon any person bringing up a
an electoral district, in accordance with party for a breach of the law, the necesthe divisions for elections of members of sity to prove al this formai matter-that
the House of Commons. There is a pro- the subject was taken up by the Governorviso, howeverpthat whenever British Col- in-Council : that a proclamation had
umbia sha have been divided into count- issued: that this proclamation had been
ties, and a regular municipal organization published in the Canada Gaette, &c., &c.
is established in each of such counties, It is not a usual proceeding in any of Our
the Act as amended shah appty to the said courts in reference to other iatters,
counrties. The 3rd section provides, as and certainly the vast majority of laws
a consequence, that the notice provided which Parliament adopts receive no such
for in section 6 shah, sc far as it relates to notoriety as the Temperance Act does,
British Columbia, be deposited in the because this Act cannot be put in force
registry offices in the respective electoral unless individuals living in the county are
districts, or in the sheriff s office in such willing; therefore the peope ail know it,
districts. Surely that is not a very import- and it cannot be for a moment urged that
ant amendment to the Bil. If the people it shouhd be necessary to prove ail this
If British Columbia wish to avail them- formai matter in taking proceedings under

adopted in both, because those of us
who know what follows the getting up of
a petition, are aware that it is a battle
from the start, and a battle that is fought
in many cases with great fierceness and
greater acrinony than any political contest : and therefore the parties opposed to
the petition take care to find out at the
possible moment whether the
petition has been deposited in the sherif's
office or the registry office, and tbey go
there and analyze it.

Hon. MR. SCOTT.

Temperance Act, &c., [APRIL 23, 1885] Anendnent Bill.
it. Clause 5 amends sub-section 4 of
section 99 of the Act by striking out of the
eighth line the word < sale," and substituting therefor the words " intoxicating
liquor." That was a mistake of my own
in framing the Act, and I have no doubt
the House understands that it is a case
like that of the Chief Justice of Ontario
that I referred to a moment ago, where he
thought I intended the word " sale" to
imply "intoxicating liquor." It is a very
inaccurate expression as it reads in the
Act. There can he no objection to this
amendment. The next amendment is a
very important one, striking out the words
in the ninth line of the Act " to be in
quantities of not less than one pint."

It

wiil be remembered in the debate on this
subject by gentlemen who were then
present, that it was considered we ought
not to allow the druggist shops to be
made tippling shops, and therefore it was
suggested by someone that the quantity
should be restricted to not less than one
pint, and so the words " not less than one
pint " were inserted. We all know that
where this law has gone into operation
that provision has been taken advantage
of by some professional men who are
perhaps not worthy of the position they
hold, and who have abused the confidence
of Parliament, and made it an opportunity
for giving liquors in large quantities-not
pints, but gallons-converting, in some
instances, the drug shops into shops
for the sale of liquor under the plea
that it was for medicinal purposes. I
certainly felt very great regret, when
the hon. gentleman from Glengarry
proposed an excellent amendment, that
I was not in a position to accept it
owing to the fact that I had given my assurance to a member of the Government
who is not now in his" place, that I should
.ask for no changes if the Government carried through that Bill. My hon. friend
(Mr. McMi!lan) saw the unfair and improper position in which his colleagues
were put by the abuse by some members
of the profession of the trust that Parlia
ment had reposed in them, and he suggested the change, that instead of the
words "not less than a pint" being retained, it should be "not more than a
pint." It would have done a great deal
of good if that amendment could have
been adopted. The House of Commons

699

has, however, struck out the limitation
altogether, leaving it entirely to the medical men to prescribe any quantity more or
less, at the same time attaching the penalty
that the professional man who abused the
privilege should lose his trust, attaching a
penalty if there is an absolute violation.
The next clause gives to clergymen, in
addition to the persons mentioned in subsection 4, the power to issue certificates,
but that is only an alternative where no
medical man can be found. That was introduced, I believe, at the instance of
some gentleman in the House of Commons, who said that in some sections of
the country medical men could not easily
be had, and it was desirable to give to
clergymen living in such localities power
to issue these certificates. The next section cannot be considered a very important
one. It is in the interest of those who
are opposed to the Bill, inasmuch as it
fixes the penalties definitely. Under the
Act as it stands, the penalties were to be
not less than, for the first offence $50, for
the second $oo, and for the third $150.

Instead of allowing a magistrate jurisdiction to attach a large penalty, the amendment proposes that it should be fixed at
the minimum figures mentioned in the
Statute, that is : $5o, $1oo, and $150.

There surely could be no objection to that.
The next clause, the 7th, amends the
107th section of the Act, and there is
nothing very serious about it. Whatever
penalties the Act imposes ought to be enforced. This clause strikes out from that
section a very important portion of it, that
is, the forfeiture of the liquor.
Then the next clause is the 8th, which
amends section i 19, simply to make sense
of the language and to make it convey the
meaning intended to be interpreted as the
words are here in this clause. As the
section stands in the Act it is incorrect
and ungrammatical.
Then L come to
section 9, which has been dwelt on by
some hon. gentlemen as the most important in the Bill. Now, what are the
facts ? Some veryzealous people, Lassume,
in the other Chamber fancied they were
going to improve the Act of 1878 when
the Act of 1883 came before Parliament,
by adding clauses of that Act to the
Canada Temperance Act, so far as entorcing it is concerned. The clause to which
I refer repeals section 145 of the Act.

700

Temperance Act, &c., LSENATE] Amendinent Bill.

Now what is that section thus repealed ? this House in asserting that we are asking for any extraordinary changes or any
It is as follows:
" The sale of liquor without license in any great improvements. The object of this
inunicipality where the Canada Temperance
Act of 1878 is in force shall, nevertheless, be
a contravention of sections 83 and 84 of this
Act; and the several provisions of this Act
shal have full force and effect in every such
municipality, except in so far as such provisions relate to granting licenses for the sale
of liquor by retail."
The object of that was to make the Act
of 1878 more effective, and what has been
the consequence ? Some of the judges of
the Supreme Court of New Brunswick, I
think, have held that the clauses of this
Act supersede the prosecuting clauses of
the Act of 1878 ; that, I think, is the
effect of it, or at all events that they added
to it. My hon. friend opposite is familiar
with the judgment.
HON. MR. DICKEY-I think that is
correct, but that judgment was never
appealed from to the Supreme Court of
Canada.

HoN. MR. SCOTT-What objection
eould there be to saying that this Act of
1878 shall stand alone, and that it shall
not be dependent on the Act of 1883 to
put it in force? Surely those who are
opposed to the Act should not take the
ground that the section of another Act
which we are seeking to repeal here shall
not be repealed.
The effect of retaining it would be simply to add
confusion to the Act of 1878. That
does not interfere with the position taken
by my hon. friends who oppose this law.
We say with them that this Act of 1878
should stand alone.
The powers to put
it in force are quite sufficient and it only
leads to confusion if this amendatory clause
is allowed to remain on the statute book.
I thought myself that it was an unfortunate clause, because I think the Act
of 1878 can stand without any aid from
the Act of 1883, and if a change were
necessary we should rather come to Par-

liament for a new Act than to import a
clause into an Act which has nothing to
do with it. We merely repeal that
section because it has led to very great
confusion. Now, I think I have shown
that the changes are not so grave or
serious. They do not strike at the principle in any way. They do not warrant
HON. MR. SCOTT.

Bill is simply to correct inaccuracies to
which I myself to a large extent, plead
guilty, but for which I should not be
blamed, for I never pretended to be sufficiently familiar with the provincial system
to know whether in each part of the Dominion " electoral district" or " county " was
a proper definition, or whether there were
two registry offices, or only one registry
office, and many other minor points to
which I have adverted. The whole object
of the amendment to the Act of 1883 is tO
make the sense more obvious-it is practically carrying out the will of Parliament.
My hon. friend who introduced this Bill I
thought did not travel beyond the record.
I considered it quite proper for him to
show that this measure was one in which
many people of this country took an
interest, and was worthy on that account
of receiving a fair, frank and candid expression of opinion from this chamber.
Surely it cannot for one moment be contended that the evidence brought forward
that the large intelligent body of the people are deeply interested in this legislation,
should be disregarded. My hon. friend
who spoke before me endeavored to belittle the effect of that evidence by stating
that in some counties the vote was comparatively small, and that therefore the
Act had not been adopted by the people.
What is the conclusion that one reaches
from that fact ? It is simply this: that
the people did not turn out to oppose it.
They knew that it was going to be carried,.
and there was no special reason for creating
undue excitement about a measure of this
kind when it was known that it was to be
It cannot in any sense be
accepted.
quoted as an expression of opinion against
the Act that people did not come out in
favor of it. On the contrary, looking at it
from my standpoint, I should say that the
vast majority of the people who staid at
home did so because they knew that the
They did
Act was to be adopted.
not intend to vote against it at all
events, and to that extent they gave it

their support. If they had been positively
opposed to the adoption of the Act they
certainly would have gone out to vote
against it ; but if, as my hon. friend con-

tends, they did not approve of it then they

Tmnperanoc Act, &c.,

[APRIL 23, 1885] Amendment Bill.

701

certainly should have voted against it. I held, or at times of great popular excitewas amazed to hear the argument which ment ? Were we not the first to say that
my hon. friend advanced that the people where large bodies of men are congregaof Nova Scotia, who are understood to be ted together on public works no liquor
a most intelligent population, were not shall be brought in or sold to them under
accustomed to that kind of thing-that it any circumstances ? Were we not the
was a new subject, and that they had not first to say that in a large area of the counvoted upon the adoption of the Act because try, the North-West Territories, no liquor
practically they did not know how to vote should be sold, because we believe its
on a question of that kind-that in fact, effects would be injurious ? I do not prothey did not know how to use the franchise. pose to go into an argument on the
My hon. friend said because it was not a question itself, but merely call attention
political election, it was a matter that they to the fallacious argument of my hon.
did not understand. I must say it was friend who spoke just before me ; while
paying a poor compliment to the people he was quoting the fact that Canada
of his province. The people of Nova stood so high in the record on this quesScotia have shown a very high appreciation tion, I thought it was a compliment to our
of the whole temperance question, because people, because they had taken the initiathey refused many years ago, in some of tive in various ways to restrict the liquor
the counties, to allow any licenses at all to traffic. They have always believed, as
be issued, the very best possible prooft those who study the question do, that the
that they were educated on this question greater the opportunities afforded for ob-that they were in advance of other taining liquor the greater will be the
sections of the world on that point- quantity of liquor sold. We have ourbecause they had seen that the effect of selves been proving the correctness of that
granting licenses meant affording oppor- conclusion by the laws that we have ourtunities to drink, and that the opportunities selves been passing from time to time
to drink meant people getting drunk- restricting the use of intoxicating liquors.
that the more opportunities people have Restraining its use does not mean increasto drink the more liquor they will drink. ing the consumption, as my hon. friend
That is the conclusion they reached from contended ; it means what we have always
their practical' observation, and they met intended it to mean, that it should not be
the evil in their own way by refusing in there at all to be sold. But if this Act of
certain counties to license anybody to sell 1878 is a failure what is the cause? Beliquor. My hon. friend quoted (and I am cause the people do not put it in force.
sure we were all very glad to hear him) It is an argument not against the Act, but
figures to show that Canada stands fore- against the weakness of the people who
most amongst the nations of the world, on fail to put it in force. My hon. friend
this temperance question ; and why ? says people drink bottles now where be
Because it is one that they understand fore they drank only glasses of liquor. I
better than the people of any other coun- deny that. But it is a large subject and I
try. They were the first people to adopt do not propose to discuss it at the present
the restrictive license system. In some of moment. If I chose to go into it I could
the lower provinces they were the first to bring forward statistics to prove what I have
adopt the system of issuing no licenses at already stated-that the more opportuniall, long before the prohibition subject ties you give people to drink, the more
was mentioned in any part of the Dom- they will drink. My hon. friend quoted
inion ; and in some sections of Canada figures in support of his position, but
were they not the first-the first certainly really they mean nothing. He is not yet
as compared with the mother country, in a position to say that the Temperance
from which we are accustomed to draw Act has been a failure. It has been in
our inspirations and views on such ques- operation but a very limited time and in a
tions--were they not the first to say that very limited space, and then the Act has
liquor should only be sold within particu- been abused. For instance, the medical
lar hours ? Were they not the first to say men in Halton and in Prince Edward
that liquor should not be sold on the Sab- Island simply avail themselves of the opbath day, or when elections are being portunity to sell certificates. You cannot

702

Tenperance Act., &c., [SENATE] A mendment Bill.

say that the law is a failure because the
trust that Parliament reposed in certain
gentlemen to carry out the law has been
abused. It is not the fault of the law ; it
is the fault of those who are executing
those provisions of it that we thought
would be fairly and honorably enforced.
Of course, where that kind of thing is done
you cannot find fault with the law, but
with the people in wi
hom we have ourselves put confidence to carry it out. WTe
had the Halton matter before us last year.
This year I was rather amused, in looking
over the papers brought before us ofthose
who sold liquor in Prince Edward Island,
to fnd that 70 or 8o pints of brandy
was given as one prescription. Is it not
absurd to say that the Act is a failure because a medical man violates the trust
that Parliament reposed in him so far as
to prescribe for medicinal purposes such
a quantity of alcoholic liquor ? Is is not
a breach of confidence to give certificates
to buy four or five gallons of brandy, or
four or five dozen bottles of whiskey ?
HON. MR. ALMON-Perhaps it was

for external application.
HON. MR. SCOTT-I was not aware
that it was to be used as a bath, but that
explains what I could not otherwise have
understood

Hox. MR. PLUMB-By
metastatis it would strike in.

a sort of

HoN. MR. SCOTT-The temperance

question is a large one, and I do not
suppose that the House would care
that I should pursue the general subject.
My hon. friend has moved that this Bill
receive the three months' hoist. With the
exception of clause 9 to which he objects,
all the other clauses clearly tend to make
the Act more distinct ; they express, in
better language, what the original Act intended to convey and make it easier of
interpretation except those clauses which
relate to giving clergymen power to issue
certificates. There certainly can be no
objection to our fixing the penalties for
violations of the Act, instead of leaving
it to the Magistrate, so long as we fix
them at the minimum in the Act of
1878.

Some hon. gentlemen seem to

be extremely sensitive when one exHoN. MR SCOTT.

presses an opinion that this House
ought to be cautious about making any
radical changes-I use the word in its
widest sense-in a measure of this kind ;
but I think we should hesitate before rejecting legislation which is asked for by
such a vast number of petitioners. This
House, on a former occasion, earned the
thanks of the public by devoting between
three and four weeks to a careful consideration of the Canada Temperance Act.
For several years that Act was not put in
force, because we knew for some time its
constitutionality was contested. My hon.
friend behind me says that he wished, at
the time it was before the Senate, to refer
it to the Supreme Court. I did not concur in that view, because I believed that
we had the power to pass it, and subsequent events have established the correctness of that opinion. The highest tribunal
of the land has declared that we had the
power. Suppose we had gone to the
Supreme Court, and got the opinion that
it was within our purview to pass the Act,
do you mean to tell me that the Privy
Council would not have been appealed to
in the end? The interests at which this
Act strikes are interests behind which a
good deal of money stands, and they
were not likely to allow a measure of this
kind to go unchallenged even for what it
would cost them to bring it before the
Privy Council, where it eventually went.
Therefore, the Act of 1878 has not been
in operation for more than a very limited
time, because, although some countie
adopted it some years ago it was held in
abeyance until the constitutional questio
was settled ; so it cannot be said to havn
had a fair trial. Under the circumstancese
I think we ought, in view of the
large public interest taken in this ques-'
tion, to grant these amendments. The
people who ask for this legislation may be
right, or they may be wrong. It is an
important question, one on which the
English speaking world, and probably
foreigners, are very largely divided ; but
at all events it must be admitted that all
those who have the welfare of their fellow
beings at heart feel that something must
be done to remedy the evils which result
from intemperance. The appalling figures
which my hon. friend read to-day of the
increased consumption of liquor and the
increase of insanity ought to show the

Tewperance Act, &c.,

[APRIL 23, 1885] Amendmnent Bill.

703

going on, and is from day to day and year
to year improving in that direction. Notwithstanding the agitation in the neighboring country, there are only four states in
which prohibition has been made a part of
the constitution-Maine, Vermont, Iowa
and Kansas. It is no argument to use
against the law, that in the early years of
its introduction it is broken ; from year to
year it will be better enforced, and the
people will insist on its being obeyed. I
do not mean to say that you can, in a long
term of years, absolutely prevent people
from drinking or from smuggling liquor
into the country. We know that smuggling is carried on constantly. We know
that even contraband articles are smuggled
into the country every day; and so will
liquor be smuggled, but as years go on,
and as the young people 'grow up, the
quantity consumed will diminish where
prohibition prevails.
My hon. friend
spoke also of how much better the people
were under a law that permitted the sale
of what is called the light wines and beers
and ales, and referred to the few cases of
intoxication that occur in France. Those
who have given this subject any consideration, must come to the conclusion that
there was a time, some twenty odd years
ago, in the wine-growing countries of
Europe, when pure wines could be obtained
cheaply and in abundance, there was very
little intoxication ; but the destruction of
the vines by phylloxera and other causes,
led to the economical manufacture of a
liquor resembling what it professes to be,
port wine, sherry, champagne, &c., and
people, of recent years, have been drinking instead of pure wines a large amount
of poison. We know, as a fact, that
France from being a large exporter of
wines for the last eight or nine years, has
become a large importer, and there is
more wine imported into France to-day
Hox. MR. KAULBACH-What has than is exported, in consequence of the
been the result of prohibition in that state ? destruction of the vines. Houses that do
a large business in wines, finding that they
Hox. MR. SCOTT-The law has been could not supply their customers, import
broken in many places. It is a law that wines of an inferior grade, and manufacwill be broken in its early initiation, be- ture what they call wines from spirits. It
cause it strikes at the prejudices of a large is a recognized trade there, and even in
number of people who feel that they are this country our government leases out the
not committing a breach of the moral law right to make spurious wines. There are
if they violate the Act. Therefore they men in our towns and cities, who, under
resort to extraordinary measures to defeat a license of $5o a year, make any kind of
it; but L say the public education is still wine you want, in which the juice of the

necessity of providing some remedy. It
is well known that this is a subject which
has agitated the public mind largely in the
United States, and also in the mother
country. Public opinion is not educated
there up to the line it has reached in
Canada; yet the House of Commons, on
two distinct occasions, passed a vote
approving of some restrictive legislation
-some prohibitive measure. They did
not define what it should be, although a
good many men who had given attention
to the subject approved of making it a
local option law. It is worthy of note that
the last time the subject came before the
British House of Commons, it was carried
by a largely increased vote, showing that
public opinion was rapidly moulding itself
up to a view that at all events contemplated prohibition or restriction in some
degree of this liquor traffic. We know in
the United States, a country situated very
much like our own, it has been the burning question for years, and while hon.
gentlemen may quote figures to prove
that it has been a failure in various places,
yet it does seem odd that on a recent
occasion, when the question was put to
the people of Maine whether prohibition
should be made a part of the constitution
of the state-which it had not been before,
because prohibition had been simply on
their statute book by a legislative enactment-when the question came up to
make it part of the constitution of the
state that liquor should not be manufactured or brought into Maine, the people,
by a majority of some 8o,ooo, declared
that it should be a part of their constitution. That shows that there must be a
considerable number in that stat., at all
events, who are impressed with the belief
that something must be done to meet the
appalling evil of intemperance.

"704A

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendmenit Bill.

grape is no part of the compound. That
is a matter of fact, and one that is rather
discreditable to us as a civilized people. I
adverted to this subject once before, and
I do feel that although it is quite in keeping with what is done in other countries,
that it is discreditable to any nation that
boasts of its civilization. I am afraid my
hon. friend has not travelled recently
through France and Switzerland : he
would find things very much changed
there now with respect to the habits of
the people, particularly in Switzerland.
Some eight or nine years ago they removed the licenses altogether, and left
wine as free to everybody as bread and
meat, and what is the consequence ?
About one in one hundred went into
the liquor business, and
the effect on the people was one terrible
national debauch, one terrible national
degradation of the population of that country. It would appear from statistics that
have been furnished, that a very large
proportion, considerably over 50 per cent.
of all the earnings of the laboring classes,
iwere spent in drink. When the people
themselves saw the appalling effect of it,
they passed a most stringent liquor law-I know it is one of the most stringent
laws on the subject in Europe-restraining
the sale and use of liquors of all kinds.
Their experience was that by permitting
the sale of liquor they simply brought
about national degradation. This is all
beside the question, but one could not altogether ignore certain circumstances connected with this subject, which is a large
.and interesting one, and had been adverted to by other gentlemen. But, really, it
is outside of thesubject wehave under consideration-whether we will allow the few
changes asked for in this Bill. With one
or two exeeptions, it cannot be contended
that there ought to be any substantial objection. Certainly, we are attempting to
make the law clearer, and set forth more
definitely what we intended to say in the
Act of 1878, and there ought not to be
any objection to our being allowed to do
so. Would it be right to say that while
we intended this Act to be put in force in
British Columbia, because that province is not divided into counties, but into
electoral districts, and the Act applies only
to counties, that we should not be allowed
,to amend it so that that province should
HON. MR. SCOTT.

have the benefit of the Act ? No hon.
gentleman can say for a moment
that it is not a reasonable proposition.
I quite admit the reasonableness of an at
tempt to repeal the law of 1878 on the
the part of those who object to it. Gentlemen who believe that that law is bad
will act up to their convictions ; but while
that law stands part of our code, surely we
ought not to refuse such amendments as
will allow it to go into operation. It is
not considered usual in that way to defeat
the will of Parliament. If there are objections to any of the clauses-for instance
that of fyling the petition in one registry
office instead of two, there is an argument
open for fair consideration. I would not
say that it was crippling the Act, in any
sense, for hon. gentlemen to contend that
that clause should be struck out. It may,
in large areas where there are two registry
offices, give additional publicity to the
petition, though it may cause more trouble
to the promoters of it ; but that consideration ought not to be compared with the
publicity that the notice would obtain,
and here is an occasion in which the
House has a right to exercise a fair
opinion without being charged with being
hostile to the Bill itself. With regard to
section 9, which engrosses a large share of
attention on the ground that we are
trenching on constitutional questions, I
cannot see where the point comes in, bccause we are not encroaching on any constitutional question : we are simply saying
that a clause which is not in this Act, and
which was imported into the other because it was believed that it would help
the Temperance Act, has been found
to lead
to
confusion, and it is
not wrong to say let that clause be struck
out. We do not repeal that clause. It
The Suprene
only affects this Act.
Court has desided that only those clauses
of the Liquor License Act which really
affect, and are germane to the Temperance Act, are within purview of the
Federal Parliament : that the whole of
the licensing question belongs to the
provincial legislatures. I see that the
leader of the Government very properly, I
think, proposed to suspend the Liquor
License Act, and that the House of Coimons has adopted it without a division.
L think they made a mistake in not suspending the whole Act, for it was not re-

Legi8lation [APRIL 24, 1885] in the Senate.
quired for the Act of 1878, and therefore
it was idle to keep it on the statute
book, and the proper way would be to
suspend the whole Act, for those who believe there is machinery enough in the
Canada Temperance Act to put it in
force do not want the Liquor License Act,
and it only adds confusion, and it was in
consequence of that view that the Temperance Alliance advocated that it should
be removed. It was not asked for in the
first instance by the people outside of
Parliament, and it certainly ought to be
removed from this Act.

.705

That he (Mr. Alexander) will call attention
to the present state of the Public Affairs of
the Dominion, and will ask the Government
how they propose to remedy existing evils ?
Hox. MR. ALEXANDER said: In
accordance with the wish expressed by
several members of the House, I ask that
this motion be permitted to stand until
Tuesday, 28th April next. I move that
the order of the day be discharged, and
that it do stand as an order for Tuesday
next.
The motion was agreed to.

HON. MR. SMITH moved the ad- LEGISLATION IN THE SENATE.
journment of the debate, and that it
MOTION.
stand the first order for to-morrow.

The motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjourned at 5:50 p.mn.

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL moved:
That the hon. Messieurs Dickey, Haythorne,
Plumb, Scott, Trudel and tbe mover be ap.
pointed a committee to consider whether any
facilities can be given for the dispatch of
business in Parliament, especially in regard

to the relation of the two Houses, and that a
message be sent to the House of Commons
requesting that that House will be pleased to
Ottaw'a, Fridav, April 241, 1885.
appoint an equal number of members to unite
with the nembers of the Senate in the formaThe SPEAKER took the Chair at three tion of a joint committee of both Houses on
the subject.
'i
clockS
He said: In fulfilment of the notice
Prayers and routine proceedings.
which 1 gave, I nove that this cammittee
be appointed. I took occasion, on the
EVANGELICAL LUTHERAN remarks which were made by the hon.
CHURCH OF CANADA BILL.
member from Niagara, and by other hon.
gentlemen in the course of the debate
upon his motion, to revert to the resaluTHIRD READING.
tion proposed some years since by the
HoN. MR. LACOSTE, from the Select hon. member from Ottawa, I believe, havCommittee on Standing Orders and ing its origin in the House of Commons,
Private Bills, reported Bill (6o), " An Act and the object being ta endeavor, if posto incorporate the Synod of the Evangeli- sible, to secure some co-operation on the
cal Lutheran Church of Canada," without part of both Houses, with a view of more
amendment.
evenly distributing the business of the
country in Parlianient. Whether I may
HON. MR. REESOR moved that the or may not be able to accomplish anything, and particularly to accomplish anyBill be read the third time.
The motion was agreed to, and the bill thing this session, I am not prepared to
say, but I wil make the effort, and if
was read the third time and passed.
nothing can be done this session, we may
at ail events pave the way for samething
PUBLIC AFFAIRS OF THE
being accomplished of being made, and I
DOMINION.
DOMIION.The effort is worthy at some future session.
believe the House will think so. I have
MOTION POSTPONED.
endeavored to, constitute the commnittee
The order of the day having been in such a way as to include the members
called,
1uho have taken the most interest in the
TH E SENATE.

706

Legislation (SENATE] in Me Senate.

subject and who, I have no doubt, will
endeavor to co-operate with me, if the
committee should be appointed- in the
other House, to bring about an arrangement which will give this House more
private bill business than it has had up to
the present time. I wish to give effect to
the suggestion made by the hon. member
from Niagara, in proposing this motion.
HON. MR. PLUMB-I have no doubt
the House will receive with very great
pleasure the resolution which has been
offered by my hon. friend, the leader of
this House, and I take this occasion to
express my obligations to him for having
moved in this direction. I did not intend
anything that I had to say about the constitution of the Senate or about the desirability of increasing its work, to reflect in
the slightest degree on the assiduity of
my hon. friend, the leader of this House,
nor did I intend to say that what had occurred in regard to the decline, if one
nay call it so, ot the business of the Senate was due to anything more than the
natural causes that must be at work
between the popular branch and this
body; but if the resolution brings about
the result of giving us a larger proportion
of private bill legislation, which was the
object that I more particularly sought, it
will certainly be held by everyone in this
House as a move in the right direction,
towards restoring what I think ought to
be the equilibrium between the two
Houses. I trust the attention of the Government will be called to the desirability
of presenting to this House, at as early a
moment as possible, important subjects of
legislation which often are brought to us
in such a way that we are embarrassed
between a desire tovindicate our own rights
and prevent, perhaps, necessary and important legislation. Itis alwaysawkwardto
have to consider on short notice important
measures not connected with finance, because I think it is impossible that the
Supply Bill can come to us until a late
moment, and we are not supposed to deal
so particularly with measures of that character except to criticize them in whole,
but i think it is due to this House that
other measures should be brought before
us for our consideration at the earliest
possible moment, and if it should become
at any time necessary, in order to vindicate

HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL

the position of the House, to object to
the passage of important bills brought before us at the last moment, Ihardly think the
Senate can be blamed for taking that
position.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-The leader
of the House desires by this motion to
impress the country with the idea that the
public business is not conducted in a satisfactory manner, especially as regarding
that part allotted to this Chamber. He
calls for a committee to consider this
matter, and I need not remind the House
that he has been a member of the Upper
Chamber-first of the old province of
Canada, and since Confederation up to
the present moment-a period of 26
years-as well as myself. I came into
Parliament with the hon. gentleman 26
years ago. Therefore, he has an experience of 26 years in the Upper Chamber
of the Legislature of Canada, and I suppose that the hon. gentleman's memory, if
it serves him at all, will remind him that
every session we have charged the Government of the day with being the parties
who postponed bringing into this Chambe, until the last moment, the most important measures. Every member of this
House knows that if there is any delay in
bringing important measures to this
Chamber, that delay is chargeable to the
Government of the day. It does not lie
with the members in charge of private
bills in the other House at all, because
the leaders of the Government in the
other Chamber can either allow the members in whose hands private bills are to
proceed with their bills or not. We have
every session made this charge against
the Government. But the hon. gentleman
is a practised chess man, and this is
only another of his movements on the
political chess board; he thinks he will
impress the country that the Government
is not to blame ; that it is the members of
Parliament who are to blame for the business of the country being neglected. I
hope if this Committee is granted, that
the hon. gentlemen who are placed on
that Committee will bring to their notice
the fact, that as regards the measures and
motions that have reached this House, we
have not been able to get those which
were submitted, perfected in the interests
of the people. Perhaps he will bring to.

Legislation [APRIL 24, 1885] in the &nate.
the notice of that Committee that there
are five members of this body who have
shown, upon many occasions, that they
make it their study to prevent any criticism of the acts of the present Government since they came into power. When
the Ministry of Mr. Mackenzie were in
power, those five members were active
enough in trying to open their batteries
upon the Treasury Benches ; but since
this Government came into power those
gentlemen have distinguished themselves
as zealous partizans in the interest of party
instead of in the interests of the country.
Hence it is, that we have financial embarrassments corne upon the country, and
that we have tebellion in the North-West
through the neglect of duty of this Government. Then, when efforts are made
to prevent wasteful expenditures, and to
recover public moneys that have been improperly made away with, we find ourselves checked on one pretence or another; one moment we are stopped with
questions of order, another moment it is
the question of " taxing speeches." Whoever remembers when a member has been
trying to recover for the country moneys
that have been wrongfully appropriatedHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
rise to a question of order. The hon.
gentleman from Woodstock is not speaking to the motion, and is discussing the
previous action of the House.
THE SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman
will please confine his remarks to the subject before the House.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-We have
no freedom of debate on the floor of
Parliament now.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-The
hon. gentleman is again out of order. He
says we have no freedom on the floor of
Parliament. The hon. gentleman has too
much freedom ; he is out of order.
THE SPEAKER-I think the last remark of the hon. gentleman from Woodstock is more a breach of parliamentary
decorum than the first.
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I remember once reading a very interesting work

707

by Trollope, called the " Life of an American Statesman." Now, I think the hon.
leader of this House might write a most
interesting work if he would write the life
of a Canadian Minister, subservient to the
present Conservative Chieftain, Sir John
Macdonald, who has brought so many
troubles on the country.
HON. MR. BOTSFORD-I certainly
do not think of replying to the extraordinary speech of the hon. gentleman who has
just sat down.
Hon. members of the
Senate will value that speech at what it is
worth. It is only a repetition of assertions
he has been making since this session
began, and I must say that those observations, and the manner in which he addresses this House, are not much to his
credit. With respect to this motion, I am
disposed to give the Minister of Justice
credit for undertaking a very difficult subject. I well recollect that in 1868 the
hon. gentleman proposed a similar committee, although it was not a joint committee. I recollect the care and attention
which he devoted to the investigation of
the subject which was delegated to that
committee by the Senate, and I may say
further, that upon every occasion the hon.
gentleman has taken the utmost pains to
bring before the Senate every measure
which it was possible for him to bring, and
therefore I feel called upon, as one of the
members of the Senate, who is intimately
acquainted with all these circumstances,
to state them to the House, because there
are a great many new members who have
not had such an opportunity as I have had
to observe the great pains which the hon.
gentleman who has brought forward this
motion has taken in order to give the
Senate due prominence in the public business of Parliament. This question of the
difficulties arising from the course which legislation has taken in the Dominion is not at
all new. If hon. members have turned their
attention to the course which has been
taken in the Imperial Parliament, they
will find that exactly the same difficulties
have arisen there, and that committee
after committee has been appointed in
order to seek a remedy for this great evil
of postponing important business to the
last of the session. In consequence of
that postponement, the House of Lords
has not had an opportunity to devote that

Legislation [SENATE] in te Senate.
attention and discussion to those important measures which they certainly demanded from one of the branches of Parliament. Now, this question has been
brought up in the Imperial Parliament
many times, and in the last 40 years committees have been appointed, in 1837,
1848, 1854, and one of the most important committees was appointed in 1861.
A committee was appointed by the House
of Lords and a similar committee by the
House of Commons, but it was not a
joint committee ; but the two Houses
authorized their respective committees
to communicate with each other on the
question which was submitted to them
which was to secure some mode by which
the dispatch of public business would be
more satisfactory. The committee consisted of about 19 members of th- House
of Lords, including some of the most distinguished of its members, and I think 21
members on the part of the House of
Commons, also composed of some of the
ministers of the day and some of the most
influential members of that Chamber.
They held a long investigation and took a
great deal of evidence on the point, including the evidence of the Speaker, the
Clerk and such persons as were known
to possess the best information with respect to the mode of procedure in the
business of Parliament. It was a difficult
subject, and the result was literally nothing. The two committees disagreed;
certain suggestions were made by the
committees of the House of Commons
and House of Lords, and they were not
approved of by the House of Commons.
Then, again in 1869, a joint committee
was appointed consisting of six members
of the House of Lords and six of the
House of Commons, and after a very
long investigation and taking evidence
on the subject which was referred to
them, it resulted in, I think, only one
measure which tended to originate more
business in the House of Lords than before, and that was the one referred to by
the Minister of Justice in his remarks in
the debate on the motion of the hon.
member from Niagara-that a committee
should be appointed, by the two Houses,
to select the private bills to be introduced
in the House of Lords, and the House of
Commons. The report of the committee
was adopted, and bills have since been
HON. MR. BOTSFORD.

introduced in the Imperial Parliament
accordingly. The objections to that mode,
with respect to the business of our Parliament, it seems to me, were ably stated ;
it could not apply to legislation here, because it required that all the bills should
be filed before the meeting of Parliament,
and consequently no bills after that would
be taken up by either branch of Parliament. When we take into consideration
the fact that this question has been before
the Imperial Parliament for the last forty
or fifty years, that the ablest men there
have been called upon to deal with it and
to make such regulations as wpuld, in a
certain measure, reform or improve the
mode of legislation in the Imperial Parliament, it is not surprising to me that,
after an experience of only seventeen
years, the Dominion Parliament should
find it a very difficult question to deal
with, and it will not do to throw blame
here or there. It follows as a natural
consequence of the system of legislation
and of the powers and privileges of the
two branches of Parliament.
I do not at all agree with some hon.
members who think that the Senate is
only a revising body. I entirely dissent
from that proposition. We have powers,
privileges and immunities which are given
to us by the constitution of the land.
Fortunately we have a written constitution,
and it is not necessary to go back for
centuries and search the archives to
ascertain what the powers of the respective branches of Parliament may be. Our
constitution clearly defines what the
powers and privileges of this House are,
as any hon. member will find by referring
to the terms of the British North America
Act, which is our charter ; and I cannot
see how anyone can arrive at the conclusion that we are simply a revising
body.
I will read the section which
applies, and which confers, in fact, the
powers and privileges of Parliament. It is
a section which was amended by the Imperial Parliament, as some doubts were
thrown upon its construction, and it will
be otFserved by hon. members that the
powers, privileges and immunities which
are given to us by the British North
America Act were defined by an Act of
the Dominion Parliament. Under the
British North America Act and that Act
of the Canadian Parliament, we hold our

Legislation [APRIL 24, 1885] in tMe Senate.
privileges and powers The section of the
British North America Act to which I
have referred is the 18th, which is as
follows :" The privileges, immunities and powers to
be held, enjoyed and exercised by the Senate,
and by the House of Comnions, and by the
members thereof respectively, shall be such
as are from time to time defined by Act of
Parliament of Canada, but so that the same
shall never exceed those at the passing of
this Act held, enjoyed and exercised by the
Commons House of Parliament of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and
by the members thereof."
I should like to ask the hon. members
what distinction is there under that section
of the British North America Act between
the powers, privileges and immunities of
the House of Commons and those of the
Senate of Canada ? There is no question,
I suppose, that the passage of money bills,
or levying of taxes and appropriation of
money, ought, under the British constitution, to belong to the popular branch.
Although the powers and privileges of the
Senate are unlimited and are defined in
the same terms as the privileges and
powers of the House of Commons, the
Senate has never attem pted to interfere with
that British principle that money bills, the
imposition of taxes and the appropriation
of money, belong exclusively to the House
of Commons; but in every other respect,
whatever the powers and privileges of the
members of the British Parliament may
be, the members of the Senate of Canada
possess the same. I do not think that
can be denied, and therefore I do not
sympathize with those hon. members who
take a pessimist view of the privileges and
powers of the Senate of Canada. I trust
that the committee which is to be appointed
on the question now before the Senate will
bear in mind these principles, that in any
communication with the joint committee
of the House of Commons they will in no
way surrender the powers, privileges and
immunities which this Senate possesses.
I was on the former committee recommended by the Minister of Justice, and I
have given this subject some consideration,
and know that the committee which is
about to be appointed are undertaking a
task which will tax all their energies and
I may just refer for a
knowledge.
moment to the reason why in my
opinion, the private business goes to

709

the House of Commons. It is well known
that persons who are desirous of obtaining
charters or acts of incorporation in any
part of the Dominion, naturally go to the
men to whom they have given their confi
dence hy voting for them and constituting
them members of Parliament. It is natu
ral for persons who wish to obtain an act
of incorporation, to go to those persons
with whom they are acquainted, and whom
they have placed in power; and I think,
notwithstanding any investigation which
may take place, that it will be found very
difficult to recommend any mode by which
parties who have bills to pass, or acts of
incorporation to get, can be induced to
come to the Senate first. With respect to
the public business which devolves upon
the Government of the country, is it not
most natural that the heads of the Departments who are in the House of Commons,
should be desirous of taking charge of
and completing any bills affecting those
Departments? To my mind it seems to
be a natural consequence, and I cannot
see that we can complain of it; and,
further, I cannot see, after great reflection,
how it is that you are going to complain
of that system or change the mode of
prosecuting the public business if the
heads of the Departments have seats in the
House of Commons. It seems to me,
that renders this question very difficult.
I trust, however, that the Committee will
be able to point out some means by which
the evils complained of can be remedied.
I wish to say one word before I sit down
with respect to the manner in which the
business of Parliament is conducted here.
I have met strangers, men of standing and
character, who have come to Ottawa with
a great desire to ascertain how the busi.
ness of Parliament is conducted in Canada,
and they have admitted that in no repre
sentative body that they have ever been
familiar with, was the public business,
not only in the House of Commons,
but in the Senate, conducted with
greater ability or a more evident
desire to promote the public interest
than in the Dominion of Canada, and I
will challenge any independent person
who has examined the manner in which
legislation is conducted in the Senate of
Canada, to say whether it is not managed
in a way conducive to the public benefit,
and every measure of importance discussed

Legidation [SENATE] in the Senate
with intelligence and with ability. That
is my impression. I have not of late
taken so much part in the discussions on
bills, and therefore I may be permitted to
express an opinion which does not affect
myself. I have arrived at that time of
life at which I have not the same ambition
that I had before, and I do not attempt
to take, even if I were capable of doing
so, that active part in the business of the
Senate that I used formerly to do ; but
my faculties are such that I can appreciate
the manner in which other members of
the Senate conduct the public business,
and I can say, and I leave it to any disinterested man capable of judging to say,
if there is any fault to be found with the
way in which the public business of the
country is conducted in this Senate.
Therefore, I do not sympathize with hon.
members when they say that the Senate is
an effete body, or that it is only a revising
body, and does not possess the full power
to originate all but money bills. I make
these observations in the hope that the
Committee will find that they will be of
some advantage to them in the performance of their duties.
HON. MR. BELLEROSE-I do not
know that any member of this House has
uttered words which would bear the construction placed on them by the hon.
member who has just taken his seat. I
am sure that no member of the Senate
ever thought of stating that this Chamber,
or the Upper House of any legislative
body in the Empire, had no power to
originate measures ; but I know a gentleman of this House, who is not very far
from my desk, who said the other day that
he looked upon the Senate more as a
revising body than anything else, and I
believe if the arguments of the hon. gentleman are taken into consideration, it will
be found that he has given the best proof
of it. It is quite natural for the people
to go to the branch that they elect. Why ?
Because they know that in due course,
according to a law of nature, you go from
below to above. You go to the inferior
court first, and then you go to the court
of appeal. Then, the system we have of
the popular branch and the nominative
body, shows that there must be more independence here, and, consequently, it is
here that the measures passed in the other
HON. MR.

BOTSFORD.

House have to be examined thoroughly
and amended or adopted, as the case may
be. There are many other arguments in
support of my contention, so that while
this House can originate any measures
but money bills, it is quite natural that the
Senate should be looked upon more as a
revising body than anything else. My
intention in rising now is to ask the
Minister of Justice if he has any objection
to give this joint committee, which is about
to be appointed, power to see whether
some means could not be devised to decide
upon the constitutionality of private bill
legislation coming to this Parliament ? It
is well known that many measures passed
during the last sixteen years properly belong to the Provincial Legislatures. It
may be said that this is an omnipotent
government, but I do not believe that it
is. We have the 9ist and 9 2nd sections
of the British North America Act, which
positively state, that anything which is
provincial should be dealt with by the
local legislatures ; and if that is violated
I believe injustice is done. Some of the
bills passed by the Dominion Parliament
may create trouble in the future. Great
powers have often been given by such
legislation. We have passed Acts of incorporation for the construction of bridges
over waters not navigable ; suppose in
such cases the proprietors of those charters
were sued by wealthy men, and the question of the constitutionality of their acts
of incorporation were raised, they might
have to go from one court to another, until
finally they reached the Privy Council in
England. I believe, therefore, it is only
a question of justice to which I am now
calling the attention of the Senate, and
that the committee should also devise
some means by which, before a bill is
introduced in either House, or at some
early stage, it could be referred to a committee of both Houses to decide upon its
constitutionality. Such a committee could
be appointed every session, or for the
whole Parliament, to sit during each session, to determine such questions and
report to the House. I believe it would
be a great advantage to the public. If
this duty could be added to the others
which are imposed upon this committee,
I believe it would be a great boon to the
public.

Tempe>ance Act, &c., [APRIL 24, 1885] Aniendment Bill.
HON. MR. DICKEY-I rise, not for
the purpose of discussing the motion before the House, which I hope is a step in
the right direction, but to make a suggestion. The hon. member from Westmoreland bas evidently studied this matter

711

Hon. Mr. Vidal's motion for the second reading
(Bill 92), Canada Temnperance Act 1878, and
The Liquor License Act 1883, further Amendment Bill.
HoN. MR. SMITH said-I do not in-

tend to detain the House long on this
very closely, and, besides, it appears he subject, but I think it my duty, when this
was a member of a former committee on Bill is before the Senate, to make a few
a similar subject; I should very much remarks on the temperance question. I
prefer to see the hon. gentleman placed am sure that the members of this House,
as well as the people generally-at all
on this committee.
events the majority of the people of Can-

HoN. MR. BOTSFORD-Oh no.
HoN. MR. DICKEY-Let my hon.
friend hear me out. If any arrangement
has been made by which the members
are fixed at the number stated in this
motion I am prepared to suggest that his
name should be substituted for mine, in
order that there might be no material
change in the composition of the committee, and in order that the proportion of
members might be observed.

ada-are in favor of temperance. Combined with other virtues it is an admirable
thing for any public man to advocate ;

but temperance, combined with hardship
and injustice, and total ruin to many of
our fellow citizens wherever this Act is
forced upon a municipality, is another

matter. No matter how much ruinit may
bring to many who have heretofore served
their country faithfully, those temperance
people do not hesitate to force their views,
and enforce this Act at the sacrifice of
vested rights, in many cases turning peoHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
ple from comfortablehomes on to theroad.
think the hon. member from Amherst had I do not consider that temperance advobetter remain on the committee. I am cated and enforced in that way, is a virtue.
sure that by doing so he would gratify even If the temperance people would advocate
my hon. friend from Westmoreland, who their cause in a moderate way, I, as one
bas, in past vears, discharged all the who has served this country for upwards
duties he owes to the state and is entitled of 52 years, would be with them.
to a holiday. In answer to my hon. friend Standing in my place here to-day
from DeLanaudiere, I think this commit- I can say that I have never advotee will have enough to do to attend to cated intemperance.
Although I have
the matters which are referred to it, and never been a tetotaller, I defy any man in
that the subject which he has suggested this country to say that I have not always
can be dealt with at some other period.
expressed myself in favor of temperance,
and assisted that cause in every reasonable
The motion was agreed to.
way; but I have never given my support
to a wholesale measure to wipe out every
BILL INTRODUCED.
man whose calling heretofore has been
that of a dealer in liquor. The liquor
Bill (94), "An Act to incorporate the dealer comes honestly by his business.
West Ontario Pacific Railway Company." His father before him, perhaps, kept a
(Mr. Plumb).
hotel in some partof the Dominion, where
it was of good service to the travelling
'CANADATEMPERANCE ACT, AND public before railroads were established in
LIQUOR LICENSE ACT,
every part of the country. In those days
AMENDMENT BILL.
taverns were a benefit: in fact, they were
a necessity to the travelling public, and
THE DEBATE CONTINUED.
nothing was more cheering to the weary
traveller than a comfortable hotel, with its
The order of the day having been bright log fire, open at all hours for his
called foraccommodation. Those temperate gentle.
Resumin the adjourned debate on the Hon. men who advocate this Act have themMr. Dickey s motion in amendment to the selves benefited by the old-fashioned

Temperance Act, &c., [SEINATE] Anendment Bill.
taverns that are by degrees going out of
existence as the country is opened up by
railways. The hotels of to-day were, in
many cases, built and established by the
capital acquired through hotel keeping by
the fathers of the men who own them,
yet in every part of the country, whereever the Scott Act is carried, these comfortable hotels, which did no harm, but
supplied the traveller with necessary
shelter and entertainment under license,
are being closed, and their owners are
being ruined. I say that those men are
not to be despised or wiped out ; I say
that their interests ought to be protected;
that they have a right to the protection of
Parliament as British subjects, and if their
business is to be destroyed they ought to
have compensation. Many of them are
turned out on the street ; they have
to lock their doors, and seek some other
occupation, while their wives and
families are virtually reduced to beggary. I say that this is a hardship to
which they should not be exposed, and
which would not be inflicted on them by
any honest man, even to advance the temperance cause. Then we will take another
class of people whose interests are affected
by this Act-the brewers. They have
invested an immense amount of money in
their business in this country. When the
Scott Act is adopted in a municipality it
totally ruins the brewer. The banker says
to him, "your credit is gone. I cannot
discount any more of your paper. Your
property will not be worth 25 cents on the
dollar, or io cents on the dollar in some
cases, of our first estimate, and we cannot
advance you any more money." Yet all
this is done in the name of temperance by
men who pretend to call themselves the
model men, the honest men of our country,
men who pretend to teach the community
all the virtues as well as temperance.
Those men are ruining more people than
hon. gentlemen are aware of. I know
brewers who have had already to mortgage
the houses they live in to raise money to
carry on their business, in consequence of
the injury done to it by the adoption of
the Scott Act. It not only ruins the
brewer, but it ruins every man who is
depending for a living on the working of
the brewery. It ruins the cooper who
makes the barrels ; it injures the man who
cuts the staves in the woods; it injures
HON.

MR. SMITH.

the teamster, the book-keeper and every
man connected with the business; it drives
them out of the country to seek for work,
and beggars some of them before leaving
the country. Is this a desirable state of
things? Temperance is a virtue that 1
admire. I would advocate temperance at
the table; temperance in the pulpit;
temperance in every school house, and in
every social gathering; butthetemperance
that is built upon the downfall and ruin
of a large class of respectable citizens is
one that no honest man can admire.
HON. MR. FLINT-Hear, hear.
HON. MR. SMITH-My bon. friend
who in bis zeal cries "bear, bear," knows
whether he was ever able to take bis glass
or mn a distiller', or able to carry on a
legitimate liquor trade. There are many
gentlemen here who caîl out "hear, hear"
-I will not say in this House-but there
are many gentlemen occupying bigh positions in this country who owe their
positions to the fact that their fathers
before them made their money out of
legitimate hotel business or in the liquor
traffic. Those gentlemen say that they
despise hotels, that they despise the
taverns, and despise the brewer, and
every man whose calling is in any
shape or form connected witb the liquor
traffic. I say that the liquor dealers are
a class that are fot to be despised. The
old-fashioned country tavern is going out
of existence as the circumstances of the
country no longer require it; and the
Scott Act only drives it out a littie ahead
of time. The children of those tavern
keepers are drifting into other callings and
occupations, but the Scott Act cuts off
their source of living for the present, and
leaves their property worthless, and drives
tbem out of the country to seek a living.
These are facts that no man can denyWhat is the necessity for this zealous
advocacy of temperance? What is the
necessity for the hon, gentleman from
Sarnia to bring down this Bill with its nine
amendments ? It seems to me that he
and bis friends have in the Scott Act a
very large engine, and tbey cannot work
it, and they core here to Parliament to
ask our assistance to run the machine. 1
say if it is a bad and unworkable machine,
let us do no more harm to the countrry

Temperance Act, &c., [APRIL 24, 1885] Amendment Bill.
with it than it has done, and let us all
unite in some moderate scheme that will
really benefit the country. I am one of
the first that will join in any scheme to
promote temperance by abolishing strong
liquors, and permitting the use of beer and
light wines. Let us have a universal law
that will apply all over the Dominion, so
that the people in one county will not be
prohibited from using liquors while their
neighbors on the other side of the concession can have it when they want it,
while I at a distance can send all I want
into either of them. To temperance men,
who pretend to be the model men of the
country, no other subject is of equal
interest to this; they are now on the way
to glory in the temperance cause, and, as
I said before, I am prepared to meet them
in a moderate measure that will permit
the sale and use of beer and light wines.
We have heretofore advocated immigration, and we have been paying a great
deal of money to bring people into the
country. Will the Englishman, who has
enjoyed his pot of ale all his life, desire to
come to a country where he cannot have
his beer ? Will the German come here
who cannot have a glass of lager? Will
the Scotchman want to come to our
country, where he cannot have his toddy ?
and will the Frenchman come to a country
where he cannot have a glass of light
wine such as he has been accustomed to
all his life ? I ask you, as sensible men,
is this country going to be governed by a
few extremists who are on the road to glory
in this temperance cause ? Are we going
to do ourselves an injustice ? Are we
going to injure the farmer, the mechanic
and the brewer, and drive those people
out of the country ? What will they say
of us ? That we are men without
courage or backbone, and that we bow to
everything the temperance men thrust
upon us, and dare not say " no." This
Temperance Act not only affects the
vested rights of the different classes that I
have mentioned, but it also affects the
revenue of the country to a greater extent
than perhaps many hon. gentlemen
imagine. First of all, it affects the farmer,
because the moment the breweries are
closed the farmer must stop growing
barley ; he will have no market for his
grain, and he can do nothing with it
He cannot
but feed it to his hogs.

713

grow barley at a profit unless it
is grown for the purposes of malt..
The farmer not only suffers loss in this
way, but he suffers because of the deficiency in the revenue through the abolition of the liquor traffic. A revenue
must be raised on other articles that the
farmer and the mechanic use, and the
deficiency will have to be met mainly by
them. Where is the great necessity for
this temperance movement ? Our people are temperate in their habits. Take
for instance the great annual exhibition at
Toronto, where during the two weeks
that it is held thousands of people are
congregated, and you will not find that
five per cent of thern are drunkards. Last
year, during the exhibition, there was
scarcely a case of drunkeness the whole
two weeks, and very few were seen at all
the worse of liquor. I heard a person
remark that while many thousands had
been carried on the tramways in Toronto
during that exhibition, not one drunken
man was to be seen in the streets. It
speaks well for the sobriety and morality
of the people of this country, and shows
that there is no necessity for this temperance crusade, and this demand for legislation. The country does not require it;
it is doing harm to the people, and eventually we will be sorry for what we have
done. Take the city of Toronto, with
its 100,ooo of a population, and I would
like to ask if there is five per cent. of that
population drunkards ? I say that there
is not, and you may take any town in the
province, or from one end of the Dominion to the other, and you will not
find that proportion of the people
drunkards. In Ontario, you may see
the people coming in from the country
to the yearly exhibitions comfortably clad,
apparently well fed, driving good horses
and handsome carriages, the personification of health, happiness and good living.
Are these the people that this Bill, with
its nine amendments, is being asked for ?
The hon. gentleman who has charge of
this Bill ought to accept some compromise
that would be in the true interests of temperance. I think he ought not to act
stubbornly ; that he should say to the
Senate, " I will accept any reasonable
amendment to my Bill that will allow beer
and light wines to be sold in a municipality where the Scott Act is in operation,

Temperance Act., &c.,

714

[SENATE] Aqnendnent Bill.

and in municipalities where the Act is
likely to be brought into operation." I do
not like the idea of throwing the Bill out
altogether, because I have great respect
for the temperance people; but I certainly
cannot vote for those nine amendments,
and if they are insisted upon, I shall have
to vote for the amendment of the hon.
gentleman from Amherst. I could give
many illustrations that would show the
great hardships that result from the adoption of the Canada Temperance Act, but
I do not think it is necessary to do so. It
might do some gentlemen, who are not
here, a great deal of harm if I exposed
some of the facts that have come to my
knowledge, and I do not wish to do so.
HON. MR. ODELL-Can you give us
any idea of the loss to the revenue by the
operation of the Scott Act ?
HON. MR. SMITH-If the temperance
people obtain what they are working for,
the loss of revenue in a short time will be
very great-no doubt it will be equal to
four or five millions of dollars.
HON.

MR. DICKEY-It will be more

than that.
HoN. MR. SMITH--I am speaking
moderately.
HON. MR. DEVER-It
$6,oooooo.

would

be

HON. MR. SMITH-I want to keep

last spoken, whom we all respect, but I
desire to refer to the temperance movement itself. I think we must all admit
that the promoters of the temperance
cause are sincere and zealous workers
throughout the Dominion for the wellbeing of society, and they are a very large
body. It is not for us to calculate whether
they are one-fifth, or one-half of the population. They are a very large body from
the most respected classes of society, at
the head of which we have the bishops of
the churches of England, and of Rome,
and also the leading clergymen of the
Presbyterian and other churches ; and we
are bound, when we observe the efforts put
forth by the most earnest and most respected men in the country, headed by
those churches, to give their demands the
most favorable consideration. I say the
Senate ought to pause, constituted as it is,
before doing anything in this matter that
would weaken the estimation in which it
is regarded by the country. It is known
to every member of this House that I am
no teetotaler. I have all my life taken
what I considered for my good, and I suppose having reached the age that I have,
with the constitution I have, that I
have not injured it ; but while I do so,
I feel the responsibility resting on me
as a member of this body to advise the
Senate to pause before adopting the motion for a three months' hoist submitted by
the hon. gentleman from Amherst. I am
surprised at a man of his age taking the
responsibility of having his nane go to the
country as bringing forward a motion to
discourage so excellent and so good a
movement for the well-being of society.

within bounds, but I dare say it may reach
six or seven millions of dollars before
long, and this deficiency will have to be
made up; it will have to be levied on the
HON. MR. DEVER-How can you
country, and the farmer and the grain pro- vote to prevent other men from drinking
ducer will have to sustain the additional if you drink yourself ?
burden.
HON. MR. SMITH-It is some hours
HoN. MR. ALEXANDER-The ques- since he had a horn.
tion under discussion is not the repeal or
the continuance of the Canada TemperHON. MR. ALEXANDER-This Bill
ance Act of 1878. All the gentlemen met with little opposition in the other
who have been addressing the House Chamber, and none from the Government;
have been addressing us as if the Bill be- and now, in this House, the leader of the
fore us was for the purpose of repealing Government here inspires the hon. memthe Act. It is merely a measure proposing ber from Amherst to move the three
some trifling amendments to the Act. I months' hoist, and we have another memdo not think it necessary to reply to the ber of the Government speaking agaimst
arguments of the hon. gentleman who has the Bill. In the other House the Premier
HON. MR. SMITH.

Temperance Act, &c.,[APRIL 24, 1885] Amendment Bil.
did not say one word against it and the
Bill was accepted there. Would it be
seemly for the Senate of Canada, which is
not elected by the people and is independent of the popular voice, to take the responsibility of discouraging that body of
temperance workers who we believe are
acting in the right direction. If those
amendments are thrown out it will not
cripple to any extent the Canada Temperance Act, as I understand it. I ask
the hon. friend from Sarnia is not that so ?

715

HON. MR. ALEXANDER-I have no
hesitation in expressing the view which I
entertain in regard to those. I can only
say with regard to ales that when I go to
Toronto, and ask for a glass of ale, I never
get one that does not injure me. The
ale made there is of a peculiar quality.
Then, in Montreal there is only one ale
manufactured that suits me. We know
with regard to light wines that, for some
cause which I cannot explain, we seldom
get light wines of a good quality. It is
exceedingly difficult to procure good
HoN. MR. VIDAL-The Canada Tem- wines, and there are only two firms which
perance Act would remain as it has been, I know that make satisfactory importations, and such is the climate of the
but it requires these amendments.
country that I do not think the people of
HON. MR. ALEXANDER-It requires Canada would take to light wines.
very little observation to see whence the
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I intend
opposition comes. The opposition arises
because the first minister made one of to follow on this occasion the course which
the greatest mistakes of his public life in I pursued when amendnents to the details
that License Bill, and he finds now that of the Scott Act came before the Senate.
he has lost his prestige as a constitutional I supported the original Bill introduced by
authority in the land. The Supreme rmy hon. friend-the former Secretary of
Court has decided against him, and we State, and on two occasions when hostile
have no reason to suppose that he will be amendments to that Bill have been moved
so unwise as to appeal to the Privy Coun- in this House, I have given my best
cil of England. It is because of this they assistance to voting those amendments
oppose this Bill. The present premier down, and I did so on the principle that
made a mistake, a most humiliating mis- having passed the Scott Act we should
take, in bringing in that License Bill; he give the originators of it every assistance
had no right to take the responsibility of to make it as perfect as possible ; so that,
legislating on such a subject. He had no if it did not succeed, at all events those
right to introduce a measure which was in- who devised it should not have it to say
tended to thwart the actionof the provinces. that it owed its failure to want of support
Could anything be more calculated to in Parliament. I confess that I was disbring about discontent between the Prov- satisfied myself, although I supported the
incial and Federal authorities ? Nothing original Bill, with some of its provisions,
could be more unstatesmanlike, and this and looking at the matter since, and givHouse ought to condemn such an Act ing it additional study, I am not ashamed
which was so unwise, and which the to say to-day that I feel regret that I did
Supreme Court has declared to be uncon- give it that original support. I say this,
stitutional. I wish to say, with sincere that if I had given as close study to the
regard for the Senate, and the position subject which the so-called Scott Act emwhich it should occupy in the estimation braced at the time it was originally brought
of the people, that if it should adopt that into Parliament as I have given it since,
unwise amendment to give the three and if I had had the saine opportunities
months' hoist to this Bill, it will create for observation of its effects that I have
much feeling in the country.
had since, I should have voted against it.
Hon. gentlemen are aware that in the
HON MR. ALMON-Will the hon. province from which I come the three
gentleman give us his opinion about light counties and one of the cities had embraced the Scott Act, and they are also
wines and beer ?
aware that so generally did the inhabitants
HON. MR. DEVER-Brandy would of that province consider that the Scott
:suit him best.
Act had failed to answer their expectations

716

Temperance Act, &c., LSENATE] Anendment Bill.

HON. MR. ALMON-We have only one
this House a petition signed by 5,700 Alexander.

that only the other day I presented in

voters of Prince Edward Island embracing
some of the highest officials there, in the
church, and in the state, praying for total
prohibition-for all the Dominion if that
could be granted, and if not prohibition
applied solely to their own province. Now
this I consider at all events relieves me
from one very unpleasant duty which I
otherwise should have had to perform in
my place. That duty would have been
to demonstrate here on the floor of this
House how, in what manner, and to what
extent, the Scott Act had failed in Prince
Edward Island. That duty must under
any circumstances have been unpleasant to
me. Hon. gentlemen can easily understand
that. It would not have been pleasant to
stand here in my place and read extracts
from newspapers, showing the state of
temperance in the province and in the
city. I am spared that unpleasant duty
by the fact, as I have stated just now, that

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-The re-

medy has failed. I feel, I am sure, in
common with every one who may have
undertaken to address the House upon
this question, the great responsibility
which devolves upon one in consequence
of the vast number of petitions presented
to us begging us to maintain the Scott
Act in its integrity. i feel the responsibility myself, not only because many of
those petitions have been presented by
myself, but because I am aware of the
fact that many people of my own province
are wedded to legislation of some kind or
other. The beau ideal of legislation up
to the present period was the Scott Act,
but I am quite convinced that they would
be disappointed and perhaps disgusted if
they should feel that I or any other menber of the Senate should speak lightly or
reflect in any way upon the numerous
5,700 voters of the province bear witness petitions which have been addressed to
to the failure of the Scott Act, and confess this body. I am of opinion that the first
that something more full and sure in its mistake which was made in dealing with
operations is necessary. I am prepared thetemperance question was this: that hon.
to admit that according to my belief the gentlemen who advocated the Scott Act
gentlemen who have been the principal assumed that the evil which they sought
originators of the Canada Temperance Act to remedy could be dealt with by Act of
of 1878, and of the temperance movement Parliament. That I think was a grave
generally in Canada, have acted with error. In adopting that view they were
perfect sincerity.
I would not, for a beginning at the end instead of at the bemoment, wish to be understood as believ- ginning of the question. They should
ing that the hon. gentleman from Sarnia have sought out the causes which prohas acted throughout on this subject from duced the evil effects which they wish to
any motives except the most pure and remedy, and compared the prevalence of
philanthropic. I say the same of the hon. those causes in Canada with what might
gentleman from Ottawa, but I fear that be observed in other countries where
when they undertook to deal with this drunkeness did not prevail, but they
question they did not give it the full con- failed to do so. They came to the consideration which it ought to have received clusion that intemperance could be cured
at their hands.
I believe that they by Act of Parliament, and there they
studied the question but superficially. made what I conceive was a grave and
They found themselves encountered with important mistake. It is no wonder then,
difficulties of the greatest variety and I think, looking at the early history of
weight ; and instead of attempting to the Scott Act that we find it to be
master those difficulties, they adopted the one, the leading principles and deheroic remedy of cutting them through tails of which are all open to grave
with the sword. They failed to unravel objections. For example, I take it that
Scott Act
the knot of difficulties they encountered the leading principle of the principle 1s
is prohibition. That leading
at the outset, in dealing with the temperone which, in my opinion, is open to very
ance question, and so they attempted to grave objection. It is an easy thing to
sever that knot with the sword ; but every put an Act upon the statute book and inman is not an Alexander.
troduce clauses into it, but it is another
HON. MR.

HAYTHORNE.

Temperance -Act, d., [APRIL 24, 1885] Amendnent Bill.
thing altogether to carry those clauses into
effect, and is it not an evil thing to keep
upon the statute book a clause, or a part
of a bill, which we know cannot be put
into operation ? I think it is a great mistake. Now, this principle of prohibition
is one which has been attempted in various
times, and under various governments, to
be carried into effect, but I cannot say
that I ever heard a single well-authenticated case, nor can I recall one in any
country with which I am familiar, where
this principle of prohibition has been successfully carried out. I have frequently
read of instances where even the greatest
cruelties have been practiced with a view
to carry it absolutely into effect ; but as a
general rule, I think it will be found that
all attempts at prohibition have generally
had this affect-that they have produced
evils worse than the one they attempted to
cure. That is my impression. If I can
sustain that position in this House, I think
it must be allowed that I have ventured
boldly, weakly perhaps, to undertake to
refute a leading principle which is finding
very general favor in this Dominion. Well,
I shall not undertake such an argument
lightly or loosely, or without sufficient
authority. It will be remembered by
many hon. gentlemen, no doubt, that in
the early years of the century, France and
England were engaged in a war in which
the very existence of our country was involved. I may say her independence and
her mercantile supremacywere involved.
Her enemy and neighbor, France, was at
that time ruled over by the first Napoleon.
Napoleon, on his part, finding it impossible to invade England, thought that if
he could not land his victorious armies on
her shores, he could, at all events, ruin her
by destroying her commerce, by prevailing
upon every country in Europe-and his
influence was almost paramount in those
days-by compelling those people to
abstain from the use of English manufactures. It is a matter of history that in
those days Napoleon's edicts dated from
Berlin and Milan, ordered English manufactured goods wherever found in his
dominions to be burned without reference
to whose private property they were.
England, on her part, was not slow in
defending her manufacturers. She made
contraband and subject tooppressiveduties
every article of French manufacture and

717

produce-everything tasteful and beautiful
in art of textile fabrics, and the well-known
products of her vineyards and distilleries,
was made contraband. Now, what were
the consequences of this line of conduct
in England? Did this prohibition on
either side prove successful? By no
means. I shall take the liberty to read to
the House froin one of the historians of
of the times her description of England in
the early part of this century. I quote
from the authoress of 30 Year's Peace,
Miss Martineau. She writes thus:
" There were strange doings by night in the
creeks and hollow ways and caves of the
southern coast, and a remarkable order of
passengers by day in the packets from France."

This is a few years after the fall of
Napoleon.
" Every now and then a fisherman's great
boots were found to be stuffed with lace,
gloves, or jewelry, or a lady's petticoat to be
quilted throughout with silk stockings and

lace. Here and there a nice looking loaf of
bread was found to have a curious kernel of
lace and gloves, and a roll of sail cloth turned
out to be a package of gay lutstring.
" In the dead of night a large body of men
would work for hours noiselessly in the soft

sand rolling tubs of spirits and carrying bales

of goods in the shadow of the rocks, and
through tunnels, and up chasms, under the

very feet of the preventive patrol, and within
sound of the voice of the sentries !
" While this was going on on the Englislh
coast the smugglers on the oppsite shore
were engaged with iuch more la . r. risk and
expense in introducing English woolens by a

vast system of fraud and lyng, into the towns,
past a series of custom houses !
" In both countries there was an utter dissoluteness of morals connected with these
transactions. Cheating and lying were essential to the whole system, drunkenness accompanied it-contempt of all law grew up
under it-honest industry perished, and it
was crowned with murder."
I beg hon. gentlemen to pay particular
attention to what follows, becauase it
shows how necessary it is to begin at the
beginning of these things, and if you allow
children to grow up with improper surroundings it is pretty certain what the
result will be :
" Littlechildren who lived near a smuggling
haunt learned early to be sly, and to say anything that was convenient. Their mothers
stole down to the sands at night to bring up
light goods which they might hide in the
rafters of their cottage, and spread temptingly
before any foolish ladies within their reach.
Or if they did not themselves meddle they

718

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

reproached their husbands for working at the
plough or the anvil when certain neighbors
could make a pocketful of money in a night.
As for the men, they were tapping a cask of
spirits when their work was done at dawn and
passing the hours of daylight in a drunkensleep
in some hidden place, instead of being at
honest labor in the field, or in the shop.
Then, if the expected boat did not come in,
they would not meet for nothingbut go poaching in the nearest preserves. When detected,
which was sure to happen pretty often, a
conflict ensued and the newspapers of the
day abound in notices of preventive men and
smugglers being shot."
Now, hon. gentlemen, I think, will agree
with me that this was a terrible state of
things. It is quite true that the prohibition which I have described was not only
a prohibition of wines and spirits but of
other things; but it proves also that even
in snuggling the laws of supply and demand are inexorable, and where the
demand for spirits and wines exists, cost
what it will, the demand will be supplied;
and another point I wish to bring to the
notice of the House is that this happened
in a country of the greatest maritime
power at that time in the world. If there
was a country able to bring to bear the
amplest means to prevent such breaches
of her revenue laws, that country certainly
was England. Nor were they remiss in
applying all the powers they possessed to
prevent smuggling. I am endeavoring to
show what a hopeless task the enforcement of prohibition is. I will now read a
few lines from the same authoress showing
the cost of repressing the importations of
prohibited goods, and the results which
were obtained:" So late as 1832-33 the captures were 52
vessels and 385 boats engaged in smuggling;
the cost of protecting the revenue at that time
was between four au five hundred thousand
pounds sterling. In 1831, were employed for
the protection of the revenue, 51 cruisers,
1,500 officers and men on the coast-blockade
service, and there was a coast guard besides
with their cottages and establis hments. The
total annual cost of thus protecting the revenue nay be estimated at not much less than
one million sterling per annum."
Now, hon. gentlemen will see at once
that the mere captures were by no means
trifling ; but, besides the number of vessels
actually captured, how many vessels must
have escaped, to make the thing profitable
at ail! It is pretty certain, I think, that
here in Canada our coasts are just about
HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE.

as difficult to watch against smuggling
and our boundary line as difficult to
watch, as can possibly be conceived. I
remember well, years ago, when my hon.
friend from Sarnia and myself occupied
seats at the far end of the House, that he
brought forward a motion enforcing his.
views upon the temperance question, and
endeavoring to induce the Government,
led then by my hon. friend on my left, to
do something in this matter. I saw myself, or fancied I saw, that the motion was
likely to pass sub silentio, and although not
particularly well posted in the question at
that time, I ventured to rise after the hon.
gentleman and express a few views pretty
similar to those I have enforced by the
extracts I have read to-day. I pointed
out the great difficulty which must ensue
in any attempt to carry a temperance law
in Canada, from the impossibility of preventing smuggling; but hon. gentlemen.
may think that one swallow does not make
a summer. That is an old adage, and
there may be some truth in it, and I have
only quoted an extract from one writer. I
now quote an extract made from the
Times newspaper of last autumn, about
September, I think. The Times had a
correspondent at that time, making a tour
from the south and south-west of Ireland,
and in a letter dated from Bantry Bay,
September 29 th, 1884, he wrote what I
am now about to read. His remarks run
in such an extraordinarily parallel line
with those I have just read, that I think
they are, perhaps, as convincing as anything can be to minds in an open and
candid state. The correspondent of the
Times writes as follows :" There are endless stories of smugglers
(and wreckers). I have spoken to elderly
people who have often gossiped with aged maen
who had made a business of smuggling up to
the end of Napoleon's wars. Then in spiteof
the efforts of his Britannic Majesty's cruisers
and revenue cutters, heavily armed French
luggers, carrying clouds of canvass, wer
alway s swarming off the coast. They shirked
fighting if they could ; they fought their
vessel to the last plank when they were
cornered ; and the dissipations of the county
gentlemen of those days thus demoraliz
their peasantry and dependants. Fishermen
were on the watch to put off at the signal
lights.; landsmen with red horses and poniee
were in waiting to carry off the casks and
kegs, and so many a cellar was chiefly supplied
with the best of clarets and cognacs from the
Charente."

Temperance Act, d&c., [APRIL 24, 1885] Amendment Bill.

719

It would be very easy to supplement plainly obvious right to use what kind of
these statements with numerous others to drink we please in a becoming manner.
the same effect, but that I do not think is There is one point connected with this
necessary. It must be obvious to every which I might as well mention now, and
gentleman who will look the difficulty it is this : I have myself read a good deal
fairly in the face, that the principle of of temperance literature, reports of temprohibition is one which it is almost im- perance meetings, &c., and I have always
We have had found this peculiarity to prevail amongst
possible to enforce.
examples of that already on a small scale, them: the debates and the speeches are
in places where the Tenperance Act was all on one side. Everyone at these meetin operation, and it has already been seen ings is of the same mind, and the consethat ways and means will be found, quence is that no one brings forward an
even in counties or municipalities opposition view of the question. This is,
where the Temperance Act has been perhaps, owing to a certain amount of
put in force, of supplying the demand intolerance, which is not exactly peculiar
If I had been present to temperance people, because it is to be
for liquor.
in my own province when the proposal found elsewhere amongst other communifor prohibition came forward I would ties; but we know perfectly well, that on
seriously have sought an opportunity of a temperance platform, if one were to
meeting my fellow-countrymen on any appear there with a view of advocating an
platform which could have been found, to opposite course, to criticize the Canada
have laid such facts before them as I have Temperance Act for instance, and suggest
now submitted to the House ; so that if that other measures could be devisedwhichthey still thoight that prohibition was the would answer the end more completely,
sole remedy for intemperance they might that he would, perhaps, not meet such a
seek it, but at all events they were warned reception as he hoped and expected.
of the impossibility of carrying such laws
HON. MR. PLUMB-He would be
into effect. I think the difficulties which
have been met with in the Canada Tem- kindly kicked out.
perance Act have arisen from its original
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-Oh, very
defective principle-this prohibition principle-and other important points have kindly. Now, I think this is a thing to
been set at naught. For example, one of be deprecated, this same intolerance of
the most important objections to the law the temperance people. For example, it
is its interference with the liberty of the is commonly to be found amongst their
subject. Now, that above all things is a written articles that one of their greatest
subject upon which it behooves every enemies is the moderate drinker, the man
citizen to be watchful, and if it be the who drinks wine and at the same time is
duty of the citizen, it is still more the not a drunkard. Such temperate men are
duty of the member of Parliament, to amongst the greatest enemies they have.
guard it with jealous care. This liberty That I have seen myself, and I think the
of the subject is a complex thing. It is experience of every gentleman here will
divisible into quite a number of details. bear nie out-that is something which I
Some people, perhaps, who regard the think is most seriously to be deprecated,
subject superficially, whould say it has because amongst those men you would
nothing whatever to do with the Scott naturally expect to find the warmest and
Act ; but I think that that would most sincere advocates of temperance.
be a mistake. The liberty of the person, Yet such men are to be shut down from
which we believe to be freedom from attempting to assist in a temperance concapricious arrest, is but one branch of the vention, where the Scott Act is tolerated
subject. Our freedom to write and speak and nothing else. It just happens that
is but another branch of it. As I have these gentlemen have the case pretty
said, liberty is complex, and in no one of much to themselves, and I fancy if the
its details ought we to allow it to be in- subject were investigated we should find
fringed without remonstrance. In this that the vast numbers of signatures which
case the infringement comes in the shape have been added to petitions that
of an attempt to abridge our civil and have been laid before this House have

720

Temperance Act, &c.,[SENATE] Amendment Bil.

'been obtained very much in that waythat the question has been presented to
these sincere and well-intentioned people
just from one aspect. They have been
taught to believe that the object they seek
to attain is one, not only of great importance to them individually, as parents and
relations of persons who, they fancy, perhaps, are in danger, but that this manner
of proceeding is the only one available.
That, I think, has been a great mistake.
There are other points in the details of
this Temperance Act of 1878 to which I
greatly object ; one of them is the manner
in which it is brought before the people.
It seems to me that the Government
should undertake the duty of dealing with
a question of this sort, and say to Parliament that an Act to prevent the spread of
intemperance has become necessary, and
we must pass one and give it general application. The Canada Temperance Act
of 1878, however, is a permissive law, and
a permissive law will naturally be accepted
with readiness by a community which is
already temperate, and perhaps includes a
large proportion of persons who have been
pledged from a very early age against the
use of any kind of liquor, many who have
been abstainers for years, and others who,
perhaps, are indifferent on the subject al·together. Such a community as that will
naturally accept the Canada Temperance
Act with readiness ; but supposing the
contrary state of things to exist. Take
the case of a community which really requires this law, a community which, from
some cause or other, enumerates amongst
its citizens a large number of people much
inclined to the use of liquor. In that
-case, it must be clear to everybody that
the law is more needed than in the other ;
but such a community, which most
needs it, would be the least likely to accept
it. That is a great fault, and it seems to
me it is the duty of the Government, if
such a law is necessary, to introduce it
and make it of general application. If
the general sobriety of a community rendered it unnecessary, they would have no
objection to it, but, on the other hand, if
intemperance was so generally prevalent
.amongst a community as to require such
a law, surely it is the duty of the Government to deal with such a case and provide
the necessary legislation. Again, this law,
supposing it to go into operation in a
HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE.

mixed community, where there is every
variety of citizen to be found-the wealthy,
the industrious and the poorer classes, a
mixed community-what do we find ? In
such a comniunity we find a considerable
number of men of confirmed intemperate
habits, and also a large number of respectable men who have been in the habit
of using liquor in moderation. How does
the law act in such a case as that ? The
temperate man, who uses liquor, we may
presume is a good subject and will follow
the old Roman precept to keep the laws
-"a good subject is one who keeps the
laws." The good subject, in this case,
will religiously abide by the Scott Act,
though he has to abridge his personal
liberty. Intemperate men care nothing
about it ; they are ready and willing to
take their glass as usual, and although the
law does not punish them it punishes
those who sell to them ; nevertheless, the
profits of the trade are so large that the
intemperate men of the community can
obtain all the liquor they want, while the
temperate men, who do not violate the
law, have to give up a luxury to which
they had been accustomed. Now, is that
the intention of the legislators who framed
that Act ? It is inoperative against those
they wish to control ; it is operative
against those who need no control. Another objection is that this law creates a
new crime altogether amongst us. We
have had the legalized sale of liquor
everywhere, and it may be one day legal
and next day illegal to sell it. For example, supposing a municipality had the Canada Temperance Act in operation for a
series of years ; the period expires and the
people petition against it ; a poll is demanded and taken. Now, supposing that
the Scott Act shouldbesustainedbya single
vote, it would be illegal to sell liquor
in that community, but supposing the
opposite to be the case, and the Scott Act
is lost by a single vote, it would be legal
to sell, so that what is made legal by a
single vote might have been made illegal
if that vote had been cast the other way.
Now, is that something desirable to be
accomplished ? And yet the Scott Act
has accomplished that. I know in the
city of Charlottetown a very close vote
was taken, not so close as the one I have
supposed; something like 42 was the
majority. I will tell the House how that

Temperance Act, &c, [APiRIL 2A, 1885] Amendment Bill.
majority came to be obtained ; it is this
way-I have been credibly inforned by
.citizens of that place that the majority
would have been against the petition had
it not been that all the really temperate
people, whether they were imbibers or not,
were conscious of the fact that if the petition was thrown out there would then be
no liquor law of any sort or kind to take its
place in that city, and the consequence
rmight have been that the place might have
become a pandemonium. For that reason,
people voted in favor of the continuation
of the law. I have already stated that
another tendency of this Act, is to promote illicit trading, and that is one of the
most serious objections to the law. The
Senate should pause seriously before establishing finally and ultimately a state of
thing which might bring about in Canada
.amongst our population such scenes as I
have described this afternoon from English
history. I do hope that great caution will
be exercised before any such law is made
permanent. I have said that I was a
supporter of the Canada Temperance Act
at its original introduction, and that I have
supported it since, and that I intend to
support the amendments which are before
the House for the sane reasons-that it
shall have every chance possible and that
it shall not leave any community, however
small, without something to take its place
-but I say this also, that I am so opposed
to its principle and have seen its failure so
-conspicuously, that if the Government of
the day would introduce a practical measure which, while repressing intemperance,
at the sanie time abstained from outraging
thoseprinciplesof liberty and common sense
which I think are outraged by this Act, I
should certainly support it. It is perfectly
clear that it will not do to abrogate the
Act altogether, and I think it would be
inexpedient to cripple the working of the
Canada Temperance Act until its place is
supplied by something else. It is an
infringement of our liberties. It may perhaps be considered a very snall infringement of our liberties to debar us from
enjoyments to which we have been accustomed, but I think that besides the loss of
the accustomed glass to those who have
been in the habit of taking it temperately,
we have to consider the principle involved
as well, and we ought to take every means
ýto prevent any infringement, however

V1

T211

small, on our liberties as citizens. It is
very true that we every day in the legislature impose, and our citizens submit to
certain restrictions on their liberties, but
those restrictions are always made for the
good of the whole community. They are
not made in any arbitrary way to deal with
one class and not affect another; and
therefore the people submit to them without hesitation. I think it is unjust to
punish the liquor seller. If it is a crime
to sell liquor, it seems to me that it is also
a crime to drink it, and the same law
which makes it a crime to sell, ought to
make it a crime to drink, else there is a
great inequality in the law. A man sells
liquor, and he is punished for it ; the man
who drinks the liquor gets off free.
Suppose, for a moment, you adopt a
similar principle in criminal law, in that
case you night punish the receiver
of stolen goods, and let the thief go
free? What sort of criminal law would
that be ? And yet the clauses of the
Canada Temperance Act which punish
the liquor seller, and let the drinker go
free, seem to me to bear great analogy to
that case. If we wish to remove the evil
of intemperance from amongst us, we
ought to begin at the foundation, seek out
the cause of the evil, and use a united
effort to eradicate it. If we look at some
of the countries of Europe I think we will
all admit, as the hon. gentleman from
Ottawa admitted yesterday, that there was
a time, not so very remote either - I
think he mentioned twenty years-when
the French and the Swiss were a temperate
people, when they drank the wines of
their own vineyards, and the spirits they
consumed were distilled from the inferior
quality of grapes, and the hon. gentleman,
I think, plainly admitted that the French
and the Swiss were temperate men under
those circumstances. Now, let us see for
a moment how those circumstances have
changed, because this is a very important
factor in the temperance question. We
have imposed heavy duties on liquor
through our excise laws for certainly more
than a hundred years, and what has been
the effect of it ? The effect of it has been
that attempts are being continually made,
and in most instances successfully 'made,
to adulterate liquors, and to sell cheap and
noxious compounds in place of what is
naturally not unwholesome unless it is

Tenperance Act, &c., [S ENATE ] Amend7ent Bill.
taken to excess, and notwithstanding this,
the hon. gentleman from Ottawa says that
now-a-days if we were to travel through the
wine-producing districts of France and
Switzerland, we should find, instead
of the temperate
population
that
there used to be, that they are the
very reverse. I believe that the hon. gentleman assigned the true reason ; that the
drink which superseded the wholesome
wines and brandy of the country was an
artificial substitute, a noxious counterfeit,
and therefrom arose the habits of intemperance which unhappily have sprung up in
those countries. I would ask, does not
that admission beg the whole question ?
If it be a fact that while using pure wine
and pure spirits, the French and Swiss
were a temperate people, and that under
the opposite state of things, using artificial
drinks and noxious compounds, they have
become intemperate men, does it not follow that the remedy for intemperance is
pure and unadulterated beverages ? I
think it is clearly, and therefore the efforts
of -his Government ought to be directed
rather to the regulation of the liquor trade
than to prohibition. The one is practicable, the other is impracticable. What is
the case with reference to ordinary articles
of consumption ? For instance some peculiar form of disease or fever occurs in a
city : the medical attendants trace the
disease to impure milk ; some greedy
dealer or farmer has sold the milk of
diseased cows, and in other ways it has
been the custom to adulterate this article
of ordinary consumption. What do we
do in such a case ? We enact laws for
the inspection and analyzation of articles
of common consumption, and if dealers
are found infringing those laws we punish
them. I am aware that those laws have
been extended to spirituous liquors sold
for consumption ; but I am afraid that up
to the present time they have very seldorn
been put in force.
The process of inspection that we have
adopted with regard to ordinary articles of
food and drink is a wise process, and if
we had adopted a similar process with
regard to liquor years ago we should be
further advanced than we now are with
regard to the temperance cause. If we
wish to promote temperance we should
begin at the foundation. We might copy
with advantage the example of many of
HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE.

the nations in Europe who have made the
amusements and the morals of the people,
so far as liquor is concerned, and so far as
their public demeanor goes, their study
and work by legislation. We flnd that in
those countries the education of the
youth is very far advanced. Notwithstanding the great improvement in education in England of late years, we find that
country scarcely compares favourably in
that respect. I will read to hon. gentlemen an extract from an address of Sir
Lyon Playfair's, to his Edinburgh constituents, showing what has been done for
education in England and Scotland. I
do not know that I can produce a higher
authority on this point than Sir Lyon
Playfair, who was a member of the
House of Commons for many years. He
was entertained at a public meeting at
Edinburgh, and after quoting some statistical results relative to the decrease of
mortality, of the school age, between five
and ten years, in which it was stated that
the mortality of boys had decreased 30%,
and of girls 33, ; and between the ages.
of ten and fifteen boys had a lessened

mortality of 33,, and girls of 35%, he
asks:
" What had cone into existence in the lifeof the nation to produce such a renarkable
reduction of juvenile mortality ? He (Sir
Lyon) knew of nothing except the introduction of a universal schoo! systein. They had
gathered the children of the poor froin the
streets and alleys of our large towns, and
from their over-crowded and insanitary homes,.
and placed then in well heated and ventilated

school roons. They had enforced on then
habits of cleanliness and order, and the result
had been, that though they had only intended
to give thein education, they had also given
them increased health."
Now, is it conceivable that a boy or girl
of fifteen, leaving one of those schools
where they had obtained a good practical
education, and where they had attained
those habits which Mr. Playfair describes,
would sink into the mire of intemperance
which had been perhaps too common in
their own homes, and in their own early
experience ? To my mind it is simply arr
inconceivable thing, and this I think is
one of the means which must be sought
for as promoting temperance. I think it
was the hon. gentleman from Amherst,
who spoke of the youth of Canada, and
of the teniperate habits of our people, and

Pawb1rokedrý' [APRIL, 27 1885] Bill.
the small amount of liquor which was
consumed per head. I think it is a subject on which we can quite fairly congratulate ourselves, aud it is also a matter of
congratulation that those schools and
those methods of raising the character of the
coming generation, which have been in
operation for many years in other parts of
Europe, are now generally adopted in
Canada. But I think the hon. gentleman
from Sarnia, and my hon. friend from Ottawa
have been rather too hasty. They would
not give time for those causes to operate
They sought
upon the community.
rather to deal with a great and crying evil
by a means which, in their judgment, was
the best and only means, yet a means
which experience has shown to be a failure. We should therefore proceed in the
path we have been following, and by raising the tastes, increasing the culture of
our people, give them tastes and habits
which are altogether incompatible with
intemperance. How could you expect a
youth or a maiden who has been educated
on the scale I have described-who has
acquired some knowledge of music, and
a taste for the fine-arts, could fall into the
degraded state that I am quite sure my
hon. friends would be only too glad to
rescue them from, but I think they have
mistaken the means.

72e

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Mtonday, April 27th, 1885.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
THE NORTH-WEST REBELLION.
INQUIRY.

HON. MR. HAYTHORNE-I wish to
ask the leader of the Government a
question of which I have not given
notice. It is whether, in the course
of the unhappy troubles which exist in
the North-West, any proclamation calling upon the rebels to lay down their
arms and retire to their homes has been
issued by the Government, or whether
any encouragement has been held forth

for them so to do ?
HON. SIR. ALEX. CAMPBELL-No
such proclamation has been issued, so far
as I know. I have not heard of any.

PAWNBROKERS' BILL.
SECOND READING.

HON. MR. GOWAN moved the second
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-It is
near six o'clock, and I think it would be reading of Bill (R), " An Act to make
better if the hon. gentleman would move further provision respecting Pawnbrokers."
He said: I hope, in a few words, to lay
the adjournment of the debate.
before you a brief Bill which I think will
HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE moved that be found a desirable one in the interest
the debate be adjourned until Monday of the administration of justice, and a necessary one to protect a class of persons.
next.
who are ill able to protect themselves. It
is an amendment in the Pawnbrokers' Act
The motion was agreed to.
which provides in one of the clauses that
where the sum loaned does not exceed 50
THIRI) READING.
cents, the sum of J of a cent. a month may
be charged, and in another clause proBill (73), "An Act to incorporate the vides that if the sum exceeds $20 the
Alberta & Athabaska Railway Company." pawnbroker may take upon all beyond that
(Mr. Vidal) was read the third time and amount after the rate of 5 cents for every
$4 by the month, and so on in proportion
passed without debate.
for any fractional sum. This enactment is
found in the Consolidated Statutes of CanThe Senate adjourned at six p.m.
ada cap. 61, in section io and the subsequent section, but there is no provision in
that Act makingit penal for the pawnbroker
to take a larger amount than the sum

Pawnbrokers' [SENATE]
mentioned in the clauses. The clauses
really have no meaning except as a direction, under the decisions of the courts,
and have no practical value.
Hon.
gentlemen will be aware that the class of
persons who resort to the pawnbroker to
obtain teyrnporary loans are the very humblest persons in the community, who
often strip the clothes from their bodies in
order to obtain the means of getting a
meal, and a class of persons that require,
more than any others, the protection of
the law to prevent imposition upon them.
They may be told, if they come in with a
small article of three or four or five dollars
in value, that they will be charged so
much per month. They may be unable
to compute how much that will be; they
may be, and commonly are, ignorant of
figures, and looking at the small sum that
is named by the month, they may imagine
that they are paying only a reasonable
interest for the money borrowed. That
class of persons require special protection,
which the law at present does not give
them. It has been said, and I think said
correctly enough, that if you want to know
a thing, speak to the man whose business
it is ; if you want to know the man speak
to him of something else.
Now, those
who are engaged in the actual administration of justice frequently discover defects
in the law which would not occur to those
not so engaged. Judges not unfrequently,
indeed, call attention to these defects in
the judgments they are obliged reluctantly
to give in administering the law. That
has occurred in Ontario, in a case which
came before the Hon. Chief Justice Cam
eron, upon this law. A pawnbroker in the
city of Toronto had taken a much larger
sum than he was entitled to receive, and
he was bound over to appear. The proceedings were moved to a higher court,
and in contending that he was not liable,
Mr. Rose - I believe
the present
Mr. Justice Rose-urged that there
was no offence triable by indictment
or triable by a magistrate, as no penalty
was fixed in the Pawnbrokers' Act. On
the other hand, the Crown Attorney, while
admitting that it was a very doubtful question whether an offence against the statute
existed, admitted also that the question of
criminality was very far from being free
from doubt, but contended that it should
not be summarily disposed of by the
HON. MR. GOWAN.

Bill.

court. It was argued on both sides with
great ability, and Chief Justice Cameron
gave a most elaborate decision, the effect
of which was to hold there was no limit,
as between the borrower and the lender,
as to any rate that might be agreed on between them ; that whatever was agreed
upon, if it could not be enforced, it was at
least not a criminal offence, and he added
these words, which I think are sufficient
in themselves to commend the measure,
which I have had the honor to introduce,
to the favorable consideration of the
House. He says Though it is not the province of a Judge
to suggest what laws should be enacted or
abrogated, it nay not be out of place, as the
Usury Laws were modified in favor of the
poorer or needier classes, in the enactment of
the law relating to pawnbrokers, to call attention to the fact, thatthose classes would seem
to require some protection from the exorbitant
demands of those who carry on that trade or
business by the imposing of restrictions upon
pawnbrokers, so as to confine their exactions
upon necessity within soiething like reasonable bounds."
Now, that is what the Bill has proposed
to accomplish, to confine the exactions
upon necessity within reasonable bounds.
I propose to do that by a short clause,
only a few words, but still I think it will
cover the grounds and will remedy the
defect that now confessedly exists in the
law.
It has been discovered by judges,
and anyone who takes the trouble to
reflect a few moments on the subject may
see it is really a radical defect in the
statute.
The law enacts that the pawnbroker is not to take more than a certain
sum, but there is no sanction to that, and
while the poor unfortunate man who has
to borrow is liable to very severe penalties
if he tampers with the ticket he receives,
or interferes with the rights of the pawnbroker, on the other hand the pawnbroker
can make any bargain he pleases and is
not liable to punishment under the law.
The penalty I propose in this Bill is as
follows :1. Every pawnbroker who charges, in
respect to any goods pawned, any higher rate
than is authorized by law, shall, on summary
conviction, be liable to a penalty not excee&
ing fifty dollars.
I insert $50 because that appears to be
the usual larger limit in cases of sumniary
proceedings, and is very nearly the saie

Ofence8 Against [APRIL 27, 1885] the Person Bill.

72.5

was not admissable as a witness in the
case, while one dissented from it. The
enactment upon which the question arose
is found in the Act relating to offences
against the person, and it touches the
case where persons who are bound to do
so fail to provide the necessary food
&c. for their families, their wives and
children, or where guardians fail to
provide the necessaries of life for persons.
of tender years. A question was raised
in the case to which I have referred
whether the wife was admissable as a
witness where the prosecution was against
her husband for failing to support her. A
very learned judgment was given by my
friend the Chief Justice of the Court of
Appeal, and the majority of the court
held with him that she was not competent
The motion was agreed to and the Bill as a witness. The general principle of
was read the second time.
the law is that the wife is incompetent as
a witness against her husband.
HON. MR. GOWAN-The Bill is very
short, only five lines, and if the House
HON. MR. ALMON-Hear, hear.
sees no objection perhaps I might venture
to move that it be referred to a CommitHON. MR. GOWAN-If my hon. friend
tee of the Whole now.
who says "hear, hear " had waited until the

as in several enactments of a somewhat
kindred character; but if hon. gentlemen
should think the penalty too large or too
small, I am not at all indisposed to meet
their wishes in respect to it ; but I trust
that I have said enough to commend the
Bill on its merits to the favorable consideration of the House. The extract which I
have read from the judgment of the Chief
Justice of the Conmon Pleas, would of
itself, I think, be sufficient to warrant that
favorable consideration ; and I may add
that I have also heard from another judge,
the Chief Justice of the Court of Queen's
Bench, on the subject. He also favors
this Bill and thinks it is a desirable one
in the interest of the necessitous who have
to resort to pawnbrokers.

HON. MR. POWER-I hope my hon.
friend will postpone it until to-morrow. I
think the principle of the Bill is good,
but a doubt has been suggested as to
whether it cornes within our jurisdiction,
and if my hon. friend has no objection, I
should like to have an opportunity to
look into that question.

end he would have observed that there are
exceptions. It lies with those who oppose

to say if the case lies within the exceptions
to the general rule, which are, " force or
injuries to her person or liberty, forcible
or fraudulent abduction, or inveigling into
a marriage procured by friends." These
are the admitted exceptions, but the Chief
Justice goes on to say, " I have not met
with any case where the charge was wholly
HON. MR. GOWAN-I have no ob- of non-feasance, decided to be an exception
jection to postponing it.
to the rule. The complaint here was that
he did not do that which he ought to have
The Bill was referred to a Committee done, and which he was bound to do as a
of the Whole for to-morrow.
humane man, and as the father of a family
and the husband of this woman." It was
OFFENCES AGAINST THE PER- held in that case by the decision of the
SON BILL.
two judges that she could not be admitted
as a witness, but the judge who dissented
SECOND READING.
from then said:
"The law under which the prisoner was

HON. MR. GOWAN moved the second indicted is, to my mind, a most wholesome
reading of Bill (S), " An Act to amend enartment, and it muet, in My opinion, in
An Art respecting Offences against the nearly every case like the present, be a dead
Person." He said: The necessity for letter, unless the wife, against whom the
is conmmitted by her husband, be perthis Bill is also suggested in cases which oflence to testify against him."
mitted

came before the courts showing a defect
I do not know that my hon. friend who
in the law. In a notable case, the Queen
vs. Bissell, the court was divided, two said " hear hear," just now will find any
judges of the court holding that the wife comfort in that suggestion. It is held that

126

Ofences Against [SENATE] t/, Person Bill.

the wife is a competent witness against
her husband" For the purpose of exhibiting articles of
the peace against him, for assisting at a rape
conrnitted upon lier, for assault and battery
upon lier, for maliciously shooting, for attempting to poison lier, and for a conspiracy
to carry lier awaty."
These were substantially the reasons
that were offered by the judge who differed
from the majority of the court in holding
that the wife was a competent witness, and
he concluded with these words :" I do not think that we ought, by declaring
the wife to be incompetent, to render the very
salutory act under which the prisoner was
convicted ' vain and useless."'
In giving judgment the very learned
Chief justice of the Court of Appeal
said"I am unable to satisfy myself that any of
these authorities warrant my holding this case
to fall within the exceptions to the general
rule."
He referred to this as being a case of
non-feasance-failing to do that which the
law required him to do-and not an act
of doing on the part of the person charged.
" As a matter of opinion," he continues,
" it might be wiser to allow the evidence ;"
and this is the point where, I think, I am
strongly sustained in moving in this matter
-"
but, as Lord Blackburn said on this
same point ' that is a matter for the Legislature and not for us.'"
That is the ground upon which I move.
At present the law is that the wife is not
admissable as a witness, the majority of
the court held that she is not, and it is to
enable her to be a witness that this bill is
proposed, the case being exceptional and
one involving matters peculiarly and specially within her knowledge. I may say that
I had communication with the three
learned gentlemen who occupy the highest
places in the judiciary of Ontario-Chief
Justice Wilson, Chief Justice Haggarty
and Chief Justice Cameron-and they all
think the measure a desirable and a salutory one. I think it is in itself sufficient
to commend the measure to the favorable
consideration of every member of the
Senate, and I am not inconsistent in
moving it as my hon. friend from Halifax
would seem to indicate by his very emphatic "hear, hear," because it is purely an
exceptional case, and entirely out of the
HON. MR. GOWAN.

line of cases that he would desire to prevent the evidence of the wife being given in.
HON. MR. ALMON-I move that the
Bill be not now read the second time, but
that it be read this day three months.
This is a bill that revolts against the laws
of God and the feelings of human kind.
The law of God is that those whom God
hath joined together no man shall put
asunder. To compel a woman to give
evidence against her husband is a breach
of that law, because by doing so you separate them. Can they live together after
she has given evidence against her husband? Does not every feeling of manhood
revolt against the wife being obliged to
give evidence against the man she has
vowed to love, honor and obey? Are we
to pass such a measure simply because
Chief Justice So-and-so, and a late Judge
of an inferior court here, tell us that
instances have occurred in which such a
thng is right ? I say no, that we should
nfot go against the law of God under any
circumstances. We have already passed
a law that if, where the Scott Act is in
operation, a man sells a glass of cider, and
the wife sees it, she shall be a compellable
witness against her husband. That was
due to the fanaticism of the moment, but
that we, in cold blood, should pass a bill
like this is something which cannot meet
with my approval.
HON. MR. KAULBACH-Although I
am not quite in favor of the Bill, I an'
opposed to the amendment. It is evident
that there is a civil remedy against a person who fails to provide for his wife and
family. The wife can claim support, and
take action to have some person appointed to look after the persons who have
been neglected, but I certainly cannot
favor a measure which compels the wife
to give evidence against her husband. I
think it is quite right that the wife shall
have permission to do so in such cases,
but to compel her to be a witness is
another matter. If she has really been
neglected, and the husband has forgotten
the ties which bind him to his wife and
family, she no doubt would give evidence,
but to force her to do so, it seems to me,
is going a little too far. I agree with a
great deal that has fallen from my hon.
friend from Halifax, as to the tendency of

Ofences Against [APRIL 27, 1SS5] the Person Bill.
such legislation to loosen the family tie
.and create discord between husband and
wife, and therefore I object to making the
wife a comopellable witness against her husband.
If my hon. friend from Barrie
would make it a permissive bill, I should
have no objection to it.
HoN. MR. POWER-I concur in the
sentiments expressed by the hon. gentleman from Lunenburg. I think it might
be better to modify the Bill so as to provide that the wife should be a competent,
but not a compellable, witness. I do not
think that the Bill is open to the objection
taken to it by my hon. colleague, because
already it is made a crime by statute to
neglect to furnish one's wife with the
necessaries of life, and although the wife
cannot herself give evidence, she can promote the criminal suit against him for
neglecting his duty. She is at liberty to
call the children of the family and her
neighbors, if necessary, as witnesses. The
object of the court is to arrive at the truth ;
and as, particularly in matters of this sort,
the persons directly interested are those
who are most likely to know, and very
often the only persons that do know the
facts of the case, I think with a view to
the information of the court it is desirable
that the wife should, at all events, be a
competent witness. I agree with the hon.
gentleman who preceded me in saying
that it was going too far to provide that she
shall be compellable. On another point
I think the Bill would be better if amended.
No doubt it has recently been made a
crime by statute to omit to provide the
necessaries of life for one's wife, but it is
not a common-law offence. It is not what
is generally looked upon as a crime, and
really, as a general thing, this criminal
action partakes more of the character of a
civil action. Now, I think that just as in
cases of assault, adultery and other wrongs
perpetrated against her by the husband,
the wife is allowed to give evidence, she
should be alrowed to give evidence in this
case also ; and I think we should go a
little further, and if the court are to hear
the story told by the wife in this case, which
is nominally a crime, but is really a civil
action, the husband ought to be competent to testify on his own behalf, because
his version of the story may put a totally
different aspect on the case frcm the ver-

727

sion given by her, and he may from the
nature of the case be shut out from all
evidence except his own. I think with
the amendment suggested by my hon.
friend from Lunenburg, and this further
amendment, that the husband may be a
competent witness on his own behalf, the
Bill will be calculated to do a great deal
of good. I think that this Bill and two
others which we have had before us
already go to show the wisdom exhibited
by the Government in placing the hon.
member from Barrie in this Chamber.
From his position, my hon. friend learns
what the defects are which the judges who
are now on the bench find in the criminal
law, and he is able from his own experience
to recognize defects that have existed for
Legislation, such as he has
some time.
introduced, is just the kind of work which
is calculated to give this Senate weight
and respectability through the country;
and I think that measures of this sort do
us a great deal more service in public
estimation than debates, extending no
matter how many weeks, on the general
question of our utility.
HON. MR. GOWAN-I am very much
obliged to my hon. friend, the senior member from Halifax, for his kind reference
to myself. I hope that I am animated by
the same feeling that fills him and my
hon. friends opposite and every one in
the House here, to assist, as far as I can,
in putting on the statute book wholesome
laws that I think commend themselves to
me from actual experience. With regard
to the motion which has been put by the
junior member from Halifax, I would
mention to him that there is on the statute book an enactment which is to the
effect that everyone being legally liable as
husband &c., to provide for his wife and
others named, who wilfully and without
lawful excuse, neglects to provide the
necessaries of life, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and is liable to three years imprisonment. With regard to the suggestion of
my hon. friends opposite, I quite admit
that these points are debatable, and I intended myself, in committee, to have
suggested something for consideration in
that direction. I dare say that I shall
not differ materially from then when the
matter is disposed of in committee, but
that does not touch the principle of the

728

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

Bill which I think every hon. gentleman HAMILTON PROVIDENT & LOAN
SOCIETY'S BILL.
here will hold to be a sound one, and I
hope that the motion to give the Bill the
three months hoist, which is rather an COMMONS' AMENDMENTS CONCURRED IN.
abrupt way of dismissing an effort to try
A message was received from the House
to amend that which is pronounced defective by some of the best and most of Commons to return Bill (J), " An Act
learned men of the country, is bordering to comprise in one Act a limitation of the
upon obstruction. I would read a short Share and Loan Capital of the Hamilton
extract from the judgment of Mr. Justice Provident & Loan Society," with certain
amendments.
Armour :" It would be unreasonable to exclude the
only person capable of giving evidence in cerHo-. MR. TURNER-The amendtain cases of injury ; our law recognizes wit- ments are very trifling, chiefly verbal.
nesses ex necessitate, and it would e strange
indeed that the husband should be allowed to The first is in the name of the Act. The
exercise every atrocity against the wife, and third clause is struck out as being unnecesher evidence not be adnitted."
sary. Two clauses are added, which have
I think that alone is sufficient to answer been accepted by the applicants for the
the motion to give this Bill a three months' Bill. As the amendments strengthen the
Bill in favor of the public, I move that
hoist.
they be adopted by the House.
HON. MR. ALMON-That is to perThe motion was agreed to.
mit her to give evidence against her husband, but you say she should be compelled
to give evidence. I do not see that the CANADA TEMPERANCE ACT AND
LIQUOR LICENSE ACT
argument applies in the slightest degree to
AMENDMENT BILL.
the Bill before us. I an no lawyer,
however.
THE DEHATE CONCLUDED.
The amendment was declared lost on a
division, and the Bill was read the second
The order of the day having been
time.
called, resuming debate on the Hon. Mr.
WINNIPEG & PRINCE ALBERT Dickey's motion in amendment to the
Hon. Mr. Vidal's motion for the second
RAILWAY COMPANY'S BILL.
reading (Bill 92), Canada Temperance
Act 1878, and the Liquor License Act
SECOND READING.
1883, further amendment Bill ;
HON. MR. GIRARD moved the second
HON. MR. HAYTHORNE said:reading of Bill (91), " An Act to incorporate the Winnipeg & Prince Albert When the House rose on Friday I was
Railway Co." He said: The object of observing on the course which had been
this Bill is to incorporate a company to pursued by many nations of Europe, more
construct a railway from a point on Lake particularly those in which the vine is
Winnipeg, at or near Grand Rapids, to a cultivated, 'n attempting to elevate and
point at or near Prince Albert, on the refine the populations of their respective
Saskatchewan River, in the district of countries by education and culture ; by
Saskatchewan, and within the fifty-third the latter term I mean capacity to appreciand fifty-fourth parallels of latitude, with a ate and enjoy all that is beautiful in nature
branch to a point at or near Cumberland and art-painting, literature' and archiHouse. The capital stock of the com- tecture. It must be obvious that any
pany is $3,ooo,ooo, divided into $1oo people who are in this position with
shares. There is nothing of a special or tastes such as I have described, or attempted
peculiar character about the Bill, and it is to describe, is not a people that is likely
one which should receive the favorable to be addicted to the vice of intemperance
-that this cause with other causes had
consideration of the House.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill the effect, in most European countries
where the vine is grown, of producing a.
was read the second time.
HoN. MR. GOWAN

Temperance Act, &c., [APRIL 27, 1885] Aînendment Bill.

729-

temperate race. There may be exceptions think I may say confidently that things.
at present, owing to other causes which were working for good in that provincewere alluded to by my hon. friend from until the introduction of the Scott Act and
Ottawa, but these causes are not clearly its failure there.
attributable to the use of pure wines and
HON. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear!
spirits, but to adulterated imitations.
I may say it is a matter of congratulaHON. MR. HAYTHORNE-It was
tion that our young country is so far
advanced in the same course, that she has because men who had been used to liquor
devoted so large a portion of her resources more or less all their lives, finding obstacles
to the education of her youth, both in the thrown in their way in getting it, on some
ordinary subjects of literature and ordi- occasions took more than they otherwise
nary education, and also in the fine arts : would do, and the quality of the liquor
and that this, in connection with music being deleterious the effects produced were
and other things, will certainly have the more obvious than usual. Those causes
effect of raising amongst us a generation have made the vice of intemperance more
taking greater pleasure in those things prominent amongst us since the operations
than in the wine cup. I may say that in of the Scott Act than it was before. I can
my own province certain individuals have say myself from personal observation that
been identified with this movement as the intemperate man is a more frequent
well as the local legislature. Speaking object to visitors to Charlottetown now
of the legislature first, I may say that for than he was before the Scott Act was on,
many years past-for five and twenty the statute book : and for the reasons that
years or more-in that comparatively poor I have assigned. Such is the general
province a very large proportion of the opinion of the inhabitants of my province
revenue has been devoted to the free edu- I affirm, and the best evidence I can bring
cation of the people. A gentleman whose forward is the testimony of the 5,700 who
name stands prominent in connection signed the petition which I presented to
with that legislature is one whose portrait the House the other day. We find on
forms part of the group in our outer hall, occasions when populations of all classes
in Mr. Harriss' picture of the Quebec meet together at industrial exhibitions,
Convention; I allude to the late Hon. summer soirees and pic-nics, that we can
George Coles. He judging, I suppose, that meet and enjoy ourselves in a rational
ignorance and intemperance probably manner without giving way to the vice of
went together, made it his effort to raise intemperance ; and that I attribute largely
the people he was called upon to preside to the pains which have been taken in
over by placing general education within inculcating on the rising gereration a
the reach of everybody. Some years later, higher taste than is to be found in the
another person, of whom I speak with iudulgence of those habits. No doubt it
greater hesitation, not because of the has been expensive in many ways. I know
more limited scale of his operations, but my own province has spent, and is spendbecause he is still a living man, and his ing, a large proportion of its means in
sphere of usefulness has become more ex- education; but I am of opinion it is
tensive-I allude to. the Bishop of money well invested. At all events, they
Charlottetown, Bishop McIntyre, and that have to a certain extent proved successful,
high ecclesiastic has perhaps done more and I think we would do well to pursue
from private means and individual exer- steadily the same course. I regard the Cantions than any orher person living : and ada Temperance Act as rash in many ways,
there can be no doubt that the efforts because it places the temperate, though not
which have thus been made in favour of abstaning, portions of the community in
education in the province of Prince Ed- antagonism to the avowed advocates of
ward Island did accomplish their work temperance. I would like to read to the
fairly well, and did produce a great change House an extract that I took the other
for the better in the habits of the people. day from a Canadian newspaper called 7/te
They became more refined, more accom- Week. It is a quotation from the
plished, much less addicted to intemper- prose writings of Milton. I suppose I
ate habits than they formerly were, and I need say nothing of the high character of

73 0

Temperance Act, &c.,

[SENATE] Amendment Bill.

the poet and statesman. His opinions
ought to be worth something on a question
of this sort, and I will make no apology
for reading to the House this extract:" Were I the chooser," (says the author
of the Areopagitica), "a dram of well doing
should be preferred before many times as
much the forcible hindrance of evil doing;
for sure God esteems the growth and completing of one virtuous person more than
the restraint of ten vicious. How great a
virtue is temperance, how much of moment through the whole life of man ! Yet
God commits the managing so great a
trust, without particular law or prescription,
wholly to the demeanor of every grown
man. For those actions which enter into
a man rather than issue out of him, and
therefore defile not, God uses not to captivate under a perpetual childhood of
prescription, but trusts him with the gift
of reason to be his chooser.
There were
but little work left for preaching if law and
compulsion should grow so fast upon these
things, which heretofore were governed
only by exhortation !"
It seems to me that the sentiment contained in that extract is truly scriptural in
ts sense, and it is full of sound useful
suggestions for any body of legislators who
choose to accept it. Some hon. gentlemen
who preceded me in the debate made
some reference to sumptuary laws. I am
not sure myself that the term is rigidly
applicable to the Canada Temperance Act:
but still it is worth while to make a short
inquiry into the operation of those laws,
and how and when they were in use. I
can recollect myself two instances which I
have come across in the course of my reading. I can recollect one in English history
about the time of Queen Elizabeth, and
one of ber predecessors. It had reference
to the head-gear of the people in those
days ; but it was not purely and simply a
sumptuary law. It was in part a protective
law. The head-gear of the lower order,

the mechanics and apprentices, was then a
very unpicturesque woolen cap ; and at
that time the use of felt bats, such as hon,

to make it imperative on certain classes
on Sundays and certain other occasions to
wear those woolen caps. The law was
found to be perfectly inoperative. It was
enacted first for a period and subsequently
re-enacted; but nobody recognized it. The
people preferred the picturesque felt hat
to the ugly and uncomfortable woolen
cal). I recollect another instance in German history. I recollect that in the early
days the burgher classes were prohibited
from the use of velvets and jewels. I
cannot speak with precision on this subject. I searched in the Library this morning in vain for a work referring to this
subject, and failed to find it; and therefore I speak from memory on this matter ; but I can say that the result of this
line of policy was not what was anticipated. It is very true that the burgher
classes had to abstain from the wearing of
velvets and the use of jewels. Those were
reserved for the use of the nobility and
royalty of those days ; but what kind of
nobles were they ? Freebooters, blackmailers, intemperate and illiterate and for
these men and the females of their families
was reserved the use of velvets and jevels.
What were the burgher classes ? They
were men from whom sprang first printers,
amongst thein were the sculptors, the
poets, the painters, the artizans of the
period. Which of the two were more
likely to make their mark in history ?

Surely the burgher class who were forbidden to wear on their persons velvets and
jewels ; but they could not be prevented
from improving and adorning the interior

of their dwellings.

They could furnish

their book-shelves with books, and ornament the walls of their dwellings with
paintings and sculpture. That was the
result of the sumptuary laws of those

days. An American poet, not so long
since, visited the old town of Nuremburg,
and closed his poem called Nuremburg
the Ancient with these lines:-" Not thy councils, not thy Kaisers
Won for thee the world's renown;
But th painter, Albrecht Durer,
And Ians Sach thy cobbler Bard !"

,gentlemen have seen in the engravings of
the distinguished men in those daysRaleigh, for instance-wasgreatlypreferred
Those were the men remembered in
by all classes to the old-fashioned woolen history and whose works the poet emcap. The industry in providing those bodied in his lines-not the emperors
woolen caps was decaying in some towns, and nobles, who, as I said before, were
.and consequently Parliament passed a law freebooters, illiterate blackmailers ; but the
HoN. MR. HAYTHORNE.

Temeance Act, &C.,

[APRIL 27, 1885] Ainendrment Bill.

731

burghers themselves, against whom those law means simply leaving the province
law' were enacted.
without any Act to regulate the sale of
liquors, and that consideration, in addition
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I
to other motives which have influenced
thought Albrecht Durer was a worker in me more strongly on former occasions
iron and wood.
than now, convinces me of the necessity
of at least giving the temperance gentleHON. MR. HAYTHORNE--Albrecht men every assistance in my power.
But
Durer was a celebrated painter in Nurem- I add this with regard to my future conburg. I occupied the time of the House duct on this question ; that I hold it to be
the other day at very considerable length, the duty of the Government to deal with
and I am quite aware that the remarks this question. I should hail with pleasure
I have been making are very much dis- the event if I saw the leader of the Govconnected ; and, in fact, it is a new thing ernment, even in this session, announce
for me to be addressing an audience on his intention on a future occasion to deal
the temperance question at all; and for with it ; and if at the re-assembling of
that reason I ought to make great apologies Parliament next year, he were to rise in his
for the imperfections and possibly some of place and announce that it was the intenthe ignorance I have displayed on this tion of the Government to introduce a
question. At all events, I will claim this practical working measure to Parliament
for myself: it has not been my place to to control intemperance in Canada, without
extenuate, but I have set down naught in interfering with public liberty, without
malice. I have this to say, however, that committing themselves to all the objectionthe points to which I am now about to re- able features of the Canada Temperance
fer in the Canada Temperance Act, operate Act, I should not only hail it with pleasure,
Most strongly, in my mind, against it but I should be prepared to say that it
First, the undue interference with in- would have my earnest support.
dividual liberty; its interference also with
vested rights and with honest labor and
HON. MR. DICKEY-I wish to make a
industry-the labor of the farmer in pro- statement which may perhaps save time.
ducing barley and the labor of the vine The amendment which is before the House
cultivator in producing wine. It interferes is very much in the same line with the
with those things in a most uncalled for amendment which was proposed two years
and unnecessary way. They were alluded ago by the hon. member from Ottawa,
to by the hon. gentleman (Mr. Smith), who with reference to the Liquor License Act,
sits beside the leader of the Government, the diflerence being that that was an
the other day in his address. Secondly, I amendment proposing to refer It, before it
object to it because it is operative against went into operation, to the Supreme Court
the sober man, and is inoperative against for decision as to its constitutionality ;
the drunkard.
Thirdly, I contend it and this amendment asks the House to
creates a new crime-the sale of liquor ; pause until we have the final judgment of
it makes men forswear themselves, and the Privy Council in England.
I have
become smugglers.
Fourthly, its oper- no fault to find with the hon. gentleman
ation is optional--sober communities for bringing forward that amendment,
accept it ; drunken communities reject it. and I should have been prepared to supMoreover, in this case the standard rule of port that amendment had I been here and
communities under a responsible govern- had it been proposed at the time, when
ment does not seem to hold, that majori- the question could have been considered
ties are to govern ; and in this case it is by the Supreme Court. A strong appeal
something more than a presumption that has been made to me on this question
majorities do not govern.
I say in con- that the Bill before the Ilouse proposes
clusion, that though I am prepared to to amend the Liquor License Act by
vote with the hon. gentleman who intro- striking out a clause which is said to induced this Bill to amend the Canada terfere materially with the working of the
Temperance Act of 1878, I do so be- Canada Temperance Act, if not to make
cause I am aware that in the province it altogether nugatory as regards penalties.
from which I come the abrogation of this It is rather strange that we are asked to

732

Temperance Act, &c., [SENATE] Amendment Bill.

corsider that after the lapse of two years,
because that provision in the Act, like the
other provisions, was drawn by one of the
ablest lawyers in the land, and was concurred in by others equally eminent, and
was adopted, as I understand, by the
temperance body itself. At the same
time, we are called upon to consider the
question before us in this light : this is a
Bill which proposes to repeal that clause
in the License Act and remove an impediment to the proper working of the Scott
Act. It has been stated that a judicial
decision has been given that the effect of
that 145th clause in the Liquor License
Act is to neutralize and render nugatory
those provisions of the Scott Act
which give a remedy, by providing
the punishment for the illicit sale
of liquor under the Scott Act. The question is still further complicated by the fact
that since this bas been brought before us
proceedings have been taken in the other
House by the Government, by the introduction of a Bill to this effect, that the
operation of such portions of the Liquor
License Act of 1883, and the Act to
amend the Liquor License Act of 1883,
as the Supreme Court has declared to be
ultra rires, shall be suspended only and
until the saine be decided by the Judicial
Committee of the Privy Council to be
intra vires of the Parliament of Canada.
This introduces a serious matter for the
consideration of the House, because the
subject has been pressed upon me; the
effect of throwing out this Bill would be
to leave the counties where the Scott Act
has been adopted, entirely without any
remedy to enforce the penalties in that
Act, inasmuch as the suspension of that
Act would suspend all the powers of the
Liquor License Act, leaving nothing for
the Scott Act to proceed with. In other
words, I am called upon to face the
serious responsibility of leaving the country practically without any law to regulate,
in the Scott Act counties, the ilhcit sale of
intoxicating liquors, and that bas been
produced by the reasons which I have
stated. I hope I make the point perfectly
clear, because I may, perhaps, repeat, we
should be in a very anomalous position by
leaving this 145th clause of the Liquor
License Act in operation, which has been
decided, as I understand, to neutralize entirely the effect of the regulations for enHox. MR. DICKEY.

forcing the penalties of the Scott Act.
Under those circumstances, after looking
at the matter in every point of view, and
with a desire t do my duty as a legislator
in this matter, and a most important matter undoubtedly it is, I have come to the
conclusion to ask the House for leave to
withdraw the amendment.
HON. GENTLEMEN-Hear ! hear t
HON. MR. DICKEY-Retaining, as I
do, the strong opinions that I gave to the
House on a former occasion, and which I
humbly submit, without desiring to provoke any discussion, have not been met
in any way ; at the same time I am not
prepared to take the responsibility of leaving a very large portion of this Dominion
without some sort of remedy against the
illicit sale of intoxicating liquors. At the
same time, I reserve to myself full liberty,
except as regards this repealing clause of
the Act, to consider any other parts of the
Act, and there will be also an opportunity
afforded to any gentleman who wishes to
introduce amendments to the Act. Having
taken that course, 1 hope the House wili
concur in it, and will agree that it is on
the whole, such a course as will comniend
itself to the feeling of members on both
sides.

HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL.-I
concur entirely in the step which my hon.
friend proposes to take. I think it would
be a great misfortune, and one which the
House would hardly take the responsibility of, if they allowed the state of
circumstances to arise which my hon.
friend contemplates, and which has induced him to take the course he has suggested to the House. I would add further,
that I think it would be probably more
convenient if my hon. friend from Barrie,
who rose to speak, would allow the debate
to rest now, as far as the second reading
is concerned, and that when the amendments come to be offered, and those of
them which may be offered to the House
come up for adoption, we may continue
the discussion on the principle of the Bill.
I think that would be a more convenient
way of carrying on the discussion, than to
continue it on the second reading after
the step which the hon. gentleman from
Amherst has deemed fit to take, and

Consolidated R'y Act [APRIL 27, 1885] Amendment Bil.

733

which the House, I am sure, will allow elections under the Canada Temperance
Act, there should be required at least a
him to take.
three-fifths vote 'o put the Act in force.
The motion was agreed to, and the
amendment was withdrawn.
HON. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
HON. MIR. DEVER-I was always under the impression that the principle of a was read the second time.
Bill was decided upon at the second
reading.
CONSOLIDATED RAILWAY ACT
AMENDMENT BILL.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-By
consent we can agree to let it be decided
IN COMMITTEE.
upon at the next stage.
The House resolved itseh into a ComHoN. M. DEVER-I wish to reserve mittee of the Whole on Bill (Q), " An Act
my right to oppose the principle of the Bill. further to amend the Consolidated Railway Act, 1879."
Hox. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-Certainly.
In the Committee, on the first clause.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLHoN. MR. FLINT-I should like to
ask the Minister of Justice if a discussion There are some railways which come
can take place on the Bill after it is re- under some of the clauses of the Consolidated Railway Act, and others which do
ported from committee.
not. That Act is divided into two large
HON. SJR ALEX. CAMPBELL-I branches, the first consisting of the first 34
distinctly stated that it'could be discussed clauses of the Act, and the other from the
on the third reading.
It is proposed to make
3 4th to the end.
all the railways of the Dominion subject
HoN. MR. FLINT-Then I am quite to the Act, except the Government railwilling to defer rny rernarks until the ways. The reasons for that will appear.
third reading.
HON. MR. POWER-I thought that
HON. MR. POWER-I presume it is the Grand Trunk Railway did not come
understood that any reasonable amend- under the Consolidated Railway Act.
ment may be moved in committee.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELLHON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL--Cer- Yes, the Grand Trunk Railway, the Great
Western Railway and the Northern, whose
tainly.
charters were granted before the ConHoN. MR. SCOTT-It is quite open solidated Railway Act was passed.
to anybody to move an amendment.
HON. MR. POWER-I am not opposHON. MR. POWER-Hon. gentlemen ing this Bill, and I think probably it is a
will see that it is not quite open. There very good one; but there must have been
is one amendment which I thought some reason why these railway companies
should be moved to this Bil, and the were excepted from the operation of the
best time probably to move it will be when original Consolidated Railway Act, and
the order of the day is called to commit the Act of 1879. I can understand that
in the case of railways which had got
the Bill.
their charters previous to the passing of
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-My the first Consolidated Railway Act of 1868,
it would be felt that it was unfair to alter
hon. friend can do so then.
their position by subsequent legislation.
HoN. MR. POWER-The amendment Now, if that was true in 1868 and in 1879,
that I propose to offer is that in future I think before we pass this clause, the

734

ConsolidatedB'y Act, [SEN ATE] Amendment Bill.

Minister ought to give us some reason
why it is not true now, and why what was
deemed right in 1868 and 1879, by the
same governmunt that is now in power,
has ceased to be right and proper.

some years, whcn disputes, upon these
points have core before the Railway
Committee, disputes which arise constantly
and are brought before the Railway Corittee, and they have fot hitherto had
satisfactory power to deal with thern. This
HoN. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-In Bil is to give the Committee powerto
the first instance, when the Act of 1868 dealwiththese disputes in the interest of
was passed, these railways which were then the whole community.
in existence ir. the old Province of
Canada-the Grand Trunk Railway, the
HON. MR. DICKEY-May 1 ask the
(CreatWestern Railway, and the Northern leader of the Governient whether in the
Railway-had their charters, which chart- legisiation which brought these railways
ers laid dowvn the law under which their under the control of the Dominion Govstock had been taken, and they had bor- erinent, there was lnot provision made
rowed roney, etc.
were excepted shey they should be subject to the Conthat
from the operation of the first Consoidated solidated Railway Act generally ?
Railway Act. That Act was changed, but
they were flot brought under its operation,
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBELL-No,
but they have been brought under the
to ah
wot the clauses of it; only some.
general law with reference to certain
points, such as the height of bridges (the
HON. MR. POWER-I think, on look
Act introduced by my hon. friend fror ing at section 6o, there does not seem t
Quinte>, flot affecting t.heir rights in any be much objection to its being adopted.
way, but endeavoring to extend certain There is one sub-section of it to which I
rules to them which were wholesoe for wish to cal the attention of the Minister,
alsrailways. On that, and two or three because it may possibly be productive of
other points of the sare character, these inconvenience and injustice. Lt should
three railways have core under the gen- fot affect existing contracts at any rate.
eral Consohidated Railway Act, but ot The 3rd sub-section of section 6o of the
n
with reference to other points in which Act Of 1879, says
they are interested. Now, with reference
craratin
ny railway compan
any faciito this partcular provision, the reason that ties to any in
express company,
they are included here is, that efforts may shah grant equal facilities on equal ternis
be made with reference to them as well as and conditions to any other incorporated
with refrence to other railways, to enforce express company dmanding the sanie."
hy provisions in that Bil agreements that
Now, there are numbers of gentlemen
they, and other railways, may have, for the here who are much more familiar with
purpose of inserchange of traffic, or gov- raiway business than I ar, but it occurs
ening the times relative to railway trains, to me that sometimes ailway companies
and the terms and conditions of any such enter into contracts with express comarrangement that they riay make. The panies to give them certain privieges on
proposition is, that where two railway com- their unes, and that these contracts would
panies that are conhected with each other be interfered wth by this sub-section. r
make an arrangement for interchange of think it is pertectly right that in the future
trafic, and either of the companies fails to this should be the law, but I do not thnk
carry out the terms of the agreement, then that that sub-section should be allowed tO
the other co pany may appy to the Rail- interfere with existing contracts. For inway Conoittee of the Privy Council to stance, supposing the Grand Trunk Railenforce the teros of the arrangement. way have an arrangement with swhie
That is done in the interest of the public, express corpany as to the carrying of
and in order that the Raiway Committee express freight over their road; this exnay be in a position to force them to press copany may have entered into a
carry out the agreerent. There is no written contract with the Grand Truk
reason why the ohd companies shouhd be Railway to forward teoeir express matter by
t has their line and to pay them certain rates,
exempt from a law of that kind.
more or less been felt necessary, during and I think it would not be weofthat our
HON. MR

POWER.
m

Bill [APRIL 28, 1885] Introduced.

735

legislation should affect any existing con- mittee, reported that they had made some
tract between the two conipanies.
progress with the Bill, and asked leave to
sit again.
HON. SIR ALEX. CAMPBEL-II
BILL INTRODUCED.
agree in that, and I will inquire into it. I
will not ask the Conmittee to report
Bill (41), " An Act respecting Infectious
finally on that point. I move that the
or Contagious Diseases affecting Animals."
Committee rise and report progress.
-(Sir Alex. Campbell.)
Hox. MR. HOWLAN, from the ComThe Senate adjourned at 4.50 P.mfl

END OF VOLUME I.

